Document of
The World Bank                                    el ?
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.2304c-TH
THAILAND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIFTH (MULTIPURPOSE) EDUCATION PROJECT
May 4, 1979
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00          =   Baht (B) 20
B 1.00               US$0.05
B 1.00 million  =   US$50,000
B 1.00 billion  =   US$50 million
GLOSSARY
AED     -    Adult Education Division in the MOE
AVC     -    Area Vocational Center
C.A     -    Center for Educational Administrators
CET     -    Center for Educational Technology in the MOE
CIDA    -    Canadian International Development Agency
GSC     -    Civil Service Commission
CSS     -    Community Secondary School
CSTC    -    Civil Service Training Center
DGE     -    Department of General Education in the MOE
DVE     -    Department of Vocational Education in the MOE
MOE     -    Ministry of Education
NEC     -    National Education Commission
NESDB   -    National Economic and Social Development Board
OUA     -    Office of University Affairs
PRD     -    Public Relations Department of the Government
of Thailand
TTC     -    Teacher Training Center
TTD     -    Teacher Training Department of the MOE
THAI FISCAL YEAR
October I-September 30
THAI SCHOOL YEAR
April-March



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THAILAND
FIFTH (MULTIPURPOSE) EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
BASIC DATA
1.  THE EDUCATION SECTOR  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         1
Strengths and Weaknesses . * . - * . .        . . . .    .  . .     1
Recent Trends and Reforms  . . .   . .   . .   * . . .   . . . .    I
-  Structure . . . ... . .*.*.*... . .           . .          .     1
-  Administration  . . . * * . * . . . . . . . . . . .  .           2
-  Curricula .....  .       .  .  .   o ...........   .. .          3
-  Mass Media   ........ .   * -           . . . . . . . . * * *    3
-  Finance       .    ..  .      .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  o . . . ......     4
Dimensions and Prospects by Level and Type of Education  . .        5
-  Primary Education...   .            . .      ..     .            5
- Secondary Education o.                                            5
-  Teacher Training   . . .   . . . . .   . . .  . . .   .  .       7
-  Higher Education..                                       * *     7
- Nonformal Education.                                              8
- Management Training .........        o   o   o .  .  .  .   o o   8
Sector Strategy    . ..         . ... . . . . .  .                  9
-  Government Plans.              . .                     .         9
-  Bank Group Participation  ..             .........              10
2.   THE PROJECT.. .                                        .      .  .    12
Objectives and Scope . . . . .  . . . .  .        .  . . .         12
Diversified Secondary Education .  . . . . . . . . . .             14
-  Centralized Workshops (Area Vocational Centers) . . . . .    14
-  Community Secondary Schools . . . . .        .         . .      16
Radio Education  ....  .   . . . . . . ... . . . .   .             17
Management and Planning  ....  .  .      .    ..  ....  .  .   .    24
-  Civil Service Training Center . . .   . .  .  . .   . .    .    24
-  Center for Educational Administrators . . . .   . . .  .        26
-  Planning Studies .  . . . . .  . .  . . .  . . . . .  . . . .    28
- Technical Assistance  ..                . .             .        28
-  Evaluation  .....  .  .  . ..... . . . . . . .  . . .   .  .    30
This report is based on the findings of a mission to Thailand during June/
July 1978 composed of Messrs. S.Z. Sung (technical educator and mission
leader), N.L. Berggren (general educator), A. Stam (architect), Ms. E. Levy-
Schreiber (economist) and Ms. B. Mody (communications specialist, consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution andi may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Page No.
3.  PROJECT COST AND IMPLEMENTATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   31
- Cost  . . . .  ....  ....  ....  ....  ....  .  ............  31
-    Financing   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  34
-  Implementation  . .  .  . .       . . .  .    .    .      35
- Procurement   .  .  . .            .        . . .. . . .   38
- Disbursements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    39
4.  BENEFITS AND RISKS  . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   41
-     Benefits    .     . .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  41
-     Risks    .  .          ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .         .  42
5.  AGREEMENTS REACHED . . . . . . . . ... . . . .   43
LIST OF TABLES IN TEXT
2.1  Proposed Project Institutions . . . . .. . . . . . . . .        13
2.2  Feeder Schools and Students Served by Area Vocational
Centers    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .     .  .  .  .  14
2.3  Educational Radio Network - Additional Staff Required . . . .    20
2.4  National Education Network - Transmissions  . . . . . . . . .    21
2.5  Sample Time Distribution of Radio Programs and Audience
Groups  . . . . . . . . . .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  . .       22
2.6  Sample Weekly Schedule for In-school Broadcasts   o .  . . .    23
2.7  Civil Service Training Center:  Sample Annual Training
Program and Potential Participants  . . . . . . . . . . . .    25
2.8  Civil Service Training Center:  Incremental Staffing
Requirements  . . . . . . . . .                     . . . .     . . . . . . . .  26
2.9  Educational Administrators  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     28
2.10  Technical Assistance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    29
3.1  Summary of Costs by Project Item   . . . . . . . . .  .   .  .    31
3.2  Project Costs by Category of Expenditure  . . . . . . .  .     32
3.3  Area  and  Cost  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   33
3.4  Annual Price Increases  . . . . . . . .  .  .     .   ..        33
3.5  Financial Plan  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     34
3.6  Implementation Phases . .            . . . . . . . . . . . .    38
3.7  Estimated Disbursement Schedule .        . . . . . . . . . .    40
TEXT CHART
Organization of Central Procurement Unit - Initial Stage
(1979-81) and After 1981. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . .    36



-3-
ANNEXES
1. Comparative Education Indicators
2. Structure of the Educational System
3. Summary of Project Cost
4. Implementation Schedule
5. Contingency Allowances
6. Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP
Coverage of Educational Radio Network and
Location of Project Institutions






THAILAND
BASIC DATA &1977) /1/2
Enrollments (including private schools and overage pupils)
Enrollment in primary schools (grades 1-7)                   6,800,000
As a percentage of 7-13 year age group                     83%
Enrollment in secondary schools (grades 8-12)                1,300,000
As a percentage of 14-18 year age group                    28%
Enrollment in higher education schools (grades 13-16)    220,000
As a percentage of 19-22 year age group                    3%
Adult Literacy Rate (1975)                                   84% /3
Public Expenditure on Education
As a percentage of central government expenditure            20%
As a percentage of GNP                                       4.0%
Per capita                                                   B 360 (US$18
equivalent)
/1 Enrollment data are for the school year 1977/78 and expenditure
data for the fiscal year 1977.
/2 Comparative data are shown in Annex 1.
/3 Defined as individuals over ten years of age having completed four
years or more of primary school; the actual literacy retention rate
is lower.






THAILAND
APPRAISAL OF A FIFTH (MULTIPURPOSE) EDUCATION PROJECT
1. THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Strengths and Weaknesses
1.01      In the recent past Thailand has successfully expanded its education
system: the number of students enrolled in the formal school system increased
from 6.4 million in 1971 to 8.8 million in 1977; and out-of-school (nonfor-
mal) enrollments grew from 0.2 million to 0.5 million between 1975 and 1977.
An outstanding feature of the Thai education system is the wide reach of
lower primary education, designed to provide basic literacy and numeracy
skills. By 1975 virtually all children from seven to ten years of age were
enrolled; about 80% of the population of eleven years and over had received
some schooling; and the literacy rate among the population of ten years or
more was 84% (compared with 50% in the mid-1950s). In addition, enrollment
ratios by level of education are roughly the same for males and females,
indicating that educational inequality for females has been successfully
redressed.
1.02      Despite these achievements, the Thai education system still has the
following weaknesses:
(a) equality of educational opportunity has not yet been realized:
access to upper primary and secondary education still varies sub-
stantially according to reg:Lon and socioeconomic status; and oppor-
tunities for out-of-school education for adults remain skewed;
(b)  the quality of teaching, especially in rural areas, is low, largely
due to a lack of teaching and learning materials and qualified
teachers; and
(c)  administration of the education sector is inefficient as a result
of overcentralization, fragmentation of responsibilities among
several agencies and a lack of the requisite managerial skills
among educational administrators.
In 1974 the Government appointed an Educational Reform Committee to conduct a
comprehensive study of education in Thailand to address these problems.
The Committee proposed a series of fundamental changes in 1975, many of which
the Government incorporated into the Fourth Development Plan (1977-81).
These changes feature a new school structure, a plan for improving the
efficiency of educational administration, new curricula for primary and
secondary education designed to redress problems of quality and equity, and
expanded use of mass media for educational purposes.
Recent Trends and Reforms
1.03      Structure.  Under a new National Education Scheme, initiated under
the Fourth Development Plan (1977-81), the structure of the formal education
system was changed as follows (see also Annex 2):



-2-
Years of schooling by level
Primary          Secondary        Higher
Old system (through 1977)                 4 + 3          3 + 2 or 3          4-6
New system (starting 1978)                  6            3 + 3               2-6
The restructuring of the primary and secondary cycles and a planned effort to
make six years' primary education compulsory, would mainly benefit children
from rural, lower income families. A unique feature of the new structure is
a planned fusion between the formal and nonformal sectors of education:
movement from one to the other would be facilitated.
1.04      Administration.  At present responsibilities for educational
administration and planning are divided among several agencies of the central
government. The Ministry of Interior (MOI) supervises most primary schools
(provincial and municipal), but the Ministry of Education (MOE) is responsible
for the educational aspects of all primary education. The MOE has sole
responsibility for all secondary and postsecondary (nonuniversity) education
including teacher training. The Office of University Affairs (OUA), with
the status of a ministry, oversees government universities and private
colleges. Nonformal education is primarily administered by the Adult
Education Division (AED) within the MOE, but several other agencies also
administer out-of-school programs, e.g., the Ministries of Interior, Agricul-
ture, Labor, and Public Health. The Government loosely controls private
education, which forms an important part of the Thai education system and
accounts for about 11% of primary, 24% of secondary and 7% of higher level
enrollments. For administrative purposes the MOE has grouped the country's
71 provinces (changwats), 633 districts (amphurs) and 5,517 subdistricts
(tambons) into 12 regions with offices in each region; and the MOE and MOI
have offices in each province and district. The consequences of this
structure of administration, especially as it concerns primary and secondary
education, are inadequate coordination between different levels of education
and overcentralization of responsibility: opportunities for local inputs
into the support and operation of schools have been minimal.
1.05      Under the Fourth Plan, the Government intends to strengthen educa-
tional administration through unification and decentralization of administra-
tive responsibilities. Thus far little progress has been made towards uni-
fication, which would require consolidation of administrative authority in a
single ministry, the MOE. Decentralization efforts have been more successful:
primary schools are now administered mainly by local authorities; administra-
tion of secondary education is being decentralized through 12 regional offices
to the 71 provinces; and operational responsibility for primary and secondary
education is gradually being transferred to provincial and local boards, to
which laymen are elected. These changes should give people in the community
an incentive to mobilize local resources for, and become involved in, school
management.



- 3 -
1.06      Curricula.  Primary and secondary curricula in Thailand have tradi-
tionally placed emphasis on preparing students academically for entry to the
next higher level of formal education. However, opportunities for progressing
to higher levels have been limited: less than 30% of primary graduates
continue to lower secondary schools; and less than 20% of students entering
secondary school eventually proceed to colleges and universities. In 1978,
the Government introduced revised primary and secondary curricula aimed at
reducing disparities in quality among regions, introducing more flexible
programs and better preparing students for employment/self-employment.
1.07      These new curricula, developed and tested by the National Curriculum
Development Center (NCDC)/1 of the MOE, are designed as self-contained (i.e.,
terminal) programs at each level. Emphasis is placed on integrating the
educational process with the local environment. Primary education encompasses
four main learning areas: basic skills (mathematics, literacy), life exper-
ience (basic science), work orientation, and character education. Secondary
curricula combine basic academic training with practical (prevocational)
skills training and knowledge and civic education. The NCDC is also developing
new learning materials (course syllabi, textbooks, workbooks and teacher guides)
to support the new curricula and upgrade the quality of education. In order to
achieve objectives of improved relevance and equity, regional adaptation will
be necessary as well as language adaptations for primary curricula in areas
outside the central region where languages other than Thai (Khmer, Lao, Malay)
are spoken. The Government has established Regional Curriculum Development
Committees under the NCDC to carry out this responsibility. Successful adapta-
tion and implementation of the new programs will also require intensive and
frequent training of local personnel (school principals, teachers and MOE and
MOI supervisors). The strategy of improving the effectiveness of an education
system through the training of key staff is supported by the findings of recent
research projects. The performance of the school principal is particularly
important in determining success of educational programs. In the case of
Thailand, where curriculum and administrative changes are being introduced
simultaneously, the school administrator's role and need for training are
especially critical. At present, none of the responsible agencies provides
systematic training for educational administrators. The Government is,
however, planning to initiate regular upgrading for educational administrators
under the Fourth Plan. Such training should focus on providing the requisite
pedagogic and managerial skills for implementing the new curricula and improv-
ing the efficiency of resource utilization. Training will be particularly
important for secondary school staff who will be expected to manage a variety
of new resources designed to support the diversified programs.
1.08      Mass Media.  While Thailand has had lengthy (25 years) experience
with educational broadcasting via radio, coverage has been limited. A major
means of transmission has been through the Center for Educational Technology
(CET) of the MOE. The CET, with a staff of about 100, produces and broadcasts
programs of educational and cultural enrichment for 13 hours per day during
the school year over its 10 kw transmitter in Bangkok. Its main target audience
comprises about 250,000 primary and secondary school students in or near Bangkok.
Another means of transmission is through the government's national radio network
operated by the Public Relations DeparLment (PRD), under the Office of the Prime
/1 Established with Bank Group assistance provided under Credit 369-TH of 1973.



- 4 -
Minister. The principal uses of educational radio programs broadcast by the
PRD have been teacher training (about 1.5 hours per week produced by the
Teacher Training Department and also broadcast by the MOE), nonformal
education (1-4 hours weekly of radio correspondence in literacy and continuing
education produced by the Adult Education Division) and various programs of
an informative nature broadcast irregularly by such agencies as the Ministries
of Agriculture and Health.
1.09      The impact of educational radio has thus far been limited:  PRD
cannot make adequate time available for educational broadcasts and the 200
commercial stations in the country are too expensive. Moreover, audiences
are largely concentrated in the relatively well-endowed Central Region
(Bangkok and environs). The quality of available programs tends to be poor.
Programs are not tested and evaluated systematically and the quality of
production and transmission is inconsistent. Teachers are inadequately
trained in the use of radio in the school and do not receive adequate support
materials. Most schools are not equipped to record radio programs broadcast
at times that conflict with daily timetables. In short, no cohesive system
exists at present for providing educational radio programs.
1.10      Educational radio has an important role to play in improving the
quality of education and in expanding opportunities for training. Radio
affords an effective use of scarce resources (i.e., good teachers and learn-
ing programs) in delivering education and training to large groups of
learners at relatively low costs per capita./l The medium could be partic-
ularly effective in assisting teachers to introduce new curricula
(para. 1.07), in giving direct classroom instruction in core subjects
(language, mathematics and basic science) and in providing continuing edu-
cation for out-of-school listeners. To achieve this potential, the
Government of Thailand plans to establish a new system for educational radio
comprised of two main parts: an educational network with broad national
coverage and a strengthened CET.
1.11      Finance.  Public education is supported almost entirely by the
central government. (Fees are levied at the secondary and tertiary levels
but cover only 9% and 4% of recurrent costs, respectively.) The share of the
central government budget allocated for education grew from 16% in 1970 to
20% (B 14.8 billion) in 1977 and over the same period, total education
expenditure (public and private) increased its share in GDP from about 3.5%
to 4%. In 1977, public expenditure by level was divided roughly as follows:
53% primary, 28% secondary, 15% higher and 4% other (including assistance to
private schools). These proportions are in line with averages for other Asian
countries. Within the primary and secondary levels, however, expenditure is
in imbalance in terms of allocations by category and by region: nearly 90% of
total expenditure is recurrent and about 90% of recurrent expenditure is allo-
cated for salaries. Present expenditures for improving facilities (at about
US$2.5 equivalent per student) tend to be inadequate as are expenditures on other
quality improvements (learning/teaching materials and teacher upgrading).
/1 Lessons drawn on the early Thai experience support the expanded use of
radio as an economical means for delivery of education and training programs
(see W. Schram, "Educational Radio in Thailand," Unesco: IIEP, 1967).



-5-
In addition, expenditure is concentrated disproportionately in the Central
Region because allocations for future development are based on past enroll-
ment levels.
Dimensions and krospects by Level and Type of Education
1.12      Primary Education.  Despite the wide reach of the lower primary
cycle, less than 30% of students entering grade 1 complete the upper primary
cycle. Some 30% of students do not complete grade 4, another 15% are forced
out of the system after grade 4 and a further 25% drop out before completing
grade 7. Repetition rates are also relatively high in primary education (20%
for grade 1 students). These inefficiencies are attributed largely to an
absence of opportunity to proceed to the upper primary cycle but also to poor
quality and relevance of training (para. 1.06). (Private primary schools,
accounting for 18% of upper cycle enrollments, assist in broadening oppor-
tunities but are more expensive for the student.) Quality deficiencies
include a lack of appropriate learning materials (textbooks, writing mater-
ials) and qualified teachers and are most notable where educational oppor-
tunities are low: in 1977 65% of primary students in the Northeast had
access to basic textbooks in Thai and mathematics, compared with over 90% in
Bangkok; the rate of unqualified teachers, 15% nationally, is highest in the
Northeast; and the student-teacher ratio in the Northeast, at 39:1, is the
highest in the country.
1.13      The Government plans to reduce disparities in access to the upper
primary cycle through the introduction of compulsory (six year) primary
education during the Fourth Plan period. While optimistic in light of past
experience, the Plan projects an annual rate of enrollment expansion at 6%
and a 100% participation rate by 1981. Progress towards the reduction of
disparity in access will depend on the Government's ability to direct capital
investment towards the disadvantaged provinces: in the past, investment has
largely been directed towards provinces with the highest share of students in
the upper primary cycle. Systematic school mapping should be pursued at the
primary (and secondary) level to ensure that new schools are located where
access is lowest. Disparities in quality and internal efficiency should
be reduced through introduction of the new curricula (para. 1.07). Success-
ful implementation of these curricula will require considerable staff support.
Staff development activities, including upgrading/retraining and field
supervision, would need to be strengthened.
1.14      Secondary Education.  Secondary education in Thailand is provided
to 28% of the relevant age group, with 1.3 million students enrolled in
1977/78.  It shares with the primary level problems of regional disparity in
opportunity and quality, low relevance of training provided and considerable
wastage. Secondary schools with upper cycles (grades 11-12 or 13) are found
predominantly in Bangkok and the provincial capitals. Access to upper
secondary education remains difficult for students living in rural areas,
especially in the thinly populated areas of the North and Northeast. In the
Central Region, which includes Bangkok and its private schools, 42% of the age
group is enrolled in lower secondary schools and 23% in upper. These numbers
compare with 18% and 3%, respectively, for the Northeastern region.  In 1975,



- 6 -
Bangkok, with 10% of the nation's population, had 45% of the enrollment in
upper secondary schools, while the Northeast and North together, with 55% of
the population, had only 26% of upper secondary school enrollment. At the
lower secondary level (grades 8-10 under the old structure) less than 400
rural schools exist (17% of the total number of secondary schools). However,
these Community Secondary Schools, established through mobilization and use
of community resources, offer a promising approach to reducing disparities
in opportunity for secondary education. After an initial period of operations
(normally two years) they qualify for central government support, to date
mainly encompassing coverage of operating costs./l A Government loan scheme
is used to attract qualified teachers to these rural schools: local students
are supported through teacher training programs and are obliged to return for a
period of service. To redress inequities in provision of secondary education,
the Government should encourage establishment of Community Secondary Schools
and direct expansion of upper secondary education away from the Central
region.
1.15      In an attempt to better prepare students either for continued
education or for entry to the labor market, the Government introduced the
concept of the diversified secondary school in the early 1960s to offer a
varied curriculum of general and prevocational subjects. The Canadian
International Development Agency (CIDA) assisted in the establishment of 26
diversified schools. Another 70 schools broadened their curriculum to some
extent through equipment assistance provided by USAID. By the early 1970s,
the Government made the decision to extend the diversification program but
found that establishment and maintenance of the CIDA-type schools were too
costly. As a result, the Government adopted less expensive standards for
equipment and facilities for 32 diversified rural secondary schools assisted
by IDA under the Third Education Project (Credit 369-TH of 1973) and the 50
secondary schools assisted under the Fourth Education Project (Loan 1271-TH
of 1976).
1.16      Experience gained from the earlier provision of diversified secondary
schools has also been reflected in the new secondary curriculum under which all
students must take at least four periods a week of work education subjects.
Increased emphasis is placed on practical and manual activities in other
subjects. At the lower cycle (grades 7-9) there are 6, 6 and 12 weekly
periods of electives (out of 35), respectively, while at the upper cycle
(grades 10-12) elective subjects would account for about 16 periods (out of
40). Each student will choose electives from among a variety of subjects in
any of the five semi-integrated areas offered: languages, science/mathema-
tics, social studies, personality development and work experience. (The last
centers on workshop practice in the manual arts, business, home arts and
agriculture.) The new curriculum will attach priority to providing student
guidance: schools would provide counseling services to assist students in
selecting elective subjects that are most consistent with their aptitudes,
available facilities and staff, and local employment opportunities.
1.17      The Government has consistently pursued the development of a
diversified secondary school program for the past 15 years. The evolution of
/1 The Government also plans to assist with provision of simple classroom
facilities in poorer communities where the necessary financial resources
cannot be readily mobilized.



- 7 -
this system has been strengthened by the systematic training of staff, the
development of curricula designed to link a broad education with the world oF
work and the development of increasingly economical models for providing
diversified education. The widespread diversification of the secondary system
is, thus, soundly conceived./l Further diversification wvll require provision
of simple workshop facilities at the lower secondary level and more specialized
workshops and equipment for upper secondary school. Some 85% of the existing
1,200 public secondary schools would need to be provided with access to such
facilities on a gradual basis, as well as the majority of the 1,000 private
secondary schools. In order to spread implementation of the new curricula,
the Government intends to continue its policy of experimenting with alterna-
tive models for diversifying secondary education that are consistent with
financial resources available. In attempting to meet equity objectives,
the diversification of small rural and semi-rural schools poses a particular
problem. In order to develop a cost-effective model for the further divers-
ification of secondary education, the government plans to experiment with
centralized workshop facilities to be shared among students from small secondary
schools (with upper and/or lower cycles) in the vicinity. It further plans to
provide multipurpose workshop spaces and simple equipment for individual
community secondary schools on a trial basis.
1.18      Teacher Training.  In the past, teacher training was offered at the
secondary (grades 11-12) and postsecoadary levels. Under the 1977 Educational
Schaeme) teacher training has been upgraded:  Primary school teachers will be
trained mainly through two-year, postsecondary courses; and four years of
training will be required for secondary school teachers. Available enroll-
ment capacity in the teacher education institutions (teacher colleges,
special institutes and universities) is about 113,000. With an overall
teacher-student ratio of a modest 1:26 and an anticipated attrition rate of
5% per year, current levels of teacher training enrollment should be able to
supply the teachers required for planned expansion of the system (projected
teacher training capacity required for 1985 is about 116,000); hence, no
expansion of teacher training is planned over the Fourth Plan period.
However, systematic in-service training will be required to prepare teachers
to use the new curriculum effectively. This could be achieved in part
through intensive evening courses at teacher training institutions and
through radio training. (In the past, evening courses have been geared
towards formal certification for unqualified teachers. The Government plans
to continue these courses through radio correspondence.)
1.19      Higher Education.  University level institutions give a variety of
programs of education and training. There are 13 state universities, 3
institutes and 10 private colleges. During the decade of the 1960s, their
enrollment grew at the rate of 6% annually. Recent expansion, averaging 17%
per year since 1970, has been more rapid and enrollments reached 110,000 in
1977. A substantial part of this expansion resulted from the establishment
/1  To support further development of diversified programs, funds have )--en
allocated under Loan 1271-TH to undertake evaluation on the cost-effec-
tiveness an&v social impact of diversified secondary education in Thailand.
It is expected that results of this diversified evaluation, to be completed
by early 1980, would lead to further adjustments and refinements ia the
application of the diversified progralms.



- 8 -
of Ramkamhaeng University in 1971. Ramkamhaeng has had an open admissions
policy (i.e., all applicants with secondary certificates were admitted). The
rationale for creating this university was to provide access to continuing
education for students unable to gain entrance to the colleges and universi-
ties. In 1975 some 53,000 students enrolled, many on a part-time basis,
although large numbers dropped out after a year or two. In general, the
expansion of higher education has not been accompanied by increased staff and
materials support and quality has suffered. In order to improve the general
quality and external relevance of higher education, the Government plans to
limit all postsecondary enrollment expansion to 4.5% over the Fourth Plan
period (Ramkamhaeng University will adopt the same restricted admissions
policy as other universities). However, new opportunities for those seeking
higher education will be made possible through planned establishment (in
1979) of a new open university: teaching and learning, however, will be
conducted completely through radio correspondence. This new open university,
like its predecessor, should serve a useful role in easing social demand for
expansion of higher education while not straining budget resources.
1.20      Nonformal Education.  Nonformal education has received more attention
in Thailand than in most developing countries./l Participation in nonformal
programs increased by 23% a year during the Third Plan period and continued
expansion is projected during the Fourth Plan period. Participants in the adult
education programs operated by the Adult Education Division of the MOE numbered
about 500,000 in 1977. They were enrolled in literacy, general education
(mainly primary equivalence), vocational and special interest group zourses.
1.21      The MOE, through its Department of Vocational Education, also provides
adult vocational courses and short trade courses in major cities. Courses for
adults and out-of-school youth in rural areas are provided through use of mobile
vocational and trade training units. The Ministries of Interior, Agriculture,
Labor, Health and Industry also provide nonformal education programs, as do a
number of private schools and organizations. The planned expansion and improve-
ment of nonformal education would help to bring basic and vocational education
to large numbers of youths and adults previously lacking access to formal
education and training. It would thus make an important contribution to
increasing national productivity and to enhancing the quality of life. In
order to provide an acceptable quality of training at reasonable costs, the
Government plans to expand nonformal education in part through use of radio.
1.22      Management Training.  Since the introduction of development planning
in the 1960s, the Thai bureaucracy has expanded considerably to undertake a
growing responsibility in the development process. The magnitude of the
development effort has created a continuous demand for skilled managerial
personnel. By 1977, some 20,000 managers/administrators occupied posts in the
civil service and government enterprises. Upgrading and training, required
to enable these officials to manage Government operations effectively, is not
regularly provided. A systematic approach is urgently required for management
training and development in the public sector.
/1 The Bank Group extended assistance to support the first phase development
of a nationwide adult education system under Loan 1271-TH.



- 9 -
1.23      Some 62 government departments and agencies currently have training
sections. However, the training centers on improving job-related technical
skills. Little emphasis is placed on improving practices among middle and
higher level government managers. Two institutions, the Academy for Local
Government Administration (ALGA) in the MOI and the semi-private National
Institute of Development Administration (NIDA) do provide in-service programs
in administrative training. The former annually serves some 1,000 Ministry
of Interior officers assigned at the local level and the latter, a highly
respected degree granting institution, provides upgrading for about 250 public
and private sector managers each year on a contract basis.
1.24      The Civil Service Commission (CSC) has a mandate for developing and
coordinating training programs for civil servants. Like other agencies, the
CSC has a training subdivision at present, but programs are mainly aimed at
implementing an improved personnel classification scheme. In order to fill
the need for a central training institution, capable of providing systematic
training in managerial and executive development, the government intends to
establish a national training center under the CSC. The center would serve
middle and higher level government managers. Courses offered would aim to
provide the skills necessary to implement development programs and projects
efficiently and effectively.
Sector Strategy
1.25      Government Plans.  Under the Fourth Development Plan (1977-81), the
Government's main objective for the education sector is to reduce regional
disparities in educational opportunity and quality. Related objectives
include improving the local relevanre of training, expanding nonformal
education and increasing use of mass media for educational purposes. In
order to achieve these objectives the Government plans to:
(a)  replace the dual cycle of primary education with an integrated six
year course and a revised curriculum, make this course compulsory
and free, and expand enrollments at this level by 6% per annum;
(b)  provide two cycles of three years each at the secondary level,
expand secondary enrollments at 11% per annum (requiring the con-
struction of about 100 secondary schools per year), and convert
existing institutions into integrated diversified secondary schools;
and
(c)  expand enrollments in nonEormal education programs by about 11%
annually.
These measures, in particular the introduction of new curricula and the expan-
sion of out-of-school education, would be supported through the establishment
of a national system for educationaL radio.
1.26      The program outlined above will require substantial increases in
capital and operating expenditure oni education. The average annual capital
expenditure for public education under the Fourth Plan is estimated at B 2,671
million and recurrent expenditures B 15,780 million (in 1974 prices, Unesco



- 10 -
estimates)./1 These figures represent an increase of 130% over 1975 levels.
The estimates for private education are B 286 million and B 2,565 million,
respectively. However, capital costs represented 0.8% of GNP in 1969-74 and
would remain at this level through 1975-85 if GDP grows at 5% p.a. Recurrent
expenditure was 2.8% of GDP in 1975: if GDP grows at 5% p.a. between 1975 and
1985, recurrent expenditure would rise to 4.2% of GDP (or only 3.5% with GDP
growth of 6.5% p.a.). These added costs are within Thailand's financial capacity,
but improvements in management and internal efficiency would be necessary to
make effective use of such expenditure.
1.27      Bank Group Participation.  Four Bank loans/credits have been made
to the education sector in Thailand, totaling US$71.9 million. These projects
have pursued three main objectives, viz. manpower development, quality
improvement and more equitable coverage. More than half of the loan/credit
funds have been allocated to general education and more than half to the
secondary level. This reflects the relatively heavy input in diversified
secondary education. The first education project (Loan 471-TH, 1966) pro-
vided US$6 million to improve the quality and increase the output of 14 trade
and technical schools and 9 agricultural schools at secondary level. The
second education project (Loan 822-TH, 1972) provides US$15.4 million to
expand and relocate Kasetsart Agricultural University. The third education
project (Credit 369-TH, 1973) is more diverse than its predecessors, provid-
ing US$19.5 million for (a) a national curriculum develpment center (NCDC);
(b) 7 primary teacher training institutes; (c) expansion of 21 rural lower
secondary schools and equipment for another 11; and (d) strengthening the
science faculty at a provincial university. The fourth education project
(Loan 1271-TH, 1976) provides US$31 million to establish 50 new diversified
secondary schools and support the first phase of a nationwide adult education
system.
1.28      The first project was completed in 1973 /2 and the other three are in
various stages of execution. To date, the projects have succeeded in achieving
substantial institutional development at Kasetsart University, the National
Curriculum Development Center and the adult education network; quality improve-
ments in secondary and higher agricultural education; and more equitable
coverage of secondary education. The projects have been less successful in
meeting manpower demands since many graduates continue on to higher education
and the specialized secondary institutions have tended to be upgraded to the
postsecondary level. The projects have further shared inefficiencies in
implementation leading to substantial procurement delays (averaging over two
/1 The Unesco cost estimates used here are based on less optimistic rates of
expansion for primary and secondary education (at 4% and 8%, respectively)
than envisaged by the Government and represent average annual costs per
year for the period 1975-85. Early attainment of the higher rates of
expansion projected in the Plan would be financially feasible if, as
expected, GDP growth proceeds at a rate of at least 8% p.a.
/2 Detail on the outcomes of the First Education Project are found in the
Completion Report (of October 25, 1973) and the Audit Report (IBRD
SecM75-450 of June 13, 1975).



-- 11 -
years) under the second and third projects. These delays have resulted
largely from staff inexperience, under-budgeting and cumbersome procurement
procedures. The Government is taking steps to improve implementation per-
formance.
1.29      In the future Bank Group education lending is expected to concen-
trate on three objectives. First, a priority aim is to make the coverage of
the system more equitable by expanding enrollments in basic education. This
includes primary, lower secondary and adult education. In meeting this
objective the Government is allocatiLng sufficient funds for the expansion of
primary education so as to equalize access without direct external assis-
tance. The Bank can play an indirect role, however, by assisting school
location planning (school mapping) to ensure that enrollment coverage is
attained at minimum cost. In lower secondary and adult education the Bank
should continue to finance the expansion and improvement of facilities
directly with special reference to access for disadvantaged socioeconomic
groups. A second major objective iS to improve the quality of instruction in
the education system. Past assistance to the NCDC and teacher training are
helping to introduce better teaching. In the future the Bank should support
the widespread impact of quality imn?rovement through assistance for educa-
tional mass media (particularly radio) and for the improvement of educational
administration. A third area for external assistance is skill development to
meet manpower needs. Past assistance for vocational schools, Kasetsart
University and prevocational subjects in secondary schools have supported
this aim. One potentially important area for external assistance, nonformal
industrial skill training (under the Department of Labor) is being assisted
by the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and bilateral donors. Therefore, the
future role of the Bank is expected to (a) continue the program of introducing
practical prevocational subjects in formal secondary schools, experimenting
with new ways to spread the introduction at feasible cost levels, and (b)
expand and improve the provision of rural nonfarm skill training.



- 12 -
2. THE PROJECT
Objectives and Scope
2.01      The proposed project would pursue three broad objectives, as
follows:
(a) to continue the program to diversify secondary education by:
- creating centralized workshop complexes to provide practical
instruction to students from nearby academic secondary schools;
and
-   providing community (lower) secondary schools in disadvantaged
rural areas with practical facilities;
(b) to equalize the quality of school education and expand the coverage
of out-of-school education through educational radio by:
- strengthening the Center for Educational Technology; and
- establishing a second national radio network to be used for
educational broadcasting;
(c) to improve government management and planning by:
- creating a center for the in-service training of civil service
officers;
-  establishing a center for the in-service training of educational
administrators; and
- implementing a comprehensive program of school location planning.
The scope of the proposed project is summarized in Table 2.1.



- 13 -
Table 2.1: PROPOSED PROJECT INSTITUTIONS
No. of
additional/
improved
No. of                   places or        Agency (ies)
Main components        institutions             beneficiaries       responsible
Diversified Secondary
Education
Centralized Workshops         12                     4,200          MOE, DVE
Community Secondary
Schools                     42                   13,000/a         MOE, DGE
Radio Education
Center for Educational
Technology                   1               )                    MOE
Educational Radio             11 transmitter  ) 12.1 million p.a.
Network                        stations      )                    PRD
Management and Planning
Civil Service Training
Center                       1                    2,000 p.a.      CSC
Center for Educational
Administrators               1                     2,000 p.a. /b  MOE
School Location Planning
Study                        -                         -          NEC
/a   New places only.
/b   An additional 8,000 (primary school headmasters) would be reached annually
through courses at teacher training colleges; these courses would be
taught by staff who have received instructor training at the Center for
Educational Administrators.
Note:  MOE  -  Ministry of Education
DVE  -  Department of Vocational Education
DGE  -  Department of General Education
PRD  -  Public Relations Department
CSC  -  Civil Service Commission
NEC  -  National Education Commission



- 14 -
A. DIVERSIFIED SECONDARY EDUCATION
Centralized Workshops Area Vocational Centers) (Estimated Outlay:
US$9.4 million, excluding contingencies)
2.02      Under the project the Government would establish 12 Area Vocational
Centers under the authority of the Department of Vocational Education (DVE)
in the MOE. Each Center would consist of a single workshop complex where
practical instruction would be given to complement the academic training
provided at nearby general secondary schools (feeder schools). The Centers
should achieve high utilization of practical facilities at lower investment
costs than possible under an alternative system of providing specialized
facilities for each small school. The Centers would represent a new approach
in the Government's continuing effort to spread diversified secondary
education in Thailand in an economical manner (paras. 1.15-1.17), and could
lead to the establishment of centralized workshops throughout the country.
In addition, the Centers would give nonformal vocational programs to
youths and adults during out-of-school hours. The proposed project would
finance the construction, furniture, equipment and technical assistance
needed to establish the 12 Centers. This would include the construction of
about 15 staff houses at each center.
2.03      Location.  One center would be located in each of the country's 12
educational regions. The Government has selected sites in predominantly agri-
cultural areas where diversified secondary schools do not yet exist; five of
them are located in provinces with per capita incomes substantially below the
national average./< Selection was based on aggregate enrollments at general
secondary schools (public and private) within a radius of about 15 km (see
Table 2.2) and on the areas' access to satisfactory road networks and public
transportation facilities./2 This would enable students to undertake
practical courses on a day (or other block time) release basis. Feeder
schools would expand their enrollments to make use of teachers and classrooms
freed through release of students to the Centers.
Table 2.2: FEEDER SCHOOLS AND STUDENTS SERVED BY AREA VOCATIONAL CENTERS
Student                                         Feeder         Average
capacity                      Avg. No. of       school      feeder school
No. of     per        Number of        schools served  enrollments   enrollments
centers  center    feeder schools        per center       (1978)       per center
9      300           95 (46)               10           46,000          5,100
3      480           53 (29)               17           25,000          8,200
/1 i.e.average annual per capita income less than B 4,000 (or, US$200 equiva-
lent  by comparison with a national average of about B 8,000.
/2 The majority of students would come from within a radius of 5 km of the
Centers. For those coming from beyond a 5 km radius, collective trans-
port at nominal cost (about B 1.0/day) is available.



- 15 -
2.04      Teaching Programs.  Practical instruction would be provided for
all prevocational options of the new curriculum:  home economics; office
practice; agricultural practice; and wood, construction, metal, electrical
and mechanical workshop practice.,/1  In accordance with government plans for
rural development, courses would 'be geared to conditions in ag.icultural
settings. Over the six-year secondary school cycle, the average student
opting for prevocational courses would spend about 20% of class time at the
Centers, another 20% on mandatory nonacademic course work, and 60% on aca-
demic and general subjects (para. 1.16).
2.05      Annual course schedules for each Center would be developed by
Steering Committees comprised of the regional education officer, regional and
provincial education supervisors of the Departments of General and Vocational
Education and the principals of the Centers and the feeder schools and one
district education officer; the committees would be chaired by the provincial
education officer of the MOE. Because of the wide range of electives to be
offered the committees would restrict the students' choice of elective
subjects as necessary to achieve an 80% or higher utilization factor for the
Centers./2 The committees would also schedule after school use of the
Centers' facilities to provide vocational courses for out-of-school youths
and adults; these programs would be organized by the centers' staff or local
representatives of government agencies.
2.06      Staff Development.  The proposed staffing complement for the
Centers is 435: 22 teaching staff at each of the smaller centers and 37 at
each of the larger Centers; 6 or 8 supporting staff; one librarian; one
counsellor; and principals and assistant principals. The proposed staffing
requirements appear reasonable and no problems are expected in recruiting
qualified staff in these numbers. Principals would be recruited primarily
from among experienced personnel of the Department of Vocational Education
and teaching staff largely from teacher training colleges, which have already
developed new teaching programs for teachers of the new curricula.
2.07      The early appointment of administrative and teaching staff would
enable them to undergo a three-month preservice training program; regular
in-service programs would be provided for all personnel. Training would
focus on teaching the new curriculum, in particular on the link between
education and productive work. Other priorities would include local cur-
riculum and materials development, teaching methods, and evaluation tech-
niques. Joint training sessions for administrative staff and counsellors
of the centers (under the DVE) and the feeder schools (under the DGE) would
foster cooperarion between them.
/1  Facilities that would be provided include 15 workshops at the larger
centers and 9 at the smaller centers, and a library at each center.
/2  An 80% utilization of facilities would require the scheduling of 288 and
480 workshop periods weekly for the smaller and larger centers, respec-
tively. Because of the large number of feeder school students, however,
pressures for increased participation could lead to higher rates of
use.



- 16 -
2.08      Output.  With 80% utilization, the 12 centers would enable about
16,000 students (about 23% of present feeder school students enrolled) to
take a reasonable number (20% of class time) of practical courses during
every year of secondary education. On this basis, up to 2,700 feeder school
graduates would have attended practical classes at the centers annually.
Community Secondary Schools (Estimated Outlay: US$13.6 million, excluding
contingencies)
2.09      Under the project the Government would assist 42 existing
Community Secondary Schools to use the new curriculum to improve the rele-
vance and quality of education in disadvantaged rural areas. Community
Secondary Schools are founded by the community to provide the first three
grades (7-9) of secondary education in a single tambon (para. 1.14). The
project schools, administered by the Department of General Education, MOE,
would each be provided with financing for construction, equipping and furnishing
of a library/reading room, one or more classrooms, general science rooms and
multipurpose workshop units (depending on size of enrollment); and technical
assistance to train key personnel.
2.10      Location.  The Government has selected for project assistance 42
schools that meet the following criteria:
(a)  to have, when fully developed, between 9 and 21 class groups /1
in their three grades;
(b)  to be in areas where practical facilities for training are not
readily available;
(c)  to have a minimum of 35 rai (5.6 ha) of land and access to
irrigation water needed for agriculture-related activities;
(d)  to have an adequate student catchment area within an average radius
of 5 km; and
(e)  to have existing school buildings that were erected with community
support and a demonstrated interest in continued community participa-
tion in the school's development.
The number and location of schools were reviewed and finalized by the Associa-
tion and the Government during negotiations. Particular priority was attached
to schools in areas where average incomes and access to secondary education are
lowest, largely in the North and Northeast Regions.
2.11      Teaching Programs.  Programs would follow the new lower secondary
curriculum and provide practical instruction in rural-oriented industrial
arts, home economics and agriculture. Theory and.practice would be closely
related with workshop instruction being supplemented by field work, e.g.,
/1 The Government would only invest in schools with 9 or more classes owing to
economies of scale. Most schools with more than 21 groups are designed to
become self-contained secondary schools with both lower and upper cycles.



- 17 -
maintenance of the school and other buildings, construction of simple farm
structures, road maintenance, repair of water pumps, and community development
activities. The curriculum and syllabus would be adapted to the needs of the
students and the community, and programs would be coordinated with the agri-
cultural calendar. These adjustments would be directed by an Advisory
Committee composed of the chief district officer (chairman), district and
subdistrict cuucation officers, school principals and principals of the
local (feeder) primary schools; the committee would also schedule after-school
programs developed by, and offered to, community members.
2.12      Staff Development.  The project schools would require about 500
additional teachers (to achieve a student-teacher ratio of about 22:1 /1);
this need would be met with graduates of teacher training institutes
(para. 1.18). The existing supply of teachers would be adequate to meet
these needs and the Government's student loan scheme (para. 1.14) would be
used to attract teachers to the smaller rural communities in which the
schools would be located. Each school would be headed by a principal.
Preservice and regular in-service training would instruct all staff on
implementing and adapting the new curriculum.
2.13      Output.  When fully operational, the project schools would graduate
about 11,000 students per annum. Under the new curriculum, students would
not be required to pass a national examination; instead, a system of internal
(in-school) assessment of performarLce would be instituted to maintain appro-
priate standards and to improve the relevance of examinations. This system
would help to reduce dropout and repetition which would, in turn, reduce the
unit cost per graduate.
B. RADIO EDUCATION
Radio Education (Estimated Outlay: US$21.0 million, excluding contingencies)
2.14      The Government, through the MOE, has made limited use of educational
radio programs for over two decades (para. 1.08). The proposed project
would help to strengthen the MOE's programming expertise and establish a
national system for educational raclio. Assistance would pursue three objec-
tives: (a) to support the introduction of the new primary and secondary
curricula through in-school instruction and teacher training; (b) to expand
opportunities for education and training among out-of-school youth and adults
through primary and secondary equivalence courses, development courses, e.g.,
in agriculture and health, and open university courses (para. 1.19); and,
generally, (c) to provide an improved quality of education, especially in
schools in remote areas.
2.15      The system of radio education would be comprised of two main parts:
(a)  a strengthened Center for Education Technology (CET) responsible
for planning, producing, distributing and evaluating in-school and
out-of-school radio programs for the MOE; and
/1  This ratio is the standard for lower secondary education in Thailand but
is low in comparison with average student-teacher ratios in the region.
The Government plans to raise the ratio to an average of 25:1 over the
next five years.



- 18 -
(b) a national radio network for transmitting educational programs.
Specifically, the project would include financing for:
- relocation and expansion of the CET, including the provision of a
central facility for radio production consisting of five studios,
individual control rooms, supporting equipment and materials, and
radio receivers and receiver recorders for in-school use;
- three regional production studios for out-of-school programming
at Lampang, Songkla and Ubon Ratchathani;
- materials and duplicating equipment for tapes to be utilized for
radio courses provided by the Teacher Training Department (TTD) and
Adult Education Division (AED) in the MOE;
- a national radio network consisting of 11 transmitter stations; and
- related technical assistance.
2.16      Administration.  Responsibility for managing the educational
network would be shared by the Public Relations Department (PRD) and educational
agencies. The PRD, which would maintain its existing national network for
news and public information broadcasts (para. 1.08), would be responsible
for technical aspects of broadcasts on the educational network, e.g. for the
provision, operation and maintenance of the 11 transmitter stations./l A
Programming Board, under the chairmanship of the Secretary General of the
National Education Commission (NEC),/2 would be established by June 30, 1980,
to coordinate program development, scheduling, transmission and sharing of
studios. The Board would consist of representatives from the PRD and all
educational users and education/communications specialists. Program develop-
ment, testing and evaluation would be the responsibility of the user agencies,
including the CET, the TTD, the AED, the Ministries of Agriculture and Public
Health, and the Office of University Affairs (OUA). The CET would share its
production facilities with the TTD and AED, and would assist other agencies as
possible (e.g. the Ministries of Agriculture and Public Health) in preparing
programs. During negotiations the Government provided assurances that the
educational radio network would be used exclusively for education and training
purposes to supplement the formal and nonformal educational programs of the
Government.
2.17      Program Production and Content.  Five types of educational radio
programs would be transmitted over the new network: in-school programs;
in-service teacher training; adult correspondence courses; open university
courses; and information courses related to development.
/1 These would be located at: Bangkok (central station); Lampang; Khon Kaen;
Ubon Ratchathani; Surat Thani; Songkla; Chanthaburi; Nakhon Sawan; Krabi;
Ranong; and Mae Hongson.
/2 The NEC is a semi-autonomous agency, responsible for review and evaluation
of the education system at all levels.



- 19 -
2.18      The in-school programs would assist the classroom teacher in
introducing and implementing the new curricula. The programs, each lasting
for 20-25 minutes (including intervals), would be broadcast directly to the
classroom and/or taped by teachers for later use. Teachers would orient
students on the subject of each program and, after a broadcast, discuss with
them the main points covered. Programs would be developed by working teams
comprising a subject expert from the appropriate curriculum development
agency (the National Curriculum Development Center for mathematics, language
and other general subjects, and the Institute for Promotion of Science
Teaching and Technology for science-related subjects), and a producer,
scriptwriter and an evaluator from the CET. After completion of the programs
one year would be spent in content validation through sample field testing,
script modification and further testing prior to widespread broadcast./l It
is expected that the new programs would be fully developed during the
1981/82 academic year. CET researchers would also develop a pilot project
to teach basic skills (Thai language and mathematics) using the existing CET
or other transmistters as well as recorded tapes (para. 1.08); in this
experiment, radio would carry the main teaching load and the classroom
teacher would serve as facilitator. During negotiations the Government
provided assurances that it would submit for Association comment, by
December 31, 1979, procedures for testing and revising in-school radio
programs and for monitoring classroom use of the programs and thereafter
make adjustments necessary to improve program effectiveness.
2.19      In-service teacher training through radio would aim to reach a
large (400,000) and widespread audience, and is expected to become the main
medium for such training.  Under the project, the TTD would be responsible
for preparing programs to upgrade formal qualifications of serving teachers
and to support implementation of the new curriculum. For production purposes,
the TTD would utilize CET facilities. The programs would be designed for
at-home listening and supported through direct mailing of printed materials.
2.20      The out-of-school radio programs would be designed to serve youths
(not attending schools) and adults (mainly in rural areas) who have had
little or no access to formal education. Under the project, the AED would
support development of adult education radio programs; these would be
produced at the CET Bangkok Studio (for Rajburn and the Central Region) and
at three new studios, which would be established under the proposed project
to meet programming needs in the South, North and Northeast.  Nonformal
courses would include: (a) level 3 equivalence (equal to six years' primary
schooling); (b) level 4 equivalence (equal to grades 7 to 9, or the lower
secondary stage under the new educational structure); (c) information
courses (related to development efforts) on occupational skills, health,
local institutions, etc; and (d) functional literacy. The programs would be
designed for individual listening but would be reinforced by direct mailing
of materials and by discussion in learning groups of 20-30 participants.
/1 Each series of programs (defined by subject and grade level) should be
pre-tested in several classrooms in different regions of the country.
Both teachers and producers should be drawn into the assessment process.



- 20 -
A group organizer would be responsible for scheduling'meetings, leading
discussions and collecting written assignments. Group organizers would be
supervised through regional and provincial education centers operated by the
AED. Financing of tapes and paper for direct mailing would be included
under the project.
2.21      The open university courses (para. 1.19) would increase access to
higher education at low cost while relieving pressure for admittance to
tertiary level institutions. Staff of the open university would be responsible
for preparing teaching packages (textbook and reading materials delivered by
mail, supplemented by radio and perhaps television programs) for out-of-class
degree and nondegree courses. Radio programs would be produced by the open
university with government financing.
2.22      Other government agencies (e.g. the Ministries of Agriculture and
Public Health) would provide programs from their own resources to support
ongoing regional extension efforts. These ministries would thus use the new
network studios at Songkla, Lampang and Ubon Ratchathani and the CET
studios for program production. Programs would be designed to convey
general information (e.g., on irrigation, nutrition and family planning)
and specific instructions (e.g., for planting new seed varieties and for
purifying water).
2.23      Staff Development.  About 280 additional professional staff would
need to be recruited between 1979 and 1982 to operate the educational network
(see Table 2.3). Recruitment would be done one to four months in advance of
operations so as to allow for training of staff.
Table 2.3: EDUCATIONAL RADIO NETWORK - ADDITIONAL STAFF REQUIRED /a
Incremental Annual Staffing Requirements
Agency          1979     1980       1981       1982       Total
CET                 5       50         20          5          80
TTD                 -       15         15          5          35
AED                 -        5         20          -          25
PRD                15       70         55          -         140
Total     20       140       110         10          280
/a Excluding an additional 65 support staff required.
2.24      The major need for new staff comes from the Public Relations Depart-
ment. PRD has an experienced and competent staff in both managerial and
technical aspects of radio operations and would continue to provide preservice
training for new staff. No problem is envisaged in recruiting additional
staff, largely from among technicians with public or commercial radio experience.
The Center for Educational Technology would need to nearly double its staff by



- 2 1 -
1982. New staff would be recruited largely from among educational communica-
tions experts (trained in three Thai universities), practicing teachers,
experienced radio (commercial or public) producers and scriptwriters, and
recent graduates in relevant fields. To enable CET to become a curriculum
support agency wich national coverage, extensive preservice training would be
provided in media skills, management of educational radio, production and
distribution, evaluation and research for program design, teacher orientation
to use of radio, and evaluation of educational impact. Additional staff for
the Teacher Training Department would be recruited without difficulty, mainly
from among practicing teachers and experienced producers and scriptwriters.
However, greater difficulty is expected in the recruitment of experienced
nonformal educators to the Adult Education Division. New AED staff would
therefore need to receive preservice training under the project.
2.25      Transmission.  The network has been designed to achieve broad
national coverage with transmissions of high quality. The broadcasts would
be directed towards an audience of nearly 12 million people (roughly a quarter
of the population) throughout the country. The transmission capacity would
support adequate reception in locations accounting for 90% of the population
(see Table 2.4 and Map). Signal levels are appropriate for the 11 transmitter
sites; interference is expected to be within tolerable limits, as signal
strengths in neighboring countries conform to international standards. The
network would be installed in two phases and would be fully operational
by mid-1982 (see Table 2.4 and Map).
Table 2.4: NATIONAL EDUCATIONAL NETWORK - TRANSMISSIONS
Number of   Number of       Number and
Phasing       studios    transmitter        power of    Population
regional    stations       transmitters   covered
Phase 1       FY79-81            2           3            3 x 100 kw }
2           3 x 50  kw}   70%
1           1 x 20  kw}
Phase 2       FY80-82            1           2            4 x 2.5 kw }
1           1 x 20  kw}   20%
2           2 x 50  kw}
Total                        3           11                            90%
2.26      Broadcasting.  The educational network would be operated at least
19 hours per day. The Programming Board would allocate time for educational
broadcasts on the basis of national education development priorities and
learner needs and habits. Periodic surveys would be conducted under the
auspices of the Board to this purpose. A sample schedule is provided in
Table 2.5.



- 22 -
Table 2.5: SAMPLE TIME DISTRIBUTION OF RADIO PROGRAMS AND AUDIENCE GROUPS
Estimated
Responsible   Number of                 Est.    listener
Purpose of program                agency       hours/week   % Total  audience  hours/week
---- (millions) ----
In-school primary programs                                               6.8 /a    17.0
In-school secondary programs                                             1.3 /a     3.1
In-service teacher training    TTD                 12          10       0.4 /a      0.8
Nonformal education              AED               20          17        0.1         0.4
Open university courses          OUA               50          43        0.1        1.1
Development information          Ministry of       10           9        3.0        6.0
Agriculture,
Health, etc.
Total                                           117 /b      100      11.7        28.9
/a  As primary and secondary enrollments expand, the size of the in-school and
in-service teacher audiences would increase.
/b  An additional 15.75 hours per week would be allocated for broadcast of
national and international news programs as required by the Government.
Proposed changes in network scheduling would be subject to approval by the
Programming Board (para. 2.16). The Government provided assurances during
negotiations that the Programming Board, chaired by the Secretary General of
the NEC, would be established by June 30, 1980 and maintained throughout
project implementation with composition and responsibilities satisfactory to
the Association.
2.27      The largest single audience (8.1 million) would be reached through
the in-school programs. These would cover the subjects outlined in the
schedule proposed below for initial operations. It is anticipated that subse-
quent emphasis would be placed on programs that support core subjects (language,
mathematics, science) under the new curriculum.



- 23 -
Table 2.6: SAMPLE WEEKLY SCHEDULE FOR IN-SCHOOL BROADCASTS
Number of
Number of    programs!              Number of
programs/week  week/grade             hours/week
Primary Level
Basic skills (Language/mathematics)/a 12             2                        5.0
Life experience (Basic science)         12           2                        5.0
Character-building (Citizenship)         6           1                        2.5
Secondary Level /b
Language                                 6           1                        2.5
Mathematics /a                           6           1                        2.5
Careers                                  2           1 (Grades 3 & 6 only)   0.8
English                                  3           1 (Grades 4-6 only)      1.3
Social studies                           6           1                        2.5
Arts/music                               6           1                        2.5
Total                                59           -                       24.6
/a  It is not expected that mathematics programs would be broadcast until
the basic skills project (para. 2.18) is completed.
lb At the secondary level, little emphasis would be placed on work-related
(prevocational) subjects and the sciences, for which the practical work
renders radio less effective than other media.
To support effective use of in-school radio programs, teachers would be
instructed in classroom use of radio and related support manuals during
regular in-service training./l Use of radio would then be considered in
evaluating each teacher's annual performance. This would require a
strengthening of supervision by school principals and inspectorate staff.
The project would support adequate access to in-school radio programs by
providing radio receivers, receiver recorders and tapes to primary and
secondary schools through the CET. The Provincial Administration Office of
the MOI and the Provincial Education Office of the MOE would be jointly
responsible for the distribution and maintenance of the equipment and for
supplying batteries and tapes. The CET and local authorities would develop
a system to ensure efficient implementation of these responsibilities.
During negotiations the Government provided assurances that it would prepare
and submit for Association review by December 31, 1980, a plan for distribution,
maintenance and inventory control of school radio equipment.
/1 Provincial education officers would receive 10 days' training from CET
staff in Bangkok. These officers would then give 5 days' training to
representatives from selected schools, who would in turn provide short-term
training for teachers at the local level.



- 24 -
C. MANAGEMENT AND PLANNING
Civil Service Training Center (Estimated Outlay: US$3.0 million, excluding
contingencies)
2.28      The proposed project would establish a Civil Service Training Center
(CSTC) to provide systematic in-service management training for civil service
personnel at the middle and senior levels (paras. 1.22-1.24). The Center
would:
(a) provide training to improve the performance of public sector managers;
(b) develop improved courses and materials relevant to Thailand's
public sector;
(c) carry out practice-oriented research projects to improve Thailand's
public administration; and
(d) provide management consultancy services to government agencies and
enterprises.
The project would finance civil works, furniture and equipment for the Center,
as well as related technical assistance.
2.29      Administration.  The Center would be headed by a recently appointed
Director responsible to the Director General, Civil Service Commission. An
Advisory Council (comprising representatives from the National Institute of
Development Administration, the Academy for Local Government Administration,
and relevant government agencies and universities) would undertake a biennial
review of all public management in-service training and produce a report on
which new, or revised, training policies and programs for the Center would be
based. The Center would be comprised of five operational units responsible
for: training (3); program and materials development (1); research, evalua-
tion, liaison and consultancy (1). This last unit would maintain national
and international liaison on developments in civil service training and
assist larger government agencies to establish or improve their own training
programs.
2.30      Training Programs.  Training would cover basic management skills as
well as special topics.  Management training would center on functions vital
to the Government's economic and social development programs (such as general
planning, financial analysis, program/project planning and implementation).
Other topics could include development of management systems, personnel
management, quantitative techniques, and policy formulation. Table 2.7 shows
a sample annual training schedule.



- 25 -
Table 2.7: CIVIL SERVICE TRAINING CENTER: SAMPLE ANNUAL
TRAINING PROGRAM AND POTENTIAL PARTICIPANTS
Level of                                No. of    Participants                  Annual
potential                              courses/         per        Duration    man-
participants            Course            year         course         (mos.)    months
Executive           National Policy
(Levels 9-11)          Symposium              3           60           0.13          23
Senior managers   Senior Management
(Levels 6-8)            Program               5           40           2.00         400
Senior Management
Program              4           30            1.00        120
Quantitative Tech-
niques                 2            30           1.00          60
Special Topics          18            30           0.25         135
Middle level        Personnel Adminis-
(Level 5)             tration                 4           30            1.00        120
Project Management        8           30           0.50         120
Personnel Classifli-
cation                 4            30           0.50          60
Special Topics          20            30           0.50         300
Total (rounded)                                                                4,340
2.31       Staff Development.  The Center's staff would develop courses and
materials, including case studies, and carry out the training programs.
About 20 staff in the Civil Service Commission worked on in-service train-
ing in 1978; over the next four years about 50 additional staff would be
recruited, mainly from among experienced government managers, who would
be seconded to the Center for four to five years. A few prospective trainers
would be recruited from among recent graduates in business administration,
psychology and education. Preservice training or upgrading would be pro-
vided for staff of the Center. In addition, experienced trainers from the
Government and private enterprise would be retained on a part-time basis.
Table 2.8 provides a recruitment schedule for the staff of the Center.



- 26 -
Table 2.8:   CIVIL SERVICE TRAINING CENTER:
INCREMENTAL STAFFING REQUIREMENTS
New Staff Required by Year
1979     1980      1981     1982        Total
Trainers                       15        8         7         8         38
Research &
evaluation staff              2        1         1         -          4
Management consultancy
staff                         2        2         4        -           8
Total                    19        11        12        8       550
2.32      Clientele.  The Center would be located in Bangkok, where about
65% of its clientele (civil servants at level C6 and above) live and work.
Training would be directed towards prepromotional and in-service candidates
drawn mainly from among 13,000 middle and high level civil servants in the
Government and another 7,000 in government enterprises./l The Center would
provide courses for about 900 senior and 1,100 middle level managers annually
(see Table 2.7), or about 10% of the target population. Regional centers,
mainly for lower level training, could be considered in a second phase of
development.
Center for Educational Administrators (Estimated Outlay: US$1.9 million,
excluding contingencies)
2.33      At present, Thailand has no institution for training the largest
group (44,000) of public administrators: administrative staff within the
school system (para. 1.07). In view of the size of the target group and the
specialized training needed, a separate training institution (apart from the
proposed Civil Service Training Center) is required. The proposed project
would therefore assist the Government in establishing a Center for Educational
Administrators (CEA). The project would include financing for the construc-
tion, furnishing and equipping of the Center and related technical assistance.
This Center, to be located 18 km from Bangkok, would have a capacity for 200
trainees and 100 boarders. It would: (a) train and upgrade administrative
school staff and government education officers; (b) evaluate training pro-
grams; (c) undertake research within the pedagogical/ administrative field;
and (d) provide a consultancy service to administrative authorities. Educational
research supports the proposed project strategy of improving the effectiveness
/1   Middle and higher level officials of the Bangkok Metropolitan Authority
would also participate.



- 27 -
of the education system by training key administrative staff (notably prin-
cipals), and by stimulating communication and exchange of ideas between
administrative personnel at various levels./l
2.34      Administration.  The Center would be headed by a Directo. under the
Office of the Under-Secretary for Education. It would have three operational
units responsible for training; course and materials development; and research
and evaluation. A documentation center attached to the research and evaluation
unit would provide an information service to educational administrators. An
Advisory Committee (comprising representatives from the Ministry of Interior,
the MOE, the Office of University Affairs, and other agencies and training
institutions) would advise the Center on its training policies. During
negotiations the Government provided assurances that advisory groups with
representation and terms of reference acceptable to IDA would be established
for this and other project components at least three months before the
institution(s) commence operations (i.e., the AVC Steering Committees,
the CSS Advisory Committees, the educational radio Program Board, the CSTC
Advisory Council and the CEA Advisory Committee); and that the CSTC and
CEA would prepare and submit for Association review by December 31, 1979
long-range (1980-1990 years) training plans and thereafter annual training
plans for the period 1980-85.
2.35      Training Programs.  The Center's training programs for school
administrators would aim to: (a) improve understanding of national and
educational development objectives; (b) clarify institutional and individual
roles, and provide the requisite knowledge and skills to fulfill them; (c)
improve resource utilization; and (d) improve the quality of education.
Courses for government education officers would, in particular, cover national
policy analysis and planning; school mapping, implementation and evaluation;
and skill courses on such topics as statistical data analysis and educational
finance and accounting. Priorities for course development and choice of
participant groups would be based on continuous needs assessment by Center
staff. To increase communication among educational personnel, joint seminars
would be held for school and government officials. Short-term training would
be provided under the project to enable these staff to fulfill their new
responsibilities.
2.36      Staff Development.  The Center's staff would be recruited from
among experienced educational administrators and would include a Director and
Assistant Director, 10 trainers, 6 curriculum/materials development staff, 5
evaluation/research staff, and 2 documentation staff. Preservice training
would be provided under the project to enable staff to carry out their new
responsibilities.
2.37      Target Groups.  The Academy's main target groups are detailed in
Table 2.9.
/1 For instance, the headmaster is consistently found to be a key to making
the school (and thus broader education programs) a success; and the
effectiveness of a school administrator depends on the support received
from his staff and from higher administrative levels.



- 28 -
Table 2.9: EDUCATIONAL ADMINISTRATORS
Target group
Headmasters & senior staff of secondary schools                         8,000
Government education administrators                                     3,000
Headmasters of primary schools                                         33,000
Total                                                            44,000
The two smallest groups would be trained directly at the Center in courses
lasting an average of four weeks. Based on an 80% utilization rate over 48
weeks per year, about 2,000 secondary school staff and government adminis-
trators would be trained annually, or nearly 20% of the respective target
groups; this represents a reasonable central training capacity. The Center's
staff would also train instructors to provide courses for primary school
principals; these instructors would be recruited from the staff of teacher
training colleges, and the courses would be provided in the colleges and
regional education offices. By 1985, these instructors should be providing
two-week courses for some 8,000 primary school headmasters annually, or 25%
of the total. School staff and government officers would normally attend
courses on a work-release basis or (for school staff) during vacations.
Planning Studies (Estimated Outlay: US$2.6 million, excluding contingencies)
2.38      Under the project, financing would be provided to assist the Govern-
ment with education sector planning and the preparation of future projects.
A school location planning study would be undertaken by the NEC to define
school building needs throughout Thailand; it would assist in alleviating
disparities in regional access and improve the efficiency of primary school
expansion in particular. Under a pilot study (completed in late 1978), initial
staff were trained to carry out the national school mapping study. The NEC
would coordinate and participate in the study along with the MOI and MOE and
would be assisted by committees at the provincial, district and subdistrict
level. The project would provide financing for further staff training and
travel, as well as for materials and equipment. The project would also finance
subsector studies chosen in accordance with investment priorities for the
Fifth Plan period (1982-86); adult education has been identified as a subsector
for such study. In addition, funds would be provided to cover the following
costs in the preparation of future education projects: architectural services;
preparation of equipment and furniture lists and specifications; and ad hoc
technical assistance. During negotiations the Government provided assurances
that terms of reference for the subsector studies would be acceptable
to the Association.
Technical Assistance
2.39      Technical assistance to be provided under the project is summarized
in Table 2.10.



- 29 -
Table 2.10: TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Specialist Services                 Fellowships
Project Item              No. of experts          Man-years          No. of       Man-
Expatriate  Local  Expatriate  Local   fellowships  years
Area Vocational Centers        2        2        3.0        2.0         39        10
Community Secondary
Schools                      3        2        3.0       2.0         22          7
Radio education                9         9       8.0       12.0         61        23
Civil Service Training
Center                      15        4       11.0        1.0        18          7
Center for Ed. Admin.         10        -        9.0         -          11         6
Planning and management        1        -        3.0         -           -         -
Total                    40        17       37.0      17.0        151         53
For diversified secondary education, specialist services and fellowships would
be provided to train administrative staff, counsellors, and, for the Area Voca-
tional Centers, the staff of the Steering Committees. The bulk of technical
assistance would support the educational radio network, specifically the CET in
managing, producing, researching and evaluating radio programs. Other user
agencies would be aided in program d,evelopment, production and monitoring.
Expert assistance would be used to develop radio programs and support materials
for the in-service teacher training and the nonformal education courses. In
addition, limited technical assistance would be provided for TTD staff training,
and more extensive assistance for AED staff training, in view of the difficulty
anticipated in recruiting experienced staff. Under the management and training
component, fellowships and technical assistance would be provided to: (a)
upgrade staff appointed to the Civil Service Training Center and the Center for
Educational Administrators; (b) develop curricula and course materials; and
(c) set up monitoring and evaluation systems./l A procurement advisor would
be provided to assist with implementation of this and other education projects.
The qualifications and terms of reference of consultants financed under the
project and the terms and conditions of their employment would be satisfactory
to the Association. Detailed schedules for specialist services and fellowships,
including terms of reference, were submitted for Association review during
negotiations.
/1  At present, UNDP assistance is being utilized by the Civil Service Commission
mainly to improve efficiency of regular operations and to develop a job
classification system.



- 30 -
Evaluation
2.40      Specialist assistance would be provided under the project to estab-
lish monitoring and evaluation procedures for each project component; these
procedures would then be implemented by the responsible agency and used to
improve the operational effectiveness of programs or courses offered. For
diversified secondary education, separate monitoring teams would be estab-
lished in the MOE to collect and analyze data on student attendance, dropout
and performance; on utilization of practical facilities; on operating costs;
and on the whereabouts and performance of graduates (through tracer studies).
During negotiations the Government provided assurances that it would establish
and carry out, in a manner acceptable to the Association, a tracer study to
follow the careers of students enrolled in the Area Vocational Centers and
Community Secondary Schools. Under the radio component, the PRD would be
responsible for monitoring the technical performance of the transmission
system; the educational users, with assistance from CET, would each be
responsible for collecting audience data (e.g. on participation and completion
rates, participant performance, and program relevance) and for continuous
testing and revision of programs. The CET, with assistance from specialist
advisors, would be responsible for an in-depth evaluation of the basic skills
pilot project. Evaluation and research units would be established at the
Civil Service Training Center and the Academy for Educational Administrators
to collect participant data and to assess the relevance of materials and
training provided (through selective follow-up on ex-trainees).
2.41      In addition, financing has been included under the project to
enable the National Education Commission to undertake a mid-term and final
evaluation of all project components. The NEC would use monitoring data
provided by the project agencies, but its reviews would also assess the
planning, implementation and initial impact of the project components in
order to determine how far objectives are being met and to identify strengths
and weaknesses. Particular attention would be placed on assessing the rele-
vance and cost-effectiveness of the Area Vocational Centers and practical
facilities for the Community Secondary Schools as models for further diver-
sification of secondary education. During negotiations, the Government
provided assurances that it would submit to the Association the NEC's
mid-term and final evaluations of project components with comments from the
NESDB and educational agencies involved, by December 31, 1982 and June 30,
1986, respectively.



- 31 -
3. PROJECT COST AND IMPLEMENTATION
Cost
3.01      The total cost of the project is estimated at B 1.4 billion or
US$70.3 million equivalent. The estimated cost by project item is summarized in
Table 3.1 below:
Table 3.1: SUMMARY OF COSTS BY PROJECT ITEM /a
Project item                         Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total
---- (B million) ---- --- (US$ million) ---
Area Vocational Centers (AVCs)         100      88      188     5.0      4.4    9.4
Community Secondary Schools (CSSs)  173        100      273     8.6      5.0   13.6
Radio education                        170     250      420     8.5    12.5   21.0
Civil Service Training
Center (CSTC)                        29       31       60     1.5      1.5    3.0
Center for Educational
Administrator (CEA)                   16      22       38     0.8      1.1    1.9
School mapping                          24       6       30     1.2      0.3    1.5
Studies                                  1      20       21     0.1      1.0    1.1
Preparation of future projects
Base cost                              514     517   1,031    25.7    25.8   51.5
Contingencies:  physical                51      52      103     2.5      2.6    5.1
price                141      131      272     7.1      6.6   13.7
Total                             706      700   1,406    35.3    35.0   70.3
/a Totals may not add due to rounding.
A summary of the project cost by type of expenditure is given in Table 3.2.



- 32 -
Table 3.2: PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Fureigin  T_9
Type of expenditure              ---- (B million) ----    --- (US$ million)
Civil works                       245      132     377    12.3      6.6      18.9
Furniture                          39       17      56      2.0     0.8       2.8
Equipment                         191      285     476      9.5    14.3      23.8
Professional services              10        3      13      0.5     0.1       0.6
Expert services                    29       67      96      1.4     3.4       4.8
Fellowships                         0       13      13      0.0     0.6       0.6
Base cost                         514      517   1,031    25.7    25.8       51.5
Contingencies:  physical           51       52     103      2.5     2.6       5.1
price            141     131      272     7.1      6.6      13.7
Total Project Cost           706     700   1,406    35.3    35.0       70.3
3.02      Base cost estimates refer to January 1979 prices (Annex 3).  Con-
struction costs have been estimated on the basis of functional and economical
schedules of accommodation and recent bidding experience. Site development
costs have been estimated at 15-25% of construction costs; professional services
at 5-10% of the cost of civil works (construction and site development); and
furniture at 10% of the construction cost. Equipment estimates are based on
preliminary equipment lists which are reasonable. Foreign fellowships and
expert services are costed at US$12,000 and US$75,000 per man-year respectively,
and local expert services, at US$8,000 per man year.
3.03      Use factors of the Area Vocational Centers and practical facilities
of the Community Secondary Schools would average 80% based on 40 weekly
teaching periods. The unit building cost would amount to about US$110 per sq
m for school buildings, which compares favorably with similar unit costs in
the region. The following table shows the area and cost of project facilities
per student place.



- 33 -
Table 3.3:  AREA AND COST PER PLACE
Area   Site development  Building  Furniture   Equipment    Total
(sq m)  ------------------------ US $ ----------------------------
AVCs          9          120 (25) /a    840 (167)  80 (16)    900 (179)  1930 (387)
CSSs        1.6           40             240         60           50          390
CEA /b       10          300            1500        180          440         2420
CSTC /b /c  20           610            3060        410          720         4800
-/a  Figures in parentheses show costt per student served.
/b  Unit costs of the AEA and CSTC are higher than those for the AVCs and CSSs
because of the higher level of education provided (postgraduate instead of
secondary) and the provision of air conditioning.
Ic About 50% of area and cost figures is for administration and service
facilities.
3.04      Contingency Allowances.  The contingency allowance of US$18.8 mil-
lion includes: (a) physical contingencies estimated at 10% of the base cost;
and (b) price contingencies averaging 24% of the base cost and physical
contingencies. Price contingencies were calculated on the basis of the
implementation schedule agreed between the Borrower and the Association and
price increases at the following annual percentage rates:
Table 3.4: ANNUAL PRICE INCREASES
Civil works,
furniture,                    Equipment,
prof. services           technical assistance
1979                12%                            8%
1980                10%                            8%
1981                 9%                            7%
1982                 8%                            7%
1983                 8%                            7%
1984                 8%                            7%
3.05      Foreign Exchange Component.  The foreign exchange component has
been estimated as follows: (a) civil works 35%; (b) furniture 30%; (c) equip-
ment 60%; (d) professional services 10%; (e) expert services 75%; and
(f) fellowships 100%. These percentages have been derived by: (a) deter-
mining the cost of civil works and furniture attributable to material, labor,



- 34 -
overhead and profits; and (b) analyzing awards for equipment made under
earlier loans/ credits. Including contingencies, the foreign exchange
component is estimated at US$35.0 million, or about 50% of total project
costs.
3.06      Customs Duties and Taxes.  The total customs duties and taxes are
estimated at US$7.7 million, or 11% of the total project cost, including
contingencies. Thailand does not participate in any regional arrangement
that allows reduced import duties for specified import suppliers.
Financing,
3.07      The proposed IDA credit of US$35 million would finance 100% of
the foreign exchange component of the project, or 56% of project costs net of
duties and taxes. Local costs would be financed by the Government, as shown
in Table 3.5. The cost of consultancy services incurred prior to loan
signing would be financed using proceeds from the Fourth Education Project
(Loan 1271-TH of 1976) earmarked for preparation of future projects.
3.08      Recurrent Cost.  Full recurrent expenditures for project-assisted
components would commence in 1984 and would amount, annually, to about B 102
million for the Ministry of Education,/1 B 36 million for the Public Relations
Department and B 8 million for the Civil Service Commission (1978 prices).
These costs represent about 1% of the budgeted government expenditure on
education for 1978.
Table 3.5: FINANCIAL PLAN
Government   IDA    Total         IDA financing
Category                     -------US$ million-------               (%)
Civil works                      13.9       5.0   18.9              27
Furniture & equipment            11.6      15.0   26.6               56
Professional services }
Expert services &      }           -        6.0    6.0              100
Fellowships            }
Contingencies                     9.8       9.0   18.8
Total                      35.3       35.0   70.3              50
/1 B 14 million for the Area Vocational Centers; B 30 million for the
Community Secondary Schools; B 48 million for the radio component; and
B 10 million for the Center for Educational Administrators.



- 35 -
Implementation
3.09      The last three Bank-financed education projects have encountered
problems in implementation which caused substantial delays /1 and disbursement
shortfalls.  Most of the delays occurred during initial implementation due
to inexperience of project staff (e.g. in contracting professional and other
expert services) and related slowness in preparing equipment lists. Fragmen-
tation of the design and procurement offices within the MOE led to unecono-
mical use of resources, made it difficult to accumulate experience and also
delayed implementation of projects and slowed disbursements. The ad hoc
Project Coordinating Unit under the Deputy Under-Secretary, established for
the third and fourth education projects at Bank/IDA request, has made some
progress in reducing delay (e.g. Loan 1271-TH is less delayed and shows a
better disbursement rate than Loan 822-TH and Credit 369-TH). However, this
unit has mainly exercised a control responsibility in respect of existing
departmental procurement units and has had inadequate authority and staff to
effect sustained improvements in procurement efficiency in the MOE. Cumber-
some budget and approval procedures (single year budgets, bunching of procure-
ment activities, inefficient tendering) have also impeded efficiency. The
Government is, however, taking steps to improve procurement efficiency: two
procurement seminars /2 were held recently to analyze implementation problems
and recommend ways to overcome them. As a result of the seminars and general
discussions between the Government and the Association on bureaucratic con-
straints to achieve the country's development objectives, the MOE has estab-
lished on a permanent basis and staffed a central procurement unit (CPU) in
the Office of the Undersecretary, MOE, and improved budget and procurement
procedures.
3.10      Project Management.  The CPU would help to overcome the adverse
effects of present fragmentation of procurement facilities and expertise in
the MOE. By contrast with the existing ad hoc unit, the new CPU would provide
direct procurement services (procurement of goods and services, budgeting and
disbursements) for MOE and other agencies concerned with externally assisted
education projects and provide liaison with multilateral and bilateral agencies
concerned with education projects. With an initial permanent staff of about
20 the CPU would be strengthened over the next two years through the recruit-
ment of additional, experienced staff, preferably drawn from other departments
within the MOE. Its director would report directly to the office of the
Under-Secretary of State for Education and would be assisted by two advisers,
one for procurement and one for project administration. During negotiations
the Government provided assurances that it would, by June 30, 1981, conduct a
review of the performance of the unit in improving the effectiveness of MOE's
procurement procedures with the view of enabling it to assume full responsibil-
ity for all design and procurement functions within MOE.
/1 As of December 1978, the implementation delays as against appraisal
estimates for Loan 822-TH, Credit 369-TH, and Loan 1271-TH were 30 months;
20 months; and 4 months.
/2 One was held at Bangkok in May 1978 mainly for education projects staff
(about 50) and another at Chiengmai in June 1978 for procurement staff.



- 36 -
Chart 3.1: ORGANIZATION OF CENTRAL PROCUREMENT UNIT
Under Secretary
Deputy Under
Secretary
Director
Administrative                                                                   Procurement
Adviser                                                                         Advisor
Initial Stage (1979-1980)
Chief of Section            Chief Section                Chief of Section                Chief Section
1 Architects                1 Procurement               1 Educator                      2 Accountants
1 Engineers                    Officer                                                  2 Finance Officers
2 Clerks
2 Typists
World Bank - 19879



- 37 -
3.11       The CPU has four sections adequately staffed and equipped to
perform the following procurement services:
(a) The civil works section would provide a full range of professional
services including: preparation of sketch plans, working drawings
and tender documents; technical evaluation of bids; prequal]ification
of contractors; advice on selection and contracting of professional
services and contractors; monitoring of performance of consultants
and civil works contractors; and advice on and monitoring of bid
advertisements.
(b) The equipment procurement section would also provide a full range
of professional services including: collection of catalogues and
price lists; assistance in the preparation of furniture and
equipment lists; preparation of specifications and tender
documents; advising on, and monitoring of, bid advertisements;
evaluation of bids; drafting of contracts for manufacturing,
storage and delivery of furniture and equipment; and monitoring
of performance of suppliers and contractors.
(c) The technical assistance section would assist in drafting terms
of reference for experts (foreign and local), and help to
recruit suitable experts or to contract organizations that
can provide technical assistance services needed for education
projects. The section would help to define selection criteria
for awarding fellowships and for selecting institutions or
agencies for in-country or overseas training.
(d)  The accountancy section would assist in the preparation and
review of budget requests for education projects and follow up
on such requests, ensure effective use of budget funds, and
monitor and review applications for withdrawals from loans and
credits.
Aspects of project management and implementation not related to procurement
would be the direct responsibility of the relevant operating department or
agency.
3.12       Further, to overcome problems related to budgeting and procurement,
the Government has taken steps to: (a) facilitate (i) signing of multi-year
contracts to discontinue current practice of dividing project items into
portions that can be implemented in one budget year and reduce bunching of
procurement activities; and (ii) provision of contingency budget funds and
transfer of budget funds to avoid time consuming and ineffective retendering;
(b) waive requirements for negotiations with the lowest evaluated bidder
which results in delay in contract awards; (c) permit school principals minor
changes in equipment allocated to their schools and- an appropriate amount of
funds to purchase some minor items of equipment; and (d) establish a central
revolving fund to be used by all minListries and agencies to prefinance those
project costs that are to be reimbursed from external sources.
3.13       Professional services required for civil works and procurement of
furniture and equipment would be provided by private consultant firms and the
design and procuremnent sections of the Central Procurement Unit (para. 3.11).



- 38 -
3.14      Implementation Schedule.  The preparation of the project is well
advanced: sketch plans, equipment lists, and arrangements for provision of
specialist services and fellowships are being completed; schedules for
appointing and training staff have been submitted to the Association; and
adequate funds have been budgeted by the Government for initial implementa-
tion of the project (through FY80). The physical implementation of the
project would be executed in three phases as follows:
Table 3.6: IMPLEMENTATION PHASES
Project item             Phase I  Phase II  Phase III
1980-81  1981-82   FY82-83            Total
AVCs                         4       4         4                 12
CSSs                        14      14        14                 42
Radio education
Transmission stations    3         3         5                 11
CET studio                         1         -                  1
CSTC                         1                                    1
CEA                          -       1                            1
Construction of Phase I would start in 1980 and would be completed in 1981;
furnishing and equipping of Phase I items would be completed at the end of
1981. Phase II would start in 1981 and Phase III in 1982. Annex 4 shows a
detailed initial implementation schedule. The proposed project would be fully
implemented in four and a half years. The completion date is June 30, 1984.
3.15      Sites.  Suitable sites have been selected for all Phase I items,
and are being acquired. The Government is using adequate criteria to select
the remaining sites. During negotiations the Government provided assurances
that it would acquire suitable land not later than six months prior to the
scheduled start of construction at each site.
3.16      Maintenance.  Earlier Bank Group-assisted school facilities have,
with few exceptions, been reasonably well maintained. The Government provides
adequate budget for annual maintenance.
Procurement
3.17      Civil works and procurement of furniture and equipment would
be grouped to the extent practicable to increase competition in bidding.
Contracts for civil works would be awarded on the basis of local competitive
bidding but foreign contractors would be permitted to submit bids. Thailand
has well-developed building industries and foreign firms not already estab-
lished in Thailand are unlikely to bid due to the relatively small bid
packages (US$100,000-300,000) and the scattered construction sites. Local
contractors have won all civil works contracts in past education projects.
Bidding would follow current government procurement procedures acceptable to
the Association. Prior Association review would be required on contract
awards above US$300,000 equivalent for civil works and above US$100,000 equiv-
alent for furniture and equipment.



- 39 -
3.18      Equipment and furniture packages of US$100,000 equivalent or more
would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in accord-
ance with IDA guidelines. In bid comparison, domestic manufacturers would be
allowed a preferential margin of 15% or the existing customs duty, whichever
is the lower, over the c.i.f. price of competing imports. Equipnent and
furniture which cannot be grouped to form packages of US$100,000 equivalent
would be awarded without prior IDA review on the basis of local competitive
bidding in accordance with current government procurement practices acceptable
to IDA. Miscellaneous items, in packages not exceeding US$10,000 equivalent,
subject to an aggregate total not exceeding US$300,000 equivalent, could be
purchased off-the-shelf on the basis of at least three price quotations.
Books and journals would be procured through direct purchase after negotiations
for discount.
Disbursements
3.19      The proposed credit of US$35 million equivalent would finance 50%
of the total project cost and would be disbursed as follows:
(a)  30% of the cost of construction and site development;
(b)  100% of the foreign exchange cost of imported equipment and furni-
ture, 100% of the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured equipment
and furniture, and 60% of the cost of equipment and furniture
procured locally off-the-shelf;
(c) 100% of cost of professional services and expert services; and
(d) 100% of total costs of training and fellowships.
A condition for disbursement for civil works, furniture and equipment under
the Center for Educational Administrators item would be the formal establish-
ment of the Center and appointment of key staff and technical assistance
advisors.
3.20      Withdrawal applications would be aggregated to the extent feasible
in groups of US$50,000 or more prior to submission to IDA for reimbursement.
Withdrawal applications would be supported by full documentation. The esti-
mated disbursement schedule is given in Table 3.7.



- 40 -
Table 3.7: ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
Accumulated              Undisbursed
IDA FY &     Disbursements        disbursements                balance
semester     -------------------- US$ million -----------------------
1980  1          0.2                     0.2                    34.8
2          0.4                    0.6                     34.4
1981  1           0.9                    1.5                    33.5
2          1.5                    3.0                     32.0
1982  1           3.0                    6.0                    29.0
2          4.0                   10.0                     25.0
1983  1           4.0                   14.0                    21.0
2          6.0                   20.0                     15.0
1984  1           6.0                   26.0                     9.0
2          7.0                   33.0                      2.0
1985  1          2.0                    35.0



- 41 -
4. BENEFITS AND RISKS
4.01      In the past, the Thai education system has been characterized by
an overly academic bias, regional disparities in opportunities for education
and inefficient administration. The proposed project would assist the
Government in addressing these weaknesses. It would improve the relevance
of secondary education through wider use of the new diversified curricula;
extend opportunities for education and training through establishment of a
national system for educational radio; and help improve the quality of govern-
ment management generally, and educational administration in particular,
through introduction of systematic in-service training.
Benefits
4.02      Under the diversified secondary education component, project insti-
tutions would aim at providing more relevant training to prepare graduates for
productive activities within the community. The establishment of 12 Area
Vocational Centers and upgrading of about 42 community secondary schools would
provide quality and equity benefits to about 50,000 students annually by 1985
and would increase the number of schools offering the full, diversified
curricula from 170 to 360. About 75% of the students would come from rela-
tively disadvantaged rural areas (average provincial income per capita under
US$300 equivalent per year) where facilities for prevocational options did not
previously exist. The Area Vocational Centers would serve a cluster of small
feeder schools and represent a new approach to providing diversified facilities
at reasonable costs,/l which could be replicated nationwide if cost effective.
4.03      The project would support the development of an educational radio
network to provide in-school and nonformal instruction to nearly 12 million
people by 1985, including inhabitants of the remote North and Northeast. The
in-school population (8 million) would benefit mainly from an improved
standard of education, and direct broadcasts to the classroom would support
introduction of the new curricula. These benefits would be increased
through the annual upgrading of some 400,000 teachers. The main benefit to
out-of-school listeners (3 million) would be the acquisition of basic
skills (literacy and numeracy) and information to enhance their productivity.
Open university courses would directly benefit up to 100,000 people per year
who have previously not had access to institutions of higher education.
4.04      The benefits to be derived from the management training component,
and from the establishment of a permanent procurement unit in the MOE, would
be an improved efficiency and effectiveness of Government management and
development efforts. The training capacity of the Civil Service Commission
would be strengthened and broadened to provide training for 2,000 senior and
/1  It is estimated that savings in investment and recurrent costs, averaging
90% and 50%, respectively, would result from provision of workshops at
each school by comparison witlh provision of centralized workshop facilities
for intensive use by students from feeder schools.



- 42 -
middle-level managers annually (10% of the target population) and the Center
for Educational Administrators would be established to upgrade 2,000 second-
ary school staff and government education officers each year (20% of the
combined target group). An additional 8,000 primary school headmasters (25%
of the target group) would be upgraded annually by instructors trained at the
Center. The main benefit expected from the school mapping study would be an
equitable distribution of opportunities for primary and secondary education
in the future.
Risks
4.05      The proposed project is subject to a number of general risks and
uncertainties in implementation. Direct responsibility for project implemen-
tation would be divided among several major agencies (the PRD, the CSC and
various departments of the MOE) and there is a general risk of inefficencies
due to fragmentation of authority. To reduce this risk, the ad hoc coordin-
ating unit, which was responsible for project preparation, has been strengthened
and established as a permanent unit in the MOE, reporting directly to the
Undersecretary for Education. This unit would guide the MOE line agencies on
matters of project execution (including procurement of civil works, equipment
and technical assistance) and provide an advisory service to the PRD and CSC
as required for project implementation. Achievement of anticipated project
benefits would depend heavily on recruitment of 1,350 new staff: while about
950 teachers for the diversified secondary component should be recruited
without difficulty, there is some risk associated with recruitment of sufficient
qualified staff to the MOE for the educational radio component and for the
proposed management training institutions. Because some underqualified staff
would probably need to be recruited to these institutions, the project would
provide intensive preservice training to enable such staff to carry out their
new duties. In addition, these institutions would utilize experienced managers
and trainers on a part-time basis.
4.06      Additional risks are related to the radio component.  Under-
utilization of the educational radio network could result from irrelevant or
poor quality programs. However, the project would provide expert assistance
for curriculum and program development, supported by continuous program testing
and evaluation, including the independent mid-term and final evaluations by
the NEC. To foster utilization of educational radio, teachers would receive
training on in-class use and a general information campaign would be mounted
by the MOE. To reduce a risk of use of the network for noneducational purposes,
programming responsibility would lie directly with the educational agencies,
and programming would be monitored by a board of educational users and special-
ists.
4.07      Despite these risks, which would be kept under review during imple-
mentation, the project is justified by its expected contributions to an
improved quality and relevance of education, an equitable distribution of
educational opportunities and an improved effectiveness of government
management.



- 43 --
5. AGREEMENTS REACHED
5.01      During negotiations the Government provided assurances on: (a) use
of the radio network for educational purposes (para. 2.16); (b) testing and
evaluation of radio programs (para. 2.18); (c) establishing a Program Board
for the educational radio network (para. 2.26); (d) inventory control of
school radio equipment (para. 2.27); (e) advisory group for project components
(para. 2.34); (f) training plans for the CSTC and CEA (para. 2.34); (g) sub-
sector studies (para. 2.38); (h) tracer studies (para. 2.40); (i) mid-term
and final evaluation of project compon,ents (para. 2.41); (j) the central
procurement unit (para. 3.10); and (k) land acquisition (para. 3.15).
5.02      A condition of disbursement for civil works furniture and equipment
under the CEA item would be the formal establishment of the Center and appoint-
ment of key staff and technical advisors (para. 3.19).
5.03      Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project constitutes
a suitable basis for an IDA Credit of US$35.0 million equivalent to the
Government of Thailand for a term of 50 years including a 10-year grace
period.



-44 -
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS
MAY 1, 1979
*    QNP/  K GNE  IX TOTAL:K  OF PUBLIC                                    tP , lRI, I.AY,PRI,  I                :SECI
*   ICAPITAI DEVOTEDIPUBLIC IEDiUCATION    ILITER-.'  PRI. ICOMPLE- IRTU- ISCH,TEACHIPROGREES-I  SEC.  RTU- :.HIGHERI
AlI  A      TI'> EDU.I  EKE,   RECURRENT    lACY       1ENROLLITION       IDENTSISALARV INIION RATE IENROLLIDENTSIENROLL:
*    MARKETI  (PUBLICIDEVOTEIIIEXP ALLOCATEID:  RATE IRATIG IRATE. ECRIPER  IRELATION IPROM PRI,IRATIO :EER  RFATIO I
1POP,1  IeRICES: EWE.    :TO             TO:       ICK OF  I NET  IERI,SCH,ITEACH(  TO GNP/ ITO SEC.  I NET  :TEACHW  GROSS:
YR:11LLLS.I. (US$): ONLY)     EDU. tPRI, SEC. HI,.AIADLTSJI  (.)  :CYCLE)%)IER             CAPITA     (7.)    1(7.)  !ER 1(.
(1) II(2>     (3)   1  (4>   I          (5)      I(6)   1() I(8)    1 (9) I(10)   1(11)                    1(12)  1(13) 1(14)
ADVANCED
AUSTRIA         74   7.SF 4,870F    5.39  _ 3.5EY  24Y  51Y  15Y   99             98       93D       28       2.00)      990)     51D     190   16.85Y
CANADA   -      75  22.8  7,135        7.3   16.7    30   37   24         98      99       97        19       2.0       9?        90      18     16.00
GERMANY F.REP.71  61,8  6,670          5.0   10.2    31EY 64*831 24E1'  99        90       99        23(9     ...       999       84Y    ZZC   20.269
JAPAN           75 111.6  4,450        4,3E  20.7E   40U9 37UY 1DUY  99           990      990       25       2.03      99C       95KV   20C   24.69Y
NETHERLANDS   75  13.7  5,425          9.4   22.41D   21   39   21    99          91       9         29       2.0       97        90      20     12.00
NEW ZEAL.AND   73   3.1E 4.280F    5.2    ...          39   24   29    99         99       99        26       ..         99       67      19    24.00
NORWAY          76   4.0  8,043        7.2   14.4    54   24   is    99           99       99        16       1.5       99E       62      11     11.00
(>WEDFN         76   8.2  8,150        8.8   14,0    23   29   12    99           99       99        16       ...       90'?      85C     13    30.OOC
U.K.            75  56.0  3,780        7,1   13.9    26   41   18    99           99        ...      24       2.0        ...      68      17    21.00K
U.I.A.          76 214.6  7,950        5.4   15.8    ...   728* 28        99E    99        99        22       ...        99       93      19    24.00
1(RI)F:E
GREECE          76   9.1  2.590        2.6   10.4    37   26   21    861'    99            820       31      2,0         70E      80      27     15.00
IRELANDJ       74   3.lF 2,391W        5.1   13.9D   439  41Y  149   98          108KV     99A      35       ...        95A       65KV    19    15.47Y
PORTUGAL        77   9.7  1,850        3.6   15.4      41   21   IS    701         82      60*       19      2.0        75*       35      12      5.100
ROMANIA         75  21.2  1,240        4.0     6.4    36   19   13    98          101K      ...      21      ...         98       49      22     10.00
SPAIN           74  35.3F 2,750E       2.4B  15.2A   499  229  115Y   94A   115KV           ..        I .... 3.A                  78XY   30      17.68Y
A)~ RIECA
ALGERIAI        77  16.9    9900       7,5   14.3FY  42   ...  21    35           78X      45        39       4.0        55       26K     13      6.00
PENIN           74   3.IF   130F    7.2N  36.09   470  230  100    1101    44XY    70B               53Y    25.01'      438       11KV   39B'    0.74Y
DO(51.ANA       76   0.7    410        4.0   19.2    53   20   14          3      72X      95        32       3.0       60        12      22      0.30
BURUND'I        74   3.7'   IIOE       2.5   19.90   47R  41R  12R   10           203      30?       38      10,0        14        21     18      1.0
CAM>. ROCIN     76   7.7      314      3.7   21.5    33   43   20    ,...    60            45        52      4.0         2.0       90,    24      0.YOCY
C,A.R.          74   1.8F   220F    3.08)  17.01)  561'  198   ...,...    79XV             25        69Y     ...         18        8KV    27BY   0.21Y
CHAD0          75   4,0      120       3.0   10.0    78   22  ..          15      29XBY   30        658Y   15.0          8         2X89  30       0.01BY
CONGO(I()       74   1.3P   SlOE       6.0   19.3      40   32   21    501    1333         63        63       6.0        48       33X    22       3,40)
[G91)           /6  38.2    310        5.9N            30 s    32   25    44      76       80        31       ...        79       45      20      12.00
L.T HIU0Fl(A    77  29.0      100      2.4   12.5   44    31   14    10           26       ...       s0       ...       63         8      38        .
G58O9           74   0.5F 2,540F       5.00l  20.60   251'  90i 110    ...   1009          25C       46C      5.0        188      319    2)1C    0,29Y
CAMBIA          /6   0.5      170      3.3   11.5      46   25    6       10      27       90       33       ...        92        13      25       ..
LI-lANA         74   9.9F:   590E      , ...   19.7Y   43Y  22Y  2090   .. .    60KV       628       30T     ...         148      3519    160Y   1.099
(i(l(NEA        76   4.7    IHOP    4.3N0 ..           30   31   30    ., .    30K         64        45       12F       86        131     26      4.0))
PIAORN  CUASS)   76   7.0    61.0      6.8   23.1    33   46   13          98     50       86       43       7.0        47        17XV   26       1.64Y
EVANYS          76  13.8    240        5.9   26.0      67   23   10    40         801?     60?       34       6.0       30        16      27      1.0
IESOW I         7O 5   1.2    160     )2.OP  23.0    49   18   20         40      81       50        52       7.ON      81        10      26      1.00
Lf IOPEI R      75   1. 5    410       2.4   13.2    27   15   20         73      58I       ...     '35       2.0        ...      12      26      ).IOAY
MIADAGASCAR     77   83.0    240       4.0   24.0    53   28   19    50           90       33        44       6.0       38        14      23      1.70
MALAW)          77   5.6    140        2,2    9.3    40   17   22    25           56K      21        61       5.0         9        5K     21      0.47
MALl            75   5.7F    NoF       4.281  33.OF   45F  37E  18F   lOp         22XF      ...      48P     9.5F       SOP        61     21        ..
MAURITANIA      71   1.3F   320F:    4.19  20.09        ..    .         .I    106  1'7KV    ...      22A      ...        -.        3KV    24A
MAURITIUS       76   0.9L   680        4,7   12.1    50   26    6    BOC          94       99        24       4.5         90      45      32      1.50
MOROCCO         76  1.8,2    520       6.3   15.2    39R  48R  13R   28           65K      33        40       ...       33        17X    22       4.00
N16ERIA         74  75.0F   340F       4.10Y 24.209Y  239  169  429    ...    49KV          ...      34DY     ...        ...      10KV   20CY   0.48V
RWANDA          73   4.IE`   10OF      3.2C  28.00....... 23                      52       ...       51       ...        ...       2      13      0.23CY
SENEGAL         77   5,2    420        5.0   23.0    46   34   20         10      32        ...      49      10.0       20        10    *21       1.5
SIERCA LEONE  73   3,OP    200F    3.4   23.4    31   36   30             15?    34X       41        32       4.OE      68        13K     21      0.5389
SOMALIA         751  3,2.    110       3.78  10.80   490  160  190   50?,    34X           86        35      10.0        60        3      15      0.10
SIJDAM          76  15.9      290      4.5   19.9    48   36   16    20           34       74        33       3.8        33       14      24        1.241
SWAZILAND       75   0,5    470        3,8     ---    38   31   19    S0         '73       71        38       3.8       51        24      22      1.00
TANZANIA        76  15,1    180        6.6   17,4    42   21   12    80           93K      51       49        6,6        6         4X    19       0.34
TUNISIA         73   5.6P   730F    6.3   23.4    37   43   1D    55              72       81       41        6.0       31        14      21      3.00
(JGANDA         75  11,6      230      3.481Y 11.7DY  34EY 40EY 22EY  25A    1339           ...      34EY    ...         14A       6KCY  21A    0.56Y
UPPER VOLTA   77   5,8        118      3.4   23.9'    31   16   32         IC     13       23        11      24.0        19        2      25      1.0
2AIRE           76  25.6      140      6.0   22.0    49   26   25    15           86K      44        42K      2.0        41       13x    27        1.00K
ZAMBIA          76   5.1    440        6.8   15.9    54   22   22         39      97X      80        49       7.0        21       16      23      1.50
CENTRAL AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN
BARBADOS        76   0.2  1,620        8.1   22.1    43   31   16    99          1063      99        21       3.0       99        94X    17        ..
COSTA RICA      75   2.0    960        5,28  22.71'   571'  251'  121'   898    10939      653       299B-   3.01'      598       52XY   218    17.15Y
CUBA            78   9,5  9,500        8.0   11.0........    96                   98       98        22       2.7    -98          65      15     15.00
DOMINICAN REP.72   4.7F   720P         3.0   13.9    42   24   22    51           s0        17       54       3.00       63       13.5   24       7.00
EL SALVADOR   77   4,1    170          4.4   27.2    64    8   27    62           sex      32        39       2.2        41       23      21      7.00
G31JATrEMALA    73   6.3F   570F    1,9   16,0    55   23   14    47              64       26        35       3.0        69        8      253     4.09Y
HAITI           76   4.7    200        1.0    8.0    61   21   11    208          25F       13       56U      3.0        62        4      ...       0.7
HONDURAS        75   2.9    3900    4.28  18.80   628  118  198   53              78       30        35       3.0        68       11      17      4.00
JAMAICA         76   2.1  1,070        9.9   16.2    37   33   22    86E          91       12        39       4.5        94       64      25      7.58
MEXICO          75  59.9  1,050        3.100 12.0D0  51Y  269  129   76          112XV    31.        46       3.0        63       35XY   23A    9,97EY
NICARAGUA       74   2.3E   700F    2.1   14.2    61   13   13    57              65       21.       37       2.0       93        17      24      7,00
TRINIDAD 1 T. 77   1.1  2,185          4.5   14.1    48   32   20    95           98       91        30       3,0       49        62      24        ..
SOUTN AMERICA
BOLIVIA         76   1.8    315F    5.0   17.SF        .... ..   38               171'     290       24       SF                   4       B ... 4  9
BRAZIL          75 107.0  1,030        5.0   12.4    42E  20E   37E  64A    360             ....     27CY      .          .       268     15EV   6,003
CHILE           75  10.3      990      3.8RV 12.51R9  23Y  109  50?    ...   119KV          ...      359      ..         ...      46KV    ...   16.519
COLOMBIA        74  23.6F   5lOP       3.3DW 21.22Y  4409 2209 119   73          105KV     20        339      4.0        90       36KV    14A    6.679
ECUADOR         75   7.1    590        3.701 27.7C0. i--f. 69                    102XY      ...      38C      ...        ...      36KV    140       .
GUVANA          74   0.8F   5lOP       5.8N4  14,70    7 3         14    83A    92X        39F       33       6.0        t9       62X    24       1.08
PARAGUAY        74   2.6F   58OOP      1.8   11.0    55,  13   22    ID           12       26        30       1.9       AS        17      12      1.00
P'ERU           75  11.4    760        4.2DY921.7DV  40Y  22Y  11Y   72          111KV     36        3909     3.0       70.5'   49EV   2309  14.41
URUGUAY         7.1   2.8  1,300       2.1   15.3    46   34       "2    9-4      93K       ...      24        ..       83        ...    10       .: . 
VENEZUELA       73  12.OF 2,290F       4.6   19,9      300  260  3150   77A    61I          .        33       2.4       ..        33      ...   12.63CY



i'IjMFPOR1'(I'F FiiUCA"TION1 INDICATORS  (CONTD)                            6BS1PiS   n 
MlAt 1. 1979
G  NP/ : GNPUH   :% TOTAL:%  OF PUBLIC                          1         IRI, tAV.PRI.  1                        SEC
(CAPITIA; DEVOTED.PUBLIC :EDUCATION    :Lfl-    FRI. ICOMPLE- :STU- :SCH.TEACH:PROGkESS :1`717, -Tll.. 'HiNI '"
* .Atl: TO EDU.:  EXP. :RECURRENT   lACY               !EIROLL;IIuN      DIENISISALARY INUION RA65- :FNROIgAJE01NVS:EkR.4I 
:MARKET'.  PUBLIC(IiEVITEIi:E.XP ALLOCATED:  RATE IRATIC  :RATE. FORIPER   RNELAIION IFROM FR.(A          ,I Il.k  IKillI i I
POP. :PRICL: f9XP.   TI                 mITO     :1% OP      NET  IPRI .SCH. TEACH Ti) GNP/  TO S3EC.    NET I   T I A(1H  piF'PIW8
YR:MIL_L S.( (IJ8*  'NIT Y     EDU). lF>RI. SEC. HI8:ADULTS): (9)  :CYCLE(Z%8ER           CAPITA    1)        .'Z)    181'
12)     31       (4)   1      (5)      1    6)  1 (7)       ( 16   :    9)   ( 10)    (lb)      !(I     : I  I    !I.
A:;) 1 AN)' OCEANIA 
AIUHiANISIAN    7*  [~ 4.3    [60t.    1.8   11.6    47   19   15         12      299      69       37       3.08        62       89      [7      I.1,0
FENIHIiIDESNH   5  /311) i4    111     1.2   20.2    44Y  22Y  21Y   230,    969           ...      48D       ..        ...      23XD    28
HINA I AIWJAN) '13  1'4. 01   931FW   1 3.21   14.0    28   41   22    82       98C       94       40     :14 0   .  84         610     26    20,c
INDTA          /5 6"'I, '.   11N-'    2,6VY .,        ..   .,.    .    295       699Y     ,.. .      1A                .. .     29XY   2OAY   1. 72'
INLDONI S;IA   /6 I ,0. "I    Ap4     .5.0   11.0    26   32   19    608         79EX    43E        3FO      ) (I      52E      19E9   [NE        .1,.
I RAN          25    0 .4F I .660[    3.3   0". 6    5Ot  188  121   90          / 7       74A      3"       '1 OR4     BOA      2~4     32      'p. 1l 
I AP/   [.                    .2121,  6.20C  16.3DR ..... -              2610   9399       ...      22.. 9-                              26C    11. -I 
iORIIAN                     '99. L yy  N.ht    8.6    258  50k   38.  69         8/       81                           912 0 ?   68      22    .9, 1''
,0R1>A          '8   , '.   1,242      2.8   17'.     35   79   36    93        1029       94       4        29         91       60      45   I103,0(
iLEBANLIN            3!t1, k)'OF       3.5,   38.0    39   40   10    68         Na        65      .9        2          63       2611    25,    25.00
M1181  I51      /6   1 2.6    l:l6(,   6.7   26.0    42   34   15~    60)1:    99          93       3          ./       78       48      24       .1I
NEI A1          76  1?.61   1101  '   1.   [0. 0    219   20   41    19          1>9       28       3          .3       64       14      214      0.
'lMAN          72   1185F  .56_0w     IlY:N   3.8    96,    -   -        20      1(49      99       2        1 0        .,.      (9.4X    9      ..
"Al, 12318AN    72  69.2    160        1.6   16.2    49;  25   18    21           479     tsp       39       2.0        . ,.     1 76     18  ~ _~
P-APIO  N,G.    75  2.8H    470         .6   16.1      38   16   24    32         5/3 II   73P      31      11.0        90       12X9.14         0. '('_
PHI _1I1.1N(85    74  42.21F   3805    222    14.9    73   19   12    87         (04X      ...,    34       15.0        ,...     46X      . ,.   21 . 0
I NUAPORE    ;74    .31F 2, 450OF     7.7    9.*29   399  39)  173    75A   00993         776      31Y      ...        99A      44XY   24       2. sly
21418      ~~~~~75    .4    7'20   3.6   6.9       39   25,  26    53 ./89             70       35        2,.0      92       49      21      12,01pk
I HA ILANIP    7/   4.pj    410       4,0V 20.0       55i  30i  19        1       3 4  3   30       35       0 .00L     70       28      25      3.0''
111R8F.Y       73  4 0.11'   9001      1.i6(9' 20. aCY   ,,,.......-             85Y       . ..     34Y      . ,.       ..       2  41   2709'Y 83
oEMEN          731,11         (GF    0,,:      4 .0    45  2 iF  231   10         159      l8       36       5.0~       75        29      19     0 . 02513
p181(11 F,1r.R.  76   1 .7    280O  6.6   .....7          8    8    20       8199      48       30       ''.0       94       219     24      0.10
i11.MMARY FOFR DEVEL nF NO; CIOUNT1R11ES:
NUIMBpI: Ill VI)UNIRIES:               94    90       88   88   89    87        95        74       95          68      77       94      91        84
R1680F:                            (0. 5-  13,8 -  [21- (5j-  (2-   (3-       114-      (13-     (19--     (1.9-   17-        1.4-   (9-       (.O1_
12.0 I33,0)   96 147)  41)   981            1339X)   99 1     69 1       5.0 1 99)         eo     39)   23,0)
U(RIUIELIESTUPF'ER                   5,    21.2      54   32   22    73        94        76       46          7       83       36      25      7.0
MFDiAN)                  3.9   16,3    45   23   18    50           78       55       36          4       63        17      23      2.3
LOWER 1                  3.0   12. 4    38   18   12    20          53       30       32          3       43         9      20       .9
5iYMBOILS, .. DAT1U8 UNAVAILABLE              A=1970 OR BEFORE           N-CURRENT PRICES                         SOURCES:
MAGNITUDE NIL OR NEGLIGIBLE B=1971                          "--GDP----
9  QUESTIONABL-E                  C=1972                     P=INCLUDING FOREIGN AID                   COLUMNS)) AND 2 WOFRLD BANK ATL AS
*INCLUDES PART-TIME STUDENTS D=1973                          0-CENTRAL GOVT. ONLY                                         OR IBRD MISSIONS
**COMBINED wiTH PRIMARY           E=1974                      R=MINISTRY OF EDiUCATION (MOE) ONLY                3 TO 14 IBRI MISSIONS
* L*INDER REVIEW                   P=1975                     S5M0E AND STATE GOVT. ONLY                                   AND/OR UNESCO
0=1976                     T-EXCLUDING CENTRAL GOVT.                                    STATISIICAL,
U-PUBLIC ONLY                                               YEARBOOK
V-INCLUDING PRIVATE EXFENDITURE
X-INCLUDINO OVERAGED STUDENTS
Y-UNESCO SOURCES
.---      - -- - - -  - - - - - - - - - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - - - - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -  - - - - - -  - - -  - - -
COMPAISATIVE EDULCATION DATA ARE USEFUL IN THE EVALUATION OF VARIOUS EDUCATION SYSTEMS AND, ANALYSIS OF RELATIVE STAGES OFr EDUCATIONAL.
D'EVELOPMENT BETWEEN VARIOUIS COUNTRIES. HOWEVER.ON THE BASIS OF THE PRESENT DATAvCROSS-NAlIIONAL COMPARISON SHOULDi FE AP'PROACHED WITlH
GREAT CAUTION. DATA PRESENTED IN THE ABOVE TABLE NAVE BEEN COLLECTED LARGELY BY THE BANK MISSIONS FROM GOVERNMENT SOURCES; THE
REMAINDER ARE STAFF ESTIMATES OR DATA FROM UNESCO. EFFORTS HAVE BEEN MADE TO STANDARDIZE DEFINITIONS AND WITHIN LIMITS,) I0 CHECK IHE
ACCURACY OF T-Hf DATA. NE.VERTHELESS,SUCH DATA ARE SlI1.L IMPERFECT IN SEVERAL RESPECTS AND THE BANK IS WORKING TO0 IMFRFOVE: THEN-
PROGRESSIVELY ON THE OCCASION OF ITS OPERATIONAL WORK. IN THE USE OF THESE DATA, THE FOLLOWING OUALIFICATIONS SHOULD BE. S1OSN I
MINI':-                                                                                                                                       NEI
L1I%EDUCATION' AS DEFI1NED, IN THE TABLE INCLUDES AL-L EDUCATION AND) TRAINING, FORMAL AND NON-FORMALI                    1
(2) FRIMARY EDUCATION REFERS TO EDUCATION AT THE FIRST LEVEL AND, SECONDIARY' EDUCATION REFERS TO ALL.- EDUCA310N AT THE SECONDARY
p EVEL. REGARDLESS OF TYPE (E.G. GENERAL, TECHNICAL, AGRICULTURAL) 
(,3)'LIIERACY RATES'(COL.6) ARE OFTEN OBTAINED FROM COUNTRY CENSUSES. IN NANYCOUNTRIES THEY ARE ONL-Y APPROXIMATIONS AND IT- IS
DOUBTFUL T'HAT ANY UNIFORM DEFINITION OF ILITERATE- HAS BEEN FOLLOWED CONSISTENTLY;
(4)'FUBLIC EXPENDITURE IN EDUCATION'(COLS.3,4 AND 5) REFER TO ALL CAPITAL AND RECURRENTF EXPENDITURES DEVOT-EDl TO EDiucATION BlY
PUBLIC AND QUASI-PUBLIC AGENCIES;
(5)'ENROLLMEN1 RATIOSI(COLS 7, 12 ANDI 14) REFER TO SCHOOL YEAR AND MEAN THE PERCENTAGE OF ELIGIBLE CHILDREN ENROLLE,D F7i1ILLTIME
IN THE AP'PROPRIATE SCHOOL, PUBLIC AND PRIVATE BY LEVEL, THEY ARE OFTEN SUBJECT TO) A WIDE MARGIN OF E-RROR IN ONE- DEVEL.OFINGO
COUNTRIES OWING TO VARIAT-ION IN THE ACCURACY OF BASIC DATA(I.E. AGE-SPECIFIC POPULATION AND ENROLLMENTS), ErNROLLMENT FIGURF 21
FREQUENTLY ARE HIGHER THAN THE NUMBER OF STUDENTS ACTUALLY IN SCHOOL. OVERAG1ED STUDENTS WHOSE-INCLUSION IN INDICATlED. 1Y
FOOTNOTES ALSO1 CAM TNFI.ATF THE RATIOS.



THAI LAND
STRUCTURE OF THE FORMAL EDUCATION SYSTEM
-PRIMARY EDUCATION              |       |     SECONDARY EDUCATION              H     HIGHER EDUCATION
PDRE.1t-_1978                                                                              TEACHER TRAINING
ACADEMIC STREAM
LOWER PRIMARY            UPPER PIAYLOWER SEC.                        UPPER SEC.            UNIVERSITIES
VOCATIONAL STREAM
KEYOREAMNTIN                                          LOWER SEC.          UPPER SECONDARY        TECHNICAL
* CERTIFICATE
DIPLOMA
* BACHELOR'S DEGREE                                                                                        0                       40
PRIMARY EDUCATION                        SECONDARY EDUCATION                        HIGHER EDUCATION
POST -1978I
LOWER                 UPPER-               TEACHER TRAINING
UNI VERSITI ES
VOCATIONAL STREAM
, 4     v        O~~~~4
GRADE 1      2     3     4         5     6     7         8     9    10         11   12         13   14         15    16   (17)
AGE   7      8     9    10        11    12    13         14   15    16         17   18         19   20         21    22   (23)
World Bank-15827



408E0 3
Furnitlir ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~14107
Fo-                                                                                                                                 1-L    F-L, ~~ -l    1-1    F-i,                          --1    L.--I    F.,~7F-73TF7117.-I.-2iI77F2TF 0                           .F0.62
2A4.441.4744-1  I449721                          71 37       3847    FF970         7990    31720         89707      4598      99ll         6569    1000  1459F             309M                                                     2160      7960        1         3990       4200                      --                216           24      240   100141        FF200   FF87349       9417
F~~FF. 044.4900404  7077)  ~~       211421      11407   72F1           9593     57755      110114    00100    121902          43008    10077    77779         Z-2271-44                         149            -         I96       900       120        22FF       7470                                -       F8            37       320   173029      100350   173301    13069
09007  424147077                    ~~~~~        ~~1 7 56  047  2002   0751      4020       13509       450       1-            643    678o   '777          Io7F7l                                             -           -         -            21-                                                                                        I796F       14087    188735      9907
Fo,,tao  744 63n40647.o1    ~ ~ ~ ~~64(FF97                52 -         2-1-     4-.          -,        -8        -7            1--     7046    1119         17,017                                           - 
-  -  -  -0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~466   -199  19665   933
890.1-19 20~4                                        -                                 -         --4  -                                                                                                                             470       F9         470       11400      10000       144        0506      2880       0774          191     1920      24072       00808    20187       0146
0474   41  -477-  3.0.00                        0770        1871      5313      1799      0177  2 61 5013   35              577          1007   7441~.   204-0        197013       4C           I7         -3                        -         -         -           -          -         -            -         -         -           -          -7167438        209377   -8604       14804
444.  .94    .4447144   720977                    340         197       335       7 '4    99701          26870      1871       804         2697      2740      42'41       7171      26                                             1680~    16871       6001      11700      12000         70        1760      1440~      324           97       360      7874       01143    5970F99
044,646 077 64. 249.  77047        2000        1442~~I,   549       9229      4949       14087      10         410         1491      1187      178'        7777       114           130      003'                   140       740        54        709        0F0           72        108       1140          -           -          -    15577       27691    978217708
741041 04444444 4F7404  -  -        -                                -         -        -             -     0977       '507        4717         -             -         -          -           -         -         -                                                            02570         7510    25100    74357          5437    30080-    750590 ~ 510 
9447144  491 F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~04~~~~0  0047  -  -  -                                                                                                                        -          -           -         -      0059       19950      11000 --10~  195  2N ~ -                        --                           15,        I'910      =0
8647874  7444  84 7444           37107         7~~~~~ ~~0770    57 736   707450   11174  319440    37960    1697          3474    100274   290096        177547       04           2110    12592                   110723    17277      30,23      59200      62400        288        747       5070     125147        2794   27940   51302,2        516F7   182998
478   ~~~~~~~ I106                  4010     7877    17572       5570        75902      1907       8035        0780      8513     11749       2077        2234          10         30          -         66        63         5          94        3120         14         071       0FF      107           140     0990      2, 2585     0844    51495
144494471904407  8404                7~~~~~~4907   7027    07003    8247        4174n7     704660    11477       7217        74095    64747    47121        1-6187       377      77            1737           -        493      497  111      0 'l    2~1179     2225        103         I 195    2054      0986           -8      9963   192603        1866252   3788595
04 000               747           101~    ~~~~~       ~ 1117,  12 2FF      6148041              31           20 3      27        90         94           77451                                         1        727         6        15          117          5          98       17         40           50       4908      6 9937              1943
0444344471  4,, 03774               ~~~~~51437720205          07670  2810118   156217      1416777    40780    23909          79497   255005   0721 47        31--      13752          7097    14430-3                 17356    17715       433        80417      84653       3997        7423      7714    34012          3790    379053  705424        70 310  0407754
17 057                    '777~~~~~~12  1412       .421,  14505       771        72307      1784      1195     05            770      172          17          07            1334                              6        163       172        4071       40 33       70         771        391     1706          090      1875    30281        975~56    70438






- 4~ -                                                                                  ANNEXi 24
lTHAN AND
MULTIPURPOSE EDUCATION PROJECT
Global Implementation Schedule
 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- Calendar Years, Quarter Months - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
1979                          1980                           1981                           1982                           1983                            1984
1      2       3      4       1       2       3      4       1       2      3       4       1       2      3       4       _       2      3       4       1       2       3      4
JFM    A1M,    JA8    OND    JFM    A1LJ    S O    OND)   JE7    AM,]   JAS    0ND    JFM    AIL    JAS    0NS JFM    ANJ    JAS    OND    JFM                    MI    JAS    OND
Professional Services                                                                     I
Completion rate  (%)                     20                             40                             60                             80                             100
Execution                                   xxx    xxx    xxx          xxx     xxx     xxx     xxx     xxx     xxx     xxx     xxx    xxx    xxx    xxx    xxx    xxx    xxx
Civil Works                                                                                                                                                                                             C
Completion rate  ()020                                                                                 50                             80                             100                              0
ECmcltion  r                                                               xXX    xxx    xxx    x .x    xxx    xxx  I xxx    xx    xxx    xxx    xxx    x   100                                       M
Phase                                                                 <--------Phase one   --   > <--------(Phase two --------> <-------Phase three ------->                                          P
L
E
Furniture                                                                                                                                                                                               T
Completion rate  (%)                      0                             10                             40                             70                             100                              I
Execution                                                                   xx    xxx    xxx    xx.    .xx    xxx    xxx    xx.    .xxx   xxx    xxx    xx.    ...    ...    ...    ..    0
Phase                                                                        <-----Phase one------>        <-____Phase two------>         <-----Phase three---->                                      N
Equipment                                                                                                                                                                                                I
Completion rate  (%)                      0                             10                             40                             70                             100
Execution                                                                   xx    xxx    xxx    xx.    .xx    xxx    xxx    xx.    .xx    xxx  . xxx    xx.    ...    ...    ...    ..    D
Phase                                                                       <-----Phase one------>        <------Phase two------>         <-----Phase three---->                                      A
T
Fellow                                                                                                                                                                                                  E
Completion rate  (%)                                                    25                             25                             25                              25
Execution                                                                  xxx    xxx    xxx    xxx    xxx    xxx    xxx    xxx    xxx    xxx    xxx    xxx
Expertsl
Completion rate (.  )                     0                             25                             25                             25                              25
Execution                                                                  xxx    xxx    xxx    xx        xxx    xxx    xxx    xxx    xxx    xxx    xxx    xxx
X = one month execution
. = one month guarantee
< = beginning of phase
> = end of phase.






-49 -                                                                                                                         ANNEX 5
TUAILAND
MUT,TIPIURPOSE EDUCATION PROJECT
nontingency Allowances
(En Saht and 0E1'OE0)
Profesaional                                                   Short-term
Nice development         Building        _ Furniture_         Equipmceot       - services   _         Felnlowhips         For, experts          experts           Local experts          Other            Total proiect coto
Local    Foreigo  Local   Foreiga  Local   Forefig   Local   Foreigo  Local   Foreign   Local   Foreign   Local   Foreign  Lsoal                      Foreign  Local   Foreign  Local   Foreign  Local   Foreign    Total
Cootingemcino  (as % of project cost)
Unforeseen                                 10.0       10.0       10.0       10.0   10.0       10.0      10.0       10.0   10.0       10.0       10.0      10.0      10.0       10.0    10.0       10.0        10.0      10.0   10.0        10.0
Price escalation                           27.0       27.0       27.0       27.0   30.2       30.2      21.8       21.8   22.2       22.2       23.3      23.3      23.3       23.3    23.3       23.3        23.3      23.3   23.3        23.3
Total                                    39.7      39.7        39.7      39.7   43.2        43.2      34.0      34.0   34.4        34.4      35.7       35.7      35.7      35.7    35.7        35.7       35.7       35.7   35.7        35.7
Project coot (without contingeocies)
(000): SBaht                              37530     20208      207636    111804  38964       16699   190258   285836  10081          2515       -        12720      3120    59280       288       5472      25146       2794        -        -      513022    516878  1029899
(000)'5 US$                                1876       1010      10382      5590   1948         835      9513      14269     504       126       -          636       156       2964       14       274        1257       140        -        -       25651      25844     51495
% Foreign eo-hange                                      35.0                  35.0              30.0                 60.0               20.0               100.0                 95.0               95.0                   10.0       -         -                  50.2
Contiogencies (amounts)
Uonforeseeon
(000)'S Baht                             3753      2021     20764       11180   3896        1670     19026     28539    1008        251       -         1272       312      5928       29         547      2515        279       -         -       51302      51688    102990
(E00))S us$                               188       101       1038        559     195         83       951      1427       50        13       -           64        16       296         1         27       126         14       -         -        2565       2584      5149
Price escalatiom
(000)'5 Baht                            11154      6006     61708       33228  12928        5541    45721    68582   2463           615       -        3264        801     15210       74        1404      6452        717       -         -      141301    134564   275865
(OQo)fs us$                               558       300       3085       1661     646        277      2286      3429      123        31       -          163        40       760        4          70       323         36       -         -        7065       6728     13793
Subtotal
(000)'5 Baht                            14907      8027     82472       44408  16824        7210    64747      97120   3471         866       -        4536       1113    21138       103        1951      8966        996       -         -      192603    186252    378855
(000)'s Up$                               745       401       4124       2220    841         361      3237      4856      174        43       -          227        56      1057        5          98       448         50       -         -        9630       9313     18943
% Poreign onchange                                      35.0                  35.0              30.0                 60.0              20.0                100.0                 95.0                95.0                 10.0        -        -                   49.2
Total project caste (with costin-
gencies)
(000)'8 Boht                              52436     28235   290108       156212  55788       23909   255005    382507   13552        3381      -         17256      4233    80418       391        7423     34112       3790        -        -      705624    703130   1408754
(000)'5 US$                                2622       1412     14505        7811   2789       1195     12750      19125     678       169       -          863       212       4021       20        371      1706        190        -        -       35281      35157     70438
% Foreigc exchange                                      35.0                  35.0              30.0                 60.0              20.0                100.0                 95.0                95.0                 10.0                                     49.9
Total cnctiogencces: an % of total project coot 26.9    an % of project cost  uitchout .otingencies  36.8






- 50 -
ANNEX 6
THAILAND
MULTIPURPOSE EDUCATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Report and Studies Related to the Project
A.1 The Royal Thai Government, "A Proposal for Educational Development,
A Request to the World Bank for the Fifth Education Project,"
June 1978.
A.2 Government of Thailand, "The Fourth National Economic and Social
Development Plan (1977-1981)," Office of the Prime Minister.
A.3 UNESCO, "Thailand - Education: Towards Equalization and Reform,"
October 1976.
A.4  National Education Commission, "Higher Education in Thailand,"
October 1977.
A.5 IBRD, Draft Thailand Education Sector Memorandum, July 1978.
A.6 Sabot (IBRD), "Education ancL the Labor Market in Thailand,"
Revised Draft, September 1977.
B. Working Papers
B.1 Diversified Secondary Component
B.2 Radio Education Component
B.3 Management Component
B.4 Project Costs, Financing, Implementation and Disbursements






100.                                             T HA I LAINID
,     I I '                      Multipurpose  (Fifth) Education  Project
20'                                                                                                   * Area vocationail centers                    20'
ON -                                                       C)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Community secondary schools
________                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Radio Education:
r Center for Educational Technology
4)Regional studios
,~~~~. ~~~ORadio stations
\\~~~\~~,  '1~~~~                   Management Education:
A Civi servce training center
IACenter for educational administrators
~~          LAO  PEOPLEiS
__  :         . :      .        i  ;4      -                                DEMOCRATIC
_l;;  0   }   i  ;t- 0 =;  0                                       KAMPUCHREPUBLIC
J 
I  U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
(r              ~~~~Income Per Capita 1976
f'0                                               0"  10,000 Boht
'I8,000-10,000 Baht
6,000 - 8,000 Baiht
4000 - 6,000 Baht
4,000 or lets Baht             12
DEMOCRATIC
KAMPUCHEA
0                   /           Gulf I         f      Th a              =                           .d
CH NA
INDIA 
Y
,    d B U RMA
LAOJ
~"TNAM
lTtomer                                                                                                       (                ) > f \    
O nynnet .m......            .        ... OOye  ""A  W\ .%X A2-, stG^OWEMOCOATi
9111,M.I.irA                                                                         A Y S I A         ,N
0                                                                                nus0-0 200'u
Itum;~:            200               uu~I                   ~' A ASIN                                                  >OeE
Miles  -                        ~~~~~~~M ALAYSIA                                         I IN MDC~N E   IA
_______________________                     ___________________ l1A



