The World Bank                     SSZgp
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Reporl No. P-2536-TH
REPORT AN]D RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATV'N
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT TO
THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR THE
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
May 9, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bankt authorIzation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      Baht (B)
US$1           =   B 20
B 1            =   US$0.05
B 1 million    =   US$50,000
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 meter (m)            3   39.37 inches (in)
1 square meter (sq m)  =   10.8 square feet (sq ft)
1 cubic meter (cu m)   =   35.3 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 kilometer (km)       =   0.62 mile (mi)
1 hectare              =   10,000 sq m or 2.471 acres
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CET     =  Center for Educational Technology
EGAT    =  Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
IEAT    =  Industrial Estates Authority of Thailand
IFCT    =  Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand
MOE     = Ministry of Education
MWWA    = Metropolitan Water Works Authority
NGOT    =  Natural Gas Organization of Thailand
PRD     =  Public Relations Department
RTG     =  Royal Thai Government
TOT     =  Telephone Organization of Thailand
THAI FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THAILAND
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:       Kingdom of Thailand
Amount:          $35.0 million
Terms:           Standard IDA terms
Proiect
Description:  The project will pursue three broad objectives, as follows:
(a) to continue the development of cost-effective models for
diversification of secondary education by creating 12 central-
ized workshop complexes to provide practical instruction to
students from nearby academic secondary schools and by provid-
ing 42 community (lower) secondary schools in disadvantaged
rural areas with practical facilities; (b) to equalize the
quality of school education and expand the coverage of out-of-
school education through educational radio by strengthening
the Center for Educational Technology and by establishing a
national radio network with eleven transmitter stations to be
used for educational broadcasting; and (c) to improve govern-
ment management and planning by creating one center each for
in-service training of civil service officers and for educa-
tional administrators and by implementing a comprehensive
program of school location planning. The project will
support the permanent central procurement unit recently
established in the Ministry of Education to assist the
Ministry in overcoming inefficiencies in project implementa-
tion. The project will provide job-oriented education for
some 50,000 secondary students annually, about 75% of whom
would come from relatively disadvantaged economic areas, and
will expand access to basic education for a radio audience of
about 12 million per annum. The educational system, and the
country as a whole, will benefit from the improved efficiency
of government management. The main risks to the project
center on the divided responsibility for project implementa-
tion and the recruitment of an adequate number of qualified
staff. To reduce these risks, the new central procurement
unit will provide direct implementation assistance to respon-
sible authorities, and training will be provided for staff of
all project institutions. In addition, monitoring procedures
will be implemented under each project component and a
midterm and final evaluation will be undertaken.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
--------- $ million--------
Estimated Cost:                                          Local    Foreign    Total
Diversified secondary education          13.6        9.4       23.0
Radio education                           8.5       12.5       21.0
Planning and management                   3.6        3.9        7.5
Total base cost                          25.7       25.8       51.5
Contingencies
Physical                             2.5        2.6        5.1
Price                                7.1        6.6       13.7
Total project cost                       35.3       35.0       70.3
(of which $7.7 million
represents taxes and duties)
----------$ million--------
Local    Foreign    Total
Financing:              Government                        35.3         -        35.3
IDA                                 -        35.0       35.0
35.3       35.0       70.3
Estimated               IDA FY        1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
Disbursements
from IDA Credit:    Annual           0.6    2.4    7.0   10.0   13.0    2.0
Cumulative    0.6    3.0   10.0   20.0   33.0   35.0
Staff Appraisal
Report:               No. 2304c-TH dated May 4, 1979.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND FOR THE
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Kingdom of Thailand for the equivalent of $35.0
million on standard IDA terms to help finance the Fifth Education Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        A Basic Economic Report entitled "Thailand - Toward a Strategy of
Full Participation" (2059-TH) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
September 18, 1978. The Report forges a link between the overall development
of the economy and the extent and incidence of poverty. It concludes that
Thailand's rapid economic growth over the past 15 years has led to a signifi-
cant reduction in absolute poverty, but that nevertheless important groups
have lagged behind. It identifies the essential characteristics of these
groups and points to the need for continued rapid overall development as well
as the initiation of specific measures to deal with the poverty problem,
particularly in rural areas. It further discusses the constraints that will
have to be faced if these policies are to be successfully implemented.
Country data are given in Annex I.
Recent Political Developments
3.        Despite frequent changes at the top levels of government, there is
a fundamental stability in Thai society and the bureaucracy. Recent changes
in governments have mainly reflected differences in view about Thailand's
external relations and on the political decision-making process within the
country and not fundamental differences about the social or economic system.
The civilian government formed in November 1977 under the Prime Ministership
of General Kriangsak Chomanan, then Commander in Chief of the Army, moved
successfully to consolidate Thailand's external position by improving and
stabilizing relations with Thailand's Indochinese neighbors and by strengthen-
ing relations among its ASEAN partners. The constitutional assembly under the
interim constitution completed its work and a new constitution was promulgated
in December 1978. Elections were held on April 22, 1979. Because of the
structure of the selection process, it is expected that Kriangsak will be
/1 Parts I and II of this report are essentially the same as those contained
in the recent President's Report (No. P-2511-TH dated April 12, 1979) for
the Bang Pakong Thermal Power Project, distributed to the Executive
Directors under cover of Secretary's Memorandum R79-76 and approved on
April 24, 1979.



- 2 -
nominated Prime Minister. The relative strengths of the political parties in
the election will determine the exact makeup and orientation of the new
Government. It is unlikely, however, that the results of the election will
impair the country's political stability or reduce its commitment to poverty
alleviation and reduction of income disparities.
4.        A broad concensus has been developing over the last several years on
the priorities for socioeconomic development, and all recent governments have
endorsed the objectives and major strategies of the country's Fourth Five-Year
National Economic and Social Development Plan (1977-81). There is now increas-
ing concern to achieve a widespread distribution of the benefits from growth.
In the past several years the Government has initiated efforts to increase the
flow of public resources to the poor rural areas, including the Tambon
program of direct transfers to villages in 1976, the drought relief program in
1977, and the flood relief program in 1978. All these programs have been
designed to produce quick and visible results, the latter two in response to
specific crises, but they were also aimed at increasing production capacity
in rural areas and demonstrating the concern of the Central Government for the
plight of the rural population. When the new Government is installed for a
four-year term, it will be in a better position to pursue more long-term
solutions as well. There is an increasing realization that an improvement in
the conditions of the poorest farmers and those living in the more remote
areas is not only desirable in itself, but would also counteract insurgency
in the long run.
Past Socioeconomic Trends and Recent Changes
5.        Thailand's economic performance since 1960 has been good.  Although
there was some deceleration in recent years, the average annual real GDP growth
rate from 1960 to 1978 was 7.5%, or about 4.4% per capita. Real agricultural
growth of 5% was a leading factor sustaining this expansion. The cultivated
area increased by about 4% per year, water control was improved, irrigation
expanded and the cultivation of relatively new crops including maize, cassava,
kenaf, sugar and rubber grew rapidly. As a result, agriculture has also been
a major contributor to export growth. The Government maintained economic and
price stability throughout the period and encouraged private savings and
investment. As a share of GDP, domestic savings fluctuated between 19% and
24%, and total investment between 20% and 27%. The high level of private
investment contributed to a real industrial growth of 10% and a real growth
of manufactured exports of 30% per year since 1970. All this was achieved
with a limited inflow of foreign resources; until recently the resource gap
remained below 5% of GDP, and in most years it was considerably smaller.
6.        The growth in incomes has, however, not been evenly distributed
throughout the country and at present there are very significant regional
differentials in incomes and access to economic and social infrastructure.
While the regions are very different in terms of topography, climate, soils,
urbanization, etc., and present quite distinct problems for future development,
there appears to be a close correlation between development and proximity to
the center. The Central Region, including Bangkok, has the highest average
per capita income and is better served by roads, telecommunications, schools,
public health and other services than the other three regions, the North,



- 3 -
Northeast and South. The incidence of poverty is estimated at only around
10% in the Center, around 25% in the North and South, and around 35% in the
Northeast. Within the regions there is also considerable variation: farmers
who have diversified into cash crops have generally enjoyed substantial
growth in real incomes while the incomes of those who have been unable or
unwilling to shift out of subsistence rice culture have stagnated. This
is most conspicuously the case of the rainfed rice farmers in the Northeast
and North. Given a well-functioning labor market, the low incomes of this
large group have tended to depress unskilled wages throughout the economy.
7.        Overall, the rate of GDP growth declined in the 1970s to 7.1% p.a.
compared to 8.3% in the 1960s. In addition to external factors (the oil price
increase and its aftermath), the major domestic factor responsible for this
deceleration is the increasing scarcity of land. Production has been pushed
into less fertile soils causing a decline in the rate of agricultural growth
to about 4.6% p.a. since 1970 compared to 5.7% in the 1960s. During 1973 and
part of 1974, this secular deceleration was hidden by very high prices for
Thailand's main export products and a domestic investment boom. This was
accompanied by rapid domestic inflation, which led the Government to curtail
sharply the public investment program in 1974 and 1975. Price stability has
largely been restored and private domestic investment remains high at 17-18%
of GDP. The economy expanded rapidly in 1978 and inflation again threatens
to become a serious problem. The economy has demonstrated considerable
resiliency in the face of external shocks and the political uncertainty that
has existed in Southeast Asia for the past decade. The real GDP growth rate
never fell below 5% and exceeded 7% since 1975.
8.        Thailand's terms of trade and agricultural export prospects are now
less favorable than in the early 1970s. Thailand is facing severe restrictions
on two of its major exports to the European Economic Community, cassava and
canned pineapple, and its sugar exports are limited by the International
Sugar Agreement. The balance of payments, which recorded surpluses in
1973-74, has since been running large deficits. The current account deficit
reached $1,241 million, or 6% of GDP in 1978. The Government has significantly
increased its foreign borrowing from traditional sources, from the Eurodollar
market and from the IMF to finance these deficits. Foreign exchange reserves
have also been used extensively. To contain the balance of payments deficit,
the Government, in March 1978, raised tariffs on 141 "nonessential" imports
and increased excise taxes on a number of items, most notably gasoline. It
raised the gasoline price again in February 1979 and started an energy
conservation program to try to contain the oil import bill.
Objectives, Constraints and Prospects
9.        Thailand is currently in the third year of its Fourth Five-Year
Development Plan (1977-81). The first two Plans concentrated on providing
necessary economic infrastructure to facilitate and accommodate the rapid
growth that was taking place in the economy. The strategy proposed in the
Third Plan moved beyond the previous Plans to "alleviate problems related to
the widening income gap and inequitable distribution of social services."
However, actual budgetary allocations have not always reflected these priori-
ties, and there has not been a major shift in expenditure patterns.   The



-4-
concentration of senior staff of the ministries in Bangkok and the high degree
of centralization of authority at the departmental level has been a major
factor impeding reallocation of resources. There is little regional delegation
of authority, and the close cooperation within and among ministries necessary
to implement new-style integrated development projects has been lacking.
These problems have been recognized and the Government is implementing a
number of long- and short-term measures to modernize its development adminis-
tration and expedite project execution, including a major reform in 1976 of
the civil service personnel, planning and staffing procedures, establishment
of special project committees, and implementation of a revolving fund scheme
to speed implementation of Bank-funded projects. Continued improvement in
development management is one of the principal objectives of our policy
dialogue with the Government.
10.       The Fourth Plan continues the shift in emphasis started in the Third
Plan. Its principal objectives are achieving 7% real growth, equitable
distribution of income, reduction in the rate of population growth, faster
generation of employment opportunities and balanced regional development.
Projected public sector development expenditures amount to $12.5 billion for
the Plan period, a 90% increase in real terms over the Third Plan. However,
the Plan addresses sectoral issues and strategies only in broad terms, and
concrete policies and programs to meet the Plan's economic and social objectives
remain largely to be defined. The Bank and agencies of the Government are
undertaking a number of studies to help the Government define policies and
programs to help achieve the Fourth Plan objectives. These studies are
focusing on problems of employment, income distribution, industrial policy,
and regional development. The Bank will be supporting a Provincial Planning
program, and NESDB has just initiated a New Village Development Program
designed to involve all levels in the determination and implementation of
small-scale projects, initially in the poorest villages. Japan has committed
some $70 million to support the first two years of this program.
11.       In looking ahead towards the 1980s, it is clear that many of the
positive features which helped sustain a rapid rate of economic growth
over the past two decades will continue to contribute to future growth:
a relatively equitable distribution of rural land, responsiveness of Thai
farmers to improved technology, extensive, albeit uneven, provision of
infrastructure by the Thai Government, and the dynamism of the private sector
in both industry and agriculture. Also major gains have been made in family
planning in recent years, slowing the annual rate of population growth from 3%
during the 1960s to 2.5% in 1977./1 The target for 1981 is 2.1%.
12.       However, some less favorable domestic factors are emerging.  As a
result of very rapid population growth in the recent past, the labor force is
expected to grow at 3% over the next decade, necessitating a very high rate of
job creation. Past growth has benefited some households a great deal and
others not at all, creating increasingly obvious income disparities that could
threaten the social cohesion of the country. At the same time, additional
fertile land, which has provided a livelihood for new entrants into the labor
/1 This is a further decline from the 2.9% average growth recorded in
Annex I for the period 1970-76.



-5-
force and has supported agricultural export growth in the past, is becoming
increasingly scarce. In view of these factors, continued reliance on the past
pattern of development would lead to a deceleration of agricultural and
overall growth in the next decade, resulting in persistently large balance of
payments deficits, higher rates of unemployment or underemployment, and
stagnating or declining real incomes of the poorer segments of the population,
especially in rural areas and among unskilled workers. Thus, a shift in the
development pattern is necessary not only for social, but also for economic
reasons.
13.       The key development issue in Thailand is how to shift the economy
from a pattern of growth based on the extension of land under cultivation and
on import-substitution industries to one based on increasingly intensive use
of land and on industries producing for domestic and export markets under
competitive conditions. Effective policies and programs will be necessary to
ensure that economic growth is maintained and income disparities reduced, or
at least not widened during this period of transition. In the past, the
Government's role has been confined to largely short-term economic management,
where its performance has been good, and to the provision of basic economic
and social services. In order to achieve a relatively smooth transition, the
Government will now have to undertake more coordinated and longer-term actions.
14.       Agriculture will continue to be a crucial sector since it directly
generates 30% of GDP, provides about 65% of exports, employs 70% of the labor
force, and provides a livelihood for 90% of Thailand's poor. Future growth of
the sector will have to be based on more intensive utilization of cultivated
areas, improvement in yields, continued diversification of crops, improved
cropping patterns and farming practices, and the availability of agricultural
credit. All of these imply an increased government role in the rural sector.
As a matter of high priority, special programs will have to be employed to
accelerate income growth for those who have not fully participated in the
recent growth in rural income. These programs should aid the development of
upland and rainfed lowland areas through research, extension services and
rural infrastructure development. In addition, wherever technically feasible,
irrigation development, with the associated introduction of high-yielding
varieties, greater use of fertilizers and other commercial inputs should be
continued. The Bank's lending program is being reoriented to support these
efforts (see para. 22).
15.       While growth in the agricultural sector may be expected to remain
fairly rapid for some time to come, the burden of sustaining future growth
will have to shift progressively to the industrial sector. Industry, construc-
tion and services will have to provide an increasing share of employment for
the growing population. This will require modifications of industrial policy
and programs with the prime objective of creating jobs for the rapidly growing
labor force at rising levels of productivity and wages. Greater effort will
be required to encourage the location of industries outside Bangkok and to
promote small-scale and rural industries. While continued rapid growth of
manufactured exports is essential, the large domestic rural population also
offers market opportunities for a balanced industrial growth strategy based on
production of low-income consumer goods, agricultural inputs and equipment for
local use, and processed agricultural products for urban consumption and



export. Our policy dialogue will concentrate on efforts to reduce price
distortions, increase the availability of credit, and eliminate impediments to
efficient production for domestic and foreign markets so that the dynamic
private sector can realize its potential for spurring growth and creating
jobs.
16.       The Consultative Group for Thailand met in Paris on December 5 and 6,
1978 under the chairmanship of the Regional Vice President for East Asia and
the Pacific. The Group noted with satisfaction the positive results of past
development efforts in Thailand as summarized in the recently issued economic
report (2059-TH). The Group also supported the conclusions of the report and
of the analysis of the Thai delegation, led by the Minister of Finance, that
major new efforts were needed to reduce the incidence of poverty and to
maintain the past rates of growth. Programs to accelerate rural development,
raise productivity, and thereby accelerate poverty alleviation were called for
as the first priority. In addition, it was recognized that expanding industrial
production along the lines of Thailand's comparative advantage was essential
to the country's long-term prospects. The Thai delegation presented the New
Village Development Program to the donors and it was favorably received.
Resource Requirements
17.       The implementation of policies needed for a satisfactory rate
of economic and social progress will necessitate a steady increase in public
expenditures over the next few years. This will require much greater efforts
to mobilize both domestic and external resources than in the past. Government
domestic revenue as a percentage of GDP (15.5% for 1974-78) is low compared to
other developing countries at similar levels of development due to low tax
rates, high exemptions and a somewhat below-average rate of compliance. The
Government has achieved a modest improvement in resource mobilization through
revision of the tax structure and income and better collection efforts. It is
currently investigating other more efficient tax systems, such as the value
added tax. Such changes would also make it feasible to reduce taxation of
foreign trade, particularly on rice and other exports, which has inhibited
agricultural growth.
18.       During the coming 5-10 years, there will be significantly greater
demands on external resources than has been the case in the past as the cost
of any attempt to reduce the presently existing resource deficit rapidly would
be high in terms of growth and employment opportunities foregone. Despite an
average real growth of exports in excess of 8% and a modest improvement in the
terms of trade, large trade and current account deficits are expected through
the mid-1980s. The needs for capital goods imports for industry and for
modern inputs to raise agricultural productivity are such that the current
deficit is not expected to decline rapidly. In the longer term, the exploita-
tion of the natural gas fields in the Gulf of Thailand, further development of
its lignite resources, the continued growth of manufactured exports and the
development of Thai industries should restore external equilibrium and sig-
nificantly reduce the current account deficits in the second half of the
1980s. Although the levels of foreign borrowing needed to finance these
deficits are high in relation to Thailand's past experience, they are not high
in relation to the current needs of the Thai economy or in comparison to other



countries at similar stages of development. With a dynamic private sector and
a long history of conservative monetary and fiscal policy, Thailand should be
able to use the resources effectively and service the debt.
19.       Official donors, particularly Japan and the development banks, have
been expanding their programs to meet a part of the rising requirements.
The rest has been financed in the Eurodollar market and bond markets, and
by the utilization of IMF resources for 1978/79 totalling about $200 million.
The Government has established a Foreign Loan Policy Committee to coordinate
and approve all foreign borrowing by the Government and public sector. The
Bank of Thailand is establishing procedures for recording private borrowing
abroad in order to keep track of total foreign debt. Thailand's external
public borrowing requirements to the end of the Fourth Plan period (1981) and
the level of concessionality were reviewed at the last Consultative Group
meeting. It was agreed that, although high, the aid requirements were consis-
tent with Thailand's development strategy and sustainable for the economy.
The need for continued substantial support on concessional terms was emphasized.
20.        It is likely that by 1985, net disbursements will more than double
in current terms for both public and publicly guaranteed borrowing and private
borrowing, although in real terms the growth is much less. Even with this
increase in borrowing, the debt service ratio on public debt (3.8% in 1977)
should remain below 10% through 1985 and decline thereafter. The debt service
ratio on total civilian borrowing, currently about 15%, should not exceed 20%.
IBRD exposure in Thailand will fall as other donors increase their programs.
Given the diversification of Thai commodity exports and the rapid expansion
of manufactured exports, these debt service requirements will be within
Thailand's capacity and will not endanger its credit standing. It should be
noted, however, that these projections assume a significant level of conces-
sional assistance from other donors, particularly Japan, in view of that
country's announced intention to expand its foreign aid program.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
21.        Thailand first borrowed from the Bank in 1950 and has received
49 loans amounting to $1,291.1 million, net of cancellations. Most of these
have been for transportation ($312.2 million), irrigation ($236.3 million) and
power/energy and rural electrification ($245.4 million) with, in addition,
one for a dual-purpose power and irrigation project ($65.8 million). The
remaining loans have been for telecommunications ($153 million); other agri-
culture and rural development ($104 million); urban development ($79.6 mil-
lion); education ($52.3 million); and industry ($42.5 million); two loans were
made under the terms of the Interest Subsidy Fund. Thailand has also received
four IDA credits: one for $19.5 million for an education project; two credits
totaling $12.5 million for irrigation improvement; and one credit of $33.1 mil-
lion for a population project. In general, Bank Group-financed projects have
been carried out satisfactorily and in accordance with expectations. Annex
II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments
as well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects as of March 31, 1979.



- 8 -
22.       Over the past five years, the Bank has shifted its lending to
Thailand from a program dominated by investments in traditional infrastructure
projects (accounting for over 80% of the lending through FY74) to a program
which places increasing emphasis on assisting the Government's efforts to
reach the poorer segments of its population more directly. Since FY75,
investments in transportation, power, water supply, telecommunications
and industry have accounted for only about 40% of Bank Group lending and more
than half of these, in dollar terms, were for projects specifically designed
to benefit the rural population. The proportion of Bank lending to the
agricultural/rural development sector has trebled, accounting for about 45%
of lending operations since FY75. The design of projects in this sector has
also changed, from exclusively large irrigation projects to a program balanced
between irrigation (including land development and support services to the
farmer) and a variety of innovative projects to assist farmers outside the
central flood plain (rubber replanting; livestock, agriculture extension,
research and rural development). Projects in the social sectors - which prior
to FY75 were limited to three in education accounting for 6% of the program -
have both diversified and grown; such projects have in recent years included
education, population and low-income housing for about 13% of the program.
23.       The findings of the recent Basic Economic Report not only verify
the appropriateness of the shift mentioned above, but also underscore the
need to move even further to design programs which help the rural population,
particularly those farmers in rainfed areas who have so far been largely
bypassed by recent economic growth. In the agricultural sector, therefore,
the Bank is redoubling its efforts to develop a package of supporting activi-
ties which will help to lift the rainfed farmers out of a subsistence existence.
A combination of education, agricultural research and extension, credit and
improved infrastructure is foreseen, though a viable package for the poorest
and most remote farmers has yet to be developed. Expansion and improvement
of irrigation systems will continue, with increased emphasis on reaching
those farmers with irrigation potential in the northern, northeastern and
southern regions. The program of transportation, electrification, water
supply and telecommunications projects will also continue to have a rural
focus. A key element of the strategy outlined in the Basic Economic Report is
the creation of jobs and stimulation of increased economic activity away from
Bangkok. The bulk of the Bank Group's urban and industrial lending will,
therefore, be directed to projects which enhance the attractiveness of
regional urban centers as growth poles for their agricultural hinterlands.
Selected projects in Bangkok will be aimed at strengthening agencies providing
services to the urban populace and the development of low-cost, replicable
programs to meet the demands of the dynamic urban sector, particularly the
urban poor, without diverting scarce resources from other high-priority
development needs.
24.       The Bank's strategy of placing an increasing share of its program
into projects alleviating poverty and promoting rural development will
be difficult to execute without considerable technical assistance toward
project preparation. The Bank's regional mission in Bangkok will continue to
play a vital role in helping to identify and prepare such projects. Promoting
overall growth also has a high priority in Thailand and is a necessary element
in the poverty alleviation strategy. The resource requirements for infrastruc-
ture development are large and the Bank is concentrating its remaining funds
in projects where it can have a catalytic role in effecting policy changes,



-9-
mobilizing other resources, and directly facilitating growth in rural areas.
The Bank is also expanding its support of the industrial sector through its
economic and sector work as well as selected projects in order to help promote
industrial policy which favors more labor-intensive and dispersed activities to
complement Thailand's efforts in poverty alleviation and in reducing income
differentials in rural areas.
25.       Bank loans and IDA credits, disbursed and outstanding, amounted to
$365 million, as of December 31, 1977, representing about 38% of public
external debt (disbursed and outstanding). This is not excessive in view of
Thailand's modest overall public external debt (5.2% of GDP in 1976). In
addition, although the level of Bank commitments is expected to increase over
the next five years, the Bank Group's share is projected to decline below
30% of total public external debt by 1982. The Bank Group's share in total
debt outstanding would remain at about 20%, and its share of debt service is
not expected to exceed 10%.
26.       As of March 31, 1979, IFC has made commitments totalling $83 mil-
lion in 10 projects in Thailand. IFC's activities have been primarily in
industry and in financial institutions development aimed at mobilizing domestic
resources and providing financing to smaller enterprises. Prospects for
increased IFC operations in Thailand have been enhanced by expanding private
sector investment activity. In addition, consultations with the Government
have identified several areas where IFC's assistance may be needed. These areas
include very large and complex projects such as a proposed sponge iron project
and a soda ash project to serve the ASEAN community; projects in the petroleum
and downstream petrochemical sector; and projects in the agricultural sector.
In addition, the Corporation expects to continue to help traditional manufac-
turing projects and to assist in financial institutions and money market
developments.
PART III - THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Overview of Recent Developments in Education
27.       Education in Thailand has made significant advances in recent
years. Enrollments in the formal school system increased from 6.4 million in
1971 to 8.8 million in 1977, and nonformal enrollments grew from 0.2 million
to 0.5 million between 1975 and 1977. Particularly significant is the wide
reach of lower primary education, which enrolls virtually all children from
seven to ten years of age. Comparable enrollment ratios for males and
females indicate that educational inequality for females has been successfully
redressed. Despite these achievements, several weaknesses remain in the
education system: access to upper primary and secondary levels, and opportu-
nities for out-of-school education still vary substantially by region; the
quality of teaching is low, especially in rural areas; and administration is
inefficient due to overcentralization, divided responsibility and insuffi-
ciently trained managers. These weaknesses have been a primary focus of
Government attention in recent years.



- 10 -
28.       In 1974, the Government appointed an Educational Reform Committee,
which formulated measures to reduce educational disparities and improve
quality, including inter alia a new school structure, administrative improve-
ments, new primary and secondary curricula and expanded use of educational
radio. In 1978, the new educational structure was formally instituted; it
comprises a six-year compulsory primary cycle, two 3-year secondary cycles,
and higher level education lasting two to six years. Little progress has been
made in unifying responsibility for public education, which remains divided
among the Ministry of Education (MOE), the Ministry of Interior, the Office of
University Affairs, and other agencies involved in nonformal education, but
the Government has established a standing committee responsible for coordinat-
ing planning among concerned authorities. Private education, which accounts
for 14% of all enrollments, must generally conform to MOE requirements.
However, decentralization efforts have been more successful, with primary
and many secondary schools now administered and operated mainly by local
authorities. New primary and secondary curricula have been designed to
improve the quality of education and to allow its adaptation to meet regional
needs, rather than to prepare students for the next level of education as in
the past. Successful local administration and effective implementation of the
new curricula will require changes and improvements in school management.
Systematic training for school administrators, not provided in the past, will
be necessary to assist them in carrying out new responsibilities. Such
training should focus on providing requisite pedagogic and managerial skills
for implementing the curricula and improving the efficiency of resource
utilization.
29.       Under the Fourth Plan, the Government has identified radio broad-
casting as a means of implementing the new curricula as well as of improving
educational equity and quality generally. Thailand has had a lengthy (25
years) experience with educational radio broadcasts but coverage has been
limited. The MOE's Center for Educational Technology (CET) broadcasts 13
hours of enrichment programs a day to about 250,000 primary and secondary
school students in the Bangkok area. The Public Relations Department (PRD),
which operates the government radio network, broadcasts 1.5 hours per week of
teacher training, 1-4 hours weekly of nonformal education, and other infor-
mation programs sponsored by different ministries. However, PRD is unable to
allow sufficient time for educational broadcasts, and the quality of educa-
tional programs and transmissions is generally poor. Moreover, teachers
are not trained to use the broadcasts effectively. Effective use of radio
could improve the quality of education (by assisting in the introduction of
the new curricula), make scarce resources (such as good teachers) reach large
audiences at a relatively low cost per capita and expand opportunities for
education, particularly in areas least served by the formal education system.
30.       The pattern of educational expenditure also affects the quality of
education. Education spending has been growing (from about 3.5% to 4% of GDP
from 1970 to 1977) and public expenditure is adequately divided among the
three main levels (primary 53%; secondary 28%; and higher 15%). Within the
primary and secondary levels, however, spending is unbalanced: nearly 90%
of expenditure is recurrent, and salaries account for 90% of recurrent
expenditure. This results in inadequate expenditure to improve facilities
(only about $2.5 equivalent per student) and to carry out staff upgrading.
Further, expenditure has been concentrated disproportionately in the Central



- 11 -
Region, around Bangkok, and because allocations for future development are
based on present enrollments, inequities tend to persist.
Dimensions and Prospects by Level and Type of Education
31.       Primary Education.  Despite the wide reach of the lower primary
cycle, less than 30% of students entering grade 1 complete the upper primary
cycle and repetition rates are high. This inefficiency stems largely from
lack of access to higher primary grades but also to poor quality and relevance
of training. Quality problems result from a lack of appropriate instructional
materials and qualified teachers, and are most serious where educational
opportunities are low: only 65% of primary students in the Northeast have
access to basic textbooks (compared to 90% in Bangkok), and the student-
teacher ratio in the Northeast (at 39:1) is the highest in the country.
Disparities in access exist, particularly for the upper primary cycle; these
should be reduced by directing capital investment towards disadvantaged
locations, as determined by systematic school mapping. Disparities in
quality and internal efficiency should be reduced through introduction of the
new curriculum.
32.       Secondary Education.  Secondary education in Thailand is provided
to 28% of the relevant age group, with 1.3 million students enrolled in 1977/78.
Like primary level education, it experiences problems of regional disparity
in opportunity and quality, low relevance of training and considerable
wastage. Schools with the upper secondary cycle are found predominantly in
Bangkok and the provincial capitals, and access to upper secondary education
remains difficult for students in rural areas, especially in the North and
Northeast. Because of limited access to secondary education, a few rural
communities have established their own lower secondary schools; these Commu-
nity Secondary Schools, which qualify for central government assistance
(coverage of operating costs) after an initial period of operations, now
number about 400 (17% of the existing 2,200 secondary schools). The Govern-
ment is encouraging establishment of these schools to help equalize access to
secondary education by expanding opportunities in rural areas.
33.       Less than 20% of those entering lower secondary schools eventually
matriculate in colleges and universities, and those who terminate their
studies early are ill-prepared to enter the labor market. Over the past 15
years the Government has, however, been attempting to address this problem
by making secondary education more job oriented. This effort has included the
development of new curricula which combines prevocational and general subjects,
the trial of increasingly economical models for providing diversified programs
(practical training combined with general education), and the systematic
training of staff. Diversification began in the mid-1960s when the Canadian
International Development Agency assisted in establishing 26 diversified
secondary schools. These schools were found to be too costly to replicate
nationwide and less expensive standards for equipment and facilities were
adopted for the 82 schools assisted under the Bank Group-financed third and
fourth education projects. Diversification is being extended through the new
secondary curriculum, under which students must take at least four periods a
week of work-related subjects and priority is attached to providing student
guidance in the selection of elective subjects which suit their aptitude and
local employment opportunities. Further diversification of secondary programs



- 12 -
will require provision of workshop facilities and equipment to some 85% of the
existing secondary schools, as well as most of the 1,000 private secondary
schools. The Government therefore intends to develop cost-effective models
for further diversification of secondary education. Such models include
centralized workshop facilities (for use by students from nearby secondary
schools, public and private), and multipurpose workshops for individual
Community Secondary Schools.
34.       Teacher Training.  Under the new educational structure, primary
school teachers will be trained through two-year, postsecondary courses, and
secondary school teachers through four years of training. Available capacity
in the teacher education institutions (about 113,000) is expected to be able
to supply the teachers required for planned educational expansion over the
Fourth Plan period. However, systematic in-service training will be required
to prepare teachers to use the new primary and secondary curricula effectively;
this could be provided, in part, through expansion of radio training.
35.       Higher Education.  University level education is provided in 13
state universities, 3 institutes and 10 private colleges. During the 1960s,
enrollments grew at 6% p.a., but recent expansion has been more rapid at 17%
p.a., with total university enrollments reaching 110,000 in 1977. This
expansion was largely due to pressure to increase enrollment, which resulted
in the establishment, in 1971, of Ramkanhaeng University with its open admis-
sions policy (i.e. all students with secondary school certificates are admitted).
However, the quality of higher education has suffered because rapid expansion
was not accompanied by strengthened staff and materials support. To improve
the general quality and relevance of higher education, the Government plans
to limit enrollment expansion to 4.5% p.a. over the Fourth Plan period.
However, the Government plans to create a new open university based solely on
radio correspondence courses, in 1979. This university should assist in
easing social demand for expansion of higher education without straining
budget resources.
36.       Nonformal Education.  Nonformal education has received greater
attention in Thailand than in most developing countries, with participation
increasing by 23% p.a. under the Third Plan. In 1977, programs sponsored by
the Adult Education Division in the MOE had 500,000 participants in literacy,
general education and vocational courses. The MOE's Department of Vocational
Education also provides vocational and trade courses in the major cities, and
mobile training units are used to reach rural populations. Continued expansion
of nonformal education furthers two goals: first, it reaches people who have
had little or no access to the formal education system, thus aiding equity;
and second, it can give relevant vocational training, thereby creating a more
productive labor force.
37.       Management Training.  Since the introduction of development planning
in the 1960s, the Thai bureaucracy has expanded in response to a continuous
demand for skilled managerial personnel (to include some 20,000 managers/admini-
strators in 1977), but upgrading and training are not regularly provided to
enable these officials to function effectively. Although some 62 government
departments and agencies do have training sections, instruction focuses on
job-related technical skills with little emphasis placed on improving practices



- 13 -
among middle- and higher-level managers. Included among these agencies is the
Civil Service Commission which has a mandate for developing and coordinating
training programs for civil servants. Two institutions do provide in-service
management training: the Academy for Local Government Administration serves
Ministry of Interior officials and the National Institute of Development
Administration, a semi-private degree granting institution, provides limited
training for public and private sector managers on a contract basis.   The
Government now intends to establish a national training center under the Civil
Service Commission to provide systematic training to middle- and higher-level
government managers that would enable them to implement development programs
and projects more effectively.
Sector Strategy
38.       Government Plans.  Under the Fourth Development Plan (1977-81) the
Government's main objective for the education sector is to reduce regional
disparities in educational opportunity and quality. Related objectives
include improving the local relevance of training, expanding nonformal
education and increasing the use of mass media for educational purposes.
These aims would be achieved by: instituting an integrated six-year primary
course and the revised curriculum, making this course compulsory and free,
and expanding enrollments by 6% p.a. to achieve a 100% participation rate by
1981; providing two 3-year secondary cycles and expanding secondary enrollments
by 11% p.a., and converting existing institutions to integrated diversified
secondary schools; and expanding enrollments in nonformal education programs
by about 11% p.a. This program will require substantial increases in capital
and operating expenditure on education. Average annual expenditure (capital
and recurrent) for both public and private education under the Fourth Plan is
estimated at B 21.3 billion (in 1974 prices), an increase of more than 130%
over 1975 levels. These expenditure levels, which by 1985 would represent
about 4% of GDP (with GDP growth of 6.5% p.a.), are within Thailand's financial
capacity, but improvements in management and internal efficiency would be
necessary to make effective use of such expenditure.
39.       Bank Group Participation.  Four Bank loans/credits totaling $71.9 mil-
lion have been made to the education sector in Thailand. Bank projects have
pursued three main objectives: manpower development, quality improvement
and more equitable coverage. More than half of the loan/credit funds have
been allocated to general education and more than half to the secondary level.
This reflects the relatively heavy input to diversified secondary education.
The First Education Project (Loan 471-TH, 1966) provided $6 million to improve
the quality and increase the output of 14 technical schools and 9 agricultural
schools at the secondary level; the project was completed in 1973. The Second
Education Project (Loan 822-TH, 1972) provided $15.4 million to expand and
relocate a part of Kasetsart (Agricultural) University. The Third Education
Project (Credit 369-TH, 1973) provided $19.5 million for (a) a national curri-
culum development center; (b) 7 primary teacher training institutes; (c) expan-
sion of 21 rural lower secondary schools and equipment for another 11; and
(d) strengthening the science faculty at a provincial university. The Fourth
Education Project (Loan 1271-TH, 1976) provided $31 million to establish 50
new diversified secondary schools and support the first phase of a nationwide
adult education system. To date, the projects have succeeded in achieving
substantial institutional development at Kasetsart University, the National



- 14 -
Curriculum Development Center and the adult education network; quality
improvements in secondary and higher agricultural education; and more equit-
able coverage of secondary education. The Audit Report for Loan 471-TH (IBRD
SecM75-450 of June 13, 1975) found, however, that projects have been less
successful in meeting manpower demands since many graduates continue on
to higher education and the specialized secondary institutions have tended to
be upgraded to the post-secondary level. The projects have further shared
inefficiencies in implementation leading to substantial procurement delays
(averaging over two years) under the second and third projects. These delays
resulted largely from staff inexperience, under-budgeting and cumbersome
procurement procedures. These deficiencies are being addressed under the
proposed project.
40.       Future Bank Group lending for education in Thailand will continue to
pursue these objectives, which are consistent with the Bank Group's strategy
to assist the Government's efforts to redress past inequities, to reach the
poorer segments of the population more directly, and to improve the quality
of life and increase the productivity of the rural population. The identif-
ication of school building requirements through systematic school mapping
will help correct past inequities in access to education. Expansion of
prevocational training through continued efforts to develop cost-effective
models for diversified secondary education and improvements in basic literacy,
numeracy and vocational skills through expansion of primary and nonformal
education will directly complement Government efforts to raise productivity
of the rural population.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
41.       The proposed project was prepared by the Government with Unesco
assistance. The project was appraised in June-July 1978 with follow-up dis-
cussions in Thailand during FY1979. Funds for detailed preparation of the
project were provided under Loan 1271-TH. Negotiations were held in Washington
from March 19 to 23, 1979, with the Thai delegation led by H.E. Dr. Kaw Swadi
Panich, Deputy Minister of Education.
Project Description
42.       The proposed project will pursue three broad objectives:
(a) to continue diversification of secondary education by establishing
12 centralized workshops and providing practical facilities for
42 community secondary schools;
(b) to equalize the quality of school education and expand the coverage
of out-of-school education by strengthening the Center for Educa-
tional Technology and establishing a national network for educational
radio, including 11 transmitter stations; and
(c) to improve government management and planning by creating a Civil
Service Training Center and a Center for Educational Administrators
and by implementing various educational sector studies including a
comprehensive program of school location planning.



- 15 -
Details are provided in the report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report - Thailand,
Fifth (Multipurpose) Education Project" (No. 2304c-TH dated May 4, 1979) which
is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors. Supplementary
project data are provided in Annex III.
Diversified Secondary Education
43.       Centralized Workshops.  (Proposed Outlay:  $9.4 million, excluding
contingencies).   MOE7s Department of Vocational Education will establish a
centralized workshop (area vocational center) in each of the 12 educational
regions to provide practical instruction to pupils of nearby academic second-
ary schools. The centers should achieve higher utilization rates than possible
under an alternative system of providing each school with specialized facilities.
The proposed project will finance the construction, furniture, equipment and
technical assistance required to establish the centers. The centers will be
located in predominantly agricultural areas, five of them in severely dis-
advantaged provinces (i.e., average income per capita $200 equivalent or
less). Sites have been selected on the basis of an adequate number of students
within about 15 km radius and satisfactory public transportation facilities.
Teaching programs will cover the prevocational options of the diversified
curriculum, and courses will be geared to agricultural conditions. Annual
course schedules (as well as after-school programs for the community) will be
drawn up by a Steering Committee established for each center and will aim to
achieve at least an 80% utilization rate during school hours. The centers'
staffing complement of 435 is expected to be recruited without difficulty.
Staff will receive three months of pre-service training and regular in-service
training to prepare them to implement the new curriculum. The centers will
enable about 16,000 students to take a reasonable number of practical courses
during each year of secondary education, resulting in 2,700 graduates per
year having followed practical options.
44.       Community Secondary Schools (Proposed Outlay:  $13.6 million,
excluding contingencies). Under the project, MOE's Department of General
Education will assist 42 Community Secondary Schools in rural areas to enable
them to use the new curriculum and provide a better quality and more relevant
education. The project will provide each school with financing for construction,
equipping and furnishing of a library, one or more classrooms, general science
rooms and multipurpose workshop units, as well as technical assistance to
train key personnel. Schools have been selected on the basis of need, demon-
strated community interest, school size, and available land and water for
agriculture-related activities. The majority of the schools are located in
areas where average incomes and access to secondary education are lowest.
Advisory Committees will assist each school in making instruction more rele-
vant and adapting it to local needs, and in scheduling after-school education
programs for the community. The schools will require about 500 additional
teachers (to achieve a student-teacher ratio of about 22:1). The existing
supply of teachers is adequate to meet these needs. To the extent necessary,
teachers will be attracted to these rural schools through a Government loan
scheme which supports local secondary school graduates through teacher train-
ing programs and obliges them to return for a period of service. Preservice
and regular inservice training will prepare new staff to implement and adapt
the new curriculum. The project schools are expected to graduate about 11,000
students per annum.



- 16 -
Radio Education
45.       TInder the project, a national system for educational radio (proposed
outlay: $21.0 million, excluding contingencies) will be established to:
supoort the introduction of the new primary and secondarv curricula: expand
opportunities for nonformal education; and generally provide an improved
quality of education in remote areas. The system of radio education comprises
two main parts:  a strengthened Center for Educational Technology (CET)
in MOE's Department of Educational Techniques and a national educational radio
network to be managed by the Public Relations Department (PRD), which will be
responsible for technical aspects of broadcasts, and by educational agencies.
The project will provide financing for civil works, equipment and furniture,
the relocation and expansion of central radio production facilities for the
CET, three regional production studios for out-of-school programming, and a
national radio network consisting of 11 transmitters. Support materials and
radio equipment for in-school use will also be provided. A Programming Board,
comprising the PRD, educational users and education/communications specialists,
will coordinate program development, scheduling and transmission.  The Govern-
ment has agreed to use the educational radio network exclusively for education
and training purposes and to establish the Programming Board by June 30, 1980
with composition and responsibilities satisfactory to the Association
(Sections 3.06 (a) and (c) of draft Development Credit Agreement).
46.       The network will broadcast five types of programs and national and
international news for at least 19 hours a day on a nationwide basis. In-
school programs will have an audience of about 8 million primary and secondary
school students: they will be broadcast directly to classrooms to assist the
teacher in imDlementing the new curricula, thus providing an improved quality
of education, particularly in rural areas. After testing and modification,
new programs will be fully developed during the 1981/82 academic year.
In-service training will be provided by MOE's Department of Teacher Training
to 400,000 teachers, through programs that upgrade formal qualifications and
others that focus on implementation of the new curricula. Programs will be
supported through direct mailing of printed materials. Out-of-school programs,
to be provided by MOE's Adult Education Division, will mainly serve rural
vouths and adults (about 100,000) who have had little access to formal
education. These programs will provide primary and middle stage equivalence
courses, functional literacy courses, and other development-related courses.
Programs will be reinforced by direct mailing and by learning group sessions.
Other development information programs which will reach an audience of three
million will be provided by other government agencies to support regional
extension efforts. Finally, open university courses will provide access to
higher education for about 100,000 people; programs will be produced by the
open university with government financing. The G.overnment has agreed to
prepare and furnish to the Association by December 31, 1979, for its comment?
procedures for testing and revising in-school radio programs and for monitor-
ing classroom use of these programs, and, by December 31, 1980, a plan for
the distribution, maintenance and inventory control of the radio equipment
(receivers and recorders) to be provided to schools (Sections 3.06 (b) and (d)
of draft Development Credit Agreement).
47.       About 280 additional professional staff will need to be recruited
between 1979 and 1982 to operate the educational network. Staff will be
needed mainly for PRD (140), but CET will also need a significant number (80)



- 17 -
as will the Teacher Training Department (35) and the Adult Education Division
(25). Staff are expected to be recruited for these agencies without difficulty
in time to provide one to four months preservice upgrading. Such upgrading
will be especially important in the area of ediucational radio, where experienced
people are in short supply. The proposed schedules For authorizing positions
for, and appointing, new staff and for staff development programs to be
carried out under the project are satisfactory.
Management and Planning
48.       Civil Service Training Center (Proposed Outlay:  $3.0 million,
excluding contingencies). A Center will be established under the proposed
project to provide in-service management training to improve the effectiveness
of middle- and senior-level civil service personnel. The Center will also
undertake practice-oriented research and provide management consultancy
services to government agencies. The project will finance civil works,
furniture and equipment for the Center, as well as related technical assistance.
The Center will be headed by a Director, responsible to the Civil Service
Commission, who will be assisted in development of training policy by an
Advisory Council. The Center's staff will develop courses that cover basic
management skills related to development planning and project implementation
as well as special topics. Over the next four years, an additional 50 staff
will be recruited, mainly from experienced government managers and trainers.
Pre-service training or upgrading will be provided for the Center's staff.
The Center will be located in Bangkok, where 65% of its client group (20,000
middle- and higher-level civil servants in the government and government
enterprises) lives and works. Courses will reach 900 senior level and 1,100
middle level managers annually, about 10% of the target population.
49.       Center for Educational Administrators (Proposed Outlay:
$1.9 million, excluding contingencies). The proposed project will assist
the MOE in establishing a Center to train administrative staff within the
school system by financing its construction, furnishings, equipment and
related technical assistance. The Center will have a capacity for 200 trainees
and 100 boarders. The Center will aim to increase the effectiveness of
educational personnel by training and upgrading administrative school staff
and education officers, and by stimulating communications between them;
evaluating training programs; and undertaking research. An Advisory Committee
will be established to advise on training policies. The Government has
provided assurances that advisory groups, with representation and terms of
reference acceptable to IDA, will be established for this and other project
schools at least three months before the institutions commence opecations
(Section 3.05 of draft Development Credit Agreement). Staff will be recruited
from among experienced educational administrators and will receive pre-service
training under the project. The Center's target groups comprise 8,000 head-
masters and senior staff of secondary schools, 3,000 education administrators,
and 33,000 primary school headmasters. Each year, about 20% of the first two
groups will receive an average of four weeks' training, and by 1985, instructors
trained at the Center will provide two-week courses to about 8,000 primary
school headmasters annually. The Government has agreed to ensure that the
Civil Service Training Center and the Center for Educational Administrators
prepare and submit for review by the Association, by December 31, 1979,
long-range plans for civil service training and For tratiing of educational
administrators and thereafter each year the annual training plans for the
period 1981-85 (Section 3.08 of draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 18 -
50.      Planning Studies (Proposed Outlay:  $2.6 million, excluding con-
tingencies). The project will provide financing for personnel training and
travel, materials and equipment to carry out a school location planning study
to define school building needs throughout the country with the objective of
alleviating disparities in regional access. Subsector studies, including
one on adult education, will also be carried out under the project, and funds
will be provided to cover certain costs in the preparation of future education
projects.
Technical Assistance
51.       Specialist services and fellowships will support each subcomponent
of the project. For diversified secondary education, they will assist in
staff training. The bulk of technical assistance will support the educational
radio network, specifically the CET in managing, producing and evaluating
radio programs; limited technical assistance will be provided for staff train-
ing in user agencies. Under the management and planning component, assistance
will be provided to upgrade staff and to develop plans, curricula and course
materials. A procurement advisor will assist with the implementation of this
and other education projects. Proposed schedules for specialist services and
fellowships, and criteria for award of fellowships have been reviewed with the
Association and are satisfactory.
Evaluation
52.       Specialist assistance to be provided under the project will be used
in part to establish monitoring and evaluation procedures to be implemented by
the responsible agencies. For diversified secondary education, monitoring
will comprise the collection and analysis of data on the effectiveness of
training and on operating costs. In addition, the Government will establish a
tracer system to follow the careers of students enrolled in the diversified
programs. Under the radio component, the PRD will be responsible for monitor-
ing the technical performance of the transmission system; the educational
users will be responsible for collecting audience data and for continuous
testing with assistance from CET of programs; and the CET will also be res-
ponsible for an in-depth evaluation of the basic skills pilot project.
Evaluation units will be established for the Civil Service and educational
administrator training components and will collect participant data and assess
the relevance of materials and training. In addition, financing has been
included under the project to enable the National Education Commission to
undertake a mid-term and final evaluation of all project components, including
an assessment of the planning, implementation and initial impact of the
project components. The Government has agreed that it will submit to the
Association the National Education Commission's mid-term evaluation of project
components with comments from the National Economic and Social Development
Board and educational agencies involved, by December 31, 1982, and a final
evaluation by June 30, 1986 (Section 3.11 (c) of draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
53.       The total cost of the project is estimated at $70.3 million equiv-
alent. The contingency allowance of $18.8 million (27%) comprises physical



- 19 -
contingencies of $5.1 million and price contingencies of $13.7 million,
assuming annual price increases of 12% to 7% over the project period. In-
cluding contingencies, the foreign exchange component amounts to $35.0 mil-
lion (50%), estimated as follows: civil works 35%; furniture 30%; equipment
60%; professional services 10%; expert services 75%; and fellowships 100%.
Foreign fellowships and expert services are costed at $12,000 and $75,000 per
man-year, respectively, and local expert services at $8,000 per man-year.
The proposed credit of $35 million covers the estimated foreign exchange
component, or 56% of total project costs, net of taxes and duties. The
Government will meet the remaining project costs of $35.3 million as well as
annual recurrent expenditures, which from 1984 will amount to about B 102 mil-
lion for the MOE, B 36 million for PRD and B 8 million for the Civil Service
Commission (1978 prices). These costs represent about 1% of the budgeted
government expenditure on education for 1978.
Implementation
54.       Implementation problems of the last three Bank education projects
have caused delays and disbursement shortfalls. Most delays occurred initially
because of the inexperience of project staff (for instance, in preparing equip-
ment lists and contracting professional services), but cumbersome budget and
approval procedures have also impeded implementation. Divided responsibility
for design and procurement within the MOE contributed to these delays, led to
uneconomical use of resources and adversely affected continuity. The temporary
project unit established to coordinate implementation under the third and
fourth projects was gradually able to achieve some progress. However, this
unit's responsibility was limited to a control function vis-a-vis existing
procurement units and it had insufficient authority and staff to effect
sustained improvement in the MOE's procurement efficiency. As a result of two
procurement seminars and general discussions with the Government on bureaucratic
constraints to achieving the country's development objectives, the MOE has
recently established a permanent central procurement unit in the Office of the
Under-Secretary, MOE, initially to be responsible for all externally-financed
projects.
55.       To overcome problems related to budgeting and procurement, the
Government has also introduced improved procedures designed to facilitate the
signing of multi-year contracts, provide for contingency budget funds and
transfer of budget funds, speed the award of contracts and allow for the
direct purchase of small items by school principals. A central revolving
fund has recently been established to prefinance costs to be reimbursed from
credits and loans. To ensure that adequate funds are available for the
proposed project, arrangements have been substantially completed to provide
adequate budget funds for the implementation of the project in FY79 and FY80,
B 1 million and B 16 million, respectively.
56.       Project Management.   Implementation of each project component will
be the responsibility of the department or agency most directly concerned:
the centralized workshops, community secondary schools and center for educa-
tional technology fall respectively under the purview of the MOE's Depart-
ments of Vocational Education, of General Education, and of Educational
Techniques. The Center for Educational Administrators will also be admin-
istratively under the MOE. The PRD will be responsible for the educational



- 20 -
radio network; the Civil Service Commission, for its training center; and
the National Education Commission, for the school mapping program. Coordina-
tion with other departments concerned with specific components will be achieved
through the advisory groups to be established (paras. 46 and 49). Overall
management of procurement aspects will be carried out by the centrai procuie-
ment unit recently established within MOE (para. 54). The unit is headed by a
director who reports directly to the Under-Secretary of State for Education
and is assisted by two advisors on the procurement and administrative aspects
of projects. The unit has sections dealing with civil works, furniture and
equipment procurement, technical assistance, and accounting. When required,
private consultant firms are used to supplement the professional services
provided by the procurement section. The unit now serves all externally
assisted education projects, but the Government intends to strengthen the unit
through the transfer of experienced staff from existing departmental units to
enable it to provide the full range of procurement services for the MOE and,
as requested, to other government agencies involved in education projects.
The Government has agreed to conduct a review of the unit, by June 30, 1981,
with the view of enabling it to assume full responsibility for all design and
procurement functions within the MOE (Section 3.03(b) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
57.       Implementation Schedule.   The physical implementation of the
project will be executed over the period mid-1979 to end-1983. The first
phase of construction, for which sites have been selected and design work
substantially completed, will begin in 1980 and be completed in about one
and one-half years. A second phase will begin in 1981 and a third in 1982 so
that construction is expected to be fully completed by mid-1983. Technical
assistance and purchase of equipment would be appropriately phased with the
construction schedule. The preparation of sketch plans and equipment lists
is well advanced and procurement is expected to be ready to begin shortly
after credit effectiveness. A condition for disbursement for civil works and
equipment under the Center for Educational Administrators item would be the
formal establishment of the Center and appointment of key staff including
technical assistance advisors (Paragraph 4(b) of Schedule 1 to the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
Procurement
58.       Contracts for civil works and furniture and equipment will be
grouped to the extent practicable to increase competition in bidding.
Contracts for civil works will be awarded on the basis of local competitive
bidding, but foreign contractors will be permitted to submit bids. Thailand
has well-developed building industries and foreign firms not already estab-
lished in Thailand are unlikely to bid due to the relatively small bid
packages ($100,000-300,000) and the scattered construction sites. Bidding
will follow current government procurement procedures acceptable to the
Association. Prior review by the Association is required on civil works
contract awards above $300,000 equivalent and equipment and furniture contract
awards above $100,000. Equipment and furniture packages of $100,000 equivalent
or more will be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in
accordance with IDA guidelines. Local manufacturers will be allowed a prefer-
ential margin of 15%, or the customs duty, if lower, over the c.i.f. cost.



- 21 -
Equipment and furniture which cannot be grouped to form packages of $100,000
equivalent may be awarded without prior IDA review on the basis of local
competitive bidding in accordance with current government procurement
practices acceptable to IDA. Miscellaneous items, in packages not exceeding
$10,000 equivalent, subject to an aggregate total not exceeding $300,000
equivalent, may be purchased off the shelf on the basis of at least three
price quotations. Books and journals will be procured through direct purchase
after negotiations for discount.
Disbursements
59.       The proposed credit of $35 million equivalent will be disbursed
as follows: 30% of the cost of construction and site development; 100% of
the foreign exchange cost of imported equipment and furniture, 100% of the
ex-factory cost of locally manufactured equipment and furniture, and 60% of
the cost of equipment and furniture procured locally; 100% of the cost of
professional services and expert services; and 100% of total costs of training
and fellowships. Withdrawal applications, supported by full documentation,
will be aggregated to the extent feasible in groups of $50,000 or more prior
to submission to IDA for reimbursement.
Benefits and Risks
60.       In the past, the Thai education system has been characterized
by an overly academic bias, regional disparities in opportunities for education
and inefficient administration. The proposed project will assist the Govern-
ment in addressing these weaknesses. Schools included in the diversified
secondary education component will provide more relevant training to prepare
graduates for productive activities within the community. By 1985, these
institutions will provide both quality and equity benefits to 50,000 students
each year, 75% of whom will come from disadvantaged rural communities. The
Area Vocational Centers represent a new approach to providing diversified
facilities at reasonable costs and will be replicated nationwide if cost-
effective. Savings of up to 90% in investment costs and 50% in operating
costs could result from provision of the centralized facilities by compari-
son with provision of workshops at each school. The educational radio network
will provide in-school and nonformal instruction to nearly 12 million people,
including inhabitants of the remote North and Northeast, by 1985. The in-
school population (8 million) will benefit mainly from an improved quality
of education, as broadcasts will support introduction of the new curricula in
the classroom and the annual upgrading of some 400,000 teachers. The main
benefit to out-of-school listeners (3 million) will be the acquisition of
basic skills (literacy and numeracy) and information to enhance their produc-
tivity. The open university courses will directly benefit about 100,000
people per year who would otherwise not have access to higher education. The
systematic in-service training of civil servants (including educational
administrators) is expected to lead to improved efficiency and effectiveness
of government management and development efforts, and the school location study
should result in an equitable distribution of opportunities for primary and
secondary education in the future.



- 22 -
61.       The proposed project is subject to two general uncertainties in
implementation. Direct responsibility for project implementation will be
divided among several major agencies and there is a general risk of ineffi-
ciencies due to fragmentation of authority. To reduce this risk, the recently
established central procurement unit will be strengthened and its responsibili-
ties enhanced. Achievement of anticipated project benefits will depend on
recruitment of 1,350 new staff: while about 950 teachers for the diversified
secondary component should be recruited without difficulty, there is some risk
associated with recruitment of sufficient qualified staff to the MOE (for the
educational radio component) and for the management training institutions.
The project, therefore, provides intensive preservice staff training. Other
risks concern the educational radio activities. Irrelevant or poor quality
programs could result in underutilization of the educational radio network,
but this risk should be reduced by continuous monitoring and evaluation of
programs as well as by the independent mid-term and final evaluations
by the National Education Commission. To foster utilization of educational
radio, teachers will receive training on in-class use, and to assure use of
the network for educational purposes, programming responsibility will lie
directly with the educational agencies, with programming monitored by a board
of educational specialists. Despite these risks, the project is justified by
its expected contributions to improvements in the quality and relevance of
education and management, and to reducing disparities in access to education.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Kingdom of
Thailand and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distri-
buted to the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of the
project are listed in Section III of Annex III.
63.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
64.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by I.P.M. Cargill
Attachments
May 9, 1979



- 23 -
Annex I
PaI of 5
TABLE 3A
TRAILAND - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSrTD AERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SO. a.)                  TULAN- D                         MOST RECENT ESTIATES
TOTAL            514.0                                                   SAME        SANE     NFXT RIGHER
AGRICULTURAL     238.5                               MrST RECENT       GEOGRAPRIC    INCOME      INCOME
1960  b    1970 Lb ESTIMATE /b       REGION jc   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 100.0       200.0      410.0           616.0      432.3        867.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL eQUIVALENT)      64.0       247.0     284.0            522.0      251.7       578.3
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION. MID-YTAR
(MILLIONS)                        26.6        36.3      44.1
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 12.7        15.0       16.8            30.1       24.2        46.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. Dl.                       52.0        71.0       86.0           156.8       42.7         50.8
PER SQ. XN. AGRICULTURAL LAND    112.0       152.0      185.0           794.8       95.0         93.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         45.1        44.8      43.7             40.8       44.9         42.9
15-64 TRS.                         52.9        52.3      53.2             55.4       52.8        53.5
65 TRS. AND ABOVE                   2.6         2.9        3.1             3.2        3.0          3.5
POPULATION GROWNH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              3.2         3.0        2.9             2.3        2.7          2.5
URBAN                              5.1         5.0        4.6             5.1        8.8          4.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     44.9        41.4       34.9            34.6       42.2         37.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     13.8         10.7       8.9             8.7       12.4         10.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               ..         3.2        3.1             2.6        3.2          2.5
FAMLLY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..       405.6   2680.2
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED  MEN)    ..          14.0      37.0            22.1       14.2         20.0
FOOD AnD NUTRITION
INDeK OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-IDO)             68.0        100.0     104.7           106.8      104.3        107.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIRErNTS)                    96.0        103.0     107.0           108.7       99.5        105.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          47.0        52.2       50.0            57.7       56.8        63.0
OF ISHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       8.4           *-      14.6            17.0       17.5         21.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     10.4          5.3        ..             4.0        7.5          8.0
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    49.0        55.5       58.0            59.0       53.3         57.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             ..        80.0       56.3            44.0       82.5         53.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         17.0      25.0            21.9       31.1         56.8
URBAN                               ..        60.0       69.0            58.3       68.5         79.0
RURAL                               *-         10.0      16.0             9.8        18.2        31.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OP POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         17.0      40.0            28.6        37.5        30.9
URBAN                               ..         65.0      58.0            66.6       69.5         45.4
RURAL                               ..          8.0      36.0            14.8       25.4         16.1
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          7800.0       7070.0   6750.0           4103.1     9359.2       2706.B
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         ..      6650.0    4330.0           1520.2     2762.5       1462.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           1340.0 /f    890.0      770.0           657.1       786.5       493.9
URBAN                               ..        280.0     290.0           145.5      278.4        229.6
RURAL                               *-       1380.0    1140.0          1011.8      1358.4      2947.9
ADMISSIONS PER IHOSPITAL BED           ..        31.0      19.0            19.0        19.2        22.)
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.5 /f       5.8       5.5             5.2          ..         5.2
URBAN                                 3f        59        55525.0
RURAL                              5 6          5.9       5.5             5.4                     5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                .            .        .                ..                     .
URBAN                                                                                 23           :
RURAL                                 .                                               2.3         1.5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OP DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                                    24 .6           39.1        28.3        64.1
URBAN                                .         63.0  j     .                ..         .         67.8
RURAL                               ..         13.0        ..               .._10.3              34.1



- 24 -                                         Annex I
Pant 2 of 5
TAILE 3A
THAILAND - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERNCE GIOUIPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
THAILAND               M~~- OST RECENT ESTIM4ATE) /
SAL4LAh  -    RSANE  NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOH         INCOME
1960 Lb     1970 Lb ESTIMUTE /b      REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMART:     TOTAL               136.0         81.0      78.0            95.6        75.8        99.3
FEMALE              128.0        77.0       75.0            93.7        67.9        93.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 8.0         17.0      25.0            43.3        17.7        33.8
FEMALE                6.0         14.0      21.0            38.6        12.9        29.8
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SZCONDARY) 19.0         24.0      13.0             11.3        7.4         12.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           36.0         35.0      30.0             30.0       34.3         34.9
SECONDARY                         20.0         16.0      21.0             25.4       23.5        22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       68.0         79.0      82.0             84.0       63.7         71.8
CONSUMPT ION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
PCPULATION                          2.0         5.0       7.0              9.3        7.2         12.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         6.0         78.0     135.0             97.6       71.1        104.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         2.3          7.0      17.0             21.8       14.1         28.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  11.0        24.0        ..             25.9       16.3         45.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..           ..       1.7              4.6        1.6          4.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    12757.0      16163.0   18514.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  48.3         47.3      46.9             33.2       28.0         25.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             82.0         78.0      76.0             48.4       54.1         46.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 5.7          7.4        *-
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               51.3         46.6      45.6             38.9       37.8         33.B
MALE                                 52.7        49.3      48.6             48.6       50.3         48.1
FEMALE                              49.8         43.9      42.6             28.4       20.9         17.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.0         1.1       1.2              1.2        1.3          1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   21.8 /h      23.8 Li  14.0              17.3       19.5         23.6
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  50.9 E       49.7 L4   42.2             45.6       48.9         52.3
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.2 /h       6.1 L4    7.6              6.5        5.9          4.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   14.9 /h      15.9 L   19.1              17.3       15.7         13.1
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           ..     120.0            140.8      155.9        191.9
RURAL                               ..           ..      90.0            112.8       97.9        193.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           ..        ..               ..      143.7        319.8
RURAL                               ..           ..      93.0             76.8       87.3        197.7
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..          ..      11.0             27.7       22.9         19.8
RURAL                               ..           ..      28.0             40.4       36.7         35.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
tb    Unless otherwise noted, dasta for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
|c    East Asia & Pacific;   /d  Lower Middle Income ($281-550 per capita 1976);  /e  Intermediate Middle Income
(S551-1135) per capita, 1976);  /f  1962;   a&  Percent of population in Bangkok metropolitan area;
/h  1962-63, rural only;  /1  Rural only.
September 1978



-25 -                                                                      Annex I
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                    Page 3 0f  5
Notg   The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme values of the indicator and the most
populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform. Due to lack of data,
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and indicators of access to water and excreta disposal, housing, income distribution snd poverty are
simple population-weighted geometric means without the exclusion of extrme values.
LAND AREA (thousand sq. km)                                                             Population per hospital bed - total, urban, and rural - Population (total,
Total - Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters.                       urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital beds
Agricultural - Most recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily                available in public and private gemeral and specialized hospital and rc-
or permanently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                   habilitation centers.  Hospitals are eatablishnents permanently staffed by
lie fallow.                                                                            at least one physician.  Establishments providing principally custodial
care are not included. Rural hospitals, however, include health and medi-
GNP PER CAPITA (US$) - GNP per capita estimates at current market prices,                 cal centers not permanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical as-
calculated by same conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);              sistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accommodation and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                                                             provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total number of admissions to or discharges
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of co,mercial  nen.gy                  from hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                   HOUSING
Averace aize of household (persons per household) - total, urban, and rural-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                           A household consists of a group of individuals who share living quarters
Total population, mid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                  and their main meals.  A boarder or lodger may or may not be included in
average of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                          the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
Urban population (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                    hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability                  Averase number of persons per room - total, urban, and rural - Average num-
of data among countries,                                                               ber of persons per room in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                       dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permanent structures and
Per  sq. .km  - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                 unoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                       Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and rural -
Per sq. kh. agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                  Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                  of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population age structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-             EDUCATION
year population.                                                                    Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                  Primary school - total, and female - Total and female enrollment of all ages
growth rates of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                      at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                  populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                     different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal edu-
mid-year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                   cation enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some pupils are below or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for moat recent estimate,                    above the official school age.
Crude death rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                   Secondary school - total, and female - Computed as above; secondary educa-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                  tion requires at least four years of approved primary inatruction; pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate,                         vides general vocational, or teacher training instructions for pupils
Gross reproduction rate - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                  usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
in her normal teproductive period if she experiences present age-                      excluded.
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                Vocational enrollment (percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                        clude technical, industrial, or other programs which operate independently
Family planning - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                       or as departments of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family                Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, amd secondary - Total students enrolled in
planning program                                                                       primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the corre-
Family planning - users (percent of married women) - Percentage of                       spending levels.
married women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control              Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
devices co all married women in same age group.                                        a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                    CONSUMPTION
Index of food production per capita (1970-100) - Index number of per                  Passenger cars (per thousand population) - Passenger cars comprise motor cars
capita annual production of all food commodities,                                    seating less than eight persons; excludes ambulances, hearses and military
Per capita supply of calories (percent of requirements) - Computed from                vehicles. 
energy equivalent of met food supplies available in country per capita              Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise dom.estic production, imports less             broadcasts to general public per thousand of Ppoulation; excludes unlicensed
exports, and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,             receivers in countries and in years when registration of radio sets was in
quantities used in food processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                 effect; data for recent years may not be comparable since meet countries
quiremeots were estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-               abolished licensing.
mal activity and health considering envirormental temperature, body                 TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV receivers for broadcast to ginerl
weights, age and sex distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                 public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in coun-
cent for waste at household level.                                                     tries and in years when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Per capita supply of protein (grams per day) - Protein content of per                 Newspaper circulation (per thousand population) - Shows the average circula-
capita net supply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                   tion of "daily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodical publi-
above.  Requirements for all countries established by USDA provide for                 cation devoted primarily to recording general news.  It is considered to
a minimum allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grams                  be "daily" if it appears at least four times a week.
of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein.            Cinema annual attendance per capita per year - Based on the number of tickets
These standards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                  sold during the year, including admissions to drive-in ciremas and mobile
23 grams of animal protein as an average for the wsrld, proposed by                    units.
FAO in the Third World Food Survey.
Per capita protein supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food             EMPLOYMENT
derived from animals and pulses in grams per day.                                   Total labor force (thousands) - Economically active persons, including armed
Child (ages 1-4) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                forces and unemployed but excluding housewives, students, etc.  Defini-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                             tions in various countries are not comparable.
Female (percent) - Female labor force as percentage of total labor force.
HEALTH                                                                                 Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting and fishing
Life expectancy at birth (years) - Average number of years of life                       as percentage of total labor force.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, construction, manufacturing and
and 1975.                                                                              electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
Infant mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                 Participation rate (percent) - total, male, and female - Total, male, and
one year of age per thousand live birhts.                                              female labor force as percentages of their respective populations.
Access to safe water (percent of population) - total, urban, and rural -                 These are TLO's adjusted participation rates reflecting Age-sen
Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                   strocture of the population. sod long time trend.
safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                 Economic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to
unconatmina-ed water such as that fom protected boraholes, springs,                    the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respective populations.
In an urban area a public fountain or standpost located not more                   INCOME DISTRIBUTION
than 200 maters from a house may be considered as being within rea-                 Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind) received by richest 5
sonable access of that house,  to rural areas reasonable access would                  percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and poorest 40 percent
imply that the housewife or members of the household do not have to                    of households.
spend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the family's
water coeds.                                                                       POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Access to excrete disposal (percent of population) - total, urban. and                Estimated absolute poverty income level (US$ per capita) - urban and rural -
rural - Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by excreta                     Absolute poverty income level is that income level below which a minimal
disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  Excreta                      nutritionally adequate diet plus essential non-food requirements is not
disposal may include the collection and disposal, with or without                      affordable.
treatment, of human  .careta and waste-water by water-borne systems                 Estimated relative poverty income level (US$ per capita) - urban and rural -
or the use of pit privies and similar installations.                                   Relative poverty income level is that income level less than one-third
Population per physician - Population divided by number of practicing                    per capita personal income of the reentry.
physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.                     Estimated population below poverty income level (percent) - urban and rural -
Population per nursing person - Population divided by number of                          Percent of population (urban and rural) who are either "absolute poor" or
practicing male and female graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                      "relative p.oo" whichever is greater.
assistant nurses.
Economic and Social Data Division
Economic Analysis and Projections Department



- 26 -                                                                             ANNEX I
Pae 4 of 5
ECONOgIC DEV-ELOPME1T DATA SH9EET
Actual                                       Prjet                        Growth rates (%)             1975 share
1965      1970       1976      1977      1978 /.a    1979      1980      1985   1965-77  1977-79  1979-85  1985-90  of GDP (%)
A. National Accounts
(Hi114jrn U1$ at 1975 pritces)
1.  Gross domestic product        6,843.8  10,323.0  15,712.6  16,685.5  18,138.9  19,395.2  20,692.9  29,256.7    7.7           7.8      7.1       7.0       100.0
2.  Gains from terms of trade       -44.3       62.8    -507.7    -978.1    -704.3    -572.9    -533.8    -518.2                                               -3.2
3.  Gross domestic intone         6,799.5  10,365.8  15,204.9  15,707.4  17,434.6  18,822.3  20,159.1  28,738.5    7.2           9.5      7.3       7.0        96.8
4.  Imports                       1,659.9   2,909.4   3,699.1   4,460.8   4,896.8   5,082.8   5,440.4   7,507.8    8.6           6.7      6.7       6.8        23.5
5.  Emports - volume             -1,593.2  -2,214.8  -3,808.4  -4.506.9  -4,641.3  -4,481.1  -4,862.1  -7,448.5    9.1          -0.3      8.8       8.7        24.2
6.  Exports - adjusted for TOT  -1,548.9  -2,317.5  -3,300.7  -3,528.8  -3,937.0  -3,908.1  -4,328.3  -6,930.3    7.1            5.2     10.0       8.8        21.0
7.  Resource gap - adj.nced
for TOT                       111.0      671.9     398.4     932.1      959.8   1,174.7   1,112.1       577.5                                             2.5
8.  Total consumption             5,302.3   8,007.0  11,709.5  12,370.3  13,579.1  14,809.7  15,740.4  21,253.9    7.3           9.4      6.2       6.1        74.5
9.  Isve-t-cot                    1,608.2   3,030.6   3,893.8   4,269.2   4,815.3   5,187.2   5,530.8   8,062.0    8.5          10.2      7.6       7.5        24.8
10.  National savings              1,576.4   2,500.8   3,477.7   3,312.5   3,794.2   3,970.7   4,300.3   7,037.7    6.4           9.5     10.0       9.6        22.1
11.  Domestic savings adjosted
for TOT                     1,497.2   2,358.7   3,495.5   3,337.1   3,855.5   4,012.6   4,418.7   7,484.6    6.9          9.7      10.9      9.3         22.2
12.  GDP at correct US$            4,052.9   6,543.3  16,284.3  18,156.9  21,881.8  24,093.0  27,401.6  55,355.9   13.3          15.2     14.9      13.4
4.  Sector Output
(Share of GDP)                 4,052.9   6,543.3  16,284.3  18,156.9  21,881.8  24,093.0  27,401.6  55,355.9   13.3          15.2     14.9      13.4
1.  Agriculture                      0.391      0.346     0.301      0.281     0.271      0.264     0.258      0.229
2.  Industry                         0.208      0.227     0.269      0.288      0.299     0.304     0.309      0.335
3.  Services                         0.401      0.427     0.430      0.431     0.430      0.432     0.432      0.437
C.  Prices 1975 -_00)
1.  Eaport price iodex               46.43      40.04     91.65      89.35    103.13    113.40    123.48    172.32    5.6        12.7      7.2       5.1
2.  Import price ilden               47.76      47.15    105.75    114.12    121.58    130.03    138.71    185.20    7.5          6.7      6.1       5.0
3.  Terms of trade index             97.22    101.88      86.67      78.30     84.83      87.21     89.02      93.04   -1.8       5.5      1.1       0.1
4.  GDP deflator (Us$)               59.22      63.39    103.64    108.82    116.07    124.22    132.42    189.21    5.2          6.8      7.3       6.0
5.  Ansuai average e-change rate    20.80       20.80     20.40      20.40
D.  Senected Indicators                       1965-77  1977-79  1979-85  1985-90
1.  COF                                  3.56      3.32     3.80      3.97
2.  Import elastcipty                      1.09     0.87     0.95      0.97
3. Average sotional savings rate           0.24     0.20     0.23      0.26
4.  Marginal national savings rate         0.18     0.25     0.32      0.35
5.  Imports/GDP                           0.27      0.26     0.26      0.26
6.  Isvest-ent/GDP                         0.27     0.26     0.27      0.28
7. Resource gap/GDP                       0.04      0.06     0.04      0.01
Value added Jb                       Labor farce /c                     V.A. per     ker /b /
E.       t    r   porno as1 Prodoctivity in1975               US$ million              1               Million             2               0S0            Z of average
1.  Agricoltare                                               4,559             31.3              13.4              75.7               340                41.5
2.  Industry                                                  4,442             30.4                1.4              7.9             3,170               356.7
3.  Services                                                  5,588             38.3               2.9              16.4             1,930               235.4
flSa4/aygra1e 589                                                        100.0              17.7             100.0               820               100.0
F.  Psblic Finance ( of GOP)                   1965       1970      1974       1975     1976        1977/a
(Central Government)
1. oCrrest invense                        13.5       13.8       14.5      13.6       13.4     14.6
2.  Tao revence                            12.3      12.5       13.5      12.0       12.1     13.3
3.  Correct espenditures                   10.5      12.6       10.7      12.1       13.0     12.5
4.  Budgetary savings                       2.9       1.2        3.7       1.5        0.4      1.1
5.  Tocol public investment                 6.5       7.7        3.8       4.9        5.3       5.4
G. - ue   pU5rts  iCuost 00$ millions)         65.0      112.0     628.6      711.7     833.7      923.0
(7 of total inports i-c. NFS)              8.3        8.0       18.4      20.0       21.1      19.7
/a Preliminary.
/b  At current narket prices.
/c  Eatimate.



-  27-                                                                   ANNEX I
PaRs S of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS. EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE, DEBT AND CREDITWORTHINES5
(Current TSO millions)
Actual                                        _Proected
1973       1974        1975        1976        1977       1979 /n      1979        1980        1985        1990
So-,ar'  of colance of Payments
Exports (i-lx ding NFS)                            2,084.7    3,025.4    2,796.5    3,490.6    4,029.3    4,786.6    5,081.7            6,004.0    12,835.0    24,967.7
Imports (i-cloditg NFS)                            2,258.3    3,353.2    3,487.3    3,911.9    5,093.8    5,953.5    6,609.1            7,546.7    13,904.5    24,650.4
Resoorce balunce                                     -173.6     -327.8      -690.8      -421.3   -1,064.4   -1,166.9   -1,527.4    -1,542.7    -1,069.5             317.3
5et  octoo  sor-ice Iscomo                            -20.8        -0.7         5.4      -41.6       -72.5      -143.2      -134.3       -243.4       -925.C    -1,412.5
Net ixtcrest paynexta                                 7.0       36.0        69.0        26.1        -4.0       -70.8       -81.7      -187.9       -766.9    -1,170.7
Of uhioh ox polUlE  M 6 LT loans                 -25.1       -28.1       -34.5       -44.3       -64.5     -100.2      -133.1       -174.5       -487.1       -882.0
Direct ixvestncxt income                           -28.0       -37.0       -64.0       -66.1       -68.5       -72.4       -75.5        -80.0      -192.5       -290.0
loorkou  res-ttances (net)                            0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        22.9         24.5         34.1         49.2
Cuerrec teunsfses lost)                               145.5      241.0         80.1       22.08       39.3        68.7        80.0         80.0         0.0         110.0
bolonce ox currunt axcount                            -48.9       -87.5     -605.3      -440.1   -1,097.6   -1,241.4   -1,581.7    -1,706.1    -1,894.5           -985.1
Prioato direct investteot                              67.0       135.6        85.5       79.1       106.1        42.5       140.0        156.8        276.3        487.0
Irauto 6 graxt-liko flows                               0.0         0.0         0.3         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0          0.3          0.0          3.0
Poblic M & LT oo.s
Diuboes-noots                                        69.0       95.9       149.2       241.7       362.6       711.5       816.6      1,010.8      1,960.4     2,697.6
Amortleacios                                       -29.8       -32.3       -38.7       -43.4       -87.8      -104.2      -164.1      -222.1       -620.1    -1,092.7
Net disb-rseFents                                    39.2       63.5       100.5       198.3       274.8       607.3       652.5        7B8.7      1,340.3      1,604.9
Other M 5 IT loans
Diuborse=ents                                       178.9      326.2       299.6       279.7       311.8       504.4       672.1      1,028.8      1,393.0        462.2
A-ortitation                                      -223.1      -197.2      -235.1      -245.9      -264.2      -473.3      -202.8       -266.5      -850.6    -1,167.8
NSt disburseFeots                                  -44.2        129.3       64.5        33.8        47.6        31.1       469.3        762.3        542.4      -705.6
UIe of IMF reso. rces                                   0.0         0.0         0.0       77.1         1.8       137.7       100.0        -30.3       -30.0           0.0
Shoot-term cupltol traxnctions                         42.0        55.5      127.5       136.2       256.2        75.0       120.0        128.4        180.1        252.6
Capitol toassoctiuos NE1                               37.9        96.3        77.2      -11.4       136.2       -96.7         0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0
Choge ix eservss ( -  ixceose)                      -113.0      -392.7       140.1       -73.0       275.0       444.5       100.0       -100.0       -414.6      -654.5
Not forel.. ei chanse reservs tb
(end of period)                                  1,306.0    1,599.0    1,406.0    1,444.0    1,135.8           680.0      945.0       1,045.0     2.634.5      5,320.9
Grat and Loan Cutcit-nts
Officiol g-axts                                         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
Total public M & LT loans                              87.1       436.5      223.4       372.3       633.0    1,031.0
IBRD                                                 15.0      142.0        95.0       158.0       137.8       211.0
IDA                                                 25.0         7.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        27.0
Other =ultilateral                                    6.4       77.2        62.7        92.1        47.0       119.0
Governments                                         24.0       200.5        47.7        22.2       106.4       264.0
Of which contr-lly plonnod oconomies Ic               0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
Suppliers                                            0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0       80.0
Pinoncial iutitntio-u                               16.7        9.7        18.0       100.0       341.9       325.0
Other M & LT Io.nn (wheraseilable)                    170.9      415.9       392.5       360.2       348.9       531.8
Memoeandns Items
Glast element of totol commitments (2)               44.600     31.400      16.700      11.500      10.200      14.869
Asseogo interest (2)                                  0.044      0.057       0.076       0.081       0.080       0.072
A-erage noatr_ty  .y.urs)                            29.100     23.800      23.500      18.500      14.000      12.832
Mledia- and LonR-Terr Debt (Di.sbnsed ocly)
Total debt ootts.ndisg (DOD etd of period)            903.9    1,160.7    1,345.6    1,606.9    1,931.9    2,217.4
'Iclud"'g undisbaurd                               1,182.4    1,770.0    2,009.5    2,404.0    3,145.9    4,054.7
Public dubt  .erice                                   -54.9      -60.4       -73.2       -87.7      -152.3      -204.4
Ixtcrest                                              -25.1      -28.1       -34.5       -44.3       -64.5      -100. 2
Othor M & LT debt seroice                            -255.8     -266.8      -314.5      -245.9      -338.3      -547.8
Totol debt sersice                                   -310.7     -327.2      -387.7      -333.6      -490.6      -752.2
Debt Burdex (%)
Debt s-eric- rotio                                     14.9        10.8        13.9        9.6        12.2        15.7
Dubt  s-ri-e ratio /d                                  16.2        12.0        16.2       10.5        13.9        17.2
Debt servi-e/GDP                                        2.9         2.5         2,7         2.0        2.7         3.4
Public debt uersice/Govern=entrevenee                   4.3         2.5         3.5         3.7        4.4         5.5
Interest ox extol DOD/total DOD                         5.7         5.5         5.6         5.4        5.7         5.2
Totul debt seesie/ltotal  OD                          12.4        11.8        11.9        10.7       12.0        27.7
Deendenco Ratios for M & LT Debt II)
Glots disiu_nsmestn/ipxeosu liocloditg NFS)            11.0        12.6        12.9        13.3       10.9        21.0
Not tra=sfertirports (ixolodi-g NFS)                   -2.8         2.9         1.8         4.8         2.0       10.2
Net traxf-/g/r.oss disbura-mests                      -25.3        22.5        13.6        36.0       18.4        48.7
Snoosoco (%)
188R  dishuenents/(ross total disbhueseents            14.9         8.0         9.1         8.3       12.0         9.3
Bash Grop dtsbarsemextu/gsoas total dlsbor3etseaib     14.8         8.3         9.7         9.5       13.6         9.9
IBRD DODltotal 'OD                                     24.2        20.8        20.0        18.6       17.9        20.2
Bask G-oup DOD/total DOD                               24.2        20.9        20.0        19.2       18.9        21.3
I0RD debt asr-ice/totol debt oursice                    8.3         8.5         9.3       10.9         9.8         7.8
bank G-oup dAbt service/total dubt tuovice              8.0         8.5         8.3        10.9         9.8        7.8
Exter- al Debt (Disbursed only)                            Oosstandt nR 12/31/77
(Current DS$ millions)                                    A-ot s
IBRD                                                        345.7        32.9
Bask Groxp                                                  365.2        34.7
Othe  multilsteoal                                          137.5        13.1
Goverunrets                                                 379.7        36.1
Ofhtcb cextrally pla.nnd ecosnoies /c                       0.0         0.0
Suppli_rs                                                    13.2         1.3
Fi-axciol ixstitatio..                                      156.6        14.9
Bo_ds                                                          0.0         .0
Public debt net                                               0.0         0.0
Total public M 6 LT debt                                  1,052.1       100.0
Other M 6 LT debt                                           979.8        83.6
Total public debt (including andisbursed)                 2,266.1       215.4
Tocal M5& LI desc b including undisbursed)                3,145.9       299.0
/a  Preili=inry.
/b  Yet N Orego - usecut:  US$ eqoivale-t of LOon  31.
Ic  Inclade- CMEA c-tu ies, Peoples Republic of Chi.o, Sorth Korea, North Viet Coo.
d  Incladi8g -et direct icn_s_te_t locone.



- 28 -                               ANNEX II
Page 1 of 11
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As o,f MIarch 31, 1979)
Loan or                                                       Amounts ($ million)
Credit                                                        Less Cancellations
Number  Year    Borrower                Purpose           Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Twenty-four loans and one credit fully disbursed         388.9      5.5        -
822     1972       RTG                  Education         15.4        -      5.7
864     1972       TOT                  Telecomm          37.0        -      2.7
870     1972       RTG                  Highways          28.6        -      0.9
369     1973       RTG                  Education            -    19.5       5.2
461     1974       RTG                  Irrigation           -      7.0      1.2
977     1974       EGAT                 Power             75.0        -     15.9
992     1974       IFCT                 Industry          12.0        -      0.2
1021    1974      MWWA                  Water             55.0       -      11.6
1149    1975       RTG                  Irrigation        95.0       -      74.8
1198    1976       RTG                  Rural Dev.        21.0 (TW)  -      11.1
1199    1976      RTG                   Livestock          5.0 (TW)  -       3.5
1243    1976       RTG                  Rubber            50.0       -      40.8
1253    1976      TOT                   Telecomm          26.0       -       8.9
1271    1976       RTG                  Education         31.0        -     24.6
1327    1976       IFCT                 Industry          25.0       -      18.5
1393    1977      RTG                   Agriculture       28.0       -      23.7
1468    1977      RTG                   Irrigation        55.0       -      45.9
1485    1977       EGAT                 Power             50.0       -      41.0
1492    1977       IEAT                 Industry           4.8       -       4.4
767     1978       RTG                  Population          -     33.1/a   33.0
1519    1978      RTG                   Highways         110.0       -      99.2
1527    1978      PEA                   Power             25.0       -      25.0
1556    1978      RTG                   Housing            8.6       -       8.5
S-10    1978      NGOT                  Energy             4.9       -       3.8
1620    1978       TOT                  Telecom           90.0       -      90.0
1630    1978      RTG                   Irrigation /b    17.5        -      17.5
1638    1979      RTG                   Urban /b          16.0       -      16.0
Total                                       1,274.4 /c 65.1    633.6
of which has been repaid                    191.6        -
Total now outstanding                       1,082.8    65.1
Amount sold /d                     68.6
of which has been repaid        37.1         31.5
Total now held by Bank and IDA              1,051.3    65.1
Total undisbursed                             594.2    39.4
/a  Of which $3.1 is Norway grant participation.
/b Declared effective on April 25, 1979.
/c  In addition, a loan of $16.7 million to the State Railway of Thailand was
signed on April 23, 1979.
/d  Of which $43.3 million sold to the Bank of Thailand.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 11
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1979)
Amounts ($ million)
Year        Company              Type of Business            Loan   Equity   Total
1959   Concrete Products and   Cement and Construc-
Aggregate Co. Ltd.       tion Materials              0.30      -      0.30
1964/  Industrial               Development                      -   0.38      0.38
1970   Finance Corporation      Finance Company
of Thailand (IFCT)
1969/  Siam Cement Group        Ceaent and
1975                              Construction
Materials                   28.33   3.75    32.08
1977   Mutual Fund              Money and Capital
Company Limited          Market                         -   0.30      0.30
1977   United Sugar             Food and Food
Terminal Limited         Processing                  2.50   0.20      2.70
1978   Siam Commercial Bank    Snall and Medium
Scale Industries           2.00       -     2.00
1978   Siam Cement Group        Cement and Construc-
tion Materials                -   0.09      0.09
1979   Bangkok Glass Industry
Company, Limited       Glass Containers              4.85   0.25      5.10
1979   Siam City Cement         Cement and Construc-
Company, Limited         tion Materials             36.00   4.00    40.00
1979   Thai Orient Leasing
Co. Ltd.               Capital Market                   -   0.15      0.15
Total gross comritnents                                73.98   9.12    83.10
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                                 48.51   2.56    51.07
Net held by the Corporation                            25.47   6.56    32.03
Total undisbursed                                      42.85   0.25    43.10



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 11
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
(As of March 31, 1979)
Loan No. 822  Second Education Proiect (Kasetsart University); $15.4 Million
Loan of Mtay_24, 1972; Effective Date:  August 22, 1972;
Original Closing Date: June 30, 1978; Current Closing Date:
July 31, 1980
Although the technical assistance and educational aspects of
the project are largely on schedule, civil works are about three years behind
schedule with consequent delays in furniture and equipment procurement. The
delays in civil works result from delays in contracting achiterctural consul-
tants, completing tender documents, and awarding contracts. The specialist
services program under the project is nearly completed. Out of 26 experts, 21
have completed their assignment, two are in post and three are being recruited.
Recommendations of experts for improvement of teaching, research and extension
activities are considered worthwhile and have been implemented by the university
staff. All the fellowships have been awarded; 94 recipients have completed
their training. Total project cost will exceed appraisal estimates by about
35%.
Credit No. 369 Third Education Project; $19.5 Million Credit of April 11,
1973; Effective Date: August 8, 1973; Original Closing Date:
June 30, 1978; Current Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Project implementation is about 20 months behind schedule partly due
to cumbersome review of procurement and shortage of budget funds. However,
substantial progress has been made during the last three years. Contracting
has reached 98% of civil works and 77% of equipment. Almost 75% of the
construction at project institutions has been completed. All project schools
have started operation. The National Curriculum Development Center constructed
and equipped under the project is playing a key role in the development of new
curricula at primary and secondary levels as part of a comprehensive educational
reform provram. An in-depth evaluation of rural secondary schools is being
carried out, but preliminary indications are that the new curriculumn for
diversified secondary education is working well in them. The expert services
program is virtually completed and ninety-five percent of fellowship funds
have been committed. The component of the project with greatest probolems is
that involving the construction and equipping of ten teacher training colleges.
/1  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 11
Physical execution of this component is slow and the status of the colleges is
in a state of flux, as teacher training is being upgraded fco'ii secondary to
postsecondary level. The GovernTaent is likely to submit to IDA a request for
a postponement of the Closing Date by about nine months.
Loan No. 1271    Fourth Education Project; $31 Million Loan of September 13,
1976; Effective Date: February 9, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30. 1982
Progress in project implementation follows the appraisal estimate
with minor delays (3-6 months), mainly related to the adult education system
component. Of the civil works, which are being carried out in three
phases, the first phase is almost completed, the second is under construction
and the third is still to be awarded. About half of the overseas training
has been colqoleted.
Loan No. 864 First Telecommunications Project; $37 Million Loan of December 5,
1972; Effective Date: March 1, 1973; Original Closing Date:
December 31, 1977; Current Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project is generally maintaining the revised time schedule
established in 1975, following initial delays. The Bank loan is fully committed
and $34.3.million (93%) had been disbursed as of March 31, 1979. Over 90%
of the local telephone network expansion has been completed; the balance is
expected to be completed by June 1979. After a year's delay in procurement
under a bilateral loan, the installation of the long distance transmission
equipment is now progressing satisfactorily. The project is expected to be
completed by the end of September 1979, two years and nine months behind
schedule.
Loan No. 1253 Second Telecommunications Project; $26 Million Loan of June 11,
1976; Effective Date: August 25, 1976; Closin Date:
December 31, 1980
The project is progressing satisfactorily. Procurement action on
all Bank-financed items is complete. The Bank loan is fully committed and
$17.1 million (66%) had been disbursed as of M4arch 31, 1979. Local telephone
network expansion is expected to be completed on schedule by mid-1979.
After a year's delay in procurement inder a bilateral loan, the installation
of long distance transmission equipment is progressing satisfactorily. The
project is now' e,pected to be completed by the end of September 1980, nine
months behind schedule.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 11
Loan No. 1620 Third Telecommunications Project; $90 Million Loan of
October 4, 1978; Effective Date: January 3, 1979;
Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Bid documents for procurement of all project items are expected to
be issued by mid-1979. Action has been initiated on the following items as
required under institutional covenants in the Loan Agreement: (a) maintenance
nE waiting lists for potential telephone subscribers, (b) better utilization
of installed capacity in local telephone networks, and (c) the Economic Study
of Telecommunications in Thailand.
Loan No. 870 Fifth Highway Project; $28.6 Million Loan of December 26, 1972;
Effective Date: March 26, 1973; Original Closing Date:
December 31, 1977; Current Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project is almost complete and the loan is expected to be
disbursed in Eull within the next two months.
Loan No. 1519    Sixth Highway (Provincial Roads) Project:  $110 Million
Loan of March 23, 1978; Effective Date: June 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Progress is satisfactory. Procurement of maintenance equipment is
under way, and most contracts have been awarded. Construction of project
roads is well under way, with most contracts on schedule.
Credit No. 461 Northeast Irrigation Improvement Project; $7 Million Credit
of February 19, 1974; Effective Date:  October 7, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The project will be completed two years behind schedule as a result
of initial delays in appointing consultants and in procuring earthmoving equip-
ment. During the 1977/78 working season there was a marked improvement in the
pace of construction, especially on the tertiary canals. Work on rehabilitation
of main canal systems has been satisfactory and will be completed in 1979.
The estimated project cost is $30.3 million, compared with $12.5 million
at appraisal. In part, the increased cost is due to price inflation being
higher than foreseen at appraisal. Also, a large part of the increase is due
to a decision to provide new tertiary canals over an area of 34,700 ha rather
than the 21,500 ha assumed at appraisal, and the adoption of higher standards
For tertiary development than envisioned at appraisal. The higher costs are



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 11
compensated for by increases in projected covimodLty prices and the economic
rate of return is now estimated at 24% compared to 22% at appraisal. Progress
on the rainfed rice component continues to be satisfactory. The breeding program
coiitinues to be the strongest element while the agronomic program remains weak.
Loan No. 1630 Second Northeast Thailand Irrigation Improvement Project:
$17.5 Million of December 4, 1978; Effective Date: April 25, 1979;
Closing Date: September 30, 1985
The loan was declared effective on April 25, 1979.
Loan No. 1149  Phitsanulok Irrigation Project; $95 Million Loan of
July 25, 1975; Effective Date: October 31, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Although the start of major construction was delayed by about
a year, prospects are good that the project can be completed on schedule
in 1984. A contract for the diversion dam was awarded in October 1977 and the
first of three contracts for canal construction was signed in April 1978.
Most of the equipment for the project is now delivered or on order. The
on-farm works are proceeding on schedule, with four pilot projects in operation
and construction of the first large block under way. The consulting services
for the project were recently reorganized to provide a nucleus of resident
staff and a greater level of assistance in project management. Systems for
monitoring project benefits and water-associated diseases are being established
and the reporting of project progress has improved. The first phase of the
Chao Phya Basin Study, also financed from the loan, has been completed and
the next phase is continuing. Consultants appointed in August 1978 for the
RID Administration and Organization Study will shortly complete their first
phase reports.
Loan No. 1468    Second Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project;
$55 Million Loan of September 23, 1977; Effective Date:
December 23, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Equipment procurement is progressing satisfactorily. Rehabilitation
and on-farm development works on about 5,300 ha were completed in the 1978
construction season. Project preparation for about 40,000 ha in the Stage II
area of Maeklong was recently completed. A project monitoring system is
being set up and the Chao Phya Project area is now served by the National
Agricultural Extension Project.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 11
Loan No. 1198T Northeast Thailand Rural Development Project; $21 Million
Loan of February 27, 1976; Effective Date: June 29, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
After a delay of one year in appointing consultants good progress
is being made on the engineering of the village roads. The first contract for
construction of 114 km has been completed and work has begun on two contracts
for a total of some 250 km.  Procurement problems have delayed the water
supply components, but most of the drilling equipment has now been delivered,
drilling crews have been recruited and are being trained. Progress on
rural electrification is excellent and this component will be completed in
June 1979. Progress on agricultural extension and land settlements is satis-
factory. After a slow start-up, the Upland Crop Improvement Component is
progressing satisfactorily. The program management, with the assistance of a
recently appointed program advisor, has undertaken a critical review of past
work and is gradually introducing an innovative program of research investiga-
tions of great problem-solving relevance to upland crop farmers in the Northeast.
Loan No. 1199T Livestock Development Project; $5.0 Million Loan of February 27,
1976; Effective Date: May 25, 1976; Closing Date: June 30,
1981
The seed production and pasture development programs are progressing
reasonably well and the loaned-bull and artificial insemination programs,
hitherto hindered by the delay in importation of cattle, are expected to
improve with the delivery of 400 imported Brahman cattle. Furthermore, the
number of permanent project staff has been increased from the initially
approved 121 to 223, and the New Zealand Government has agreed in principle to
provide additional technical assistance for the remaining project period.
Disbursements are still considerably behind schedule but are expected to
increase with improvement in the preparation of procurement documents and the
importation of cattle. The Department of Livestock Development has agreed to
conduct a livestock sector review to prepare an integrated development plan.
Loan No. 1243 Rubber Replanting Project; $50 Million Loan of September 13,
1976; Effective Date: January 14, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
After initial delays, project implementation is progressing very
well, with the rate of replanting matching appraisal estimates.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 11
Loan No. 1393 National Agricultural Extension Project; $28 Million Loan
of May 17, 1977; Effective Date: September 1, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Project implementation in the field is progressing well with almost
all staff appointments completed in fifteen provinces. There continues to be
encouraging evidence of adoption of new technology by farmers as a result of
improved extension services. Procurement is on schedule, but the civil works
program is now more than one year late because bids for the revised civil
works program were excessively high or unresponsive. Retendering is in
progress, using simplified tender procedures agreed to for one Regional
Training Center and eight provincial construction packages. Tendering has
commenced for the 1979 construction program. Disbursements are also behind
schedule because of the delays in the civil works program, but both the civil
works program and disbursements are expected to progress as scheduled during
1979. Extension and civil works consultants continue to provide DAE with
excellent assistance.
Loan No. 977   Srinagarind (Ban Chao Nen) Hydroelectric Project; $75 Million
Loan of April 15, 1974; Effective Date: June 14, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Civil works under the project have been about 85% completed.
Construction of the dam embankment was completed on May 14, 1978 and all other
works are being carried out satisfactorily. The installation of the turbine
generating units is expected to be completed on schedule. Although the
reservoir did not reach the level anticipated during the first wet season,
1978 has been a good hydro year and the water situation in the reservoir has
improved. Project costs are likely to be about 20% over estimates, due mainly
to additional grouting work required beneath the main embankment. Project
costs will probably increase further as a result of the recent devaluation of
the US dollar against the Japanese yen. The progress on resettlement has been
satisfactory, and almost all of the 814 families affected have now been
moved into their new homes.
Loan No. 1485 Pattani Hydroelectric Project; $50 Million Loan of September 23,
1977; Effective Date: December 20, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The construction of the main civil works is proceeding satisfactorily.
Implementation is about one month behind schedule. The initial delay was caused
by slow mobilization of the contractor and poorer than expected rock conditions
at the downstream ends of the diversion tunnels. Orders for all major equipment
(financed by the Kuwait Fund) have been placed. Construction of the resettle-
ment project is progressing according to schedule. Disbursements are generally
in line with appraisal estimates.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 11
Loan No. 1527 The Accelerated Rural Electrification Project; $25 Million Loan
of March 9, 1978; Effective Date: June 7, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
The project is in the early stages of implementation. There was an
initial delay of about four months in the preparation of bid documents but
procurement is now under way and should present no further problems. Field
construction crews have been organized and have been working on pole setting
and conductor stringing since the middle of 1978, utilizing materials available
in stock.
Loan S-10       Natural Gas Development Engineering Project, $4.9 Million Loan
of July 28, 1978; Effective Date: September 25, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The engineering work is proceeding on schedule. The follow-up
project loan is at the appraisal stage.
Loan No. 1021 Bangkok Water Supply Project; $55 Million Loan of June 28,
1974; Effective Date: December 2, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
Physical work on the project is proceeding satisfactorily. The
quality of construction and the performance of consultants on supervision of
construction of the IBRD portion of the project is good. The quality of
work on the ADB portion of the project - the transmission and distribution of
pipes - has not been satisfactory, but MWWA is taking corrective measures.
Because of the initial delays in contract awards, the project is expected to
be completed in late 1979, about 20-21 months behind the original schedule.
Extension of the June 30, 1979 Closing Date by about 9-12 months will be
required for full disbursement of the loan. Due to inadequate tariffs, which
were last revised in May 1972, MWWA's financial performance continues to be
ipor. MWWA's proposals for raising the water tariffs in line with increased
operating costs were reviewed recently by the Cabinet which has approved in
principle a substantial increase in water tariffs, beginning July 1, 1979
>Wkhen some water benefits from the project are expected to materialize). MWWA
has also received approval to increase tariffs every two years following the
initial increase so as to enable MWWA to achieve its covenanted rate of return
of 8%.
Loan No. 1556 Bangkok Sites and Services Project; $8.6 Million Loan of
June 15, 1978; Effective Date: September 22, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
Progress is generally good with only minor delays in implementation.
Current cost estimates for civil works are below appraisal estimates. Initial
interagency problems in improving water supply and in transfer of project land
at King Petch are being resolved. In order to minimize resistance to benefi-
ciary charges, cost recovery in improved slums will be introduced as physical
works are completed - starting in early 1980.



37 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 11
Loan No. 1638 Bangkok Traffic Management Project; $16 Million Loan of
January 25, 1979; Effective Date: April 25, 1979; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Implementation of the project is generally ahead of schedule.
Signal equipment will be installed this spring, some two years earlier than
had been expected, as a result of the consulting and procurement work done
under contracts for which the Bank provided retroactive financing.
Loan No. 1492   The Minburi (Lat Krabang) Industrial Estate Project;
$4.75 Million Loan of December 5, 1977; Effective Date:
March 24, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily. Construction
of on-site infrastructure is proceeding on schedule and land sales are well
ahead of the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 992   Second Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand (IFCT)
Project; $12.0 Million Loan of June 4, 1974; Effective
Date: September 4, 1974; Original Closing Date: September 30,
1978; Current Closing Date: September 30, 1979
The full amount of the $12 million Loan has been committed. The
commitment was more rapid than originally estimated. Disbursements have also
been very satisfactory.  Since June 1974 when the loan was made, IFCT's
financial condition has continued to be good.
Loan No. 1327 Third IFCT Project; $25 Million Loan of December 8, 1976;
Effective Date: March 14, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The loan commitment rate has been slower than expected because of
the sharply depressed investment climate in 1976. The IFCT's capital structure
and liquidity position have improved, however, with successful share capital
increases. Satisfactory progress has been made on the institution-building
aspects of project.
Credit No. 767 Population Project; $33.1 Million Credit of February 27, 1978;
Effective Date: July 6, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
RTG has, in accordance with the Credit Agreement: (a) established
and staffed the Project Coordinating Committee, which has met frequently;
(b) established and staffed the Project Administration and Financing Unit
(PAFU); (c) appointed a project director, deputy director and two assistant
project directors and a health planner/economist; and (d) initiated most of
the key project activities at the national level and in the 20 Accelerated



- 38 -                               ANNEX II
Page 11 of 11
Family Planning and Health Provinces. Due to initial delays in staffing the
project administration and financing unit, a high turnover of staff in the
Construction and Design Division, and delays in securing Budget Bureau approval
for the supplementary budget for FY1978, key project activities were held up
initially and major elements of the project are about six months behind
schedule. The Ministry of Public Health is, however, taking appropriate
action to strengthen project management, improve coordination and remove
impediments to implementation.



- 39 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
THAILAND
MULTIPURPOSE EDUCATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  time taken to prepare project:  10 months;
(b)  project preparation coordinated by:  the Ministry of Education with
the help of Unesco;
(c)  first presented to the Association:  March 1978;
(d)  first mission to consider project:  May/June 1978;
(e)  departure of appraisal mission:  June 1978;
(f)  follow-up mission:  October 1978;
(g)  completion of negotiations:  March 1979;
(h)  planned credit effectiveness:  August 1979.
Section II: Special Association Implementation Actions: None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) The Government has agreed to:
(i)  establish a Programming Board by June 30, 1980, with composition
and responsibilities satisfactory to the Association and ensure
that the educational radio network is used exclusively for
education and training purposes (para. 45);
(ii)  prepare and furnish to the Association for its comment by
December 31, 1979, procedures for testing and revising in-school
radio programs and for monitoring classroom use of these
programs and, by December 31, 1980, a plan for the distribution,
maintenance and inventory control of the radio equipment
(receivers and recorders) to be provided to schools (para. 46);
(iii)  ensure that advisory groups, with representation and terms of
reference acceptable to IDA, will be established for project
facilities at least three months before the institutions
commence operations (para. 49);



- 40 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(iv) ensure that the Civil Service Training Center and the Center
for Educational Administrators will prepare and submit for
Association review, by December 31, 1979, long-range plans
for civil service training and for training of educational
administrators, respectively, and annual training plans for.
the period 1981-85 (para. 49);
(v)  submit to the Association the National Education Commis-
sion's mid-term evaluation of project components with comments
from the National Economic and Social Development Board and
educational agencies involved by December 31, 1982, and a
final evaluation by June 30, 1986 (para. 52); and
(vi) conduct, by June 30, 1981, a review of the central procurement
unit with the view of enabling it to assume full responsibility
for all design and procurement functions within the MOE
(para. 56).
(b) A condition for disbursement for civil works and equipment under
the Center for Educational Administrators component would be the
formal establishment of the Center and appointment of key staff,
including technical assistance advisors (para. 57).



I100 J                                            THAI LAND
_ .r,                             Multipurpose (Fifth) Education Project
B U R MAI    V\
Diversified Secondary Education
-20'                                          %                                                               Area vocationail centers                   20'-
-20  .iC/l   OChlflngflhX                       Community secondary schools
1g  /<  /.in wt     z xv      t oJ                                         Radio Education:
otc-iivs '>'       -                                  Radio Center for Educational Technology
C) Regionalstdo
c-Thz   i.JxK                       i                                             ORadio stations
S;    ('sc4 w %'N  )5n   /                         Management Education:
7                ~~ YI                                                          A Civi service training center
ACenter for educational administrators
':-  [,f.;'-'.                               4         f'.
y --z    it='kPn, v-75 AoA <-s                                                     ~ A      z--o    LAO  PEOPLE'S
tek'' ''<8=     G /z II                      Ta                            "4,4              DEMOCRATIC
cy   ~ ~   Sn  lAx,.    05-on   <~oue~Tv.~          I                             REPUBLIC
x n                                (vv v  rvvu.rv    \  ]
it'
>,      flO p>   W r, Jv    Jrs                                            16K
-~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~ /;                                                                       J           "   5yi 1 f       aka OE]E_ y ,1
,J*J ;:"h2'                   P   E                )   i3 O                               3Yst' a>1 0
cbsia Th' uN  )
|   j =)            \                   <\  Asiho3gZt S2.  ..u  LnEun  "    u0        n/O5 I                 /           
a t    O"k1 .                          i            ,xose.e
i ve.00    \4D"t        50ceeRek
k                  iiasvu,io            q         4>   "'  ci\                        income Per Capita 1976
ttgnnpg  (                 'pZn  ~~~~Over 10,000 Baht
~~~L)  ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     '4          o~~~~~~~  ~~~8,000-10,000 Baht
,b                                                       -\ 4~                     K?' 6,000-8,000 Baht
..<1?    2                                                                            II                           4000 -6,000 Baht
rt2      Kspb                                              Kj 4,000 or less Raht
DEMOCRATIC
KAMPUCHEA
boundarf99hOm9oaShhOd9te   n<, //,14 iU   onghl                                             5r1si ar /a 18 d
10 4'
j dezvrl s s hhe // #shi 0f INI """' /-"   1                                                                                  CHINA 1 1Ii .
o   gO0   200    300       _          . >^,.,,/.,.f       ,fe.                              "~,,BHUTN'~`
UR MA       Os
.   Miles   200                         $                                          -         ~    - ,,nNGAPoRE      -Iva
LAO-J
p                                                                                                   'W\'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a'"ITNAM
-~~~ j~~~$<4-  "v  ~ ~  ~        ~        ~       ~                Tti$AILANO
I           . Ib
8.0 doe.    M147<4                                                                                          S'o~
sua'sos00 sue00p v'i00o
ioo          200I                     0
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _~  GAOR
ao'-              MALAYSIA                                                   IN D,ON '0S 1A A



