「니


﻿r
f
CREDIT NUMBER 913 TH
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGRgEXENIT., dated June 28, 1979, between KINGDOM, OF THAILAND
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT      0
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association)..
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions                                   7
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agr eement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Appli"'C"able to Development
Credit, Agreements of the Asssociation, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02.   Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined -in the
General Coiiditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:                      4
A
(a) "MOE" means the Borrower's Ministry of Education,
or any successor thereof;
(b) "NEC" means the Borrower's National Education Commis-
sion, or any successor thereof;
(c)       -means the Borrower's Civil Service Commission
or any successor thereof;
(d) "PRD"' means the Borrower's Public Relations Department
orany successor thereof# and
(e) "CPU" means the Central Procurement Unit established
within the MOE or any successor thereof.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
T
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit. Agreement


﻿-2-
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to thirty five million dollars ($35,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associ-
ation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the C'edit, shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1985 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associ-
ation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 15
and November 15 commencing November 15, 1989, and ending May 15,
2029, each installment to and including the installment payable
on May 15, 1999, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial, engineering, architectural and
AL


﻿-3-
educational practices, and shall provide, p:cemptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, staff, services and other resources required
for the purpose.
(b) Without limitation on the generality of paragraph
(a) above, the, Borrower shall carry "out the Project as follows:
(i) Parts I, II (A), II (B), III (A), III (C) (2)
and III (c) (3) through MOE;
(ii) Part II (C) through PRD;
(iii) Part III (B) through CSC; and
(iv) Part III (C) (1) through NEC.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out
the Project, the Borrower shall, whenever necessary, employ
educational, procurement, architectural and engineering consul-
tants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:
(a) maintain and operate, in a manner satisfactory to
the Association, the CPU with powers, responsibilities and staff
substantially as set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
and
(b) by June 30, 1981, conduct a review of the CPU with the
view of enabling it to assume full responsibility for all design
and procurement functions within MOE.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall promptly establish and
staff in a manner satisfactory to the Association, and thereafter
maintain and operate the  center for educational administration
training to be constructed under Part III (A) of the Project.
Section 3.05. For purposes of carrying out Parts I, III
(A) and III (B) of the Project, the Borrower shall establish,
not later than three months prior to the commissioning of each of
the facilities provided thereunder, and thereafter maintain an
advisory group for each such facility, with representation and
terms of reference satisfactory to the Association.


﻿4
Section 3.06. For purposes of carrying out Part II (C)
of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a) use the education radio network exclusively for educa-
tion and training purposes to supplement the formal and non-formal
educational programs of the Borrower;
(b) prepare and furnish to the Association, for its com-
ments, by December 31, 1979, procedures for testing and revising
in-school radio programs and for monitoring the classroo' use of
said programs, and shall thereafter make such adjustments as shall
be necessary to improve the effectiveness thereof;
(c) establish, by June 30, 1980, and thereafter maintain
a Programming Board, chaired by the Secretary-General of the NEC,
with membership, powers and terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association, to coordinate program development and scheduling, and
the operation of the facilities provided thereunder; and
(d) prepare and furnish to the Association, for its com-
ments, by December 31,1980, a plan for the distribution, main-
tenance and inventory control of school radio equipment, and shall
thereafter act in accordance with such plan.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall conduct the ple: ning studies
included in Part III (c) of the Project under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association for its review and comments: (a) by December 31, 1979,
the Borrower's long-term (1980-1990 years) program for the train-
ing of staff in the facilities to be constructed under Parts III
(A) and III (B) of the Project; and (b) by December 31 of each of
the years 1980 through 1984, the Borrower's program for the
training of staff in the above facilities for each following
year.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall, with respect to tA Area
Vocational Centers and the Community Secondary Schools included
in Part I of the Project: (a) establish a tracer system to follow
the careers of students who enroll in said centers and schools
for the purpose of improving the efficiency of education programs
thereof; (b) submit to the Association for its comments, within
one year from the date of this Agreement, its design for the
tracer system including .an implementation schedule; and (c)
V~~~


﻿~.  ~   ...-                 5  --~                  -
-5-
furnish to the Association biennially, for six years following
inception of the tracer system, a summary analysis of infor-
mation gathered.
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the
Project.
Section 3.11. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, proposed bid
packages, specifications, reports, contract documents and con-
struction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) As part of the information to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to paragraph (b) (iii) above, the Borrower
shall cause NEC to prepare and furnish to the Association a
mid-term and a final Project evaluation report, in scope and
form satisfactory to the Association and incorporating the views
of the departments and agencies of the Borrower concerned with


﻿-6-
the Project or any Part thereof, respectively by December 31,
1982, and by June 30, 1986.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a completion report, of such scope and in such detail
as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower
and the Association of their respective obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the pur-
poses of the Credit.
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire, not later than
six months prior to the start of construction of each of the
facilities included in the Project, all such land and rights
in respect of land as shall be required for the construction (and
operation) of each of the said facilities and shall furnish to the
Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satis-
factory to the Association that such land and rights in respect of
land are available for purposes related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for c,arrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall at all times:
(a) (i) operate the facilities under the Project in accor-
dance with appropriate administrative and educa-
tional policies and practices and with due regard
to economy; and
(ii) cause said facilities to be staffed with qualified
staff in adequate numbers; and


﻿- 7 -
(b) cause the buildings, furniture and equipment of the
facilities under the Project to be adequately maintained and shall
cause all necessary repairs and renewals thereof properly to be
made.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date September 26, 1979 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 3.11 and 4.02 of this Agreement shall cease
and determine on a date 15 years after the date of this Agreement
or on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Bangkok
Thailand
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINANCE                             TH-2823
Bangkok


﻿r
-8-
For the Association:
International Development Association,
1818 H-Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
By /s/ Klos Visessurakarn
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIAT.ON
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿("
-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit· Allocated         % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works                                   30%
(a) Part III (A)            800,000
of the Project
(b) other                 8,200,000
2   Furniture and
equipment
(a) Part III (A)          2,000,000
of the Project
(1) directly im-                        100% of foreign
ported                             expenditures
(ii) manufactured                        100% of local
locally                            expenditures
(ex-factory)
(iii)  procured lo-                      60%
cally of f-the-
shelf
(b) other                 15,000,000
(1) directly im-                        100% of foreign
ported'                            expenditures
(ii) manufactured                        l,0% of local
locally                            expenditures
(ex-factory)


﻿-10 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(iii) procured lo-                        60%
cally off-the-
shelf
(3) Consultants' services       1,500,000         100%
(4)  Training and fellow-       3,500,000         100%
ships
(5) Unallocated                 4,000,000
TOTAL      35,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any .,country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on o. in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures:


﻿- 11 -
(a) prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b) under Categories (1) (a) and (2) (a) until the Asso-
ciation has been furnished with evidence satisfactory to the
Association that the Borrower has established and staffed the
center for educational administration training, pursuant to
Section 3.04 of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth. or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associ-
ation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿-12-
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to assist the Borrower in: (a)
the strengthening of its educational system through further
implementation of its program to diversify secondary education;
(b) the equalization of the quality of school education and the
expansion of the coverage of out-of-school education by educa-
tional radio; and (c) the strengthening of its management and
planning. The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part I:   Diversification of Secondary Education
(A) Construction, furnishing and equipping of twelve cen-
tralized workshop complexes (Area Vocational Centers),
including the construction in each complex of about
fifteen houses for the staff thereof, to provide for
practical instruction to students from academic secon-
dary schools.
(B) Construction, furnishing and equipping of a library,
one or more classrooms, one or more general science
rooms, and one or more multipurpose workshops for each
of about forty existing lower secondary schools in rural
areas (Community Secondary Schools).
Part II: Expansion and Improvement of Educational Radio
(A) Construction, furnishing and equipping of new central
production facilities for the Center for Education
Technology in MOE.
(B) Provision of radio receivers and receiver recorders
for in-school use.
(C) Provision of a national education radio network through
construction, furnishing and equipping of eleven radio
transmission facilities and three regional production
studios.
Part III: Strengthening of the Borrower's Management and Planning
(A) Construction, furnishing and equipping of a center
for educational administration training.


﻿-13-
(B) Construction, furnishing and equipping of a civil
service training center.
(C) Carrying out of the following studies:
(1) school location planning;
(2) adult education review; and
(3) other education sector and project preparation
studies.
Part IV: Technical Assistance
Provision of about 60 man-years of specialists' services
and of about 55 man-years of fellowships to assist
the Borrower in implementing the Project and developing
appropriate Project monitoring and evaluation proce-
dures.
The cr,teria for the location of the facilities included
in Part I, of the Project shall be substantially as set forth
in the Annex to this Schedule.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1984.
t%


﻿-14-
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Criteria for the Location of the Facilities
Included in Part I of the Project
Criteria to be applied for selection of location and sites
for Area Vocational Centers and Community Secondary Schools:
(a) Area Vocational Centers:
(i) one center should be located in each of the
12 educational regions;
(ii) centers should be located in predominantly agricul-
tural areas, where diversified secondary schools do
not yet exist;
(iii) centers should have, within a radius of about 15
km, an aggregate general secondary school enroll-
ment (public and private) sufficient to ensure
adequate utilization thereof; and
(iv) centers should have at least 1 ha of land with good
access to satisfactory road networks, public
transportation facilities and irrigation water
needed for agricultural related activities.
(b) Community Secondary Schools:
(i) schools should be selected (A) in rural areas; (B)
with enrollments not exceeding 960; and (C)
where practical facilities for training are not
readily available; and
(ii) schools should have (A) school buildings that
were erected with community support; (B) 6 ha
of land and access to irrigation water needed for
agricultural-ielated activities; (C) when fully
developed, between 9 and 21 class groups in the
three grades of each school; and (D) a catchment
area with an average radius of 5 km.
To the extent practicable Area Vocational Centers and Commu-
nity Secondary Schools included in the Project should be located
in relatively disadvantaged economic areas (with per capita
incomes below the national average).
14I


﻿-15-
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance -with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guide-
lines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Association shall
reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods
in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Thailand may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:


﻿- 16 -
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which "ill be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one
of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Thailand if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Associa-
tion that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Thailand equal to at
least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods ma,nufactured
in Thailand.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 above,
the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be
further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A after
adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported goods offered in
each group C bid, for the purpose of this further comparison only,
an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the
importation of the goods offered in such, group C bid; or (ii) 15%
of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs duties and
taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in such further
comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if
not, the bid from group C which as a result of the comparison
under paragraph 3 is the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
141


﻿-17-
C.   Bid Packages
CoAtracts for goods and civil works shall be grouped to
the maximum extent reasonable '\So as to permit bulk procurement
consistent with appropriate technical standards and procurement
practices.
D.   Other Procurement Procedures
Notwithstanding the pr visions of Part A and C above:
(a) All contracts for civil works and those contracts for
equipment and furniture which cannot be grouped in bid
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or
more each, may be procured in accordance with local
competitive bidding procedures of the Borrower, accept-
able to the Association.
(b) Miscellaneous items estimated to cost the equivalent
of $10,000 or less each and with an aggregate value
not exceeding the equivalent of $300,000, may be pro-
cured off-the-shelf on the basis of at least three
price quotations.
(c) Bo61-s and journals may be procured on the basis of
negotiated contracts with the suppliers of said books
and journals.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more and of all contracts
for furniture and equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising proce,iures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall


﻿-18-
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in suffi-
cient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, and such other information
as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be inconsis-
tent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿-rT
- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4
Central Procurement Unit
Powers, Responsibilities and Staffing of CPU
The Central Procurement Unit is established as a subdivision
in the External Relations Division of the MOE, reporting directly
to the office of the Under-Secretary of State for Education.
The Unit provides procurement services (project monitoring,
procurement of goods and services, budgeting and disbursements)
for MOE and other agencies concerned with externally assisted
education projects and provides liaison with multilateral and
bilateral aid agencies concerned with education projects. While
the MOE departments sign contracts, request and administer budget
funds, and make payments under contracts, the CPU prepares and
reviews contracts, assists in the preparation of budget requests
and advises when payments on contracts are due. The Unit has four
sections equipped to perform the following services:
(a) the civil works section provides a full range of profes-
sional services including: preparation of sketch plans, working
drawings and tender documents; technical evaluation of bids;
prequalification of contractors; advice on selection and contract-
ing of professional services and contractors; monitoring of
performance of consultants and civil works contractors; and
advice on and monitoring of bid advertisements.
(b) the equipment procurement section     also provides a
full range of professional services including: collection of
catalogues and price lists; assistance in the preparation of
furniture and equipment lists; preparation of specifications
and tender documents; advising on, and monitoring of, bid adver-
tisements; evaluation of bids; drafting of contracts for manufac-
turing, storage and delivery of furniture and equipment; and
monitoring of performance of suppliers and contractors;
(c) the technical assistance section   assists  in  drafting
terms of. reference for experts (foreign and local), and helps to
recruit suitable experts or to contract organizations that can
provide technical assistance services needed for education pro-
jects. The Section helps to define selection criteria for awarding
fellowships and for selecting institutions or agencies for in-
country or overseas training;


﻿- 20 -
(d) the accountancy section, assists in the preparation
and review of bdig,t requests for 'education projects and follows
up on such requests, ensures effective use of budget funds, and
monitors and reviews applications for withdrawals from- loans and
credits.
The CPU currently has 17 permanent staff positions and 2
advisory positions. Over the next two years the Borrower will
take measures to strengthen the unit through recruitment of
experienced staff, preferably from other departments within the
MOE.
Yi


