Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5254-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT II
March 7, 1985
Regional Projects Department
South Asia Projects Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents rnay not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1 - Rupees (Rs) 12.0
FISCAL YEAR
GOI and all States, April 1 to March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASDB
Metric System
ABBBEVIATIONS
ADA      -      Additional Director of Agriculture
ADAO     -      Assistant District Agricultural Officer
AEO      -      Agricultural Extension Officer
ASDAO    -      Assistant Subdivisional Agricultural Officer
CAEP     -      Composite Agricultural Extension Project
DA       -      Director of Agriculture
DAO      -      District Agricultural Officer
DDA      -      Deputy Director of Agriculture
DDO      -      District Development Officer
DEA      -      Department of Economic Affairs
DOA      -      Department of Agriculture
DOE      -      Department of Extension
DOH      -      Director of Horticulture
ERR      -      Economic Rate of Return
GOI      -      Government of India
GOG      -      Government of Gujarat
GOH      -      Government of Haryana
GOJK     -      Government of Jammu and Kashmir
GOK      -      Government of Karnataka
ICAR     -      Indian Council of Agricultural Research
IDA      -      International Development Association
JDA      -      Joint Director of Agriculture
MOA      -      Ministry of Agriculture
B&E      -      Monitoring and Evaluation
NAEP     -      National Agricultural Extension Project
NARP     -      National Agricultural Research Project
PAO      -      Principal Agricultural Officer
SAD      -      State Agricultural UniversitylUniversities
SDAO     -      Subdivisonal Agricultural Officer
SMS      -      Subject Matter Specialist
TDO      -      Taluk Development Officer
T&V      -      Training and Visit System
YEW      -      Village Extension Worker
VLW      -      Village Level Worker
CROPPING SEASONS
Kharif     -      June to September
Rabi       -      October to February
Summer     -      March to May



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDrk
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT II
Table of Contents
Paze No.
I*  BACKGROUND ......... ...........................                         1
Introduction ...
Indian Agricultural Development 1
Agricultural Extension In India                                          3
- Composite Agricultural Extension Project ...............             5
- Gujarat State ..........................................             5
- laryana State                                                        7
- Karnataka State                    ..........                        8
- Directorate of Extension  ..........9
Recent Developments in Other States .......10
National Agricultural Extension Project (NABP I) ...........    10
Lessons Learnedt......................                                  11
II.  PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND RATIONALE ..........................  12
- Administrative Consolidation and Institutional
Development ..........................................    12
- Quality Improvement ...................                            13
- Expanding and Deepening of Coverage ....................    13
- Strengthening Linkages between
Extension and Research ...... .. ...........                    13
III.  TRE PROJECT        ...............         ,                            14
A.  General                                                             14
B.  The Profect Areas .....14
- Earyana State                                                    14
- Karnataka State  ..........                                      15
- Gujarat State                                                    15
- Jmn-u and Kashmir State ............           ............      15
C.  Detailed Features .................                                 16
- Raryans State                                                    is
- Karnataka State ......................................    18
- Gujarat  State ......................................    19
- Jmmu & Kashmir State ..............   20
- Xid-Term Review ..............        ........................   21
This dounmnt has a mticted distnbuton nO may be usd by recipents only in the perfonnanoe of
thir ofrial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (coutinuation)                                      Pate No.
IV. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCES ...... ..........  * .   ............. .    22
A. Cost Estimates           .........................................    22
B.  Proposed Financing *....................................    23
C. Procurement             ............. .......................    24
D.  Disbursement, Accounts and Audit   ......................    25
V.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .... ....... .......... . .  .e.  o   26
A.  General *...............................................    26
B.  Project Management .....................................   27
C.  State Extension Organization ............................    27
D.  Monitoring and Evaluation ..............................     29
VI.  BENEFITS AND RISKS ....................... ..................    31
A.  Benefits of Improved Extension .........................   31
B.  Risks        ..................................................    33
VII. AGREEKENTS AND UNDERSTANDINGS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ..   35
ANNEXES
ANNEX 1 - T&V-based Agricultural Extension
ANNEX 2 - Status of IDA-Financed Agricultural Development Projects
ANNEX 3 - Summary Data on State Sub-projects
ANNEX  4 - Training Guidelines
Cost Tables:
ANNEX  5 -   Haryana State
Table 101 - Incremental Salaries and Allowances
Table 102 - Civil Works
Table 103 - Equipment
Table 104 - Vehicles
Table 105 - Traing
Table 106 - Travel Allowance
Table 107 - Vehicle Operations
Table 108 - Other Operating Expenditure
ANNEX  6 -   Karnataka State
Table 109 - Incremental Salaries and Allowances
Table 110 - Civil Works
Table 111 - Equipment
Table 112 - Vehicles
Table 113 - Training
Tsble 114 - Travel Allowance
Table 115 - Vehicle Operations
Table 116 - Other Operating Expenditure



Table of Contents (continuation)
AJNFX 7 - Guiarat State
Table 117 - ncremental Salaries and Allowances
Table 118 - Civil Works
Table 119 - Equipment
Table 120 - Vehicles
Table 121 - Training
Table 122 - Travel Allovance
Table 123 - Vehicle Operations
Table 124 - Other Operating Expenditure
ANNEX 8 -    Jaul=u and Kashuir State
Table 125 - Incremental Salaries and Allowances
Table 126 - Civil Works
Table 127 - Equipment
Table 128 - Vehicles
Table 129 - Training
Table 130 - Travel Allowance
Table 131 - Vehicle Operations
Table 132 - Other Operating Expenditure
ANNEX 9 - Project Cost Summary
ANNEX 10 - Implementation Schedule
ANNEX 11 - Schedule of Estimated IDA Disbursements
ANNEX 12 - State Organizational Charts for the Extension
Services and Research-Extension Linkages
ANNEX 13 - Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
NAP 10. 185191 India



MIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT II
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMNARY
Borrower:                India, acting by its President
Beneficiaries:           The States of Haryana, Karnataka, Gujarat and
Jammu and Kashmir
Amount:                  SDR 50.26 M (US$49.0 M equivalant)
Terms:                   Standard
On-Leudin* Terms:        From GOI to the Government of India to the States
Governments of Gujarat, Earyana, Jaum  and Kashbir
and Karnataka, as part of Central assistance to State
development projects on terms and conditions appli-
cable at the time. The Government of India vill bear
the foreign exchange risk.
Proiect Description:    The project would (i) strengthen the reorganized agri-
cultural extension system introduced in the States of
Gujarat, Earyana, and Karnataka under Composite Agri-
cultural Extension Project (Cr. 862-IN); (ii) further
strengthen the linkages between extension and research
in these States, and broaden the scope of the project
to cover such activities as water management, farm
management, horticulture, and some aspects of farm
forestry; and (iii) introduce the T&V system of exten-
sion in the State of Jammu and Kasbmir.



- ii-
ESTIMATED COST:  /
US$ Million
Local         Foreign          Total
Incremental Staff                           22.0              -            22.0
Civil Works                                 22.3              1.1          23.4
Vehicles and Equipment                       5.3              1.5           6.8
Incremental Operating Costs                 12.6              0.4          13.0
Training                                     1.4              0.1           1.5
Sub-total                        63.6              3.1           66.7
Physical Contingencies                       2.6              0.2           2.8
Price Contingencies                         13.8              0.3          14.1
Sub-total                        16.4              0.5           16.9
TOTAL                80.0             3.6           83.6
FINANCING PLAN:
Proiect FinancinR
(uS$ million)
Sub-proiect                  Local Support        IDA         Total
Haryana                          4.3             6.3          10.6
Karnataka                        8.6            12.3          20.9
Gujarat                         13.5            18.6          32.1
Jamou and Kashmir                8.2            11.8          20.0
Total                 34.6           49.0 3/       83.6
Percentage            41.0           59.0         100.0
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS: 2/
(us$ Million)
FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90   FY91
Annual                          3.9      6.9    10.2      9.0     9.7    9.3
Cumulative                      3.9    10.8    21.0    30.0    39.7   49.0
sJ  Including taxes and duties of US$0.88 M equivalent.
O/ According to IDA Fiscal Year.
S/ Equivalent to 59.7Z of project costs net of taxes and duties.



INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT II
I. BACKGROUND jj
Introduction
1.01    The proposed Second National Agzicultural Extension Project (IAEP II)
would be the fourteenth in a series o0 IDA-assisted projects designed to
reorganize and strengthen agricultural extension in India. This chapter
reviews the relevance of such assistance to the Bank's agricultural program
in India, experience with some of these projects, the main problems
encountered during implementation and the lessons learned. As the five-year
IDA-assisted Composite Agricultural Extension Project (Cr. 862-IN) for the
States of Haryana, Karnataka and Gujarat neared its completion the Goverment
of India (GOI) requested IDA to provide follow-up assistance to these three
states. A mission comprising Messrs. G. S. Kalkat, G. Schreiber and
Ms Estoque visited India between May 13 and June 13, 1984; the mission was
also assisted by Messrs. 1. Baxter, A. Rama Rao and W. Panigrabi from the
Bank's Resident Mission in India. GOI subsequently requested that a nev
agricultural extension project for the State of Jammu and Kasbair also be
included under the proposed project. The Jammu and Kashmir subproject had
already been appraised as part of the first National Agricultural Extension
Project (NAEP I) in December 1983 but delayed at the request of the State
Government.
Indian Agricultural Development
1.02    During the past 15 years, the Bank's agricultural program in India
has had the objective of assisting india achieve self-sufficiency in
foodgrains and increase farm incomes in an equitable manner. The Bank is
actively involved in some 60 agricultural projects representing large invest-
ments in infrastructure, principally for irrigation and in expanded agricul-
tural services. With the remarkable increases in foodgrain production in
recent years, India has attained effective self-sufficiency, despite a
population growth rate of 2.2Z per annum, although a shortage of edible oils
persists. Nevertheless, furtber efforts to improve agricultural productivity
are needed to meet the increase in demand which comes with growtb of popula-
tion and incomes. Bven though the country may have a favorable foodgrains
balance, a large part of the rural population can not buy what it needs
unless employment opportunities in rural areas are increased. Furthermore,
1/ This Chapter is similar to Chapter I of SAR No. 4983-IN (NAEP).



-2-
the rate of yield increase has been falling and parts of the country are not
far from agricultural stagnation. The projections of demand for foodgrain in
1990, the terminal year of the Seventh Five Year Plan, call for foodgrain
production of 185 MT, compared with 1983/84 production of about 150 MT. This
vould require an annual growth rate of about 2.7% compared with a growth rate
of 2.5% achieved during the period 1967/68 to 1981/82. A number of factors
point to the increasing difficulties which India will face in order to
achieve this ambitious target.
1.03    Almost 90% of the increase in foodgrain production in the post "Green
Revolution" period has come from wheat and rice, which together cover only
about half the total area under food crops, and mainly from the relatively
better endowed, regions in the Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradeoh and
the delta re;>ions of Andbra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. These are also
predominautly irrigated areas. Future yield increases in both wheat and
rice, the main sources of past growth, will be more difficult to achieve than
in the past and are likely to give less impressive results. The past
increase was mostly attributable to the adoption by farmers of high-yielding
seed-fertilizer-irrigation technology and who were capable of taking the
limited risks involved in the adoption of such new technology. Such areas
are now beginning to experience second generation problems, notably increas-
ing pest and disease problems and micro-nutrient deficiencies. Future
sustained increases in yields of wheat and rice will depend largely upon
farmers' adoption of even more sophisticated technology.
1.04    Irrigation systems now being developed and those most likely to be
developed in the future are located primarily in southern regions, where
cropping intensities under irrigated conditions have been low. This develop-
ment will present more difficult technical and managerial problems than those
experienced in past irrigation construction. Although the potential for
increased wheat and rice production is large in the eastern region, it has
generally lagged in agricultural development, and future achievement there is
aLso problematic. Although there is considerable scope for increasing
prcduction in irrigated areas, a large part of the future increase in food
production will have to come from rainfed regions, from oileeeds and pulses,
and from sorghum and millets which are the staple diet of the rural poor.
These rainfed regions, however, are more ecologically diverse than those from
which most of the increases in wheat and rice production have come and
present greater problems both in developing the technology needed and in
transferring to farmers of these regions the improved technology. Yield
increases of edible oilseeds have not been significant, with recent increases
in production mainly due to the extension of areas under their cultivation.
1.05    The above brief outline of the future pattern of agricultural
development in India points to the crucial role which improved agricultural
research and extension will have to play in helping the country meet the
future challenges facing agriculture.  Improving agr.cultural extension
services remains one of the main relatively low-cost means of increasing
agricultural productivity, of making more effective use of past infrastruc-
ture investments and of reaching all farmers, particularly the smaller ones.



-3-
rtural tension in India
1.06    Soon after independence, GOI began sponsoring a number of programs
designed to meet the need for more effective, country-wide agricultural
development: the Community Development Program in 1952, National Extension
Service Blocks in 1953, Intensive Agricultural District Program in 1960,
Intensive Agricultural Area Programs in 1963-64 and the Small and Marginal
Farmers Development Program in 1969-70. Despite their proliferation, these
programs covered a small prnportion of farmers, generally the larger ones.
Recognizing that a different approach was required to achieve a more broadly
based increase in agricultural output and in response to changing rural and
administrative conditions, C-OI, with IDA assistance, introduced an extension
approach tried in several countries before India and generally known as the
"training and visit system" (T&V). It waS first tried in India through pilot
projects in the Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project (Cr. 502-IN,
1974) and in the Chambal Command Area Development Project in Madhya Pradesh
(Cr. 562-IN, 1975), and was subsequently adopted in various states co-mencing
in 1977. The methodology, organization and components financed under this
system are described in Annex 1. The T&V system aims at increasing farm
productivity and farmers income by simultaneously addressing constraints
impeding the transfer of new agricultural technology from research to the
farmer and the feedback from farmers that must orient research and other
government organizations to actual farm problems. Some of the changes intro-
duced are organizational (single line of control, exclusive responsibility),
others are operational (fixed, regular contact between farmers and extension
vorkers, coverage, mobility, housing in the field), and still others relate
to the linkage between research and extension (regular meetings and vorkshops
of extension and research staff. systematic feedback of farmers' problems tnd
responses to research).
1.07    Under the system of multi-purpose field workers, which the reformed
extension system has replaced, extension personnel were burdened with sub-
stantial administrative work and such non-extension duties as input delivery
and administration of various subsidized schemes and which tended to
dissipate extension efforts in many uncoordinated directions and divert
attention and resources from the need to reform the main line extension
agency. Staffing was usuallv insufficient to cover the farming community
adequately. Field workers lacked mobility to reach farmers systematically
and regularly, had practically no training in relevant technology, and saw
limited prospects for advancement. Most extension personnel had low status,
low pay and poor morale. In addition, there was virtually no linkage between
extension and research. Without this linkage, it is difficult to justify the
considerable investment being made in agricultural research. Improved tech-
nology is of little benefit if it cannot be made available to farmers and,
conversely, it is difficult to develop useful research unless there is sound
feedback from farm to research -- both roles for extension.
1.08    The Bank's experience over the past ten years with India's con-
siderable effort to improve agricultural extension and research has coufirmed
what was recognized when the T&V approach was first being introduced on a
larger scale: in a state, with a well-entrenched bureaucracy, institutional
change takes time, especially where such large numbers of people are involved
as in the Indian states. The thirteen states which have introduced improved
agricultural extension witb IDA assistance, together, will eventually reach



-4-
about 70% of India's farm families. In these states, there are to be some
66,000 Village Extension Workers (VEW8), 8,000 Agricultural Extension
Officers (AEOs), 3,330 Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs), 900 Subdivisional
Agricultural Officers (SDAO), 60 Assistant SD&Os, 400 District Agricultural
Officers (DAD) and Assistant DAOs, and 60 Zonal Joint Directors and
Additional Directors of Agriculture (Extension). However, the extension
service represents only a small part of the total civil service in any state
(e.g., in Karnataka only about 1S), but because of the close and often unique
field relationship vith farmers, (which represent the vast majority of any
state's population), agricultural extension is particularly vulnerable to
outside pressures for purely non-technical reasons. The new system also
calls for major attitudinal changes on the part of extension staff, farmers,
agricultural researchers and government officials, both within and outside
the Department of Agriculture. Given these circumstances, as IDA's
experience with these projects confirms, firm commitment at government level
and strong departmental management are central to successful agricultural
extension.
1.09    Together, the above factors have given rise to a number of problems
vhich have been commonly experienced in all agricultural extension projects
financed by the Bank Group especially during the early years of implementa-
tion: involvement of extension staff in non-extension activities; excessive
reporting and statistical workload on field staff; insufficient research-
generated technology, especially for rainfed and tribal aress; poor feedback
from field to research; weak inter-ministerial and inter-departmental coor-
dination; transportation shortages and restrictions; poor monitoring and
evaluation; late submission of audited financial reports; veak technical
supervision and shortages of appropriately trained subject matter
specialists; slow provision of housing for field staff; and slow use of
training funds. In addition, the expansion of village level non-extension
activities, since the introduction of T&V extension, has been unexpected and
under-estimated, leaving Panchayat (local government) staff unable to cope
with the increased work load and aggravating pressures on extension workers
to assist in non-extension work. Such problems have been continuously
addressed during project supervision and most have diminished over time.
Rowever, the continuing involvement of extension staff in non-extension
activities and the problems concerning the technology being extended to
farmers are two of the most intransigent; both are given special attention
under the proposed project.
1.10    The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 4983-IN dated 8/8/84) of NAEP I
(Cr. 1523 IN) includes a detailed review of the particular problems and
achievements of all individual state projects assisted by IDA. To avoid
repetition, this report only reviews the performance of the states of
Raryana, Gujarat and Karnataka included under the Composite Agricultural
Extension Project (Cr. 862-IN), and whose second phase development are
included under the proposed project, the component under Cr. 862-IN designed
to strengthen the Directorate of Extension (DOE), significant changes in
progress of other individual state projects since issue of Report 4983-IN and
the current situation of NAEP I. Annex 2 gives the present status of physi-
cal components as measured against appraisal targets for all state projects.
The location of these projects and the proposed NAEP II project are shown at
Map IERD 18519R.



-5-
Composite iAgricultural Extension Proiect (Cr. 862-IJ; February 16. 1979;
WS$25.0 H). CogMrisina Guiarat. Harvana and Karnataka State Sub-proiects
and the Directorate of Extension (NOA)
1.11    The Camposite Agricultural Extension Project (CAIP), became effective
in December 1979 and is scheduled to close on June 30, 1985. US$23.8 million
out of the credit amount (US$25 million) has already been disbursed and the
entire amount is expected to be disbursed by the end of June 1985. Project
Completion Reports for all participating states are currently under prepara-
tion and will provide an in-depth review of project performance. The infor-
iation given below is derived from reports of either IDA supervision missions
or reports prepared by DOA.
Guiarat State IUS$7.0 M)
1.12    The Gujarat component of this credit vas fully disbursed (US$7.67 M)
by June 30, 1984 and was designed to reorganize and strengthen extension
services throughout the entire state (excluding Kutch district). Gujarat is
different from most states in India as it has a bighly developed local
(Pancbayat) government system. With the institution of the Panchaysti Raj by
an Act of the state government in the early sixties, agriculture became one
of the subjects which comes within the responsibility of the local
Panchayats. Under the Panchayat system, all district and block (Taluk) level
staff of techuical line departments are administratively responsible to the
appropriate head of the Panchayat Department (District Development Officer at
the district level and Taluk Development Officer at the block level) whilst
responsibility for technical matters lies with the line department. These
administrative heads exert disciplinary authority over all staff and are
responsible for the payment of salaries and allowances. Locally elected
Panchayat bodies operate at three levels: the District, the Taluk (or Block)
and the village. In addition to agricultural development, the Panchayats are
also responsible for community development services, such as provision of
link roads, drinking water, village sanitation and execution of agricultural
subsidy schemes designed to assist the economically weaker sections of the
community. Prior to the project, VLWs, AEOs and the DAO, besides being
administratively responsible to the local government autborities at the Block
and District levels, vere responsible for carrying out all agricultural
related activities and also for assisting in implementation of community
development schemes. Consequently, agricultural extension was largely
ignored. Under CAEP a direct line of command from the DAO to the VLW was
achieved whereby AEOs and VEWs previously controlled by the Taluka Develop-
ment Officer would be transferred to the control of the DOA and work
exclusively on agricultural extension. Pay and allowances would, however,
continue to be paid by the Taluka Panchayat. While the DAO would have
disciplinary authority over VEW, the DDO, on the advice of the DAO, vould
have the ultimate autbority over AEO and would also continue to supervise the
DAO. Thus, the Director of Agriculture continued only to exercise technical
control over DAO. During project implementation, however, national policy
determined that activities associated with integrated rural development
should be considerably stepped up. As a result, some village level staff
(VLws) were transferred to this additional rural development vork leaving the
Panchayat Department short of staff to carry out work associated with those
agricultural development activities designed to assist the economically
weaker sections of the community. This resulted in VEWs and AEOs vho had



-6-
been working full-time on agricultural extension spending tine on other
development work. Thus, while exclusive responsibility for agricultural
extension by the VEis and AEOs vas a condition of participating in the
project, administrative circumstances prevailing had not allowed this to
fully happen. Under the proposed project, however, additional staff would be
recruited to compensate for this additional burden of non-extension work and
allow VEW and AJO to revert to the situation vhereby they are engaged
exclusively on extension activities (para 3.16). In addition and more
recently, GOG has agreed that VEW and AEO field staff are to be paid directly
by the DOA tbus establishing a single line of administrative and technical
command from DAO to VEW. Though DAO is administratively responsible to the
DDO, he is a staff member of and is paid by DOA and dependent upon that
department for career develoment and future posting. The DAO under existing
arrangenents is clearly responsible for the execution of DOA policies vithin
the district and the DDO role is primarily one of district development coor-
dination.
1.13    According to current recruitment rules in Gujarat, subdivisional
level SHS are appointed by seniority promotion from AEOs and VE8s and who do
not necessarily possess the requisite academic qualifications to allow them
to effectively contribute to recommendation generation and general technical
support. Action undertaken by GOG to resolve this problem, by gazetting
subdivisional SMS positions in order that suitable qualification requirements
can be applied in recruitment have so far been frustrated by a legal dispute.
This unsatisfactory situation will continue to be addressed under the
proposed project with minimum qualifications set for SMS recruitment (para
3.17). District, regional and state level SMSs, however, are suitably
qualified and providing guidance and support at subdivisional level to com-
pensate for the shortage of subdivisional SMS's. Despite the imperfections
of the existing administrative arrangements, the extension service is operat-
ing more effectively than under previous arrangements. Recent monitoring and
evaluation surveys conducted in ;982183 have provided encouragixg indicators
as to the establishment and operation of the Gujarat extension survice.
These showed that 81% of all villagers were conversant with the -:eorganized
extension system and 91% of contact farmers and 78% of non-contact farmers
knew their VEis by name. Furthermore, 79% of contact farmers and 61% of
non-contact farmers are paid regular visits by VEWs.
1.14    ln addition, regular in-service training for SNSs and other higher
level extension staff is provided at monthly workshops organized by the
extension education wing of the Gujarat Agricultural University (GAU). Close
linkages between the Agricultural Department and the Agricultural University
have also been established. The State, Regional and District technical
cormittees are operating as originally scheduled. Research scientists now
visit farmers' fields to study field problems and determine research
priorities.
1.15    Physical targets for staff employment and civil works construction
have in most cases almost been met; 98% of housing is complete or under
construction, 90S of VEW and AEO and 46Z of SES staff are in position. The
shortfall in numbers of SMS is attributable to administrative/legal difficul-
ties encountered in recruitment procedures.



-7-
1.16    A monitoring and evaluation cell has been established.  The reports
prepared by this cell have consistently revealed improvements in the opera-
tion of the extension service (para 1.13). While the direct impact of
reformed extension on agricultural production is difficult to quantify,
appreciable improvements in output and adoption of recommended practices have
been achieved. Average total foodgrain production during the project period
(1978-79 - 1982-83) increased by about 25X as compared to the five-year
average of the pre-project period. During the same period, the average yield
of pearl millet increased by 47%, sorghum by 25%, wheat by 22% and that of
pulses by 11x.
1.17    More significant, however, are the changes in cropping patterns and
cultivation practices which are clearly the consequence of extension advice
given to farmers. The most important example is the introduction of summer
grown groundnut into new areas. Here the total area planted increased from
19,600 ha in 1977-78 to 165,000 ha in 1982-83. Similarly the acreage under
rape and mustard increased by about 63,000 ha and that of castor by about
70,000 ha during the project period.
Haryana State (US$6.2M)
1.18    Generally, progress has been satisfactory although house and office
construction has lagged behind schedule. Disbursenent up to June 30, 1984,
totalled US$4.01 H and the balance of the credit, mainly for civil works, is
expected to be fully utilized by the revised Project closing date of June 30,
1985. The project vas designed to reorganize and strengthen extension serv-
ices in the entire state. Administrative and field staff previously employed
under various general and crop or area-specific agricultural development
schemes were consolidated into a unified agricultural extension service under
the direct control of the Director of Agriculture. Performance in staff
recruitment was good; as of November 30, 1984, a fill ratio of 94% was
achieved with only 105 vacancies out of 1,833 posts.
1.19    To ensure a high standard of technical expertise through"-t the
reorganized extension service and to facilitate high-quality in-s.-vice
training for field staff, qualified Subject Matter Specialists in several
disciplines were appointed at different levels of the system and regular
in-service training was organized. The linkage between agricultural research
and extension has been strengthened, particularly the HaryanA Agricultural
University scientists' involvement in the design of adaptive trials and the
analysis of trial results. Linkages were also established with the Depart-
ments of Irrigation and Forestry, the Department of Cooperatives, and the
input supply agencies. The improved cooperation with the Irrigation Depart-
ment has widened the scope of the fortnightly training sesblo:  to include
issues concerning irrigation and water management.
1.20    A Monitoring and Evaluation Unit was estallished under the control of
the Director of Agriculture. The many reports prepared by the unit consis-
tently reveal improvements in the operation of the states extension service
since its reorganization under CAEP. The 1983-84 kharif season report shovs
that 84% of contact farmers and 60% of non-contact farmers knew their respec-
tive VEWs by name and that 77Z of contact farmers and 50% of non contact
farmers were visited at least once per month. It was also sho-an that farmer
adoption rates of improved technology were related to the frequency of VEW



-8-
visits with the proper utilization of veedicides, fertilizers and zinc
increasing from 20 to 40% as VEW visits increased from none to two per month.
While the direct impact has been difficult to quantify, significant improve-
ment in agricultural production practices and in crop output have been
apparent. Average foodgrain production during 1980/81-1982/83 was 25X above
the average level of 1976177-1978/79. Rice production increased mainly due
to increased acreage planted, but average wheat yields rose by 13X due to
improved cultivation practices and input use. The production of cotton
registered an increase of over 41% during the same period. Fertilizer con-
sumption almost doubled from 1977/78 to 1982/83, and that of pesticides
increased by 65X. Farmers have moved to more balanced use of fertilizer, and
the use of phosphatic fertilizers and zinc-sulphate increased appreciably
with the dissemination of relevant messages through the T&V system. Since
1981, the Bank has collaborated with Haryana Agricultural University in the
conduct of a farm level study, in one district, designed to assess the impact
of T&V extension on crop production. Results of the study suggest that there
has been in the case of wheat, a yield increase of almost 2Z per annum over
the first four years of the project and which is directly attributable to the
effects of improved extension and is independent of the increased use of
other production inputs. For rice the results were inconclusive. Neverthe-
less the incremental wheat output alone is sufficient to generate an internal
rate of return in the range of 30-40Z to the incremental investment in
extension.
Karnataka State (US$ll.lM)
1.21    The credit amount is likely to be fully disbursed by June 30, 1985;
disbursement at June 30, 1984 was US$9.26 M. All agricultural extension
staff operating under different crop-specific schemes in the state were
merged to form a single extension service, and their duties were redefined to
includ!e only agricultural extension activities. A large number of Village
Extension Worker (SEW) vacancies due to administrative recruitment delays
presents a problem, tut action is underway to fill all vacant positions. As
of November 1984, 944 VEW posts remained unfilled out of a total of 5,200.
Progress in civil works has also been slow and as of November 1984, 536 VEW
houses were completed and 411 under construction of the total 1,100 planned.
1.22    To ensure a high standard of technical expertise, regular in-service
training for SMS and other higher-level extension staff was provided at
monthly workshops held, in cooperation with Karnataka Agricultural Univer-
sity, at research stations in each of the 19 districts. Closer linkages
between research and extension have been developed. Regular visits by SMS to
research stations serving their respective agro-climatic regions are now an
integral part of SMS work responsibilities.
1.23    A Monitoring and Evaluation Unit was established under the project
and reports directly to the Secretary of Agriculture. The Unit has prepared
8 Monitoring and Evaluation Reports, and 4 Special Study Reports; these
reports document progress in major aspects of extension operations.
Karnataka has, during the past five years, successfully managed the trans-
formation of its traditional multi-purpose community development extension
system into the T&V system of agricultural extension under a single line of
command. Although it is difficult to measure quantitatively the impact of
this new approach on farm production, sufficient evidence is available to



-9-
indicate its success in ensuring a steady flow of regularly updated and
directly relevant information on improved crop production to large numbers of
farmers throughout the state. The 1983/84 Kharif M and E study showed that
92% of contact farmers and 78Z of non-contact farmers knev their VEW by mane
and furthermore that 82% of contact farms and 65Z of non-contact farmers vere
visited regularly at least once a month, with 65% of contact farmer visits
made to the farmers fields. A positive relation between technology adoption
rate and the frequency of VEW visit was also demonstrated. The pressure
exerted through regular feedback from farmers through extension staff to the
agricultural input delivery agencies has led to significant improvements
(measured both in terms of volume and in the timing of supplies) in the
marketing activities of agencies such as the Karnataka State Seed Corporation
(KSSC), the Karnataka State Agro-Industries Corporation (KSAIC) and Karnataka
State Cooperative Marketing Federation (KSCHF). Training of extension staff
has been significantly improved, and regular in-service training and skill-
upgrading is provided. Although not directly and exclusively attributable to
the introduction of the T&V extension systea itself, agricultural production
has increased measurably over the past few years. In 1983184, which was a
year of unusually favorable weather conditions, Karnataka reached record
production levels in foodgrains (7.1 M tons), pulses (0.9 M tons), oilseeds
(1.3 M tons), sugarcane (14 N tons) and cotton (1.05 M bales); as a result,
the state temporarily improved its position from a traditionally deficit area
in foodgrain production to one of marginal surplus.
1.24    More significant for the longer run, there have been important
changes in cropping patterns and cultivation practices in the state which are
clearly the consequence of extension advice given to farmers; output gains
attributable to these changes are, thus, measurable results of the impact of
the reformed extension service. Major examples of such changes in farming
practices include: the emergence of sunflover cultivation on a large scale,
with the acreage under sunflower increasing from 10,000 ha in 1977/78 to
276,000 ha 1983/84; the rapid spread of safflower cultivation from 163,000 ha
in 1982/83 to 356,000 ha in 1983/84; the expansion of EYV paddy cultivation
from 2.4 M ha in 1978179 to 2.85 M ha in 1983/84; the introduction of
high-yielding red gram in the southern districts on 83,000 ha in 1983/84; the
cultivation of gram in tank-irrigated areas which rose from nil in 1981/82
to 83,000 ha in 1983/84; and the growth in overall pulse acreage and yields
which caused total production of pulses to increase from 710,000 tons in
1977/78 to almost 1.3 M tons in 1983/84.
Directorate of Extension (Cr. 862-IN. February 16. 1979. US$0.7 M)
1.25    This component of the Composite Agricultural Extension Credit was
designed to strengthen the Directorate of Extension (DOE) of GOI's Ministry
of Agriculture (MOA) to improve its ability to assist state extension
efforts. This strengthening included a new position of Joint Commissioner
(as deputy to the Joint Secretary, Extension Commissioner) to assume
full-time responsibility for supervision of DOE activities which guide and
support state-level agricultural extension programs; the establishment of a
new Field Extension Unit to provide assistance to the states in project
implementation, monitoring and evaluation and in solving specialized techni-
cal problems; strengthening of the Training Unit to raise the quality of
training in the states; and strengthening of the Farm Information Unit to
improve its capability to train state extension staff in the preparation and



-10-
use of communication aids and to provide states with audio-visual training
materials. The Field Extension Unit has not proved as effective as intended,
in part because it has lacked sufficient technical expertise and administra-
tive independence to advise state services and in part because several key
posts were not staffed. Generally, the activities of the Directorate relat-
ing to agricultural extension have not been separated from those relating to
such other activities as exhibitions and general training, with the result
that both have suffered.
1.26    There has been, however, a significant improvement during the past
year in the Directorate's contribution to implementation assistance and
guidance to the states and assistance vith training programs. DOE's staff
has been more involved in field visits to several states that are implement-
ing IDA-assisted extension projects and has been helping states as they
complete first-phase projects to prepare follow-up projects. More than
before, DOE is attempting to undertake long-term planning and to provide a
stronger central base for helping strengthen state activities. This has
occurred, notwithstanding staff vacancies.   The Directorate is to be further
strengthened and reorganized under NAEP I (para 1.28) and the filling of the
remaining staff vacancies under CAEP is expected to be completed by June
1985.
Recent DeveloDments in Other States
1.27    New developments with other extension projects include:  West Bengal
Extension and Research Project (Cr. 690-IN); June 1, 1977; US$12.0M) was
orginally scheduled to close on September 1984 but has recentl7 been extended
to March 1985 to permit already sanctioned works to be completed by the end
of the Indian financial year. The persistent lack of adequate budget provi-
sion has been an important factor contributing to a poor overall project
performance. Bihar Extension and Research Project (Cr. 761-IN;
January 6, 1978; US$8.0M) has also been similarly extended to end March 1985
from the previous closing date of October 1984. As for West Bengal, this
extension is to allow the completion of already started works during the
current financial year. Despite efforts, progress has continued to be
limited with inadequate budgetary support, and the failure to recruit VEW
staff, being critical factors.
National Agricultural Extension Project (NAEP I) (Cr. 1523-IN,
October 2. 1984. US$39.1 M)
1.28    The National Agricultural Extension Project I, the first of a second
phase of extension projects, is designed to provide follow-up support to
three already participating states but more importantly to further strengthen
the DOE in the Ministry of Agriculture, a process started with limited
success under CAEP. To this end NAEP I will:
(a) provide continuing assistance initiated under earlier credits to
three states (Orissa, Madbya Pradesh and Rajasthan) in the improve-
ment of statevide agricultural extension services; and
tb) reorganize and strengthen DOE in the GOI Ministry of Agriculture to
allow it to perform its coordinating and policy guidance role more
effectively in the development of agricultural extension throughout



-1L1-
India and enable it to assist states in preparing projects for exten-
sion reform.
The project has provided for core staff to the Extension Division of the
Ministry of Agriculture and has further strengthened the existing Units of
Farm Information, Extension Training and Field Extension of the Extension
Directorate. The core administrative staff would be responsible for
administrative, organizational, planning and logistic aspects, as well as for
follow-up of visits and correspondence with state governments. The Farm
Information Unit, in addition to organizing exhibitions, publicity and
preparing pamphlets and periodicals, will provide audio-visual and agricul-
tural communication support to the States. The Extension Training Unit would
be responsible for all extension related training, and the Field Extension
Unit would be responsible for appraisal, supervision and monitoring and
evaluation of subprojects. In addition, the project would provide funds for
further project preparation and for financing special subprojects prepared by
MOA, states or other agencies designed specifically to strengthen support of
extension activities at the central, regional or state level. NAEP I
(Cr. 1523-IN) was signed on December 12, 1984 and project implementation has
started in the states of Orissa and Rajastan. At the central level all new
staff positions provided for DOE under the project hAve been sanctioned. The
process of recruitment is underway for both NAEP I incremental staff and
outstanding staff not yet appointed under CAEP (Cr. 862-IN). Orders for the
appointment of four JDA's have been issued. Both the Extension Technical
Advisory Committee (ETAC) and the Project Funding Committee for approval of
special subprojects have been constituted and a number of proposals for both
state and centrally sponsored subprojects are under review by DOE.
Lessons Learned
1.29    While considerable scope remains for improving the design and effec-
tiveness of the agricultural extension system once the new structure is in
place, the Bank's experience in India to date has been positive overall. The
new system has now stcod the test of seven years of implementation in several
states; there is groving evidence of its favorable impact; and it has
received wide support from the farming community and state Departments of
Agriculture. Although achievements have been mixed, experience with these
projects show, that there is a lead role for a technical extension service,
that the system adopted for technology transfer is fundamentally sound, and
that the impact on production, even in the short term, can be substantial.
Many of the changes introduced are now generally recognized aS worthwhile:
fixed visit schedules; regular meetings of extension field workers and super-
vising officers and specialists; regular in-service training of extension
staff; use of extension staff in helping to identify research priorities and
in advising research on farmers needs and reactions to research recommenda-
tions; and a single line of command and exclusive responsibility for exten-
sion for the extension service. The lead role of a strong technical exten-
sion service is now seen in several states where it has developed to the
stage where it is able to identify constraints at the farm level and to place
pressure for performance accountability both within its own operations and on
the other support services on which agricultural development also depends.
In particular, the extension service is not only becoming increasingly aware
of its own need to improve the timeliness and quality of the technology it



-12-
should transfer to farmers, but is also exerting considerable pressure on the
research support network to reorient its research priorities. In addition,
the importance of the timely supply of inputs to farmers and of close links
between farmers, extension and research have come to be realized in light of
experience with the extension projects.
1.30    Strong project support from IDA has also been an important factor in
past achievement. Although the various problems, noted in para 1.09 and in
the review of bank experience (paras 1.10 to 1.28), are being specifically
addressed in the ongoing projects and the National Agricultural Extension
Project, it will take time to resolve them. Past achievements must not,
therefore, mask the vulnerability that persists and the undercurrent of
pressure to revert to a more traditional system with multipurpose field
workers. Extension reorganization is still institutionally immature, and it
is essential that the technical and supervisory support of the Bank be sus-
tained. The Bank will continue to support efforts both to adapt technology
to the needs of Indian farmers and to improve the transfer of that technology
to them by assisting state and central efforts through the NAEP I, the
National Agricultural Research Project (Cr. 855-IN, December 1978) the
proposed NARP II, and the proposed NAEP II project.
II. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND RATIONALE
2.01    While current extension projects will help to establish more profes-
sional extension services and broaden their coverage of the farming popula-
tion, further strengthening and deepening of the extension effort is
required. As yet, training and visit extension is not established firmly
enough in any state that it could be considered self-sustaining and in the
two new states involved in the proposed project, the system is still to be
introduced. In addition, more attention needs to be given at both state and
central levels to monitoring and evaluating the impact of extension
activities. During the first five years of an extension project little more
can be achieved than the establishment of an administrative framework for
extension and the provision of an information service focussed on low cost
technology, and this will be done in the two states introducing T&V extension
for the first time under this project. However, experience has also shown
that farmers need a more completely trained and equipped extension service
capable of addressing all aspect of farm improvement. In this context, the
Bank's involvement is needed to help state governments provide a more sophis-
ticated and complete extension system and to ensure strong linkages with
agricultural research, which is being supported by the Bank under NARP I and
the proposed NARP II. The project would therefore build upon the institu-
tional base developed under CAEP (Cr. 862-IN) in the States of Haryana,
Gujarat and Karnataka to improve the coverage, depth and quality of their
respective extension services. The following specific objectives would be
focussed upon:
2.02    Administrative Consolidation and Institutional Development.  The
project would help consolidate the administrative changes and institutional
improvements brought about under the Composite Agricultural Extension Project
(Cr. 862-IN). IDA's continued involvement would provide further backing and



-13-
guidance to state and central government efforts in implementing and main-
taining extension reform. Reorganized extension services and related train-
ing, adaptive research, and monitoring and evaluation to be introduced into
Jammu and Kashmir would be based on the experiences gained in previous state
extension projects in India.
2.03    Quality Improvements.  Although measures to improve the quality of
extension must be identified and implemented by state services themselves,
the central ministry responsible (GOI's Ministry of Agriculture acting
through DOE) must develop the capability and to guide the states in various
areas: Eo coordinate extension approaches and GOI programs, improving the
roles of SMSs, AEOs and contact farmers; establishing close permanent links
with research; and in implementing field trials and adaptive research on
which to base relevant location and resource-specific technical recommenda-
tions. Other areas which require qualitative improvement include the
development of responsive and specialized training and information/ com-
munications support, including improved utilization of mass media to compli-
ment the T&V extension.
2.04    ExpandinR and Deepening of CoveraRe.  First phase extension projects
focus on developing a service for the majority of the rural population, with
concentration on a few selected crops. However, the need to address the whole
farming system by providing a wider range of specialist support is becoming
apparent - both for crops already covered, for new crops and for such
activities as soil and water management, farm management, horticulture and
some aspects of farm forestry. Extension services will also deepen their
coverage by dealing more directly than at present with the agricultural
production activities of women, rural youth, very small farmers, tenants and
sharecroppers and with tribal and hill populations. To be effective, such
coverage would require more intensive field supervision of extension staff
and improved research support. Finally, greater coverage will be achieved by
geographic expansion into new disticts in Gujarat and into the State of Jammu
& Kashmir.
2.05    Strengthening Linkages between Extension and Research.  Although
research is providing increasingly effective support to extension, much
remains to be done. There is still considerable ambiguity about adaptive
research, verification and field trials, and the division of responsibility
for these between research and extension institutions. Such division of
responsibility would be spelled out as part of a memorandum of understanding
between each state agricultural university (SAI) and state government. The
knowledge-practice gap in agricultural technology must be further reduced by
refining technology to suit the farmers' resource, management and risk situa-
tions. Increased awareness of actual farm conditions, responses to problems
identified by farmers and extension workers, participation in the training of
extension staff and regular visits to the field will help bring about a
reorientation of researchers attention to farmers' chief concerns and
production constraints. The SAU research programs would generate recommenda-
tions at regional stations and substations while Departments of Agriculture,
supported by the project would be responsible for refining these recommenda-
tions by carrying out field trials (verification and modification) at
different locations. This would be a joint effort by research and extension,
with the SMSs at the subdivision/district having full responsibility for the
trials with technical backup from the regional research station. The project



-14-
would also help SAU to finance other assistance to extension services, mainly
the training of SHS, not covered under NARP. At central level, the Indian
Council of Agricultural Research staff would participate in the Extension
Technical Advisery Committees to be established under NAEP I, and join
regular field visits to review actual on farm conditions and activities.
III. THE PROJECT
A. General
3.01    The proposed five-year project would provide continuing assistance
initiated under an earlier credit to three states (Gujarat, Haryana and
Karnataka) (see paras 1.12-1.17, 1.18-1.20 and 1.21-1.24); and first time
assistance to the State of Janmmu and Kashmir in the improvement and reor-
ganization of agricultural extension services.
3.02    While the basic approach to the strengthening of agricultural exten-
sion services is common to participating states, several modifications have
been made to take account of differin- levels of agricultural development;
administrative arrangements, particularly at the district level and below;
agro-ecological conditions; population densities; communications; and
progress made under earlier projects. Summary data on the state subprojects,
including the staffing of the agricultural extension services before and with
the proposed project, are given in Annex 3. Detailed proposals, outlining
the particular features of each state component, are given in Annexes 5-8 and
overall project costs in Annex 9.
B. The Project Area
Haryana State
3.03    Haryana, located in north-central India, has a population of about 14
M (1984).  Over 752 live in rural areas and depend upon agriculture as their
main source of livelihood.  The state has a geographical area of 44,200 km
13Z of the national total, divided into 12 districts and 35 administrative
subdivisions. The population density of 292 persons per km2 is above the
national average of 208. Haryana's rural population reside in some 6,700
vill&Zes and operate 1.25 M farm holdings with an average size of about 2.9
ha. Deenite the relatively economically advanced status of Haryana, literacy
levels are only 36%, equal to the national average. 3.7 H ha are cultivated
annually, bith 5.5 M ha of crops sown, thus giving a cropping intensity of
1512. It is estimated that about 2.2 M ha or 60% of the cultivated area is
presently irrigable. The main crops are wheat, rice, pearl millet and
pulses; also important are oilseeds, cotton and sugar cane. The State can be
divided into two broad climatic zones. A hot arid to semi-arid zone in the
southwest covering 40% of the state where rainfall is erratic and averages
300-400 m per annum, with millet and gram being the main rainfed crops, and
wheat and cotton the main irrigated crops. The second, a sub-humid zone
covering the remaining 60% of the state, enjoys a higher and more reliable
rainfall of 750-900 mm annually and wheat, rice and sugarcane are the main
crops cultivated.



-15-
Karnataka State
3.04    Karnataka, located in the southwestern part of the Deccan peninsula,
has a population of 39 M of which about 70Z are engaged in agricultuEe,
cultivating 10.4 M ha of the state's geographical area of 190,498 km . The
gross irrigated area is some 2 M ha. The scope for expanding the irrigated
area is limited and future agricultural grovth will require significant
progress in rainfed farming. The state comprises four major agro-climatic
zones: a narrov coastal belt with 2,500 mm annual rainfall (important crops--
rice and coconut), the Western Ghats wi-h 2,500-3,000 mm annual rainfall
(important crops-- rice, coffee, coconut; areca nut and spices); the northern
Plateau covering 65Z of the state"s total area with less than 600 am annual
rainfall (important crops -- sorghum, millet, groundnut, cotton and irrigated
rice); and the southern plateau covering 28% of the state, with 500-750 mm
annual but uncertain rainfall (important crops-millets, sorghum, pulses,
oilseeds).
Guiarat State
3.05    Gujarat, located on the northwestern coast of India, has a population
of about 36 N (1983), with about 72% living in rural villages.  The net
cropped area is 9.8 M ha out of a total of 19.6 M ha. About 20% of the net
sown area in under irrigation- more than 75% through wells. Gujarat has a
tropical monsoon climate with average annual rainfall varying between 500 and
800 mm but with wide variability. Agricultural production depends largely on
weather conditions, and since much of the state is subject to low and highly
variable rainfall, further agricultural growth depends particularly upon
expansion of irrigation and on farmer adoption of improved rainfed technol-
ogy. The state produces about one quarter of India's cotton and groundnuts
and one-third of its tobacco. Pearl millet and sorghum are important cereal
crops. Gujarat is a net importer of foodgrains.
Jammu and Kashmir State
3.06    The State of Jaumu and Kashmir (J&K) is situated on the northwestern
extremity of India. It comprise two administrative divisions, Jaumu and
Kashmir which are subdivided into 14 districts. Agricultural land, incl ding
fallows, covers 911,000 ha, only 40% of a total state area of 222,000 km
40% of cultivated land is irrigated. Apart from the narrov southern plain
and the Kashmir valley, the terrain is generally mountainous, with altitudes
ranging from 300 m to 8000 m. Three main agro-clinatic zones are distin-
guishable ranging from sub-tropical in the lover valleys to alpine in the
high dry temperate zone. In the Southern foothill region of Jammu, con-
tiguous to the Punjab and plains to the South, cultivation is practiced on
lower valley slopes and bottoms where an average annual rainfall of 850 ums
is mainly distributed between thae months of June and September. .n Kashmir
most cultivation takes place in the valley itself at an elevation of 1,600 X
vith rainfall varying between 550 and 950 us per annum, and mainly dis-
tributed from January to June. The third zone, the 'Ladakh' region, is a
vast dry, temperate to arctic desert, covers two-thirds of the State and has
very little snummer rainfall with most precipitation falling as winter snow.
80% of the state's population of six million live in rural areas on an
estimated 1.04 M farm holdings, with an average holding size of 1.1 ha. The



-16-
overall population density is only 27 per km2, but actual densities in the
limited areas suitable for cultivation are considerably higher. Farm hold-
ings are widely dispersed making the provision of extension services
difficult. Rice, wheat, saize and horticultural crops (mainly apples and
vegetables) are important. Rice is the staple food in the Kashmir division,
while in Jammu, wheat, maize and rice form the main ingredients of the diet.
Agricultural research is carried out by the  .her-E-Kashmir University with 18
research sub-stations. Farm inputs are supplied through a network of 2,700
selling points run by cooperative societies or the Department of Agriculture.
Private sector intervention is as yet minimal. Credit supply is assured by
three central cooperative banks working through 1,470 primary agricultural
credit societies. The Divisions of Jammu and Kashmir, each have their own
Directors of Agriculture, one Director of Horticulture serves the whole
state. Most existing government-employed village level staff are employees
of the Community Development Department and who give very little attention to
agricultural extension.
C. Detailed Features
3.07    The project would support a variety of training activities, depending
on the requirements of each state. Programs currently being followed in
Haryana, Karnataka and Gujarat would be continued and extended to a new
district in Gujarat (Kutch District); new training programs would be
developed in Jammu and Kashmir.  All would include the key training programs
for VEWs of monthly workshops, fortnightly training sessions, additional
seasonal training programs and special short courses. For more senior staff,
in-state training programs would be organized by DOA and SAU. Given the
increased specialization and sophistication required of these extension
qervices, the training of extension staff would be given high importance.
In addition to the further development of existing training activities,
specialized training would be given in such subjects as horticulture,
vatershed management, plant protection, soil conservation and farm forestry.
Moreover, training in monitoring and evaluation and in extension management,
especially for staff at the middle and upper administrative levels, would
help to improve extension implementation and its supervision. Training would
not only include short-term courses, but would also support staff development
through courses tailored to the needs and qualifications of staff, including
where appropriate, promotional training to obtain undergraduate or post-
graduate degrees. Such opportunity for staff upgrading are deemed to be one
of the most effective incentives available to extension staff. SAU training
support to extension would also be strengthened by providing seminar halls
and facilities for trainees and additional extension training coordinators in
Gujarat and Karnataka. Training provisions are detailed for each state in
Annexes 5-8 (Table 105, 113, 121 and 129) and individual course details and
costs are at Annex 4.
3.08    Additional staff would be required in Haryana, Gujarat and Karnataka
states to meet the needs of increased specialization and broader coverage.
SMS would be reqzired in disciplines other than those needed for basic
agricultural production. Lower ratios of farm families per VEW are justified
in some areas, e.g., hilly, tribal and newly irrigated areas, which in turn
would require more staff for supervision (AEO and SDAO). incremental staff



-17-
would also be required for expansion into new districts (Gujarat), to staff
the crestion of new administrative subdivisions (Raryana) and to allow reen-
forcement of the Panchayat Department (Gujarat, para 3.16). In Jammu and
Kashmir additional staff would be provided at all levels at intensities
appropriate to the particular economic and topographic conditions of that
state.
3.09    During negotiations, assurances were obtained from each state that
all incremental staff positions would be filled with staff having qualifica-
tions and experience satisfactory to IDA and according to, agreed schedules
(Annexes 5-8, Tables 101, 109, 117, 125). Further, all states agreed that
all extension positions assigned to DOA under this project would be used
exclusively for agricultural extension work under the project and would
remain under the administrative control of DOA. Furthermore, assurances were
obtained that project extension staff would not be adversely affected in
respect of their entitlement to emoluments, benefits and promotional
prospects by reason of assignment.
3.10    As provision of appropriate housing in areas of operation is neces-
sary for effective field extension, particularly in areas where accommodation
for rent is not available, the project would provide some housing for exten-
sion workers. However, all states would continue to encourage the use of
rented accommodation wherever possible. Details are given in Annex 5-8,
Tables 102, 110, 118 and 126.
3.11    Both increased technical specialization, through provision of addi-
tional Subject Matter Specialists, and more numerous field staff would
require additional vehicles, including bicycles, mopeds and motorcycles (on a
loan-purchase basis). Credit terms and maintenance allowances, travel and
mileage allowances were reviewed at negotiations and assurances were obtained
from each state that they would be improved, if necessary, and subsequently
maintained to ensure sufficient incentive for the purchase and use of
vehicles by field staff. Vehicle requirements are detailed for each state at
Annex 5-8 Tables 104, 112, 120 and 128. The project would also provide
audiovisual aids to support extension operations, as well as office furni-
ture and equipment needed for expanded extension activities for training and
for effective monitoring and evaluation. Provisions for each state are
detailed in Annexes 5-8, Tables 103, 111, 119 and 127.
3.12    The project would provide incremental operating expenses for printing
tecbnical diaries, field notebooks, charts, instructional materials for
training sessions, seeds and other -nputs for field trials, materials for
preparing simple visual aids, operation and maintenance costs of vehicles and
for staff travel and allowances. It has been observed under first phase
projects that inadequate funding of travel and vehicle operations seriously
impedes field visits and proper supervision of field staff. The project,
therefore, would provide funds for this purpose, of which a declining propor-
tion over the project years would be reimbursed against certified statements
of expenditures. The participating states have provided assurances that
staff travel norms for extension staff would be in the range of 10-30 travel
days per month according to staff category. In the case of Jamiu and Kashmir
the need for issuing a special order on travel norms did not arise as there
are no restrictions on the number of days per month that extension staff may
travel. In all the participating states it was confirmed at negotiations



-18-
that AEO's and VEW's are eligible to travel for a minimum of 16 days per
montb.
3.13    Descriptions of each state subproject, limited to features of
importance, are given below. Project casts and phasing of expenditure are
detailed in Annexes 5-8.
Haryana State
3.14    The extension organization, incorporating a single line of command
from DOA to VEW established under CAEP (Cr. 862-IN), has worked satisfac-
torily and will be maintained and improved under the proposed project. The
project would provide:
(a)  Incremental Staff.  Additional staff would be appointed in areas
of present shortcomings, e.g., agricultural mechanization, horticul-
ture, and would involve the recruitment of 33 SMSs and 70 AEOs.
Five SDAOs would be appointed for the five new administrative sub-
divisions created recently;
Cb)  Monitoring and Evaluation.  The Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
already established under CAEP would be further strengthened with
additional survey staff, vehicle and incremental operational costs
to improve both the quality and speed of survey and analytical work;
Cc) Civil Works.  CAEP provided housing to about 11% of VEWs and AEOs.
The project would construct a further 400 houses for VEWs and AEOs
(so housing 35% of their total strength), and 20 houses for SMSs and
SDAOs. Essential office buildings at three district headquarters
and six subdivisional offices would also be constructed;
Cd)  Training.  To improve training facilities at two regional research
stations, the project would construct two training halls, two hos-
tels for trainees, and 26 staff houses at the Agricultural Training
Institute, Jind. Overseas training at the doctorate level would be
provided for a total of 25 selected SMS staff; and
(e)  Transport.  The project would provide for replacement of 48 old
4-wheel drive vehicles, six cars and 14 vans and for 11 new vehicles
including 3 vans and 3 minibuses for the Haryana Agricultural
University's (HAU) extension training wing. Loans to field staff
for the purchase of 500 motorcyles would also be provided.
Karnataka State
3.15    The extension organization incorporating a single line of command
from DOA to VEW established under CAEP (Cr. 862-IN) has worked satisfactorily
and would be maintained and improved under the proposed project.
(a) Incremental Staff. Additional staff would be appointed to take care
of the specialized needs of soil and water management and input
monitoring and coordination. This would involve 40 SMS in soil and
water management and farm management at the district level; 60 SMSs



-19-
(input monitoring and coordination) at the central taluk level; and
8 SMS in farm mechanization and two JDAs at headquarters (one to
oversee input monitoring and coordination, and the other for soil
and water management);
(b)  Monitoring and Evaluation.  Field operations of the Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit established under CAEP would be further strengthened
by providing 10 additional field investigators. AdditLonal equip-
ment, one agricultural economist and two research assistants would
be provided to improve the unit's capacity for analyzing field data
and to permit more expeditious data compilation, analysis and report
preparation;
(c)  Civil Works.  The project would provide funds for the construction
of 400 VEW and 200 AEO houses, and 41 additional offices for ADA
and SMS. All buildings would be constructed to standard designs;
(d)  Training.  To improve staff training by the university, 8 training
balls and 8 hostels for trainees would be constructed at regional
researcb centers. In addition, 8 extension training coordinators
would be appointed; and
Ce)  TransRort.  To improve staff mobility, 10 cars, 28 vans, 176 4-wheel
drive vehicles and two audio-visual vans would be procured for DOA
and SAD. Loans to field staff for the purchase of 300 motorcyles
vould also be provided.
Guiarat State
3.16    Assurance was obtained at negotiations that the single line of
administrative command from DAO to VEW was fully established. To ensure that
there are sufficient staff to undertake non-extension agricultural functions,
552 existing VEW and 184 AEO (1 AEO and 3 VEI per Taluka) would be deputed
for this work, and 552 VEWs and 184 AEO would be recruited to replace them
exclusively for agricultural extension. Understanding was reached at nego-
tiations that the provision of the above additional staff and the assurances
given that DOA extension staff would work exclusively on agricutural exten-
sion would effectively ensure that no undue pressures would be placed upon
extension staff to carry out non-extension work.
3.17    In the case of Gujarat where under CAEP the promotion of some
unqualified AEO and VEW to subdivisional SHS occurred, it was agreed at
negotiations that all future SMS appointees should meet basic qualification
requirements including a university degree and be under the direct
administrative control of the State DOA. However, until time such as the
ongoing legal dispute effecting subdivisional SMS recruitment is resolved,
District SMS staff would continue to assist in the execution of subdivisional
SMS functions. Understanding was reached at negotiations that the situation
with regard to Subdivisional SMS recruitment would be reviewed within one
year of the signing date of the proposed credit and that existing SMS uot
having appropriate qualifications would receive training to upgrade their
skills.



-20-
(a) Incremental Staff. Additional staff for Kutch district (not covered
under CARP), to meet specialized needs of tribal areas and newly
irrigated areas and to re-staff the Panchayat Department would be
provided under the project. The phasing plan for recruitment of
sme 800 VEWs and 116 AEOs for special hilly and irrigated areas
would be reviewed and adjusted as required in the course of
implementation. In all, the incremental staff would include 1,352
VEWs, 300 AEOs, 56 SMSs, 3 ASDAOs, 8 SDAOs, 8 DDAs, 2 JDAs and 2
DAOs;
(b)  Monitorina and Evaluation.  The monitoring and evaluation unit
established under CAEP would be further strengthened by providing
two DDAs (Economist and Statistician), 31 agricultural supervisors
and three technical officers to improve the unit's capability to
analyze field data. Additional equipment would be provided, includ-
ing a micro-computer, to permit expeditious data compilation and
analysis and report publication;
Cc)  Civil Works.  The project would construct 1,000 VEW quarters, 200
AEO houses, 89 SMS and senior staff houses, and 11 offices; 37
offices would be renovated. All buildings would be constructed to
standard designs;
Cd)  Training.  Under CAEP, the Gujarat University provided montbly
training to SMS and other senior district staff at four regional
research stations. This was found inadequate and the project would
provide funds to extend training to another six regional/main
research centers. Six training halls and six small hostels would be
constructed at these centers and 12 extension training coordinators
appointed. In addition, at subdivisional level, 40 low-cost train-
ing halls for organizing fortnightly training workshops, and three
hostels at the regional (farmer) training centers for accommodating
long-term training of VEWs, would be constructed; and
(e) Transport. To improve mobility of staff, 20 cars and 40 four-wheel
drive vehicles would be provided. In addition, 250 loans for motor-
cycles and 1,500 for bicycles would be provided for field staff.
Jammt and Kashmir State
3.18    An Additional Secretary for Agricultural (ASA) (responsible to the
Agricultural Production Commissioner) at the state level has been appointed
by GOJM to coordinate project actions required of the Directorate of Agricul-
ture located in each of the two administrative divisions and the Directorate
of Horticulture at state level. ASA would also be responsible for general
project planuing and monitoring and evaluation. A Joint Director of Agricul-
ture (JDA) in each division would be responsible for the day to day coordina-
tion and implementation of all divisional project activities, under the
overall guidance of the office of the Director of Agriculture and in close
liaison with the office of the Director of Horticulture. Incremental and
existing district, block and village level extension staff of the Department
of Agriculture would be responsible through a single line of command to the
Director of Agriculture. The project would provide:



-21-
(a) Incremental Staff. Most existing village level staff are employees
of the Community Develoniuent Department and give very little atten-
tion to agricultural extension. To increase agricultural production
the Government of Jammu and Kashmir would strengthen and reorganize
extension services, introducing T&V extension methodology statewide.
Existing village level workers vould be retained by the Community
Development Department to continue their non-extension and other
development and administrative duties, but 435 VEW presently working
on special crop programs under the DOA would be redeployed to the
new extension service. The project would provide additional trained
staff at all levels of the extension service to supplement existing
manpover resources, introducing a mew cadre of SMS staff who would
provide specialist guidance and support to the service as a whole.
Incremental staff to be funded include VEW 1365, AEO 57, SDAO 56,
SMS (Subdivision) 142, SMS (District) 30, Regional JDA 2, and SMS
(Headquarters) 8. VEW and SMS recruitment and training would be
phased over four years, all JDA, SDAO and AEO recruitment would take
place in project year one. At least 300 unemployed agricultural
graduates are available for selection and posting as VEW in project
year one;
(b)  Monitoring and Evaluation.  A monitoring and evaluation wing would
be established. One JDA, two Deputy Directors of Agriculture, two
Statistical Officers and 34 other support staff would be appointed.
Necessary training of M&E staff would be organized, and early unit
establishment encouraged through the provision of retroactive
financing. The head of the M&E unit would report to the Additional
Secretary for Agriculture;
(d) Civil Works. The project would construct: 139 AEO houses and 200
VEW houses, representing 40Z and 10% of total needs respectively and
24 subdi-visional level offices cum living quarters. All buildings
would be constructed to existing standard designs. To ensure that
the building program is executed without delays, GOJK would arrange
for the serondment of a works division from the Public Works Depart-
ment to the DOA for supervision of the projects- building program.
These staff costs would be financed from the element of departmental
charges included in building unit costs.
(d) Transport. To improve staff mobility 77 four wheel drive vehicles
would be procured for headquarter and field staff and loans to field
staff for purchase of 275 motorcycles and 850 bicycles provided.
Two mini buses and two audio-visual vans would also be provided for
extension support and training services; and
(e) Adaptive Research. Research is being strengthened under NARP
(Cr. 855-IN) but some additional funds for on-farm trials and sup-
port to SKAIJ would be provided.
Mid-Term Review
3.19    A mid-term review of overall project performance would be carried out
by each state jointly with the GOI and the findings discussed with IDA by



-22-
September 30, 1987. The review would in particular review tLc adequacy of
extension staff (especially SHS of different disciplines) for satisfactory
implementation of the project and would recommend any necessary adjustments
in number and/or discipline of staff. If the findings of such review reveal
that the number of staff or other facilities deployed under the Project are
not sufficient for the efficient implementation thereof, states governments
shall increase the number of staff and other facilities so deployed taking
into account the Association's recommendations.
IV. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
4.01    Detailed cost estimates, inclusive of taxes and duties and based on
incremental costs of carrying out the project over a five-year period, are
given in Annexes 5-9. They are summarized in the table below.
Table 4.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY SUB-PROJECTS /a
Local  Foreign  Total        Local  Foreign  Total
---RB    -    --RUS$ M-
State Subprojects
Haryana                     95.5    7.3      102.8          8.0    0.6      8.6
Karnataka                  188.3   14.2      202.5         15.7    1.2    16.9
Gujarat                    296.2    9.8      306.0         24.7    0.8    25.5
Jamnu and Kashmir          182.4    6.2      188.6         15.2    0.5    15.7
Total Base Costs        762.4   37.5      799.9        63.6    3.1    66.7
Physical Contingencies        32.0    2.1       34.1          2.6    0.2      2.8
Price Contingencies          164.8    4.1      168.9         13.8    0.3    14.1
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS          959.2   43.7    1002.9          80.0    3.6    83.6
la  Any differences in addition are due to rounding off.



-23-
Table 4.2: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY MEPENDITURES
Jammu                 X of
Harvana  Karnataka    Guiarat   Kashmir       Total    Total
_ ------ Rs '000-----
Incremental Staff       15,196.0   22,720.0  123,730.0  102,544.0    264,190.0   27
Civil Works             44,110.0   89,500.0  105,157.0   42,090.0    280.857.0   28
Equipment                3,045.0    3,540.0    6,714.9    5,653.5       18,953.4    2
Vehicles                13,150.0   28,260.0    9,400.0   11,860.0       62,670.0    6
Training                 3,202.5    6,287.5    6,055.6    2,422.9       17,968.5    2
Operating Costs
- Vehicle Operation    5,350.0   22.300.0   12,895.0    7,300.0        47,845.0    5
- Travel Allowances   14,285.3   27,035.0   36,365.5   11,159.0        88,844.8    9
- Other                 4.410.0    2.845.0    5.713.2    5.543.5       18,511.7    2
Total before
Contingencies        102.748.8  202,487.5  306,031.2  188,572.9    799.840.4   81
Physical Contingencies  4,805.3   10,927.9   13,636.4    4,787.6        34,156.9    3
Price Contingencies    19,361.1   37,558.8   65,651.3   46,369.2    168,940.8   16
Subtotal              24,166.4   48,486.7   79,287.7   51,156.8    203,097.6    -
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS
Re                   126,915.2  250,974.2  385,318.9  239,729.7  1,002,938.0  100
uS$ x                     10.6        20.9       32.1        20.0         83.6    -
The above costs based on findinrgs during appraisal include about US$0.88 M in
duties and taxes.  Physical contingencies of 5% have been applied to civil
works, vehicles, equipment, travel expenditures and other operating costs,
10X have been applied to training and vehicle operating costs. Price contin-
gencies have been applied for local costs in accordance with current Bank
estimates of expected inflation rates in India (local prices, 1984/85 through
89/90 at 8.5%, and for foreign costs, 84/85 at 3.5%, 85/86 at 8% and 86/87
onwards at 9%) and compounded accordingly.
B. Proposed Financing
4.02    The proposed IDA credit of US$49.0 M would be on standard terms to
GOI and would finance 60% of project costs for agreed project activities, net
of taxes and duties. The proceeds of the IDA credit would be channeled to
participating states in accordance with arrangements applicable at the time
for central assistance to states for development projects. The balance of
project financing would come from state government sources and GOI.
Assurance was obtained that participating states had made adequate financial
provisions for the operation of the first project year in their 1985-86 plans
and confirmed that adequate financial provision would be made in future plans
to cover the estimated cost of their projects during the entire project
period.  Assurances were also obtained at negotiations that -e later than
July 15, 1986 and annually thereafter project budgets would be submitted to
IDA for review. In the case of the second phase states, the extent of com-
pliance with each covenant under phase I investments (CAEP Cr. 862-IN)
particularly those on staffing and financial reporting were assessed during



-24-
negotiations, it was found that no major default remained, and that satisfac-
tory arrangements had been made for the preparation of project completion
reports.
Table 4.3: PROJECT FINANCING
(USs M)
State                    Local Support               IDA          Total
Component            Source             Amount
Haryana                 GOH/GOI              4.3            6.3         10.6
Karnataka               GOK/GOI              8.6           12.3         20.9
Gujarat                 GOG/GOI             13.5           18.6         32.1
Jamnmu and Kashmir      GOJK/GOI             8.2           11.8         20.0
TOTAL                                   34.6          49.0 La       83.6
Percentage                              41.0          59.0         100.0
/a  Equivalent to 59.7% of project costs net of taxes and duties which
amount to 0.88 M.
C. Procurement
4.03    Civil works contracts (US$28.5 M), mostly for houses and training
facilities, would be small and dispersed, both geographically and over time;
therefore, they would not be conducive to international competitive bidding.
Contracts would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding following
local advertisement, and in accordance with established state procedures
satisfactory to IDA. In most cases there are numerous qualified local con-
tractors to carry out such work. Where contractors are not forthcoming to
execute the works, civil works estimated to cost US$25,000 or les smay be
carried out through force account.
4.04    Vehicles of various types (US$6.1 M) and equipment (US$1.8 M)
required under the project would be purchased in small quantities over
several years and would be widely dispersed throughout rural areas. As
adequate maintenance and availability of spares would be of paramount impor-
tance, locally made vehicles of types already used by government departments
would be purchased. Thus, vehicles and equipment would also be procured
locally by the participating state governments according to existing govern-
ment procedures satisfactory to IDA. In the case of motorcycles and
bicycles, loans would be made to field staff for individual purchase.
4.05    All contracts for civil works, vehicles, equipment and furniture
estimated to cost US$100,000 or more would be reviewed by IDA botb before
bids are invited and before contracts are awarded. Orders for purchase of
minor equipment, furniture and supplies would be bulked wherever possible and
purchased according to established local bidding procedures, except where



-25-
valued at less than US$50,000, when they would be purchased by prudent shop-
ping through normal trade channels. Assurances on procurement procedures
mentioned in paras 4.03-4.05 were obtained during negotiations.
4.06    The balance of project costs (US$47.2 M) for the four state sub-
projects would consist of training (US$2.0 M), incremental salaries (US$28.1
M), and incremental operating expenditures for offices vehicle and traveling
allowances (US$17.1 M) which would not involve procurement. All costs are
inclusive of contingencies which amount to US$16.9 M.
D. Disbursement, Accounts and Audit
4.07    As NAEP II is a mix of new and second phase state subprojects a six
year disbursement period is proposed. Disbursements would be made against:
Category                             Percentage of Expenditures
Civil Works                                        55
Vehicles, Equipment, Furniture and Materials    100  (foreign expenditures)
70 (local expenditures)
Training and Research                             100
Incremental Salaries /a                            66
Incremental Operating Expenditure Lb               55
L,a Actual disbursements against this category would be made against a
portion of total eligible staff costs (6% for Haryana, 3.0% for Karnataka,
and 18% for Gujarat and 53% for Jammu Kashmir which is equivalent to
66% of incremental salaries. Extension staff eligible for partial
disbursement would be incremental VEW, AEO, SMS, SDAO, ASD&O, DAO, ADAO,
DDA, JDA, Additional Director and staff of the extension monitoring and
evaluation unit and staff of DOL farm information units.
Lb Includes other operating costs, vehicle operating costs and staff travel
allowances; the latter two categories including incremental costs for
both new and existing staff. Actual disbursement against these categories
would be made against a portion of total incremental costs on a declining
basis, equivalent to 55% of total incremental operating costs as
follows: at 100% - US$2.5 M; 80% - US$2.4 M; at 60% - US$2.1 M; at
40% - US$1.5 M; and at 20% - US$0.8 M.
4.08    All applications prepared by the states for reimbursement would be
channeled through the Department of Economic Affairs as at present, but with
copies provided to DOE. Expenditures on civil works and equipment and



-26-
vehicles individually exceeding Rs 25,000 would be listed item by item in
summary sheets. Where expenditures for training or payments for locally
procured vehicles and equipment exceed Rs 150,000 or payments under civil
works contracts exceed Rs 300,000, supporting documents would be submitted to
IDA for review. Disbursements for expenditures below these amounts in the
above cases, or for staff costs and operating expenses, would be against
certified statements of expenditures, the documentation for which would not
be submitted to IDA for review, but would be retained by state governments.
These documents would be available for inspection by IDA or DOE/MOA during
the course of project review missions. Certificates of expenditures would be
audited at least once every year and a report submitted to IDA within nine
months after the end of each fiscal year. Schedules of implementation for
the state subprojects are presented in Annex 10. The estimated disbursement
schedule is in Annex 11 and is compared with the disbursement profile for the
three IDA agricultural extension credits in India which have been closed and
the regional profile for IDA agricultural projects in India. While substan-
tially following the same pattern as the two comparator profiles, RA2P II
would lead them by about a year. There are two reasons for assuming this
lead: over 80X of the credit would finance extension in states where the
system has already been established and where no start-up delays should be
experienced; in the new state J&K, learning from experience, considerable
advance preparation for implementation has taken place, and there are already
trained staff available for recruitment (para 3.18).
4.09    Retroactive financing up to US$2.0 M is recommended for expenditures
in the four participating states incurred after September 30, 1984 for essen-
tial start-up activities, particularly for training and the establishment of
the monitoring and evaluation unit in J&K.
4.10    Assurances were obtained that separate accounts would be kept of
subproject expenditures made under the project. All project accounts would
be audited annually for each fiscal year, in accordance with sound auditing
principles, consistently applied, and the audit reports, together with cer-
tified copies of project accounts would be submitted to IDA vithin nine
months after the end of the fiscal year. Such reports and audits would show,
inter alia, that the funds withdrawn had been used for the purpose intended,
that goods had been received or work performed, and that payments had been
made. All reports would be submitted by the subproject implementing agencies
through DOE to the Department of Economic Affairs (DEA) GOI for onward trans-
mission to IDA.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MAKAGEMENT
A. General
5.01    Under NAEP I it has been agreed that the responsibilities for
preparation and supervision (including implementation assistance) of
IDA-supported state extension projects would be delegated increasingly to
GOI, hovever, IDA would continue to be responsible for the supervision of
NAEP II as a whole and would have the right to supervise state subprojects.
The Ministry of Agriculture's core staff and DOE's field extension unit,



-27-
which are being strengthened under 1AEP I (Cr. 1523-IN), would coordinate
and guide, monitor and evaluate state subprojects under NAEP-II, as they are
doing with KAEP I subprojects.
B. Project Management
5.02    State governments would have overall responsibility for the implemen-
tation of the project.
5.03    Each state would be responsible for preparing semi-annual progress
reports in a format approved by IDA at negotiations. It would forward its
reports to MOA/DOE and DEA. MOA/DOE, with IDA participation as required,
vould undertake comprehensive semi-annual field reviews of each state sub-
project. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that MOA/DOE would
submit to IDA semi-annual state progress reports each June and December,
giving for each subproject a summary of activities undertaken during the
prior six months (October-March, April-September), details of staffing,
physical and financial targets achieved and implementation problems
encountered, together with an evaluation of the state reports. Each state
would also undertake to prepare a subproject completiou report for its sub-
project. Both MOA/DOE and IDA would review subproject progress reports and
completion reports.
5.04    Financial management would follow the general pattern prevailing
under ongoing IDA credits for state extension projects. Each state would
have responsibility for ensuring that the financial requirements of its
subproject was met. MOA/DOE, DEA and IDA vould be responsible for monitoring
compliance vith financial reporting requirements undertaken by the implement-
ing agency (para 4.08) as well as for monitoring procurement. DEA and IDA
would make selective reviews of accounting procedures and withdrawal claims.
C. State Extension Organization
5.05    In the states, the Secretary of Agriculture and the Director of
Agriculture have overall responsibility for implementing statewide extension
programs. Within each state an Additional Director of Agriculture (ADA),
Extension is responsible to the Director of Agriculture for day-to-day
management of the extension service, both technically and administratively,
supported by the administrative machinery of the department. In the case of
Jammu and Kashmir, an Additional Secretary of Agriculture (ASA) would coor-
dinate implementation of the project with a JDA responsible for day-to-day
management in the two divisions of the state. The ADAIASA make arrangements
for recruitment and training of extension personnel, budgeting, procurement,
disbursement of funds and preparation of periodic progress reports, and is
supported, inter alia. by a small staff of SHSs responsible for improving the
technical quality of extension services in their special fields (for the main
crops grown throughout the state, plant protection, adaptive research, train-
ing, water and soil management, etc.).



-28-
5.06    Coordination at state level among extension, research and allied
agencies (inp-:t supply, finance, credit, and state agricultural university,
etc.) would be obtained through several committees at state, zonal and
district levels (established under Cr. 862-IN in the case of second phase
subprojects) as well as through informal contacts, exchange of staff,
workshops, training courses and collaboration in field testing programs.
Under the recommended system of extension, SMS employed by DOA are expected
to spend one-third of their time in liaison with research staff. SAD
research staff at zonal stations also allocate part of their time to DOA
extension work. SAU arrange workshops at zonal stations and other locations
for staff working on a particular crop or in a particular discipline.
Although under NARP (Cr. 855-IN, December 7, 1978), some zonal stations have
been partially equipped to cater for the training of DOA extension personnel,
some additional support would be provided under the proposed project at
locations not previously or adequately covered. Memoranda of understanding
between the state governments and SAUs defining their respective respon-
sibilities and linkages were signed prior to negotiations. The model
memorandum used was developed for other states where it had been tested and
found workable.
5.07    The State Technical or Research Advisory Committee provides a formal
means for review of university research and field trials and for review of
proposed research programs and extension recommendations from Zonal Research
Advisory Committees. The State Technical Committee is chaired by the
Director of Agriculture and consists of senior officers of the university,
concerned government departments and other agencies. It meets twice a year
to review research results and extension recommendations and formulate a work
program for the next year.
5.08    Each state has (Haryana, Gujarat, Karnataka) or would (Jammu &
Kashmir) establish a Project Coordinating Committee to coordinate implementa-
tion of its extension project, chaired by the Agricultural Production Commis-
sioner or Secretary for Agriculture and with the Additional Director of
Agriculture or Additional Secretary of Agriculture (Extension) acting as
secretary. Its members would include the Vice Chancellor of the SAU, Direc-
tors of Agriculture and Horticulture, and representatives of other concerned
government departments and agencies. The Comittees would meet at least
twice a year to review progress in project implementation and to resolve any
problems that arose. Assurances were obtained at negotiation that the state
of Jaumu and Kashmir would establish such a committee no later than
August 31, 1985.
5.09    Formerly, District Technical Committees were set up to review and
formulate recommended agricultural practices, including identification of
research priorities and adaptive research and field demonstration programs
for reference to the State Technical Committees. To avoid duplication and to
ensure better research/extension coordination, the District Technical Commit-
tees are being replaced by the Zonal Research Advisory Committee (ZRAC)
established under NARP. They meet twice a year.
5.10    The key link between the SAU and the department of agriculture is the
monthly extension and research workshop. These are used to train SMS, to
review recommendations and, on the basie of observations and experience, to



-29-
adapt them for field extension staff and to suggest modifications to the farm
trial programs for the pre-season zonal workshop's consideration.
5.11    Pre-season zonal workshops, chaired by the Zonal Joint Director of
Agriculture or Associate Director of Research (SAU), meet before the kharif
and rabi cropping season, at a research station. The participants include
scientists of the zonal research stations, divisional JDA , District Agricul-
tural Officers, SMSs in the zone and headquarters, SAU scientists and unit
head of the monitoring and evaluation unit. The worksbops typically include
representatives from credit, marketing, irrigation, agro-industries and other
concerned agencies. The participants review and evaluate the farm trials, the
monitoring and evaluation unit results and the adoption experience of pre-
vious years to formulate the program for the next season, including the
program for applied research and location of trials. The workshop also
screens the research and farm trial results for modification of the extension
recommendations for the zone. Adoption experience of reco endations from
previous seasons, and reports of the monitoring and evaluation unit would be
a major consideration of such discussions. The participants discuss implica-
tions of extension recommendations, seek cooperation among various input
supply agencies, and give attention to problems of credit, marketing and
input supply. The outcome from these vorkshops forms the basis of recommen-
dations placed before Zonal Research Advisory Committees (para 5.09).
Combining the zonal workshops with the Zonal Research Advisory Committee
meetings is being considered since both meet for the same jurisdiction and
have similar membership.
5.12    Zonal recommendations are revieved at a state level workshop held
before eacb cropping season. It is presided over by the Vice Chancellor of
the SAU and attended by appropriate directors and heads of disciplines of
the university, associate directors of the regional research stations, the
Director of Agriculture, Additional Director of Agriculture, Zonal Joint
Directors of Agriculture and such other officers of the Department of
Agriculture as may be designated by the Director of Agriculture. The
workshop reviews the program of research and extension cooperation and coor-
dination, determines research priorities and applied and adaptive research
programs on the basis of the recomcendations of the zonal workshops, and
screens the zonal extension recommendations. As at the zonal level, combin-
ing the state level workshop and State Technical Committee is also under
consideration. Thus, the formal structure would be simplified to consist of
zonal and state committees/workshops which would meet twice a year.
D. Monitoring and Evaluation
5.13    Continuous monitoring and evaluation (M&E) is an integral part of all
ongoing IDA-assisted extension projects. Hovever, some participating states
were slow to establish monitoring and evaluation units and to begin collec-
tion of appropriate data. In recognition of the shortcomings, in 1981-83 IDA



-30-
sponsored a serie6 of workshops and developed an operational manual I/ to
strengthen this aspect of work. In Jammu and Kashmir special effort would be
made to ensure early M&E unit establishment to allow surveys to start in the
first year and retroactive financing for this purpose is recommended.
5.14    Within a state  M&E is usually the responsibility of a Joint Director
of Agriculture located at headquarters, reporting to the Agricultural Produc-
tion Comnissioner or Secretary of Agriculture.  He is assisted at head-
quarters by a small group of staff, including a Statistician and an
Economist. The methodology used should conform to the basic M&E manual
designed for T&V extension. To be effective, the cell should be located
close to the senior officers in a state extension system, i.e. the Secretary
for Agriculture, the Agricultural Production Commissioner, the Director of
Agriculture and the Additional Directors, who must initiate actions to modify
and improve extension operations on the basis of the available evidence. The
cell should be directly responsible to an officer senior to the Additional
Director responsible for extension. While this arrangement is well under-
stood in India, in many states, the H&E cell, for all intents and purposes,
reports initially to the Additional Director (Extension) which impairs objec-
tivity. M&E cells may also be diverted from their primary duty to others
such as preparing departmental work plans and budgets or other urgent
administrative tasks. 2/  Under CAEP (Cr. 862-IN), these cells reported
directly to the Secretary of Agriculture or Director of Agriculture.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the arrangement would continue
during NAEP II and that states would continue to undertake monitoring and
evaluation of their respective projects in the form already agreed upon and
that st-mary results would be forwarded through HOA/DOE to IDA at least once
a year. Similar assurances were also obtained from the first phase sub-
project state of J&K where the H&E cell would be attached to the office of
the Additional Secretary.
5.15    The Field Extension Unit of DOE would be responsible for technical
guidance to state M&E cells and for collecting and coordinating the monitor-
ing and evaluation reports from all subproject states and forwarding them to
IDA at agreed intervals.
1/ R. H. Slade and G. Feder, "The Monitoring and Evaluation of Training and
Visit Extension in India: A Manual of Instruction", World Bank, October
1981. (Being revised for issuance as a Staff Working Paper in 1984.)
]/ G. Feder and R. E. Slade, "Experiences with the Monitoring and Evaluation
of Training and Visit Extension in India," World Bank Staff Working Paper
Number 595, May 1983.



-31-
VI. BENEFITS ADD RISKS jj
A. Benefits of ImRroved Extension
6.01    Agricultural extension organized on the basis of regular training and
frequent field visits aims at increasing productivity on farms and the income
of farmers. While it is difficult to isolate yield increases resulting from
extension from other determinants, both officials and farmers exposed to the
new system agree that it is a definite improvement over earlier systems, and
is, at least, partially responsible for bringing changes in the attitude of
the farmers toward adopting improved farming metbods and increasing the rate
of that adoption. For example, the successful introduction of new crops of
soybeans in Madhya Psadesh, and summer groundtuts in Gujarat, pulses and a
new variety of groundnuts in Karnataka and improved seeds of sorghum and
cotton in Maharashtra, are attributed to the new system.
6.02    The benefits of improving the extension service are difficult to
quantify. For example, neither favorable farmer response to regular contact
witb extension staff, nor the increased ability and self-esteem of extension
workers now permitted to perform chiefly agricultural functions, are easily
measured, although both are readily apparent. Furthermore, monitoring and
evaluation of agricultural extension activities is relatively new, and the
quality and consistency of data for estimating yield increases, particularly
of data on crop cutting (for wbich M&E staff are not responsible), is poor.
Even if survey accuracy could be guaranteed (which it cannot), the amount of
variation within vbich production change must be identified is extremely
high: crop survey programs target for a maximum of 5% standard error in
district level estimates which for most of the major crops vould still be
equivalent, in absolute terms, to aboat twice the yield increment needed for
a 50% internal rate of return on project investments. (In fact, the standard
errors of official yield statistics at the district Level are sometimes in
excess of 5%.) Hovever, there has been considerable progress in some states,
and some data on the effects of improved extension services are now becoming
available. Examples from the states which are completing five year
IDA-supported projects and would be supported under NAEP I and II are given
in SAR No 4983-IN (NAEP I) and in paras 1.12-1.17 (Gujarat), 1.18-1.20
(laryana) and 1.21-1.24 (Karnataka). The Project Completion Reports for
Orissa, Nadbya Pradesh and Rajasthan generally indicate that efforts to
improve agricultural extension have been wortbhvile. This is confirmed in
the conclusions of the project performance audit report for Rajastan
(Cr 737-IN).
6.03    Some indicators of the impact of the first phase project in Gujarat,
Karnataka and Haryana have already been mentioned (paras 1.12-1.24). The
favorable impact is also supported by overall production fiaures, despite the
difficulty of obtaining accurate production statistics. In Madhya Pradesh
(SAR 4983-IN, NAEP I para 6.03 and Table 6.01) official yield statistics for
five major crops, Bhow a steady rise in both yield and production, as well as
1/  This is similar to Chapter IV of SAR No. 4983-IN (NXEP I).



-32-
the substantial decline that occurred in 1979/80 due to adverse climatic
conditions. To spread the inter-year variations attributable to climatic
anomalies, four-year rolling averages l/ of yield and production have been
calculated and indexed to 100 for the period ending 1979180. These indicated
yield increases during the four year period 79/80 to 82/83 in the range from
3-25%. For example 25Z for wheat, 3% for paddy, 20% for maize and 12% for
gram. Despite the strong belief within DOA that official statistics under-
estimate actual progress, the results show very favorable increases in
production and productivity althougb the indices for paddy are disappointing.
(Of all crops, it is the paddy yield that DOA most persistently challenges.)
6.04    A recent review of monitoring and evaluation of extension of several
states provides evidence for a positive association of adoption rates with
the frequency of visits (both for contact and other farmers). It also iudi-
cates that contact farmers and others who adopt extension recommendations
generally obtain higher yields than other farmers. (But it must be noted
that, in some places, these farmers tend to be richer and bigger, although
they mey also be good disseminators.) In some states, this difference is
declining over time, indicating the diffusion impact of extension. In
Haryana, crop cutting results show that, with similar fertilizer doses,
contact farmers obtained better yields in part due to more appropriate
combinations, timeliness and/or methods of application. Similarly in the
case of non-fertilized plots, contact farmers often obtained bigher yields,
especially in the case of paddy and chickpea, reflecting the impact of exten-
sion tbrough the use of low-cost inputs and practices.
6.05    In late 1981, the need for an objective empirical assessment of the
impact of the T&V system led to a study being undertaken by the Bank in
collaboration with the Haryana Agricultural University at Hissar. 2/ It was
designed to assess the extent to which T&V extension has accelerated the
diffusion of knowledge about improved farming practices and increased farm
productivity. A sample survey of farmers was used to assess the strengths
and weaknesses of the T&V system relative to other systems of agricultural
extension. Results from the study indicate that the T&V extension system is
more successful in delivering information to farmers than the traditional
system, that it achieves significantly higher rates of direct contact vith
farmers, and that rates of knowledge diffusion for all wheat practices and
for some paddy practices are higher than comparable rates under the former
system. The study showed in the case of wheat, a yield increase of almost 2%
per annum over the first four years of the phase I project which is directly
attributable to extension and independent of the improved use of other farm
inputs. Further, there is also no evidence that extension agents' visits are
biased in favor of the largest or wealthiest farmers as has often been
assumed.
1J A four-year rolling average is used so that the poor results for 1979180
would be included in each calculation of the index (SAR No. 4938-IN,
para 6.03).
IJ 'A Comparative Analysis of Some Aspects of the Training and Visit System
of Agricultural Extension in India," Gershon Feder and Roger Slade,
World Bank, February 1984.



-33-
6.06    Of major significance is the clear evidence from states and areas
where improved agricultural extension is becoming vell established that it
is exerting considerable pressure on other support services (particularly
research) to improve performance in parallel with extension. This develop-
ment underscores the important but frequently overlooked lead effect of a
strong extension service. Ultimately, it vill be because of pressure and
performance accountability that the entire development machinery will become
better oriented to the needs of the target beneficiary; and, where problems
have been identified, they are in many ways a reflection of the strengths of
the system as well as of its veaknesses. Some of these weaknesses, as they
impose risks to successful implementation of NAEP II, are noted belov.
B. Risks
6.07    Withdrawal of direct IDA involvement after completion of the first
five-year projects would increase the risk of the newly established
single-line, single-purpose extension services succumbing to non-extension
functions and of staff being transferred to other activities involved in
administering, implementing and reporting on a number of activities. There
are several reasons for this. Firstly, significant numbers of staff are
still involved in administering, implementing and reporting on a number of
special programs and target campaigns; this is a particular probLem in areas
with special aid programs having a heavy subsidy component, but progress has
also been slow elsewhere because transferring these activities to others has
required changes in planning and funding procedures. Secondly, in some
areas, VEWs are still seen by many farmers not just as technical officers but
also as general representatives of government to whom all problems should be
taken; to deny farmers their assistance could jeopardize the credibility of
the system. Such pressures will continue until other support services become
stronger and areas of responsibility are more clearly understood. Finally,
District Deputy Coomissioners (Collectors) can requisitiou, at sbort notice,
staff and vehicles from any department, as the need arises. This can be
particularly disruptive to extension work since it may tie up staff for
lengthy periods, irrespective of season, and has been an important cause of
weak field supervision by district and divisional level staff. Although
extension will always be vulnerable to outside pressures, raere is increasing
recognition that its primary function must be technical and that it cannot
substitute for weaknesses in other support services. Within the field of
agricultural development, however, some pressure for non-technical involve-
ment of extension staff is likely to continue. This may be offset to some
extent by better planning so that staff involvement in thebe activities can
be concentrated outside the main growing seasons. IDA participation is
especially useful in resisting these pressures. No precist period necessary
for such IDA involvement can be established, but at least five years beyond
the implementation period of the initial project in any particular state
should be expected given the institutional changes required. After this
period of additional involvement, extension efforts at state levels should be
in a better position to continue independent of IDA support, particularly if
the central supporting agency, DOE, has been sufficiently strengthened, as
envisaged under NAEP I.



-34-
6.08    To develop professional cadres and provide technical staff with
opportunity for promotion within their field of expertise is difficult, but
it is needed to develop higher professional standards and encourage staff to
rasain within their specialities. Providing the type of training required
for increased specialization, and improvement of extension services will be
an important task. The number of SHS which current projects are to employ
amounts to more than 3,000 SMSs at full development, and there has been a
tendency in the past to underestimate the training needs for SMSs as vell as
the competition for trained staff from other agencies. Moreover, training in
extension, planning, monitoring and evaluation, and management (especially at
middle and senior levels) is required to improve extension implementation and
supervision. Use of training resources has been slow because of a failure to
systematically identify training needs, to draw up plans to meet those needs,
and because of difficulties in the selection of appropriate staff for train-
ing; considerable improvement is noY apparent, however, in most states.
Links with universities where extension staff can be trained need to be
further strengthened. Appropriate selection for training and cadre develop-
ment would continue to be sought through NAEP II as well as during the super-
vision of ongoing projects. NAEP I would belp deal with extension training
needs by strengthening the Extension Training Unit of DOE, through the train-
ing components in state subprojects, and through various special subprojects
in training that may be developed.
6.09    A number of general administrative constraints and policy problems
frequently encountered in extension projects are likely to continue to impede
development of extension and will require continued attention from GOI and
IDA. Promotion by seniority, frequent transfer, and inappropriate selection
criteria for training are key practices in all government departments that
adversely affect extension. Little progress has been made in these areas,
although some success has been achieved in altering other aspects of
administration to the benefit of extension (e.g., installing of a technical,
single-function extension service, weakening of the "target approach" to
agricultural development among agricultural and other officers, reduction in
paperwork at all levels of the extension system, and greater delegation of
authority).
6.10    In the States of Haryana and Karnataka, the progress of civil works
under CAEP was slow due to lack of coordination between the Department of
Agriculture and the constructing agencies, the inability of Public Works
Departments to deal with small projects, and because of problems in identify-
ing suitable contractors and in awarding contracts. These states have
decided that in addition to PWD, the civil engineering wing of the DOA would
construct small houses and offices, and the SAU would construct their own
project related buildings. In the cases of vehicle loans and operation,
inadequate loan amounts and terms and insufficient travel and mileage
allowances have sometimes discouraged staff from using vehicles and from
purchasing motorcycles or bicycles, although the situation for staff-owned
vehicles has improved. For government-owned vehicles, there is a strong need
to ensure that adequate vehicle operating and maintenance allowances are
given. To bring about improvements in the states' financing of travel
allowances and vehicle operating costs, the project would provide funds for
incremental costs for the entire staff engaged in T&V extension in each
project state. A total of 55Z of incremental travel allowance for vehicle



-35-
and other operating expenditures vould be reimbursed over the life of the
project on a declining scale.
6.11    An important task for a strengthened DOE and Extension Division in
the central Ministry of Agriculture will be the coordination of extension
activities with GOI Special Schemes. GOI special schemes at the state level
may conflict with extension programs and activities. In most states, many
subjects of interest to agricultural extension services (such as animal
husbandry, horticulture, water management, soil conservation, farm forestry
and agricultural credit) are the responsibility of organizations other than
the Department of Agriculture. Reconciliation of extension with continued
support for the multi-purpose village workerlcommunity development approach
is also important to the continued success of extension reform. Coordination
within states is encouraged by committees at various levels and through the
state Agricultural Production Commissioner and would be further strengthened
at the center through the establishment of the proposed Extension Technical
Advisory Committee established under NAEP I.
6.12    Without an effective two-way communication between research and
extension, it is unlikely that the technology needed by farmers to increase
productivity would be developed and transferred. To promote such linkage
betveen extension and research, each state participating in the project vould
obtain before negotiations a written memo of understanding between the SAU
and the Department of Agriculture spelling out university responsibilities
for support of the extension services (para 5.06). Such formal instruments
were not initially used under CAEP, but have been found necessary in the
course of implementation experience. The project would also provide support
to SAU for extension-related expenditures. To date, technology has not been
a major constraint, but as the backlog of research findings becomes more
widely adopted, additional adaptive research, field testing and development
of new technology will be required. While early work may be aimed at zonal
and district recommendations, ultimately technology development needs to be
directed more at meeting the needs of smaller groups of farmera and those in
more remote and difficult areas. NARP (for which a second project is under
appraisal) would help strengthen research efforts to provide relevant tech-
nology for extension transfer to such farmers.
6.13    The Extension Division and the DOE in MOA is being reorganized and
strengthened under NAEP I. While this reorganization and the appointment of
key staff are expected to improve the center's ability to assume its
envisaged role in advising and assisting the states to develop extension and
to monitor and evaluate the IDA-assisted extension projects, IDA would con-
tinue to work directly with states while passing on to the center more
responsibilities as it becomes strengthened to handle them.



-36-
VII.  AGREEMENTS AND UNDERSTANDINGS REACHED AND RECOMIENDATIONS
7.01    During negotiations, agreements were reached with GOI and the
involved states on the following:
(a)  The states would fill _'cremental staff positions with staff having
qualifcetions and experiencR satisfactory to IDA and according to
the schedule in their respective annexes of this report (3.09);
(b) The states agreed that all extension positions assigned to the
administrative control of the DOA under this project would be used
exclusively for agricultural extension work and be retained under
the administrative control of DOA (para 3.09);
(c) The states agreed that extension staff would not be adversely
affected in respect of their entitlement to emoluments, benefits and
promotional prospects by reason of assignment (para 3.09);
{d) The states would make available (a) to all eligible staff in need
of credit for the purchase of motorcycles, mopeds or bicycles, such
credit on terms and conditions designed to provide incentives for
the purchase of such motorcylces, mopeds or bicycles; and (b) such
financial incentive, including appropriate travel allowances, in
order to encourage optimum use of the motorcycles, mopeds and
bicycles to be purchased under the project (para 3.11);
Ce) The State of Gujarat confirmed the establishment of a single line of
administrative command from DAO to VEW (para 3.16);
(f)  The states, in consultation with IDA and GOI, would undertake a
mid-term review of overall project performance by September 30, 1987
which would inter alia review the adequacy of the existing staff and
recommend any necessary adjustments in number and/or discipline of
staff. If the findings of such review reveal that the number of
staff or other facilities deployed under the Project are not suffi-
cient for the efficient implementation thereof, state goverrments
shall increase the number of staff and other facilities so deployed
taking into account the Association's recommendations (para 3.19);
(g) Beginning July 15, 1986 and annually thereafter, the states would
submit to IDA for review their annual project budgets (para 4.02);
(h) Each implementing agency would implement procurement procedures
satisfactory to IDA (paras 4.03-4.06);



-37-
(i) GOI would cause each implementing agency to maintain separate
accounts of each subproject and keep records of expenditures
(para 4.10);
(j) Each implementing agency would prepare and present to MOA/DOE for
transmission to IDA administrative and financial data regarding
progress of the project, including procurement of goods and serv-
ices, civil works, expenditures, audits and requests for disburse-
ment in accordance with the schedules agreed (para 4.10);
(k) GOI agreed that, through MOA/DOE, it would submit to IDA semi-annual
progress reports each June and December for each state subproject
under the credit, in a form acceptable to IDA. The reports would
include a summary of activities undertaken during the prior six
months (October-March, April-September), details of staffing, physi-
cal and financial targets achieved and implementation problems
encountered. Further, each state would also prepare, for review by
DOE/IDA, subproject completion reports Cpara 5.03);
(1)  The State of Jamu and Kashmir would establish a project coordinat-
ing committee no later than August 31, 1985 to coordinate implemen-
tation of its extension project (para 5.08); and
(m)  The states would undertake monitoring and evaluation of the projects
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to IDA and would forward
to IDA, through MOA/DOE, annual summaries of results (para 5.14).
The following matters were discussed and understandings reached:
Ca) Understanding was reached with the State of Gujarat that subdivi-
sional SMS recruitment would be reviewed vithin one year of the
signing of the proposed Credit, and that existing unqualified SMSs
would receive training to upgrade their skills (para 3.17);
(b) The State of Gujarat gave assurance that no undue demands or pres-
sures would be placed on DOA extension staff to perform
non-extension work (para 3.16); and
(c)  The States of Haryana, Gujarat and Karnataka had complied with
covenants of the first phase investment (CAEP Cr 862-IN) and that
satisfactory arrangements had been made for the preparation of
project completion reports (para 4.02);



-38-
7.02    To encourage the prompt implementation of the project and to recog-
nize the early initiatives taken by GOI and the state governments to imple-
ment the project, it is recommended that retroactive financing up to a total
of US$2.0 H be made available for expenditures incurred after September 30,
1984 (para 4.09).
7.03    With the above assurances, the proposed project vould be suitable for
a credit of SDRs 50.26 N (US$49.0 M) to GOI on standard IDA terms.



ANNEX 1
-39w -                             1 of 3
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
T&V-based Agricultural Extension
The training and visit (T&V) extension methodology provides
farmers, on a regular and systematic basis, with current advice on farmi'g
practices best suited to their specific conditions and emphasizes proven
practices with immediate impact on production and income. It is
accomplished by a regular system of training and visits by field staff,
supported by professional advisors from within the state's Department of
Agriculture and from state research institutions. This system calls for a
single line of commuand from the Director of Agriculture to the Village
Extension Worker (VEW) and the merging of the transferred VEWs and all
agricultural field staff into a unified extension service, employed
exclusively on agricultural extension. To reflect their exclusively
agricultural role, such workers are called Village Extension Workers.
Non-agricultural village level activities are handled by the Village Level
Workers (VLW) with the Comunity Development Department and other staff.
The number of farm families covered by each VEW varies depending
on population density, accessibility, intensity of farming, and other
measures of need. On an average, between 700 and 800 families are served
by a VEW, with these divided into eight groups which would be visited
regularly on a given day during a two-week cycle. These norms have vorked
in the relatively densely populated plain areas, but will require
mod- ,ication in the hill areas of Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir.
The VEW vorks primarily with 8 to 10 contact farmers selected within each
group. The Extension messages are kept simple, concentrating initially on
the most important crops in the locality and the most important aspects of
crop cultivation at that time. Initially, emphasis is placed on improving
cultural practices. At a later stage, use of inputs and more sophisti-
cated cropping systems may be emphasized. The VEW is supervised in the
field by Agricultural Extension Officers (AEO), each supervising about
eight VEW, who work with them during field visits to convince farmers to
adopt recommendations. VEWs receive the extension message for the fort-
night at training sessions held on a fixed day in each fortnight by Sub-
ject Matter Specialists (SNS). Training and visits take nine days per
fortnight. The three other working days in the period are devoted to
field trials, making up missed visits, and performing occasional office
work.
Technical Suprnort and SuDervision
The general pattern calls for staff at the subdivisional and
district levels to be strong enough to ensure satisfactory supervision,
training and guidance. Subdivisional level staff include a Subdivisional



ANNEX 1
-40-                               2 of 3
Agricultural Officer (SDAO) with an Assistant SDAO (ASTAO) in large sub-
divisions so as to keep a ratio of about 6 to 8 AEO per supervisor. To
strengthen technical support and training, a team of SMS at subdivisional
level is provided, initially one each in agronomy, plant protection and
training. At district level, a District Agricultural Officer (DAO) super-
vises the work of subdivisional staff, while specialists provide addi-
tional technical support in such specialities as water management, farm
implements, entomology and horticulture. SMS divide their time about
equally between field visits (including guiding and supporting lower level
staff), research (including field trials), and training.
Civil Works
To enable regular and frequent farm visits, field staff need to
live near their areas of work. States undertake to provide suitable
low-cost housing or rent allowances. All states are encouraged to use
rented accommodations where possible; however, in some rural areas, hous-
ing, either institutionally owned or for rent, is limited. In such areas,
state subprojects usually provide for construction of part of the low-cost
housing needed. With increased staffing levels, certain states need also
to construct new field offices and to expand existing ones. In addition,
some states need to develop training facilities to meet increased needs.
Transport
Adequate transport is needed to enable field extension staff to
maintain fixed schedules of visits and for supervisory staff to reach the
field easily and frequently. Generally, projects provide for additional
motor vehicles at headquarters, zonal, district and subdivisional levels;
for motorcycles for AEO, SMS and other supervisory staff; and for bicycles
for VEW. State governments extend credit to staff to purchase motorcycles
and bicycles. Credit terms aud travel allowances are reviewed to ensure
sufficient incentive for purchase and use of these vehicles by field
staff. Subprojects also may provide funds for operation and maintenance
of vehicles and for staff travel and subsistence allowances.
Equipment and Incremental Operatinr Costs
To meet increased needs ror training and office equipment, state
projects may provide for simple audio-visual aids to support field opera-
tions and for necessary office equipment and furniture. Incremental
operating costs such as vehicle operation, materials, housing and travel
allowances may also be covered. In addition, projects may also provide
funds for printing various materials for VEW, for purchase of small
samples of seeds and other inputs for farmer training and establishment of
field trials and for simple visual aids.
Traininx
State extension projects generally support a variety of training
activities. These include the key training program - research/extension



-41-                                 ANNME 1
3 of 3
monthly workshops, the fortnightly training sessions -- pre-service train-
ing, additional seasonal training programs and special short courses for
all extension staff. For more senior staff, in-state training programs
are organized by departments of agriculture and by state agricultural
universities. Each state designates an officer to help coordinate train-
ing activities in the state with the agricultural university and with the
department of agriculture.
Monitoring and Evaluation
To provide systematic evaluation of performance, a small unit with
staff responsible for carrying out regular sample surveys is set up at
each state headquarters, under control of the Secretary of Agriculture.
Ad hoc studies may also be made with focus on specific topics. Detailed
guidelines for monitoring and evaluation procedures were drawn up and
agreed with the Directorate of Extension during previous IDA credits and
subsequently revised and reviewed by IDA staff. These procedures are
described in the basic manual, "The Monitoring and Evaluation of Training
and Visit Extension in India: A Manual of Instruction," World Bank,
October 1981, which is intended to provide a uniform system of evaluating
and reporting for states undertaking extension reorganization and improve-
ment with IDA assistance.
References
Benor, Daniel, James Q. Barrison and Michael Baxter, Agricultural Extension:
The Training and Visit System. Washington, D.C., World Bank 1984.
Benor, Daniel and Michael Baxter., Training and Visit Extension.
Washington, D.C., World Bank, 1984.



35T1031L AIC  Lf3I.  TUIOUn  onhJcr It
U681T  or IDSF3IC3D LaICULTULAL UT IO  P%uOcTS
Pull DeVelont and Cuwreut Adbieeeet
treieet/Criis.         153214.        ..Sui... Sui.           A 4rea C.wed __tsign Staff (No.]                                        Civil Worksia    xrsn
(US$ MA   PLeb.   Crap     Dist.    Farm    Q0   Divis.    Diet.             Subdiv.                                C,
Laud            r_iLli.                  0 U0  Slt   6D4O  a.  A40  VD   Off LC  lleuu    4WD  IK
___      ha)    ( NIt)    (1'                                __    
ORilM     6U2-DI
Effective 6/77       Full Devi.         40.0    20.0      4.5       30       3.4     2      104     30   90    62   124  865  6502    16    2323    161   3
Closien    6/U6      Current (UU/4)              18.2     4.5        30      3.4     2       76     30   52    50    88  774  6020    15    1363    14    3
x                                                                                                                               (1)  (409)1IL
mLiNCA& *90-Ilt
ffective 8/77        Full Del.          20.2    12.0      6.6       17       4.0     4        0     17   51    30   150  450  4000      0    1345    133
Closing   3/05       Current (9/84)               4.7     t.6        17      4.0     4        0     17   22    J      50  250  1923     0      341     73   1
XSNIAl IaI    712-IN
Effective 9/77      Full Devi.          20.9    10.0      7.0       15       2.1     *        0     16   S0    50   150  731  3951    52      812      07   2
Closing   9/03      Current (9/63)                9.7     7.0        15      2.1     4        0     16   79    47   150  730  3007    49      S89      *7   1
AlW       728-ID
Ufective 9/77       Full DlWI.          16.4      3.0     2.1        9       1.9     5       5       9   18    50    60  355  244       6    1649    112   2
Closing   3/85      Current (11/84)               7.2     2.1         9      1.9     2        5     14   19    49    66  300  24"4      5    1229      95   1-
1JAE  751-DI
Effective 6/78       rull Dewl.         21.6    13.0      6.5       20       2.9     e        D     31   60         150  540 4000    53    1452    12i   3
Closing   6/63       Current (2/B4)              13.0     6.5       20       2.9     6        0     30   55          135 427  3150    28      099    103
MAE       761-13
rffective 5/78      Full Dwl.           16.0      6.0     0.3       31       7.6     5       7      32   55    35    70  625  4997    52    600    113   7
Cloaieg  3/15        Current (9134)               2.0     8.3        31      7.6     1        7     26    0    55    52  325  33U3      2        4     63   1
CUJRAT   862-D3
Effective l2179      Full Dev1.         14.7      7.0     9.6       16       2.4     4       a      16   48    55    78  431  340    37       713    136   2
Closing    6/85      Currmt (11/64)               5.1     9.8        IS      2.4     A        5     27   47    56    36  393  3145    29      622    138   1
UItAMA   862-DI
Effective 12179     Pull DevI.          13.2      6.2     4.0       11       1.0     5       2      11   11    30   103  136  1490    31      557      67
Closing    6/05      Current (11/4)               4.2     4.0        11      1.0     5        1     12   11    33   177  103  1337    10       181     52
Kh1MA2%   862-ID
Effective 12/79     Full Dl.           23.9    11.1    11.0        19       3.56   22       a      27   85   175   180  750  5200    67    1400    129   5
Closing    6/85      Current (11/14)             10.1    11.0        19      3.56   20        a     25   81   169   169  730  4056    16       524    119   3
KaLD&    1023-11
Effective  /160     tull DvI.           15.3    10.0      1.6       13       2.1    11       0      13   32    47   144  376  1952      0     582    116   1--
Clgeing    6/36      Curret (11/84)               2.8     1.6       13       2.6    11       0      14   39    46   141  260  13U7      0       2      96   I
5IIIRISKI 1135-iN
Effective  7/61       ull Dowl.         38.2    23.0    18.2        25       5.76    5      11      29   32   108   130  747  6000      1    1350    173   3
Cloeiag    8/37      current (7/14)               3.2    18.2       25       5.76    5       7      28   29   106   161  643  5510      1      23    166   3
TAMIL 7LO   1137-111
Efective  7/81      7ull Dewl.          45.6    28.0      6.3       14       1.8     3       0      14   57   100   297  645  4777    4    1776       153   3
Cloping    6/87     Current (6/84)                6.1     6.3        14      1.6     3       0      10   57    99   283  626  3930    1      138      152   2
RAMZA lD2R 1138-17
REfective  7/1    Pull DWl.            60.0    37.0    11.0        33       3.8     4             33   81    81   243 1114  7690   90    3602        170   6
Closing    6/37      Curret (9184)                2.7    N.A.       P.A.    2.6      3              20   47    47    73  517  4197    0        0      103
AUID MI        1219-11
Effective  6/62      Pull Dowl.          9.7      6.0    11.3       23       5.5     7       6       22  66    67   201  853  6776    4      195      60   7
Cloeing    3/65      Current (7164)               0.5    11.3       23       5.5     5       0       22  58    67   209  516  3524    3        0       61
/&  MI_bers nder coutraction in parenthesee.
April 283 1911



ANNEX 3
-43-                             1 of 6
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT II
Summary Data on State Sub-Proiect.
Jamu
Harvana         Karnataka          Guiarat             Kasbuir
Population (M)                   13                 37               34                   6
No. of Agric. Districts          12                 19               19                  14
No. of Extn. Subdivisions        35                175               37                   -
No. of N.E.S. Blocks             95                175              250 (184 Taluks)   125
Net Cultivated Area (M/Ra)        3.6 (81182)       10.4 (83/84)    10.4 (83/84)          0.7
Gross Cultivated Area (MH|a)      5.5 t "   )       20.6 ( "  )    19.6 (  n  )           1.04
Land Holdings
(1 Farmers/lArea)
Small (below I ha)           32/4.6              33/5            71.7/35.6              -
Semi-Medium (1-4 ha)         40/26               45/31           15/22.5                -
Medium (4-10 ha)             21.4/37.9           18/34           10/26.5                -
Large (10 ha and above)       6.4/31.3            4/30          2.9/15.4                -
No. of Agro-climatic zones        2                 10                6                   5
Staffinx
Keadauarters
Add'l Jt/Dy. Dir. A          25                  8               22
B          -                  2                2
c         25                 10               24
ABst. Director    A          19                 10                -
B          -
C         19                 10                -
SMS (DDA)         A           4                 20                3
B          -                  8                3
C          4                 28                6
J A - Existing; B - Incremental under NAEP II; C - Total
2/  Some existing staff in Farm Management Data Unit and Bureau of Economics
And Statistics will be used.



-44-                             AUNEX 3
2 of 6
Zonal/Regional
Jt. Director       A           3                   8                6                    0
B                             -                                      2
C           3                  8                 6                   2
Dy. Dir./SNS       A           -                  16                4                    0
B          -                   8                 8                   8
C          -                  24                12                   8
District
Dist. Ag. Ofer.   A           12                  27               18+18 (Add'l DAO)  14
3          -                   -                2                    0
C         12                  27                19                  14
SKS                A          11                  85               48                   14
B         13                  40               37                   30
C         24                 145                85                  44
Subdivision
SDAO              A           30                 175               37                    0
B            5                 -                 8                   56
C          35                 175               45                   56
Add'l SDAO        A            -                  -                21                    -
B            -                                    3
C            _                 -                24
SMS               A          103                180                78                    0
B          20                  60                16                 142
C          123                260                94                 142
Field
AKO               A          186 /c              750              455                 297 Id
B          70                  -               300                   57
C         256                 750              755  /4              354
yEw               A        1,485 /c           5,200             3,699                 435 /e
B         -                    -             1,353                 1365
C       1,317               5,200            4,826  lb             1800
N&E Staff                                                             /
HQ/Reg. Level    A              5                  18               13                   0
B             1                  1                 9                  9
C             6                 19               22                   9
Field Level       A            41                  40               24                   0
B             5                 12               27                  30
C            46                 52                51                 30
Training and Information
IQ/Reg. Level    A              5                   7                2                   0
B             -                                   7                  10
C             5                  7                 9                 10
Farming
Training Ctr.  A              -                  -                                    0 
B            10                                  12                   0
C            10                                   12                  0
L_a Of vbich 184 deployed for non- T&V work.
Lb  Of vhich 552 deployed for non- T&V work.
L   Excluding staff working on special schemes, sugarcane development,
*oil testing and survey, *oil conservation, etc.
/d  264 working under project, 31 as agricultural assistants
farm inputs, 2 as agricultural assistants information.
le  435 existing agricultural assistants would be transferred
to the extension service



-'45-                        ANNEX 3
3 of 6
INDIA
Haryana - Production and Averate Yields of Principal Crops
1965-66  1975-76  1976-77  1977-78  1978-79  1979-80  1980-81  1981-82  1982-83
Xat        P      869      2,428    2,731    2,845    3,398    3,281    3,490    3,682    4,345
Y    1,282     1,980    2,024    2,093    2,293    2,131    2,360    2,357    2,527
P      385       907       830      905    1,044       313      455       309      282
Y      444        820      798      841       980      571      629       296      555
al Rabi    P    1,423      3,575    3,706    3,956    4,607    3,721    4,144    4,166    4,762
*dgrains    Y      841     1,403    1,464    1,496    1,716    1,744    1,754    1,508
- e          P      205        625      817      905    1,228       941    1,259    1,250    1,275
Y    1,063     2,063    2,468    2,608    2,680    1,852    2,606    2,471    2,608
let        P      208        608      550      284       384      278       474      496      506
y      267       605       573      321       440      341      544       582      648
._1 Iharif  P      562     1,463    1,552    1,385    1,727    1,319        892      893    1,897
Agrains    Y      424        889      952       892    1,088      846    1,184    1,189    1,280
seeds      P       83         79       79.6      98       95       75       188      151      117
Y      506        513      672      520       718      540      610       702      665
ton        P      292        439      450      463       601      587       643      680      840
Y      268       311       333      298       357      310      340       355      360
Production '000 tons
Yield kg/ha
tton '000 bales)



-46-                                 ANI4f
4 of 6
INDIA
Karnataka - Crop Production and Production Trends
Crop              1977-78  1978-79  1979-80  1980-81  1981-82  1982-83  1983-84
Rice              P   2,319    2,115    2,322    2,258    2,364    2,062    2,790
Y   2,099    1,940    2,026    2,027    2,033    1,916    2,356
Sorghum           P   1,624    1,624    1,803    1,533    1,752    1,586    1,884
Y     807      818       934      770       829      763      880
Ragi              P   1,507    1,599    1,478    1,064    1,428    1,321    1,540
Y   1,266    1,387    1,250    1,006    1,240    1,339    1,300
Total Cereals     P   6,660    6,576    6,642    5,741    6,685    5,875    7,595
Y   1,115    1,100    1,129    1,030    1,126    1,080    1,298
Total Pulses      P      640      667      623       488      623      459       838
Y     431      440       403      319      397       348      500
Total Foodgrains  P   7,300    7,243    7,265    6,229    7,308    6,334    8,433
Y     980      967       980      877      970       936    1,120
Total Oilseeds    P      710      786      769       650      863       769    1,372
Y     536      591       587      520      621       544      694
Cotton            P      523      535      640       597      621      654       800
Y      91       90       103      106       107      108      198
P - Production in '000 tons/bales
Y - Yield (kg/ha)
/a Provisional



-47-                            ANNEX 3
S of 6
INDIA
Cujarat - Crop Production and Productivity Trends
Crop          1973-74 1974-75 1975-76 1976-77 1977-78 1978-79 1979-80 1980-81 1981-82 1982-83
Rice          P     468      178     572    567       669     534      437    557     737       489
Y   1,049     484   1,246  1,218    1,384   1,164       954  1,166   1,476    1,027
Sorghum       P   1,848   1.804   1,697  1,180    1,902   1,767   1,839  1,269   1,792    1,586
Y     884     828      841    683      945      886     952    770      848      765
Millet        P   1,600      558   1,391  1,263    1,019   1,553   1,332  1,222   1,473    1,178
Y     787     389      726    808      745   1,064   1,060    885   1,028        845
Pulses        P      165      92     179    187       149     231      194    267     350       435
Y     393     327      401    417      330      423     358    481      528      569
Total         P   3,918   2,153   4,520  4,028    3,874   4,485   4,008  4,475   5,089    4,359
FoodgrainO  Y     804      564     891    856       865     977      914  1,001   1,073       923
G'nut Rabi    P     -        -       -       -         40      37      145    263     317       321
I     -       -        -      -      2,365   1,447   2,100  1,754   1,900    1,951
Castor        P       56      47      70    106       129     135      140    132     197       223
P     982     863      974   1199    1,275   1,136   1,134    972   1,124    1,319
Mustard       P       31      28      26      37       40      51       50     55      78       211
f     570     383      410    484      401      488     459    461      436    1.232
cotton        P   1,707   1,455   1,677  1,638    1,942   2,101   1,785  1,714   2,095    1,548
f     156     155      160    161      181      203     177    185      233      176
Tobacco       P     131      127     117    165       125     154      175    185     210       197
Y   1,446   1,440   1,483  1,659    1,537   2,059   1,525  1,524   1,854    1,782
P - Production in '000 tons/cotton bales of 170 kg.
Y - Yield (kg/ha)



-48-
ANNEX 4
INDIA
Jaicu & Kashmir - Crop Production and Production Trends
CROP                    1973-74  1974-75  1975-76  1976-77  1977-78  1978-79  1979-80  1980-81  1981-82  198
P      460       456       423       350      522       546       483       546       551       575
Rice               Y    1,941    1,916    1,679    1,371    2,014    2,043    1.804    2,065    2,082    2,094
P      316       304       374       378      360       398       393       493       461      407
Maize              Y    1,182    1,137    1,320    1,381    1,318    1,457    1,346    1,793    1,656    1,491
P      161       194       154       157      186       204       206       204       204      204
Wbeat              Y       846    1,013        976      840       979       983    1,021    1,032    1,010    1,018
P       32        32        24        22        27       27        30        35        32        31
Total Pulses       Y       6C8       630       475      466       493       672       617      653       650       617
P       34        22        24        27        44       31        39        60        64       64
Rape   M Kustard    Y      934       882       871      842       931       665       982    1,413    1,402    1,485
P      996    1,009    1,007         934    1,121    1,215    1,112    1.307    1,27?    1,239
Total Foodgrains  7    1,249    1,268    1,245    1,153    1,361    1,431    1,332    1,503    1.526    1,467
P       40        29        29        30        48       34        42        64        69       68
Total Oil Seed    Y        816       737       759      754       855       611       877    1,232    1,304    1,295
P-  Production in '000 tons
Y - Yield (kglha)



-49-
ANNEX 4
1 of 10
INDIAL
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
TraininL Guidelines
1.      The Agriculture Extension Service has an important role in
increasing agricultural productivity and, thus, farmers' incomes. To do
this, farmers need knovledge and skills for efficient management of their
crops, livestock, physical resources, and farm business as a whole.
Essentials of success include incentives for production, evolving suitable
technology through research, availability of credit, inputs, transporta-
tion, and markets. The responsibility of the extension agents is to
provide the farmer with the knowledge to improve his income, to verify new
technology as it develops, and to identify and diagnose farmerr' produc-
tion problems to provide feedback to researchers on 'new' problems or
previously unnoticed constraints. A training program is, thus, essential
for extension vorkers (VEW/AEO) sinc they must be able to demonstrate the
actual techniques of improved farm husbandry to farmers.
A. Trainina for Extension
2.      Training programs for extension workers and agricultural
administrators must be strengthened to provide better dissemination of
advice as a means of overcom.ing production constraints, and to assist
farmers in the adoption of improved agriculture husbandry practices. The
professional extension system is a basis for an improved extension serv-
ice. This service depends on sustained and regular training of extension
workers and the transfer of appropriate recommendations to farmers through
regular visits by VEW. The keynote in India is continuous practical
training of about 75,000 VEW and AEO by 3,300 SMS, vbo are conversant with
the latest research results, who are active in the identification of local
problems, and vho participate in local- verification trials. Training in
administration and management is required for about 1,500 mid-level and
100 senior level staff.
Traininx Strategy
3.      Since the extension service is to improve the quality of farming
practices, training of researchers, extension staff and faDmers must be
such that it imparts the specific skill or information needed. There is
little merit in merely telling the farmer to adopt skills. The farmer
needs to know how to adopt the skill. It is best if the extension worker
actually works with the farmer while teaching skills. This implies that
AEO and SMS must also be able to practice skills. Furthermore, trainers
of $ES  (usually research vorkers and senicr staff) need to be acquainted
with farming operations and Low they are best performed. This requires a



ANNEX 4
50-                            T2 of 10
change in present training methods from a reliance on lectures to "learn-
ing by doing", i.e. skill-teaching techniques.
4.      The first step in designing appropriate training programs is an
identification of the skills and knowledge required by the farmer to
improve his production. The second step is to identify which of these
would be taught by YEW to the farmer. The order of operation and their
*easonal priority is then determined so that VEWr can get appropriate
traiuing at the proper time. AEO, as supervisor of VEW, vould not only
need training iL what is to be passed on to the farmer, but should also be
able to ansver more advanced technical questions and identify practical
problems to guide and improve the work of VEW, and to be effectively
involved in farm trials and diagnosis of farmers' production constraints.
Subdivisional and district S1XS need an even greater depth of knowledge so
as to enable them to instruct both VEW and AEO and to be effectively
involved in farm trials and resource constraint diagnosis.
5.      Research as well as extension workers have to develop ability in
identifying coustraints that limit farm production and in targeting
research programs to the practical resolution of these problems. This
implies joint far= visits by research and extension workers, cooperation
in design, execution and analysis of trials on farmers' fields, and a
continuous exchange of information and ideas between research, extensicn
and farmers. This project supports these activities.
6.      Fortnightly training of VEW and AEO and monthly workshops for SMS
would be major features of extension training, including under NAEP.
Additional and more specialized training, however, should also be provided
for each category of extension vorker. Basic training requirements for
each level of staff are shown in Table 1 and described below.
B. State Training Programs
Villate Extension Worker (VEW)
7.      Pre-service TraininR.  VEW have generally completed secondary
school and are then given a six-monthly or a two-year diploma course in
agriculture at a training center. The content, practical training, and
length of the diploma course are variable. In the past, the course has
generally included subjects related to community development, in addition
to agriculture. These courses need more emphasis on practical training in
crop and livestock production, and in extension methods (including T&V).
Several states have already adopted such courses. In view of the sudden
requirment of VEW, this training has been reduced to six months in some
earlier projects. Havever, for normal replacement in future years, the
two years pre-service training should be restored as a long-term policy.



-51-                         ANNEX 4
3 of 10
8.      Induction Training.  Field assistants and other staff deployed
from other schemes as YEW should receive training on extensiou organiza-
tion and professional extension, including job responsibilities, mode of
work, training schedules, use of dairy, links vitb input support services,
etc. The course should last about four veeks and be given as staff are
deployed to work on extension.
9.      Orientation Training.  On a regular basis, all VEW would receive
training in extension methodology, the T&V system and available support
services as they start working in professional extension for the first
time. The training would last three days, being given by SMS and other
district and subdivision staff.
10.     Fortnightly Training.  A major feature of the T&V system is train-
ing of VEW and AEO oace a fortnight. This training is given by a team of
SMe  nd the SD&O to AEO and VEW.  Each training session would have a group
of 30-40 VEW and AEO. They would meet on a regular day, once in two
weeks, to receive training from SM and officers of the subdivision,
supported as necessary by district SMS. Most sessions would be held Where
there are facilities for practical skill teaching, viz., a farmers' field,
a seed farm, an experimental station, or a training center. Training
would cover actual farm situations most likely to arise over the next two
week period. VEW and AEO would gain practical experience of skills.
During training, VEW would have a chance to raise and discuss problems
encountered during visits. Representatives of support services such as
cooperatives, banks, input agencies, agro-service and irrigation units
would be invited to attend the sessions at a given time to ensure coor-
dination of related activities. On the intervening training day in each
two-week period, VEW would meet their AEO for review of field work and to
solve problems. Prior to each of the two agricultural sessions (kharif
atd rabi), pre-season training of two to three days vould cover the main
seasonal crops and practices recommended for them. This would replace one
regular one day fortaightly training and would be held at subdivision
level. The DDA, SMS and SD&O would organize and attend this session.
This training would enable discussions on crop technology development and
extension strategies and thus orient the extension program in a general
sense for the coming season.
11.     Refresher Course.  Once every five years, each VEW would par-
ticipate in a two month course to refresh his knowledge and skills in crop
production techniques, extension communications and other needed topics.
12.     Special Short Courses.  Every YEW would attend annually at least
one short (three to fifteen day) course in a particular discipline or
crop. Trainers should be SMS or staff of GSTC, etc.
13.     Promotional Training.  Selected VEW would be deputed to a degree
(B.Sc.) course to upgrade their technical knowledge, and thus to qualify
for promotion. If necessary, alternative diploma training should be
arranged.



ANNEX 4
-52-                              4 of 10
14.     Study Tours.  Selected VEW would undertake study tours (primarily
within the state) to review items of interest to their work.
Aariculture Extension Officers (AEO)
15.    Orientation Trainint.  AEO would receive, upon starting to vork in
professional extension, orientation training on extension methodology, the
T&V extension system and the role of the UEO. The training vould be given
by subdivision and district SMS, and last five days.
16.     Fortuirhtlv Trainint.  AEO would attend all fortnightly training
messions along with VEW. In addition to visiting each VEW in the field
once each fortnight, each AEO would conduct a mid-fortuightly review
training meeting for all the VEW of his range.
17.     Refresher Courses.  Once in every three years, AEO would par-
ticipate in a four-week course to update their technical know-hov and
skills and to improve their extension methods. This course vould be given
by training center or agricultural university staff.
i8.     Special Short Courses.  Each year, about one-fourth of AEO would
be given specialized training for 3-15 days in particular crops and dis-
ciplines which are important to their area of operation. These courses
would be organized and given by university or research/training institute
staff.
19.     Promotional Training.  Selected AEO would be provided oppor-
tunities for higher training by being deputed for a two-year M.Sc. course
to serve as an izcentive and facilitate their promotional chances.
20.     Studs Tours.  Selected AEO would undertake study tours (in state
or out of state) to reviev items of interest to their work.
Subiect Matter Specialist (SMS)
21.     SMS play an important role in providing technical support and
training to V2W and AEO. There would be SMS with different kinds of
training and competence at subdivisional, district and state levels.
Selection criteria of SHS have been considered at national level and M.Sc.
(Agri.) with specialization in agronomy, plant protection or other dis-
ciplines, and preferably with two years of field experience, have been
proposed for recruitment of fresh staff.
22.     Orientation Trainin!.  Suitable instruction vould be given in
extension methodology and the ThV extension system to all newly appointed
SMS. Their specific roles would be explained to them in detail, and
special emphasis would be placed upon topics such as diagnostic techni-
ques, applied research, the economics of recot=enda'ions, and effettive
training techniques. The training should last five d'ys and be given by
senior Department of Agriculture officers, GOI and/or university staff.



-53-                               ANNEX 4
5 of Ur
23.     In-service Training.  Each SMS would be responsible for keeping
up-to-date in his subject matter field. About one-third of his time would
be spent with research workers and in participating in applied research
and verification trials, supplemented by reading and discussions with
co-workers. SS would also participate in monthly workshops and preseason
training.
a. Monthly WorkshoRs. To provide effective fortnightly training
to VEW and AEO, SMS would be updated in their areas of
specialization and ensure that training has a practical bias.
The tvo-day monthly vorkshops held at the research station
identified in each main agroclimatic zone would be attended
by all SMS in the zone, together with SAU researchers and
headquarters SM. The main objectives of the workshop are
to reviev results achieved, modify recoumendations, as neces-
sary, to suit current field conditions, review findings and
progress of field trials, and to develop suggestions for FEW
and AEO training and identify areas of future research.
Instruction in special topics, such as extension methods and
plans for coordination with other line departments and support
services, would also be covered as needed.
b. Pre-season TraininM. SMS would participate in the 3-day
preseason training held at zonal level prior to the main
cropping seasons (kharif and rabi). The training would be
held at SAU or zonal research stations. Based on this ses-
sion, SHS will be required to give similar training to AEO and
VE'W in their preseason training sessions.
24.     Special Short Courses.  In order to build up the professional
competence of SMS, special three or four week courses would be organized
by the SAU and other training/research institutions. In addition, SMS
would be given the opportunity to attend GOI-sponsored higher training in
agricultural universities and research institutions. SMS with exceptional
talent could be provided opportunities for training internationally and
for study tours. Training needs of individual SMB would be identified and
courses tailored to appropriate areas of interests.
25.     Denutation.  The temporary exchange of SMS with SAU research and
extension personnel is especially desirable. The Director of Agriculture
in each state would meet vith the SAD' to identify appropricte oppor-
tunities for exchange of personnel. During the period of such exchanges,
salary, promotion and incidental expenses vould generally be the respon-
sibility of the parent organization.
26.     Promotional Training.  SMS would be provided opportunities for
M.Sc. or Ph.D degrees.



-54-                                  ANNEX 4
6 of 10
Eztension Supervisorv and Administrative Staff
27.     In addition to training in technical fields and extension
methodology, trainiag in administration and management would be available
to mid-level (District and Subdivision Officers) and to senior-level
extension officers  ADA/JDM).   Such training includes:
a   Orientation TraininA.  All supervisory personnel would undergo
introductory orientation in extension methodology and profes-
sional extension. The specific roles in management and staff
supervision of each vould be explained in detail.
b.   baaexement Training.  Special courses in extension and agricul-
tural management vould be organized and offered on a one-time
basis to all supervising and administrative personnel.
c. Snecial Training. Specific programs would be organized by the
Director of Agriculture for staff at supervisory levels after
the special needs are ideutified.  The trainees for these
courses are likely to come from DOA, SAU, GOI and national in-
stitutes. Research staff should also receive special training
in both eztension methodology and farm trials and adaptive
research, as vell as in areas of their own specialization.
d. Study Tours. Selected senior officers vould undertake study
tours (in India andlor overseas) to review relevant agricultural
activities.
28.     In addition to these identified training activities, senior super-
visor and administrative staff should attend, in the course of their
regular work monthly workshops, fortnightly trairing sessions, seasoral
training sessions and zoual workshops, as well as training courses
organized for each level of staff.
Senior Level Officers (Non-Extension)
29.     Special extension workshops and seminars ou the objectives and
operation of extension of one or two days duration would be available to
officers from other organizations, suct. as irrigation, CADL, credit, input
services, comruity development and tribal welfare. Similar orientation
may also be provided to non-officials, office bearers of local organiza-
tions and comunity leaders.
vnit Trainina
30.     Special courses for units such as MAE, informational services and
applied research may be organized as required, once a year.



-55-                          ANNEX 4
7 of 1I
Responsibilitv for Training Ortanization
31.     The ADA, (Eztension) is responsible for organizing the training of
all staff at zonal and district levels and, vith the assistance of SAU
staff, Training Officers (TO) and senior SMS, for organizing short courses
for other SHS and senior staff. The DAO, in consultation with the SDAO
and district and subdivisional TO and SM, is responsible for arranging
training at the subdivisional level.
C.  Training Functions of Directorate of Extension
32.     The Extenuion Training Unit (ETU) of the Directorate of Eztension
would continue to be responsible for providing leadership and guidance to
states in planning, implementing, coordinating and evaluating training
prograsms for extension workers. All state governments vill identify an
officer in DOA headquarters (a senior SMS Training or Training Officer) to
coordinate training activities of DOA with SAU and DOE. In addition to
assisting states, ETU organizes All-India and regional training programs,
particularly for SH5 and senior officers, at agricultural universities and
central research and training institutes.
33.     Training of extension personnel is a state responsibility, but at
GOI level, ETU would be the focal point among the states for the collec-
tion and exchange of experiences on training.  ET's main responsibilities
would include:
a.  Trainins Stratesy.  To promote improved training strategy in
regular inservice programs and in special training at SAU,
research institutes and Extension Education Institutes
(EEI), vorkabops to help develop better understanding and
utilization of training for behavioral objectives and for
testing of performance would be conducted by ETU. These
workshops would help local coordinators prepare detailed
course objectives and learning and skill goals.
b.  Extension MAnagement Training vould be developed to improve
staff skills in problem identification, field supervision and
guidance, project management, monitoring and evaluation.
c.  Planning of Traini-e.  ETU would assist the states to develop
state extension training plans which would: (i) identify the
state extension training program goals; (ii) set priorities;
(iii) identify staffing needs and responsibilities; (iv) specify
education-training-experience needed for staff; (v) provide a
schedule to assist in orderly staff development; and (vi)
identify the role of training and academic institutions in the
development and presentation of courses.
d. Courses for SMS. In addition to training ar..anged vithin
individual states, the ETU would organize about 50 courses
per year in various key crops and disciplines. These courses



-56-
ANNEX 4
8 of 10
would continue to be identified at the annual Training Workshop
held in New Delhi.
e.  Nu would arrange for SAU, ICAR and other Indian institutions
participating in various training programs to develop appropriate
training materials and manuals.
f.  Evaluation of Training Programs.  The ETU would continue to
evaluate centrally-sponsored trainiug programs, but more
emphasis would be placed upon the measurement of skills and
kzowledge learned, rather than the n development of awareness".
g.  Field Suvoort.  Visit to states by ETU personuel vould
emphasize the design of appropriate practical training courses.
For the first year, the emphasis should be on courses for SMS.
=?V would also assist states in the design and coordinzation of
training programs for fAO, SDAO, AEO and VEW.
h.  International Support   The ElTU would arrange for international
assistance from INDP, World Bank, ICRTSAT, IR=I, CIMMYT and other
organi2ations in the conduct of extension training programs.
i.  International ErchanRes   The ETU would arrange visits of
consultants and others to Indian agricultural extension programs
and training visits of Indians to other countries.
j.  Stud, Tours.  Study tours for all categories of extension staff
are proposed to enable direct observation of technology develop-
ment and transfer ivi actual field situations, and to facilitate
exchange of experieLces.



-57-
ANNEX 4
9 of 10
Table:  TYPI   Of TRAINIC FOR EXTINSIOI FUNCTSONAtIZS
Wumber
Attmnded
Dasis of                                                           per batch/
Course        Cost Calc.   Audience   Trainer   Location        L<nith   Free. course       Cost         Remarks
(12s000)
Preservice    ludiv.        New VEW    Trg.       Statevide/    6 m*       lx       40      1.5      Stipend + Training
(sub. matter)                          Center    Zonal                                               Material lj
Induction        n          Deployed                n "          1 '  I =  l        40      0.3
(T&V)                      VCE
Refresher                   All                "         "       2 m      1/3/yr   40       0.5
(sub. matter)
Orientctioa   Course        All         SFS       Subdiv/        3 de      1x       40      0.3      Training Material
(Subdiv)  District
Fortnightly                 All                   Subdiv         1 dB      26/6r   40       1.3          n        n
Special                    All         Tn.        District/    3-15 da   1/yr    40         0.5      Training Material
Center    Zonal                                              1 courue/VEW/yr
S5S (a11)
Promotional   Indiv.        Selective  SAO        Statevide      4 yr.. Selective 1k        6.0      Scholarships, fees
(degree)                                                         (3.Sc.)                            and Trg. Materials
Study Trips      n              n                 Statevide      10 da                      0.4      Subsistence and
Interstate                                        Travel.  About 5
trips/yr each
Orientation    Course      All         SHS        District       5 da      lx       40      1.0      Training Material
Refresher       Indiv.     All         Tr.        State/Zonal   30 da    113 yr  40         0.15                   U
(Sub.uatter)                           Center
SAD
Fortnightly    Course      All         SWG        Subdivision   I da       26Jyr    -        -       (Along vith VEW)
CSubdiv.)
Special         Course     All         Tr.        State/Zonal   3-15 da  1/yr    40         1.0      1 Course per AEO/yr
Center
SAU
Promotional    Indiv.       Selective  SAO        Statevide      : yr   Selective 1I        a.0      Scholarships. Fees
(Post-grad.)                                                    fxSc.)                              and Trg. Materials
Study Trip      mdiv.       Selective             Statewide,    10 da  Selective            1.0      Subsistence and
Interstate                                        Travel.  About
Overseas                                          5 trips/yr each



-58-
ANNEX 4
10 of 10
Kid-Level:
,Am. Subdiv.
Orientatio3    Cours       All       GOZISAVD   Statewide/    S da        lx      30       1.0     Training Material
EQ         Zonal
Ibothly        Course      U 1         eseoarch   Zoual/        2 da   l2yr       30       1.0
lorlubop                              Scientist  District
lQ Sys
Special        Course      Selective mat. laest  Statewide    21-30 da 1/yr       30       3.0                    -
Ski
roiotioual      zdiv.      Selective SAO         Statewide      2 yr   Selective /I       10.0/yr  Scholarships, Fees
(Poet-grad.)                                                   (M.Sc.)                             and Trg. Materials
Study Tour    Imdii.       Selective             Statewide,   10 da   Selective            2.0     Subsistence & Travel
Isterutate                                       About 2 tripe/yr *s
Overseas                                         w/15 staff
Senior Officers:
Dist.. Div.. State
Orientation    Cours       All        COI/SAV/   Statewide      3 da      lx      30       2.0     Training Material
(Seminar Workshop)                   EQ
Managment      Course      All        National   Statewide      6 da      lx      30       2.0     Training Material
lost/SAD
special        Course      Selective National   Stactwide       3 da      1/yr    20       1.5     Training Material
Inst/SAn                                                     21-30 dIa  eap. Ss
Sr. Officers   S. inar/   Selective SAD/BQ       Statewide      2 da      lx      20      2.0      Training material
of other Depts Worksbop                                                                            2-3 courses/yr
Orientation    Course      All       HQ Staff   Statewide       3 da     1x       20      1.0      Training Material
an mu
Study Tour     Xadiv.      Selective             Statewide,   10 da      Selective        4.0      Subsistence & Travel
Interstat e                                      About 2 trips/yr ea
Overeoss                                         v/l0 Staff
Iwitoring and
lyaluation Staff
Orintation    Course       All       Senior      Statewide      5 ta      lx      30      1.5      Training Material
NLZ Staff
Special        Course      All        National   Statewide      5-30 da  l/yr    30       3.0      Training  Material
last/SAV/  Division                                          I course/yr/staff
Sr. Staff                                                    Course for diff.
level staff mcl.
_interstate & overf
/j    raining Nsterial  in all cases includes field trip costs.
1. 15-25 inL & ya for * 4-year course.
/Is  5-10 in y71 72   y3 for a 2-year course.  For J/1 2-3 yli 72 & 73
/A  5-10 ia Y2i  &3   y  for a 2-year course.



-'9-
s1la
tinsL stT EtUEIOO P31 11 Ut4D21
Tabl2 I2. tmu  - f211I1L ME5  6 MISC!                                                 ANNEX 5
MOtiOdECI Table                                                     Table  101
I-tiol mm"E     mtob
lumilt.                                      3'. Cats                                Toals lelSia  Cmtaamcn
lUrut  1M5 2M1    ? 133 19M   Toal Cut  1M          1k    17    13 M        Im     ToUal    IM       196    1719              29I    TOWl
am~ oul. mamaN   ma oom a   rolo  ass  saua   s-rn a....           -sm-  -0m   -aasM.           a    ans   aajalsa   snaaam
1. maCorT CDSs
& INItIOEIITL 51UIRE
2. DIsTRIC
SIIS (T13131  I DFWfTIIN) /a            k       1   1    1   1   1    5    24    24.0   24.0   24.0   24.0   24.0   120.0    25.0   27.1   29.5   12.0   34.7   143.3
SIN (FIL  2IPLIII /b                    NO    12  12   12  12  12   40   24   2M.0   S.0  2S1.0  2111.0  233.0  1440.0   100.2  325.8  353.5  3I3.5  416.1  i,m.0
SWllRtlDOEIT Ir                         No      I   I    I   I 2         5    24    24.0   24.0   24.0   24.0   24.0   120.0    25.0   27.1   29.5   32.0   34.7   148.3
TEDIWM . tBStTET Id                    10      1   1 I        2   2    5 I    B     I3 0    29.. 0    13.0    10.0    1 .0    9   0. 0 29.    20.4   22.1   24.0   24.0   111.2
Sub-Tut  I1TRICT                                                                       154.0  154.0  354.0  354.0  354.0  1.770.0    39.0  400.4  434.4  471.4   111.4  21296.7
2. SDlVI Ni
5/2 it                                  N            3   5    5    5    25   24    120.0  120.0  120.0  120.0  12.0    600.0   125.1  235.7  147.3   15.1  173.4   741.3
951/ t                                  40    2t  20  20  20  20  100   24   400.0  430.0  4110.0  480.0  40.0 2.tO0.0   50.4  342.9  309.1  63.2  693.5  2465.1
TECNICA  muSm (TS1  IWIS  /v h          0      315  35  35  35  35   175    12   423.0   420.0  420.0  420.0  420.0  2,200.0    47.9  475.1   515.4   91.3  606.3  2,594.4
AS  rFaw  ILEJIS) /bh                   10    31  33  35   35  35   175   12   420.0  420.0  420.0  420.0  420.0  22I00.0   437.9  475.1  515.4   39.3  60.3  2594.4
T1A* S KE E E  IUI                      N0      2   4    4   4   2    16   24    40.0   94.0   96.0   96.0   40.0   304.0    30.0  100.6  117.3  127.1   69.3   473.6
T1I3*23    KOK  t 115   CE S  i0) I     40        6       6   6   6   30   13    10.0   21.0  103.0  203.3  10.0   540.0   122.6  122.2  132.5  143.3  156.0   67.1
r13133  ME5RE VE  /I                   40    12  24  24  24  12    9    12    144.0  208.0   23.0   208.0  144.0  1.252.0   130.1  325.3  353.5   313.1  20.0  12,420.9
Sub-?Tul N32VNItSUTIl                                                               lC-Z.0 1,932.0 12932.0 1,132.0 1,740.0  9,76.0 12014.0 2,135.3 2.DI.1 2,72.6 2.313.9 22.456.8
3. NI  M6E.0IL RESECI CEIIIER
TURAIS6 ATMO3TS                         No    10  10  10  10  10   50               0 30.0   30.0   30.0   s0. 0    3.0   400.0        3.4    9.5   93.2   104.5  125.6   04.2
Sub-TOal MU42 IEI;IO   RmEOI  CEKIS                                                     30.0   30.0   00.0   00.0   30.0   400.0    U3.4          0.5   91.2  206.5  115.6   494.2
4. ME SINt
riELB    5iE       [1M1  A              MD      1   1    1   1    1    5    24    24.0   74.0   24.0   24.0   24.0   120.0    25.0   27.1   29.5   32.0   34.7   143.3
FI0 111I70TS 4318   /1                   1 No   3 5   5   5   5   25    17    15.0   35.0                    85.0   03,0   83.0   425.0    0.6   96.2  104.3  113.2  122.8  1M2.1
ISuIbTO IW UEIT                                                                        10f.0   109.0  109.0  109.0  109.0   545.0   113.6  12M.3  133.0  145.   157.5   6n7.3
. SPWMT STAFF
SIEIR 0l(RS                             No    2:   2   2   2   2    10   12    24.0   24.0   24.0   24.0   24.0   120.0    25.0   27.1   29.5   32.3   34.7  124.3
ClIN/TYISB        RS                    me    24  20  20  20  20  100    11   220.0   220.0  220.0  220.0  220.0  1.00.0   229.   248.3  270.0  m.9  317.3  1,159.0
STE    MM  S1,a.11f_ NwMfERs           40    23  23  23  23  23  115    I   21 3.0  253.0   2.C    253. 0   23.0  12,265.0   213.  236.2   310.5  336.9  365.5  2.3,2
OMlER SdT  STAF                         NO    17  17  17  17  17   r           0    136.0  136.0  136.0  134.0  136.0   460.0   141.3  253.3  266.9  131.1  29.5    40.1
SUPT STTFF AT ATI JIND                  No      I   I   I    I   I    5        0      3.0     3.0    3.0    1.0    3.0    40.0         3.1     9,0     9.0   10.7   12.6    49.4
Sub-Totl 51T STFF                                                                      641.0  641.0  641.0  642.0  641.0 31205.0   643.2  725.0  716.7  353.5  Ql.1  3 of".6
S*-Ttl D00NENTAL SlES                                                                   2,924.0 3,116.0 3116.0 3.11.0  129.0 21296.0  3.041.3 3.524.5 31324.1 4,49.2 4,224.5 107m.6
Tota E SIET  COS                                                                           2,924.0 3.116.0 3,116.0 3.116.2 2.924.0 153,6.0 3.06t.3 3.524.5 33202.1 4.149.2 4.224.5 13,770.6
saaf   a..__ ..a   -..__ ._ aaa  _m              saaf a_a_   _._.mas. S-m                  
TOW                                                                                         2-924.0 3.116.0 3I116.0 3.116.0 2,924.0 15.196.C  3.045.3 3,94.5 3,124.1 4.14.2 4*224.5 114770.6
=x=_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-- _- -o - ______   __  -_  _    _             _          __              _          _
'-  91 M I EXI EISIE 3I1NDSTRIC.
lb  I Flt EO DISTRICT.
Ic F1 MI EI TEllSIE NITRIC .
Id F3 IEN EXIDESI 01DZICT.
/I   I FEt C4OX Y  TINE 5 3M 9 1M93.
It I SISS FM E     OF TiE 1 EU  9JWV hSI531&     5  M4S FJ  STIULE  I EIET*ES IN SBECTEI S3I2I01111   N7M  PMTICULS P011I1   IN llE5   S.
Is = RMll I FM EACH SlSlIlN.
/h 2 FOR E0 SWUIVISION.
/11M W3T      RIWIIR11; ERE  W  1 0  FOR 14  IST(155.
IJ7 TO BTAIN TRA4232N REE   C 2   E6N IER IIS31C1   .
/I  FoRlI 913 EXIESE  KSMRICT.
;1  I FM ElH OF TIE 5 3 ES UIISM.
Fab.,, 20. 195 12:22



Isle
NATIONAL AIAULTUIE   EXITENSIUN M T 11 (WP-21
Table 102. IWTM  - CIVIL WM
ktiled Cost Tale
(liIA   IES   '000)
uantity                                           Dat Costs                              Totals Includifd Cotiilmies
itIM1       6 1s   1997  9  59m   Total Unit Cost   I5M      157         1999    IM     Total      95    1596    5997    193   19    Tota
41a141a 11-B ZIa eats mexet xsa =u-- nmnu ma  usna- ssisZ-- smani nea  -sat-    ma*s                     sa        m S     _ nas
t. IDST   COSTS
Al HOUING
WV/CO  GIATOS                                 No   100  100  100  100   -   400          60   M.O.M  6,00.0 64000.0 6OO0.0       - 24.000.0   6559.7  7,109.4 7,712.7 I3M.2       - 29,751.0
130SKISSMYt                                   NO      5   10   5   -    -   20          150    750.0  1.500.0  750.0              - 3 .000.0            177 I7,l  964.1      -    - 3,51.2
Sub-Total  IS1ING                                                                                6M750.0  7.500.0 6,750.0 6.00.0     - 27,000.0  7,379.7  O,15.5 3,676.3 0,370.2    - 33,312.2
I. IICIEtS
MA fwfi7 S /a                                 No      1   2   -   -    -    3         2.000  2,000.0  4000.0        - -           - 6,000.0   21966.  4711.9         -       -    - 6.995
SW  OfICES                                    No      3   3   -   -   -    6            375  I1125.0  1,125.0       -       -    - 2P250.0   l229.9  1332.           -       -    - 2452.9
Mb-Total FFICES                                                                                  3125.0 5v125,0        -       -    - 1250.0  31416.5 6,071.            -       -    -  9.3
C. TrAININ FACILItIES
1. W rY   SICOLT . LUNIWSITY
SEMIAMM    /b                            No      2   -   -   -   -    2            200    400.0         -      -       -    -   400.0    437.3          -       -       -    -   437,3
oTsIs INo                                          2    -   -   -   -    2         3M00    60oo.0         -      -       -    - 6000.0  6,559.7           -       -       -    - 6,5.7
9mb-Total ITRUW  MRICTAr. UIYERSITY                                                           6.400,0        -      -       -    - 6G400.0   6997.0          -       -       -    - 6."9.0
2. AICtILTItML TRAINING INSTITUTE  Jlil
IES FR  MN  - 6AZETTE! STNT  /t            NO      2   2    4   4   4   16            60    120.0   120.0   20.0  240.0 240.0   960.0    131.2   142.2  30e.5  334.3 363.3  19230.0
HOLUS FE LAZETTED STET                     NO      2   2   2   2   2    10           150    300,0   300.0  300.0  300.0 3OO. e 500.0    32s.0   3l.4   m.6  419.5 454.2  1.941.7
Sub-Total AIICULliUMAL TRAINING INSITUE  JIllS                                                  420.0   420.0  540.0  540.0 540.0  2P,460.0    452    497.   6941   753.3 317.5  39221.9
Sub-Total TRAININA FACILITIES                                                                    692.0    420.0  50.0  540.0 540.0  990.0   74U56.2   497.6  694.1  753.3 117.5 10,213,3
total ISTEsNT COSTS                                                                                16.6f5.0 13.045.0 7.M.0 6.540,0 540.0 44U110.0   3.252.4 159454.9 9370.9 9,123.5 917.5 53,019.2
Total                                                                                              126695.0 134045.0 7,290.0 6.5400 540.0 44,llOO  13,252,4 1545. 91370.9 9123.5 317. 53D019.2
33=3= 33=333 333j333=333=333a=,3=3 m                 a*m= 3=3333 mc=WM inc m333=x
~~~~~~~~:--_- -     -s -8 --------   - ---
/a AT KURUSHETRA9. SNOAT MD FAR!DAAD.
lb  SEHIWA ROOIS FOR 50 PEOlE AT 99TH NIAN K AWIW...  
tc HWSES FER TRAINING STAFF AT JI1.
-- -----                                   ------ - --5 1
raruanm 2o. 19m 12:22



-61-
ANNEX 5
UOU                                             Ta.bli 103
lEmIK    1CLT11L Eli ION PROJECT I1 (NEP-21
Tole 103. 1  II - ElUI tO
btailed Cat Table
(INIIMI MIPUS  '040
oubmuti                                last CLts                      Tols Incdim  C'wtlnutrun
ILut 1915s 9 W  19  19  Toau   Cost  395   16  1w7   1   I"1  Totl    m5    19                    9z  1K   9m  Total
un.  mr  .e         m. mm ,un. .. u sa. uuus  mus ur. _u   m._. .u                u....uu   _mi   _m  m95  m
ET.W  CITS
A. FnminrJ  I EILPIE1IT
I. K
OlTIE FUIlWE /a                                                     -          500.0 150.0 150.0 100.0 300.0 ItM0.0   547.3  171.2 193.3 I.3 151.7 1210.3
OFFIC  EIIUZI bb h                              -T  S   -   -   -    5    5    25.0    -    -    -    -   25.0    27.2            -    -    -    -   27.2
ub-TOu I   KEA _1 a                                                               525.0 150.0 150.0 200.0 100.0 1,25.0   574.5  178.2 191.3 IN.$ 251.7 1.2i7.5
2. U9IIIVIII
IFFICE EDIPIEIT  I                SET    30   -   -   -   -   30    S   240.0    -    -    -    -  24.0   26.4                    -    -    -    -  262.4
FFICE EIUIPITM d                  SEt      5    -   -   -   -    5   10    50.0    -    -    -    -   50.0    54.7                                       54.7
1M1ISLIW L EU1P7ENT /1            SET      3    -   -    -   -    5    3    15.0    -    -    -    -    15.0    16.3              -    -    -    -    I.3
MuIa - VWL EUIIIIIT   rf          SET    30   -   -   -   -   30    3            0.O     -    -    -    -   90.0    ".d           -    -    -    -    ".o
STUI 9IISIIE1                                                                     39..0    -    -    -           15.0   431.4        -    -    -    -  431.4
3. FIELD
FILD EEPIEMDT /                   SEl     70   -   -   -   -   70  0.1    21.0           -    -    -    -   21.0    23.0          -    -    -    -   23.0
lTotl rIEII                                                                        21.0    -    -    -    -   21.0    23.0           -    -    -    -   23.0
4. INRY W      JUIMOL UNIVERSITY
FIT /h                            YE       2                        2   35    70.0    -    -    -    -   70.0    76.6             -    -    -    -   76.6
MMT FDW.FIlNU  Ii                 CET      2   -   -     -          2   40    10.0    -    -    -    -   EO.           07.6       -    -            -   87.6
gm FICEEIIJ7EIT/                 El       3   -        -    -   -    3   19    54.0    -    -    -    -   54.0    59.0           -            -    -    -   N.0
1161101  ElIT  A                  KE       -       -    -    -    -     -      700.0 700.0       -        - 1,400.0   762.5  823.2    -    -    - 1#535.6
S*-Ihtl1  IU   42IUU. IJlvmiE                                                     904.0 700.0       -        - 1^04.0  915.4  t23.2        -    -    - 11001.1
STetul FUNIE  t E0   iT                                                            1.845.0 350.0 150.0 100.0 100.0 3.043.0 2.014.6 14001.3 193.3 139.3 151.7 31500.7
IIIIIT WITS                                                                    1.U45.0 150.0 150.0 100.0 100.0 3.045.0  2,014.6 I.0Q3 193.3 29.E 151.7 3.500.7
1,845.0 150.0 150.0 100.0 100.0 3043.0  2014.6 1001.3 193.3 139.3 131.7 3,500.7
.....5 3.1f _0       S 4  .= .mam ss= sma_ r .m    ..dE    _ _ iu EM    ma mm . _s.
Z_  ITIBIUITIN TO STATE& ZUN.L DISTIlI SUUVISIZOUL  SD FIELD OFFmCES AS IEI .
:      fll   IWCTTIPUCS  VNIIS MU OTNER OFtCI  CJUIFT.
-_lATIl 1N013C1 FU 30 ElIVlSI O    OFFICES KT W9IED.
-  NE 5 IEII lVZSIU
liE 5 MM StlMOISIWI INCLDINGSCIS TION e       mTERIt.S.
:-_)IW.L EUIIFIDIIT FOR 30 SIVISZIW. OFFIMS lT            aE  WI      1.
--WEC, FIELD DUltES, CIS1, BIINI  SL  VIDE  UIS. ETC. FOR 35 AM  (IWU) Mi) 35 aOS (FM  ZILEBTS'.
'-   is n     fi .
-_-j EIS  PNPLIrATIB YAM=6 M   ITNER    IE EUMIENT.
K5 3 DIDISETE PIMLIC AI5     STSIEI. 6 PUJECTIOM  3  WEUEa  PROJCTORS9 3 SUE    ,UECTWS. 3 NTIATIC TAPE REC . 3 rV*UlT IuT   TE YAK
LETE W   MTE90 I  UOM  CMES 3 113A  Ck*WS1 Ol                  ESSIES; O   ET FO  E    OF TIE 3WE CE4tERS.
:20. 1M   12:23



-62-
TIK  AMML AR    EKITEIS    PIL.ECT I r   NP02) A3NNEX 5
Table 104. NAi  - ID:ES                                         Table 104
htlled Cost T*ab
(11110 I ES   '000)
hanttitw                                 gm Cots                            Totals lncludins Cwtiuugtl.
I)nit -
Itit 195 196 197 19  199 Total tost  I95    III   1997    IM    199  total    15   196   1m7    1938  im   Td
__- ___ inf _   G8    _     --                                  'i ---=  m-                                             -
1. D-    cum
A. 9ENHLE tlI)
1. SnM I  AUv
4-lElEL  IVES /                  NO     5   -   -   -   -    5  lO    500.0          -       -       -   -   500.0   544.0        -      -       -   -   54
Sb-Total SWDWIVIStTM.EAUU                                                     500.0      -       -       -   -   500.0   544.0        -      -       -   -   5t
2. HLRT31d ARICLTEN. IUIWRITY
NINlES                           No     3   -    -    -    -    3  150   450.0         -      -       -   -   450.0   409.6        -      -       --       4E
UhS                              N0     3   -   -   -   -    3  120   360.0            -      -       -   -   360.0   391.7        -       -      -   -      _
Sub-Total LWRYM0   I01L. TWUhERSL 8I -TY                                      810.0                                       81U10.0    1.2  -  -       -   -   S
Sib-Total IlElltQ    (Kwl)                                                     1,330.0      -       -      -   - 13310.0 1.425.2        -       -       -   - 1P42
3. EICLES (REFAgSEIuI
'. WAlERS
RS                               No110  1   1   1   1   -    4  100   100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0   -   400.0   101.B  117.3  127.3  13B.3   -   4t-
UIa                             IID     I   -   -   -   -    1  120   120.0            -      -       -   -   120.0   130.6        -      -       -   - 13-
4-iELMMS                         No     -   I   I   -   -    2 100             - 100.0  00.0          -   -   200.0        -   117.3  27.3        -   -   24
S*-Total tEMIRTEtS                                                            220.0  200.0  200.0  100.0   -   720.0   239.3  234.6  254.6  13B.3   -   U
2. RE1
aRts                             NO     -   I   I   -   -    2 100             - 300.0 10D.0          -   -   200.0        - 117.3   27.3         -   - 24-
Sib-To    IEEtON                                                                  -  100.0  300.0       -   -   200.0         -  117.3  127.3        -   -   24-
3. DISTRCT
UmS                             N       3   3   3   3   -   12  100   300.0  300.0  300.0  300.0   - 1,200.0   326.4  351.9  381.3  414.0    - 1.47...
4-NELE S                         110    3   3   3   3   -   12  100   300.0  300.0  300.0  300.0   -  1r2D0.0   326.4  351.9  381.3  414.0    - 1.47...
Sub-Tota DISMCT                                                               600.0  600.0   -.i   600.0   - 2.400.0   652.8  703.8  763.7  B29.5    - 2.94..,
4. sIunMIJ  AUO/ME
4-NEEL 111NO 1                         10   8   a   3   -   34  100 1.040.0  800.0  900.0  000.0   -  3,4e0.0 1P087.9   98.4 1,013.2 1186.0   - 4.15-
Sub-Total SU    SIILTU                                                      l,00.O  300.0   30.0  80.0   - 3,400.0 1P,7.9  93B.4 1,01.2 1,106.0    - 4,1
5. FIEB
IGW     Sh /b                    110  150  150 100 100   -  s00   1D 1,500.0 l00.0 1000.0 1,000.0   - 5,000.0 1631.9 1,759.5 1,272. 1312.5   - 6,04.,
Sub-Total FIEU                                                              1500.0 1,00.0 I.00M.0 1,000.0   - 5,000.0 1,6U.9  P75.5 I272.1 1,312.5    - 6PO.-,
4. ATI JIM1
VA N                                    - -O-              -    1  120         -      - 120.         -   -   120.0         -       -152.7         -   -
Sub-Total An   U                                                                  -      -  120.0       -   -   120.0         -       -  152.7       -   -       .
Sub-Total  NCLES (tELACEIEIM                                                  3,320.0 3200 2820.0 2.500.0   - 11,840.0 3,11.9 3,753.6 3r3OV.2 3,456.3   - 14t411.1
Total DZNESTNT COSts                                                              4,630.0 3,200.0 2.920.0 2,500.0    13.150.0 S,037.1 3'753.6 3i959.2 3,456.3   - mu!
TOWl                                                                               4,630.0 3.200.0 2,20.0 2.5D.O    - 13.150.0 5437.1 3.753.6 3pS9P.2 3,45U.3   - 25.33.3
/a Ft TNE 5 E   3 S    VISIIS.
/b FEt SALE T FIELD STAFWER M  LI PREII  BT TH1 IEPORTENT.
FgbnBvu 20, I95M 12:24



-63-
NTMK            DolhAM  
mIIITI. m aILT.ImL E01111111 PUIT It OEA-2)                             NB 5
Tile 135. N    A - TIUKIIN                                  Table 105
tailed cat tole
ciu   wuS  '0031
hntit.                                 am Coste                   Totah loc,I   CoUtrucun
mWIt
ghit  9m  13 1937  W 1933 193  TSUal  cot 19   193 1m7  193  1     Total   1m    19   197 ISS9  1939 -it1
1. -    N519EIT COM
A. I1Sllff WIlI       XE11
1111111MN 317E  /a                     100   100 I 10  100  10    500  0.3  30.0 30.0 30.0 30.0 30.0  1D.0  34.4 37.3 4:.5  43.9 47.7  203.8
WIUITM      lUilb         e              3 I   a       3   3    40  0.3   2.4  2.4  2.4  2.4  2.4   12.0   2.S  3.0  3.2  3.5  3.3   16.3
FOMINtY ISHS Ie                  0     910 910 no1  910 910  4.50  0.05   45.5  45.5 45S  45.5 45.5  Z27.5  52.2 56.  41.4  66.6 72.3  309.2
WEIQR           /IS  M4 IV30 300 300  300 310 311 1,500   0.2  40.0 60.0  60.0 40.0 40.0  300.0  63.8 74.7 31.0 97.9 95.4  407.7
31Clm  ImES/A                    30      5   5   5   5   5    25  0.5   2.5  2.5  2.5  2.5  2.5   12.5   2.9  3.1  3.4  3.7  4.0   17.0
UrTDML STUDB /f                 DSO     12  24  24  24  12    6&    6   72.0 144.0 144.0 144.0  72.0  576.0  82.6 179.2 194.4 210.? 114.4  71.!
STIOUTINUS                      IXII    50  50  50  50 50   250  0.5  25.0 25.0 25.0 25.  25.0  125.0  23.7 31.1  33.7 36.6 3S.7  169.9
hg-Total WILlAE IRTIBSIWII     S                                              237.4 309.4 309.4 309.4 237.4 1.403.0 272.2 315.0 417.7 453.2 377.3]1i95.4
J. ACIOLTURt EXID6IN IFFIB
PIIITMA CNWESES/0                No      I   I   I   I   1         5    1   1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0    5.0   1.1  1.2  1.3  1.5  1.6    6.8
E EI  OURSE5A hIDI    70  10  30  30  3    I0 0.15   10.5  4.5  4.5  4.5  4.5   23.5  12.0  5.6  6.1  *6.  7.2   37.5
gmUI C4DISES A                   No      5   5   5   5  5         25    1   5.0  5.    L.0      0  5.0     25.0   5.6 .2  d.7  ' 3  7.9   34.0
FI7II         I 511311          lfllV    2   4   4   4   2    16    J  16.0 32.0 32.0 32.0  16.0  13.0  1L3   9.3  43.2 46.9  25.4  173.7
5115Y 11W                       mmDIV   10  10  10  10  10    50    1  10.0 10.0  10.0  10.0 10.0   50.0  11.5  '2.4  13.5 14.6  15.9   67.9
Yr-To   A IMIOLTiE.L EK     0  OFF                                              42.5 52.5 52.5 52.5  36.5  23t.5  48.7 65.i  70.9  76.9 58.0  319.3
C. SBC   DATIER  !M.I:ISTS
--iIITM  COURSES                 mIe      I           II ll        5    I   1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0   1.0    5.0   1.1  1.2  1.3  1.5 1.              6.3
-IfIMWIIESA                      1      21       2121 21    105                 --
MlMT NIIIT S /I                 I       36  36  36  36  36       W      :  36.0 36.0  3.00360  36.0  1O.0  41.3 44.  4S.6L57.7 D.2  244.
PFEiTiL SIU3B/o                  No      2   4   4   4   2    16    8  16.0 32.0 32.0 32.0  16.0  121.0  183  39.3  43.2  .6.9 25.4  173.7
S1W  TWS.s ditDM                        10  10  10  10  10    5                 -    -         -    --
*-Total 1JECT 1AT1 SIUlllE                                                      53.0 B9.0 69.0 69.0 5        313.0  O.3  15.? 93. 101.1 04.2  425.1
L FIEL OFICES /a
-(T-TEII  WEzIEM T13DI1         MMOW     5   5   5   5   5    25   50 250.0 250.0 250.0 250.0250.0 1.32.0 2M1.5 299.8 325.3 354.1 35.4 1446.3
Sob-Total FEU L TII3S is                                                      250.0 250.0 250.0 250.0 250.0 1.250.0 231.5 29.8 325.3 354.1 335.6 1646.3
Totl D11SrNE5 T CUTS                                                             512.9 63.s  30.9 630.9 5776. 32 .5 663.3 3. 9907.0  53 Y5.1 4,296.6
Total                                                                            5*2.9 60.9  80.Y9  .9 56.v 3.32.5  63    8.3 9907.0935.3 905.1 4.2.
/a ME M1  FM        W      mmulImD AT STATE OR ZIPL TMUi  C0ERS. MIS DELUIC Sz               MM.20  AM iLDMlG UITDhS (5.100).
/b 3-33' ClIED 1           AT TN. U* LUQlL FE MI. VW  MME          FMTE YEI. AME  40 PMTlIP S PR CWUSI CUTS PEt CE  (15.300) DCIFA TMDIS EIRIi.C AM FMIEU VISIIS.
7c 26 I-MY  lUW"   IER M WAR. a      lSI   Rl VW3 NO AUM  U117D AT 1O LEVEL.  WT  30 F rUICWIS PR CURE. WT CUT tS.55 FOR TImaiN   iATsLL.
/d TlO l15 iCE OMER? FIE T1M  FR M 01 OM 3VE. 05316      OM FI OWF AL VW  PER TEA.
fie WI-M  CIR5 R3M     r  TiW=               11TT         Dl uT l M ICIQUES AS MMT  MRIEC!8. M tOTRTlOI. SOIL C36IIII. EtC.
ft 4-U  EC NE WE WtSEIT WV IS. PER  ll IN E 49111t                 1 MMw3D
Mf  5-AY CVRE. OM EvY FIV  YES FOR EW lAMU1IIMM  At  STICT ELI 40 RICaPANTS PO  DWNE.
/h 30-DAT CME  0E E_r              lEES Rl1 M1 304PMTCO t   RR C116E 3R.300 PER PATICIMr.
/i 1-2 MM RR SQECITEI  D  IJCE A TMORL 4fI           AT A STAIE/111L LEL. 3ltD 25-30 PAMICI    S P7R TOM. 5.30 PER IsTICIPIIT FE FIEU TRIPS MID T1114116 MVERILS.
MJ 2-UE  MC NEE  UINES IPIT COSM. PER _03  S1  WTiTl  AD STil.
A  EW/9E5 TO NE O  IE       OT   TIIDE  l1ll1lK  f c aIE
fl 12 2-t4Y TR1 N11 'PIIR   S _IftMILT ER M151397CTf 1DO * 11(1 CSMTIII. 1tO0. (130 PE-IEMLN  11011  3NIS  .3L K CWl3EO ITN 1731        Y 6   IIWS.1
/a 2-VE1R P0 NERM        E  QT (1CROP PER A11 111          19fM V1111 AM STEl.
/h          TO K N IT N iEr FM   MM  0I ( LEA? PSIDED.
/s  P TOTIN CPIE   ca          II TimIN      M L  lUSB 010111 S     13 TM  FM SESIP LCEL AO FIELD OFFCEIRS WILU    SE I0I1 D 01ur11N WITUF Et STDS SDIE FUSS.
Fsme,, 23b 1935 12:25



ZEDA                                  AiNAEX 5
NITIWK A11LTUK  D1Nl  MECT 11 (NEP-2)                      Table --
Table 106. NII    - TRNIEL LILMlCE
Dailed Cmi Table
(INIORA RIVE 'oet}
Ibmnit!                                          ha Cuts
unit
limut  195   199   1917 19 I 1? Total  et  15    1996   197   199    19w    Total
I. RECURBtT CIoSS
A. TRAVL. ALUMS FOIR IINEEII.L STAFF /a
DISRICT S9SS                                        in      13    13    13    13    13    45  4.3    55.9   55.9   55.9   55.9   55.9   279.5
S9AC                                                go       5      5      5     5      5    25  4.3    21.5   21.5   21.5   21.5   21.5   107.5
SllUIWSICWSHSK    S                                 II       20    20    20    20    20   100  4.3    06.0   36.0   06.0   86.0   86.0   430.0
ADMS (IWtJIS)                                       NO       35    35    35    35    35   175  4.3   150.5  150.5  150.5  150.5  150.5   752.5
AIOS (FAi  IJ   NS})                                la       35    35    35    35    35   175  4.3   150.5  150.5  150.5  150.5   1.    752.5
MIE FIL  SUERVISORMVW                              No        I     I      I     1      1      5  4.3      4.3    4.3    4.3    4.3    4.3    21.5
lUtE FIELD INVWSMATWIS (SSS                        J10       5      5      5     5      5    25    4    20.0   20.0   20.0   20.0   20.0   100.0
ATI STAFF (JWDI                                              -      -      -     -      -      -          17.0   17.0   17.0   17.0   17.0    35.0
HAUJ REBISAL EEARO CE)13 STAFF                               -      -      -     -      -      -          15.0   15.0   15.    15.0   15.0    75.0
StUPORT STAFF                                                 -     -      -     -      -      -          60.0   60.0   60.0   6.o   10.0   300.0
Sub-Total TIIJEL ILISIES FMR I     4LENTAL STAFF /a                                                         50.7  5S0.7   59 0.7 .7   E0.7  2s903.5
1. DIIEEjIfL TRAVEL l. WH        FM EWSTD  STAFF /h
1. E3TEISION STAFF
ADA (ETEOM) /c                                   No        I     I      I     1      1      5    4      4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    20.0
ZOIU LDS d                                       No        2     2      2     2      2    10 3.25       6.5    6.5    6.5    6.5    6.5    32.5
KSNaR SNSS INEADITERS)                           NO        4     4      4     4      4    20  2.2       3.3    3.9    3.8    3.3    B.8    44.0
DmS                                              No       12    12    12    12    12       0 2.        30.6   30.0   3e.0   30.0   30.0   10.0
DISTRICT SHE                                     a        11    11    11    11    11    55  2.2    24.2   24.2   24.2   24.2   24.2   121.0
mm                                               NO       30    30    30    30    30  150  2.2    66.0  6  .66.0  66.0    6.0   330.0
IDmIVISIIn. SUSS                                 NO      103   103   103   103   103   515  2.2   226.6  226.6  226.6  226.6  226.6 1I1r3.0
EDS S(CAS)                                       I       186   136   116   196   I16   9n0  2.2   409.2  409.2  409.2  409.2  409.2 2046.0
WE                                               NO   1435  1485  1.4S5 1.Sr 1435 7425 0.65   965.3  965.3  ru-3   965.3  918.3  4,S26.3
- P9iT STAFF      NISC  /                        ND       -      -      -     -      -     -          420.0  420.0  420.0  420.0  420.0  2.100.0
Sub-Total EXTENSION STAFF                                                                              2.160.6 29160.6 2.160.6 2,160.6 2,1J0.6 IOe2.8
2. HIE STFF
AA (mUImIT IWA)                                  A0        1     1      1     1      1      5  5.4      5.4    5.4    5.4    5.4    5.4    27.0
ECI (STCA)                                       go        I     I      1     1      1     5  2.2       2.2    2.2    2.2    2.2    2.2    11.0
:SE  OFFIIER                                     No        I     1      1     1      1      5    2      2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    10.0
STATISTIaC  OFFIMS                               J0        2     2      2     2      2    10    2       4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    20.0
TEOIICL ASISTMIS                                 NO       6      6      6     6      6    3e  1.5       9.0    Y.0    9.0    9.0    9.0    45.0
STATISIUCL ASSITSs                               NO        6     6      6     6      6    30  1.5       9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0    45.0
FIELD StUSIIS  (AiS)                             NO       11    11    11    11    11    55  2.2    24.2   24.2   24.2   24.2   24.2   121.0
FIE  IJUISTIATS (SSS)                            No      30    30    30    30    30  150         2    60.0  6.0  60.0   60.0  60.0   300.0
Sub-Total lIE STAFF                                                                                       15.3  115.8  115.6  115.3  115.S   579.0
Sub-Total DII ATIL TRAM  SM.UC   FMI EXMSTDI STAFF lb                                                    2,276.4 21276.4 2,276.4 2,276.4 29276.4 l1IN31.8
Total RECURREl COSTS                                                                                        2P57.1 2457.1 2.B57.1 2.57.1 2W57.1 14625.3
=-=- =           -     
Total                                                                                                        21MI7.1 2N157.1 2,357.1 237.1 2.57.1 14.25.3
la TN STAFF ARE 50E11     TD TOWa 16-20 DAIS PEt INITH. CARE VITH P5E554 TRA4EL OISF 01L.Y 8-10 DAIS PER INI.
fb TN STAFF ARE MEiIED TO TRL  16-20 DAIS PER NENITH  D e  VN1H PrE5W  TRQWL NM  OF OILY 8-10 DAYS PER MIMIN.
7c RS. 35 PER DAY  FMR 1 DAYS PER MIM.
Id RS. 25 PER PATt FRt 1 DAY1S PR iMM H.
it INaENTA. ALLIMCES FOR EIISTDIS SlPllfT STAFF 4ID EPTEITAL STAFF.
Februars 20. 1995 12:26



IDIA
NATIWW. AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PUE?CT 11 (MEP-2)
Table 107. HIAMA - MIME OPERATING EOSE
ktsiled Cost Table
(InDIAN RUEES '000)
quantity                                     Dasi Costs                             Totals Includird Cohitfiencies
Unit IM 1     1986 1"? 193I99 Total Cost   18        1986     9      18      18    Total   195    196    197    196    199   Total
I. REC    INT COSTS
A. OPERATINIG MEINS FOR INIREBITAL UHICLES /a
4liIEEL NRIVES                                              No      5    5    5    5   5    25   25    125.0  125.0  125.0  125,0   125,0  625.0    143*0   154,8   167.9  t1r.3  197,9  145.8
VmS (MUI)                                                   No      3    3    3   3    3    15   15    45.0    45.0   45,0    45.0    45,0   225.0          51.5   55.7   40.5   65.6   72.2  304.5
MINIMII SES (KAU)                                           NO      3    3    3   3    3    15   15    45,0   45.0   45.0   45,0   45,0   225.0    51.5   55.7   60.5   65.6    71.2   04,5
Sub-Total ORTINB EXPENSES FOR INCREJITAL YHICLIS /a                                                         215,0  215.0  215.0  215.0  215,0 19075,0   245.9  26.2  216.9   313.5   30.31,v454.9
D. INCREEITMAL OPERATING EXPENSES FOR EXISTINI  VENICLES /b
CARS                                                        No      6    6    6   6    6    30    25    150.0  150.0  150,0  150.0  150.0  750.0   1716   185,7   201.5  218.7  237.4 1,015.0
4-UEEL DRIVS                                                No    48   48  48  49   48  240  12.5   600.0  600.0   600.0  600.0  600.0 3.000,0   684   742,8  K6.0   874.9  94W.7 41059.8
WI (IHEANWATERS)                                            NO      I    I    1   1    1    5   7.5        7.5    7.5      7.5     7.5     7.5    37.5       1.6     9,3   10.1    10.9   11.9    50,7
IHINIS (ATI J1i4)                                           NO      I    I    1   1    1      5   7.5       7.5    7.5    7,5      7.5     7.5   37.5        9.6    9.3    10.1    10.9    11.9    50.7
VYAS (DISTRICT)                                             NO     12  12  12  12  12   60   7.5    90.0   9,0   90,o   90.0    90.0   450.0    103,0   111,4  12049  131,2   142,5   609,0
Sub-Total INREJENTAL OPFTIN6 EXPENSES FOR EXISTING YEHICLES /b                                              855.0  855.0  655.0  855.0  855.0 4,275.0   978.1 1,059.6 1,148.6 1,246.7 1,353.3 5,795.3
Total RECURENT COSTS                                                                                         1,070,0 1,070.0 1,070.01,070,0 1,070.0 5,350.0  1224.0 1,324.7 1,4374 1,560.3 193.6 7,240,0
--:::::.2: m::.:.::......... .  .*...... t.sass......... . ." 2:23  3...33.3 zhm.u  3333  2333  333333233........... 2::3  32
Total                                                                                                         1,070.0 1,070.0 1070,0 1,070.0 1,070.0 5,350.0  1,224.0 1,324.7 1v437.4 1,560.3 1i493.6 7,240.0
/a  INICLUES FIEL, LURICATING OIL MlD MAlNTENWAE.,
/b  INEUDS FLEL, LUBRICATING OIL, AND MINTENWACt.
Febtvurv 20, tSS  12:28



-IA
UTIOW.L MRItLTHE     EXTEIISIOI K CT It (WI -21
Table 306. HARM  - OTER INCENTSL WlATIEN EXNITIS
Mtailed Cost Table
(INM lmEmS   000)
0uantitv                                Date Costs                       Totals Includird Cntienclels
Unit 3M 1996 1997 19  1    Total  Cost  1M5   96   97                1999  Total   195   196    1"7    19    im     Total
as::  Sam& ura asam mass 2muss  marm  Sa m  ... a-"     sums:       Z ss r ss  ssigt  sascsx *c  M: S: a::::::: - = -:: ::=:
I. KRCRRENT COSTS
A. OFFICE OPERATIMNS /a
3. DISTRICT
DAO OFFICES                         SET      3    3    3    3    3    15   100 300.0 300.0 300.0 300.0 300.0 13500#0  328.4  356.3  386,6   419.4  455.1 194506
Sub-Total DISTRICT                                                                  300.0 300.0 300.0 300.0 300.0 1,500.0  329,4  356.3  386.6  419.4  455,1 1,945.8
2. SUDDIVISIWE/TMALIKA
SODN  OFFICES                       SET      5    5    5    5    5    25    50  250.0 250,0 250.0 250.0 250.0 l.250.0  273.7  296.9  322.2  349.5   379.2 14621,5
S'IS OFFICES                        SET     20   20  20   20  20   100        5  100,0 100,0 100,0 100,0 100.0  500.0  109.5  118.8  129.9  139,8   151,7  648,6
ADO OFFICES                         SET     70   70   70  70  70   350        3  210.0 210.0 210,0 210.0 210.0 1,050.0  229n9   2494   270.6  293.6   316.6 I3.3261
Su-Total SUDDIVISION/TMLUKA                                                         560.0 560.0 560.0 S 60.0 560.0 2M00M0  613.0  665.1   72136   783,0  849.5 3632.2
3. HIE UNIT
H(IE UNIT OFFICE (HEADRTERS)        SET      I    I   I    1    1    5    10   10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0   50.0  10.9    11.9    12.9    14.0    15.2   64U9
HlIE DISTRICT OFFICES lb            SET     12   12   12  32  12   60         1   12.0  12.0  32.0  12.0  32.0   60.0   13.31    4.3    15.5   16.9   I.2    77.8
Sub-Total HIE UNIT                                                                   22.0  no  n.o  22.0 22.0   330.0   24.1    26.1   29.3   30.9    33.4  142.7
Sub-Total OFFICE OPERATIONS /a                                                         882.0 882.0 982.0 882.0 662.0 4,410.0  965.5 1.047,5 1,336.6 1,233.2 1t33090 5,720.7
Total RECWRRENT COSTS                                                                     882.0 fl2.0 882.0 992.0 992.0 4.410.0  965.5 1.047.5 1.136.6 1P233,2 19338.0 5,720.7
mu::: u-::: ----- -:    rs s: - s-aSI    Msuas  ursau 82nuns: u2stwu  saunSS sausa.
Total                                                                                      882.0 892.0 992.0 992.0 892.0 4.410.0  965.5 19047.5 1,136.6 1,233,2 1,338.0 5.720.7
us:::ra:. as-  ss : sass: :ac:: ZsassusW  0saua -as_:: Bsanus ruaim=ass uun  a uu
/a  ICLUIES RENT, STATIOINRY, HOT AND COLD VATER CHARSES, LIVERIES. TELEPHONE CHARGES, FIELD DIAIES. AND OTME  HISCELANEMUS OFFICE EXPESES FOR INCRIENTAL STAFF.                       ] t
/b  FOR SPECIAL SURVEYS AND STUDIES.                                                                                                                                                 a
Februar 20. I99   12:28



-67-
ANfM 6
103*~~~~~~~~~ Tbl  109
*TIU. URIOIITU. CVIENISU PMZT  11 tW-2
Table 109. WEIlM   - DI T E    L WT IE1 AM NES
btilad Cn  Tabl*e
NK01I3 MS '000
~u,,ta lll vYam  Casts                                                           Ttals Icludir CO,,umirucie
Unit IM35 196 13 13 1299 Tol Cost   1M5   13    IW7    IM                IW     hbtal    1M5   13    137    3             1     Total
a. xmieiA. m.mxs
3. WADWAUUS
m1O (IL a  1E3 CN31)                   An      I   I   I   I   I    5   36    36.0   36.0   36.0   36.0   36.0   100.0    37.5   40.7   44.2   47.9   52.0   22.4
.54 (1 5)                               60     I   1   1   3   1    5   36    36.0   36.0   36.0   36.0   36.0   1'.0    17.5   40.7   44.2   47.9   52.0   212.4
MUE  (AIOI-*JI3R IU)                   noU       1   1 I          1     5   t0    30.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   20.0    50.0    10.4   11.3   12.3   [3.3   14.4    1.1
Salp-Total NEI3GUORTER                                                                02.0   32.0   02.0  112.0   32.0   410.0    35.5   92.3  300.6  109.2  130.5   506.5
2. REBID
OMISN(9W  FMN INWLENNTS                a0      I   0   0   6   0   40   33   264.0  264.0  264.0  264.0  264.0 1.320.0   215.2  299.4  124.0  351.5  331.4  1,430.3
Soll-Total Wm10                                                                      26,4.0  264.0  264.0  264.0  264.0  1,320.0   275.2  298.6  124.0  331.5  333.4 1.630.3
3. DItICT
AM0 (SOIL SIL 3 LTER IWIEI I           NO    20  20  20 I    0  20  100   27   540.0   50.0  540.3  540.   540.0  o700.0   619.2  671.9  729.0  791.0   W.2  3,669.3
ADS (SAS. FAI NEEJT)                   NO    20  20  20 1    0  20  100   24   400.0   400.0  400.0  400.0 3     10.0 2.40.0   550.4 5 7.2  64.0  703.1  762.0  3.2614
S_-Ttal usiwICr                                                                    1.020.0 1,020.0 1.020.0 1,020.0 1.02D.0 5,130.0  1,119.7 1.269. 1,377.0 1,494.0 1,621.0 5..s.l
4. RUN3E3ISIN neJuM)
AN  (5S36 DFlfI                        NO    60  60  60  60  60  300   24  1.440.0 3t440.0 1.440.0 1,440.0 3t40.0 7,200.0  12501.2 1,628.1 1,767.3 1017.5 2.04.5  I,35.2
E3m                                    00    60  115  115  115  115  520   10   600.0 1,350.0 1,10050.0  30.0 3,150.0  5,200.0   625.5 I.300.1 3,431.3 1,531.3 ItUI.5 6,530.4
bTatal 511131IIS1  (.IIA)                                                          2.040.3 2,590.0 2,590.0 2,590.0 2,9. 12,400.0 2.126.7 2.9w9.6 3.170.6 3,408.0 3,741. 35,425.6
5. D3331  I EUITI  3311
AKIDJLIIDM  EDEIMIIST (3A)             An      1   1   I   I   1    5   33    33.0   33.0   33.3   33.0   33.0   30.0    34.4   37.3   40.5   43.9   47.7   233.31
R0E4001 ISISUTS (MOS)                  No      2   2   2   2   22  10   17    34.0   34.0   34.0   34.0   34.0   170.0    35.4   38.5   41.7   45.3   49.3   210.0
FIL  IPAS, STNt7    (SITI)             N0   10  30  10  10  10   50   24   240.0  240.0  240.0  240.0  240.0  1200.0   250.2  27.5   294.5  339.6  346.7 1J402.5
mum                                    40      I   I   I   1   1    5   10    10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   50.0   50.4   11.3   12.3   33.3   14.4    61.3
030316                                 No      3   3   3   3   3   15    9    27.0   V7.0   27.0   27.0   27.0   135.0    20.2   30.5   33.1   36.0   39.0   166.3
*Tatal 03Rm21       I EWIIMTI  UNIT                                                  344.0  344.0  344.0  344.0  344.0  I.1t?.0   353.6  39.1  422.2  450.1  497.0  2,125.0
6. LIMEWSIT  OF UIGMLII SC1E1S
EIISSIE WIDDIATOKS                     No      0   0   I   0   3   40   M3   26,4.0  264.0  214.0  264.0  214.0  1.320.0   275.2  290.6  324.0  351.5  311.4  1.=3J
MIYE1!  ((M)                           No         a B   I        6 3 40   14    00.0   00.0   30.0   3.0   00.0   400.0    33.4   90.5  9L.2  106.5  135.6   494.2
313 (NI-OIslL WM)                      M0      I  1   I   IU   I       5   10    10.0   30.0   10.0   10.0   10.0    50.0    10.4   11.3   12.3   13.3   14.4   63.0
Sbr-TOa 3 1  E11T       t W    1ID                I   1 SCIENCES                     354.0  353.0  354.0  354.0  354.0  1770.0   369.0  400.4  434.4   41.4  513.4 2e10.7
Sab-Total DENE4T4L S11RIES                                                            4,104.0 4,44.0 4,654.0 4,64.0 6,454.0 27,12.0  4.34.0 5,79.6 5,346.3 63M.0 6,071.3  2,005.4
1FIU   Ca51m                                                                       4,104.0 1.654.0 4,654.0 40654.0 .454.0 227720.0 4,304.3 5,379.s 5,336 06.333.  6413.3 23.,05.4
4 I104.0 4,04.0 4,65.0 4I6C4.0  ,654.0 2 07120.0  4,334.3 5,379.4 35.6.3 6t333.a 4.311.3  3.354
20,Tetd lWmilDS | wnY  UEtT                                                       3 3.3. f       S .e  3S33                  3        * IM        - 122 '
*2. 1935T 12:29S



IUIA
ETlaiw. 8WIOrMM  EmOuN ff=CT It WEa-2)
Table 110. bMTWA - CIVIL MM
1Xlet d tat Tble
RIIIIK  lSffES  '001
Iaantitu                                          U    C4st%                              TitelS trtl.dird CMtt,d,ti.
unit 19  1916917 1   1919 Total Unit Cost   19M            196      197    1911   IM   Total       1935     I5       1917     I9   IM   Total
I1   =  :::. t:2-_::- _z 9-=    : : 5        -- zz__=== -   =-Z=Z ;z_z =ZS- Z-= -_z__-z-  =Z==- =Zs-z _-__zx Z=Z=  _ _
1. ImTIEMT  COSTS
At MEING
EV QUSTERS                           NO    50  100  150  100   -  400            e0   4,000.0  1000M 0 1200.0 3,000.0    - 32000.0  4,373.1  4A77,9 15,425.4 119160.2   - 404436.7
AE   JMTES                           NO    50  100  50   -    -  200            100  5.000.0 10.000.0  5.000.0       -   - 20.000.0   5466.4 11HA7M4  69427,3          -   - 23,741.1
Sub-Total HU5ING                                                                        9,000.0 1000.0 17000.0  ,000,0    -520.0   9839,6 214325.3 21352#7 11N160.2    - 641177.7
3. OFICES
REGIWML OfFICES                      NO      1   2   -   -    -    3           500    500.0  1,040.0         -       -       1,500.0    546.6  1134.7         -        -   -   1,731.4
DISTIICI OFfICES                     No      2    2   1   -   -    7           600   1,200.0  1,200.0  11100.0       -   - 4,200.0  1,311.9  1I.,7  2,313.9            -   -  51047.4
cEM        TAMuA OFFICES             No    1o  11  10    -            31       200   2,00,0  2200.0  2400.0          -        642000   2,6.6  2,606,4  2,570.9         -   -   7,363.9
Sub lotal OFFICES                                                                       3,700.0  4,400.0  3t300.0              110900.0  4,045.2  5.212,1 4,54,.7         -   -  1142.7
C. tUIISITY OF ARICULTUE SCItNEES
SEIMWN  liwLS                        No      4    4   -   -   -    e            200     300   SO0            -       - -     1,600.0    S74,6   947,3         -        -   -   2,22.4
HOSTLS                               no      4   4    -   -   -    e          3,000  12,000.0 121000.0       -       -   -246000.0  13M119.4 142163           -        -   - 27,336,3
Sub-Totul WI1W4SITY OF AIRICLLTIUM  SCIENCES                                            12f.00.0 121,000o                      254600.0  13994#1 15,i64.6                 -   - 29,7
Total INS1NNT COSTS                                                                       25,500.0 35,200.0 203|00,0 3.04000    - 8950040  27,3783. 41M7027 26737.4 119160.2    - 167,47911
=X=~~~~~~~~~~~~"azmoswwS  answsz  as s a# s s _
Total                                                                                      25P500,0 35,200.0 20,t00,0 8000.0       MUM500.0  2731.1 41702.7 26737.4 11,160.2    - 107,479.1
55=-- -----   ::5xsz: M:is :z,:zz  z3                v ***JR1 =z         
Febuary 201 1I5  12130



-69-
UIITilE      0L1. EIEKII            I R   I1 tlW-21                   Table 111
Tibia Ill. IFAITA - EWIT
Dtaield Cat Table
(IDIAN mmE   '000)
hmtitw                                    lag   Cot                     Tat  Islneltdird CotUritis
unit                          '-                   -    -    -    -     -    -
biil  IS5   1196 1.'7  1Y  19l TOtd   Cost  I           1996   137 19  1939 Total    1M        IM9   1997 1999 199  Total
3823    -S_ mm  ee= 552_3e e_e           S        _ _ 53   ee           e      5              :23223==er  e35  ins es.se
1. IHBTf aSTS
A. EUIIIIEIIT
1. KAMES
MUID-V1W.l EPMIET /a                SET       I      -   -   -   -         1  300   300.0        -   -   -   -  30C.0   325.2           -   -   -   -  325.2
OFFIC FUIRNIIE                      SET        I      -   -   -   -        I    5       5.0       -   -   -   -    5.0         5.5       -   -   -   -    5.5
C 'IITR FM IUIEUtT                  SET        I      -   -   -   -        1  200   200.0         -   -   -   -  200.0   217.3           -    -   -   -  217.3
Sb-Total IEAMIE                                                                          505.0       -   -   -   -  S0I.0   548.0          -    -   -   -  54B.0
2. REI1N
IUIO19-ISLN. E WIiDE                SET        5      3    -   -   -       8    23   140.0    8 .0    -   -   -  224.0   151.7   97.E    -   -   -  24t.5
OFFIME FURITURE                      SET       5      3    -    -    -     8    2    10.0       6.0   -    -    -   16.0    10.9    7.1   -    -- -          B.1
Svb-Total KE611                                                                          150.0   90.6    -   -   -  240.0   162.7  104.9   -   -   -  267.6
3. DISTRICT
OFFICE FIIUKlTt                     SET       13      7   --              20    3    39.0   21.0   -    -    -   60.0    42.7   24.9    -    -    - 6         .6
SbTotal DISTRICT                                                                          39.0   21.0   -   -   -   60.0    42.7   24.9    -   -   -   67.6
4. StUNUIMION (TWA)
-AIO-UISUI EWUDIT                    SET      39    21   -   -   -         o0  1.5    50.5   31.5    -   -    -    0.0    63.4   36.7    -   -   -   100.1
OFFI FWUUIE                         SET      39    21   -   -   -    60    1    39.0   21.0   -   -    -   60.0    42.7   24.9    -   -   -   67.6
Sub-Total SlUIVISIQ I (T4LtW                                                             97.5   52.5    -             150.0   106.1   61.6    -   -   -   167.7
5. FELD
FIELD STAFF EWIPINT  /b             SET   3.350  2,600    -   -   - 5,950   0.3 1005.0  780.0   -   -   - 1,785.0  1,100.1  926.4    -   -   - 2-026.5
Sub-Total FIED                                                                         105.0  780.0   -   -   - 1,735.0  1,00.1  926.4    -   -    - 2,026.5
6- UIIDEPSITY OF ANRICILTWL SCIENES
FLENITIME MD EhILIPIT               SET        4      4    -   -   -       8   100   400.0  400.0   -   -   -  800.0   436.8  472.7   -   -   -  909.5
Sub-Total  IlERITY OF AmICULTWl. SCIOCES                                                 400.0  400.0   -   -   -  800.0   436.8  472.7    -   -   -  909.5
SqToal EWIPlIlT                                                                           2,196.5 1,343.5   -   -   - 3e540.0  2t396.3 1,590.6    -   -   - 3,916.9
-l INE N SIIEN  COSTS                                                                    2.196.5 1.343.5   -   -   - 3,540.0  24396.3 1,590.6    -   -   - 3,996.9
2,196.5 1,343.5    -   -      3u540.0  2,396.3 1,590.6    -   -   - 3,966.9
_um  sz23=       5 Z 5 m a B Me W_               r___ ==222 225=5
XIIES QIED CIERA, UP ICAT3, TV SET, ETc.
IEFCAESi FIELD DI i ESi CIWSR    IDNRS, SUNE VIEWS  ETC., FR 750 ADS AND 5200 VEW.
erv 20 1955  12:31



-70-
Ionl                                                      ANNEX 6
STIOEL S!.   LTS   L EXTEEM  PnUCI 11  1EP-2)                                    Table  112
Table 112. K14TMA - VEHICLES
Itiled Cost Table
(INDIANI RI9ES 100
ontit                                       asM Costs                           Totals Including Cunttmmicies
------------------------ Unit ----------------------  ---------------
thit 19S5 1936 1937 193   939 Total  Cat   I9          196    1937  1933 3i93   Total       1995     I996     97   193 1939  Total
n.    .. n  ... s. sas  a.   .sna   1t:. asss., s...,a  as-sss-   ma...  ma.. Susan        -.-.-... aaass   *.s-s..s  ..an  san  ss ussss.
1. IWIESTIENT CUSTS
A. VEICES fDin)
2. SARTERM
AMID-VIC M   VAN                       IID     I   -   -   -    -    1   300    300.0             -       -   -    -   300.0    326.4           -       -    -    -   32t.4
4-WE. RIVE (IKE UNIT)                  NO      I   -   -    -    -       I    100    200.0        -                      100.0    INB.B         -       .    .         106.8
Sub-Total HEDaAZ TEMS                                                                   400.0        -       -   -   -   400.         435.2        -       -    -   -   435.2
2. SUIDIVISION (TALIM)
4-3EL RIYES IW1TLIIII  TM I           NO    55  60   -    -    -   115  100  5;00.0  6000.0               -   -    -31500.0   5,9n3.6  7O33.1             -       - 13.021,7
Sub-Total SlDIUIVISION ITILWA)                                                       5.500.0  6.000.0        -    -   - 21500.0   5,93.6  7,033.1         -    -    - 13,021.7
3. rEl
OTIECCLES /a                             IO 100  100  100              300    10   1OO0.0  IO00.0 1r.0O.O    -    -  3,000.0   1037.9  1,173.0 1M27.9    -    - 3,533.7
Sub-Totl FIEl                                                                         I@.000.0  1000.0 1.000.0    -    -  3.000f  1,I.9  1,173.0 1272.9    -    - 3,33.7
A. UNDIEBlITY OF IRICUTIXT SCIENCES
1A131419s3  VW                         NO      I   -   -   -    -    I   300         300.0        -       -   -    -    300.0    326.4          -       -    -    -   326.4
VANS                                   No     a    -            -            120     960.0        -            -    -   960.0  1, 04 4          -       -    -    - 1,044.4
Su9-Total UDIIIER51TT OF 4ORICLlTUUL  SCIENES                                        1268.0          -       -   -    -  1260.0   1,370.8        -       -    -    - 1,370.3
Sub-Total 0E5101Es (u)                                                                  i,160.0  7,000.0 1,000.0    -    - 16.160.0   8,977.5 80211.1 1,272.8    -   - 13,361.4
1. BEII.ES IIEFLACEINT)
1. EW TERS
CAS                                    N      2    -    -   -    -       2   100    200.0         -      -   -    -   200.0    217.6                   -    -   -   217.6
Sub-Io  ADEJRTES                                                                       200.0        -       -   -    -    200.0    217.6          -       -    -   -   217.6
2. RE6510
CARS                                  NO      4    4   -   -    -    3   100         400.0   400.0       -   -    -   3.0    435.2   46t.2             -    -4.4
Sub-Total 315300                                                                       400.0   400.0             -    -     00.0    435.2   469.2         -    -   -   94.4
3. DISTRIT mb
4-3EEL MIlES                          NO    10  17    -   -    -    27   200  l.OO.0  1,700.0            -   -    - 2700.0  1037.9  1.994.            -    -    - 3,002.1
VIII                                  NO    10  10    -   -    -    20  120   1,200.0  1.200.0           -   -    - 2.400.0   1,305.5  1,407.6         -    -    - 2.713.1
Sub-Total lISrRICT fb                                                                2,200.0  2,900.0       -   -    - 5,.00.0   2,393.4  3.403.7                      5495.2
4. SUDDIVI-SI (ILS
A-flEEL  MKES (CjEITR  TJLUKAR        NC      -   -  60    -    -    60  100            -        - 6*000.0    -       6000.0           -       - 7.636.6         - 7,66.6
Sub-Totl SUIIUVISIO  (TLUA)                                                                          6.000.0    -    - 6,000.0                      7,63.6    -   - 7,636.6
Sub-ToLal WICLES (EPLWCENTI                                                             2,800.0  3.300.0 6000.0    -       12P100.0  3,046.2 370.? 7,636.6    -    -14,553.
Total IpqESTO)U  COSTS                                                                    10,960.0 10,300.0 7000.0          - 29260.0  t11923.7 12,002.0 83909.4    -    - 32,s15.2
Total                                                                                       10,960.0 10,300.0 7,000.0    -    - 28,260.0  11,923.7 12,02.0 3.909.4    -   - 32,915.2
=-a .sS an............ ... ..  ...  sa s.assa. -. anne. sEnses. s .nss.     so.a esasas
/a  FOR SALE TO FIELD STIFr LIOIW  LOWS 91O         SY Ir TIE DEPUnNT.
fb  REPLANTS FOR 19 CARS AM  28 4-31   tuEs.
Febry 20, 1935 12:32



NallO    inzurn.O 37112          ICT It (0w-i)                                                     AIOTIS  6
Table 113. AMITE* - TUNEhS                                                                Table II]
kt01.16d Cat Table
(ISis .wtu isa
Cuastata                                          Om Casts                              Totas Inlualda  Cmtvweraa
tint    IMU   193   1937   190   290   Vital   Cat  1IM         1916    I'u     1900   19      TOtal      ll!   290    2907   133    1939  Total
-WENT 085t15
A. VRILLSI suwO sIIMM
SKIALO   113(CTI0 USES fa                1331      230   25      20                   730  03.    125.0  223.3  :23.0          -       -  375.0   143.3   1u.s  Id.?           -       -  467.6
33157*713 C ''S lb                        U         26    26    26    26    26    130  0.3           7.9    7.3    7.3    7.3    7.9   39.0          3.9    9.7   11.5   11.4   12.4   53.1
FEIMIDLY VWflW9 It                        NO     4.330  4.30  4.550  4.530  4.550  22.750  MSS    227.5  227.3  227.5  227.5  227.5 I.137.5    260.9  213.1  317.1  313.2  361.61.556.1
REFEDS   3MAtB Id                        1N3IV  1.040  1,34   1.040  1.040  1.040  5.200   0.2   230.0  2011.1  200.3  211.0  2141.0 1.040.0   23.3.  isi1  213.1  304.7  330.6 1.413.3
SPECKS. GROB /V                           NO        10    10    20    20    l4         30     a    10.0   as.a   13.    10.0   10.0   50.0    11aa    IZ.4    1.5   14.6   15.9   67.
FUSTICUNI STOIED /7                      133        12    24    24    24    22         n6          2n.0   an4..   an4..  144.o       2a   576.0    021.6  12n.2  194,4  2110.9  114.4  70.5
STW  TONS /a                             ]INV       50   200   203   M0    2001    750   0.2    10.0   20.0    6.0   40.0   43.0  250.0   I11.5   24.9   14.0   38.6    63.6  222.5
Sub-fotal 414.4.6E CR7562000001                                                                       660.3  742.3  762.3  637.3  565.3 3,367.5   257.2  92.6 1,029.1  933.5  09.4 4.541.7
P. wAORCITALM CI861 OFFICERS
33157*713 CONES lb                        no0        4     4      4       I     4      "0     1      4.0    4.0      4.0    4.0    4.0   20.3        4.6    5.0    5.4    5.         6.4   27.2
31500 CLUNS /I                           IND314    150   250   2in    1SO   ISO    750   0.3   120.0  1220.0   2 20.0  120.0  120.0  610.3   137.6  249.3  162.0  175.0  290.7  023.4
DPE   Ca5OnnS                             No        10    20    20    to    to         so     2    10.0   14.0   22.0   10.0   20.0   50.3    221.5   22.4   23.    24.    15.9   67.9
PaSTE STUbM/a                            111114     10    20    210   220    to         0     3    80.0  260.0  164.0  160.0   00.0  640.0    92.7  199.2  21o.0  234.4  227.:  363.3
5133? TOM  AL                            11131      25    50    75    75    75    3  00   @          5.0   20.0   15.0   13.0   15.0    0.0          5.7   12.4   20.2   22.0   23.3   04.2
1h.-ioLal AICILITIPAL 171NSI13  WICES                                                               290 3.0 3.0              0.0 2. 0 1.03          251.2  370.2  417.1  432.6  363.9 1.413.
C. 503E1 FATTER SPCIALISTS
ORIbNATION COUNS h1k'.. T04I5A3ANSI   00            21      2     2      2      2      20     I      :.o    2.0      2.0    2.0    2.0   10.0        2.3    2.3    2.7    2.9    3.2   23.6
NOPL  3151R117    4bdIW   2               no       22    223   223   22A   2.1   2.140   0.3   114.0  114.0  114.4  124.0  124.0  Sn..   130.7  343.0  213.9  167.0  102.2  774.6
DPEC15. WINKS                             NO         5     3      5      5      5      25    2      10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   20.0   30.3         1 1.5   22.4   13.3   14.6   23.9   67.9
AMVA=  573215 /a                         10014       4      0     0      I      4      32   10    40.0   00.0   00.0   310.0   40.0  320.3    45.9    9.5  200.0  217.2   6.3.6  414.2
SIM13 TON  /v.                           13W        20   210    14    20    20    IN0         2    40.0   48.0   43.0   40.0   40.0  200.0    45.9   49.1   54.0   50.6   63.6  271l1
Sdb-Total SWSIECT UITTER SPECIALISTS                                                                  206.0  246.0  246.0  246.0  296.0 1.I30.3  2134.2  306.1  332.1  360.3  327.4 1.562.1
P. FIELD3 OFF135
WRESHER OMMS                   INDI1031  35    35    35    35    35    275          2    25.0   25.0   Is3.0   35.0   33.0  175.0    40.1   43.5   47.2   31.3   55.6  237.0
NOOM  lVjDiOSM                            No         4     4      4      4      4      210    I      4.0    1.0    4.0    4.0    4.0   20.0          4.6    5.0    5.4    3.9    6.4   27.2
SPE0I5L                                   NoSE  6    3     3      3      3      3      13     2      3.0    3.0      1.0    3.0    3.0   15.10       3.4    3.7    4.0    4.4    4.3   20.4
My13 TONS                                3031       6      6      6      I      6      30    3      23.0   20.0   13.0   10.0   13.0   09.0    20.6   22.4   24.3   26.4   21.6  222.3
Sd-Total MDn OFICRSs                                                                                   60.0   64.0   60.0   60.0   60.0  300.3  0A.3    74.7   31.0   87.9   95.4  407.7
C. SNIDLE OFnis*
ORIENTATION SWSJD                         No         I      I      1     2       1      3    2       2.0    2.0      2.0    '.0    2.0   10.0    21.3   22.5    2.7    2.            3.2   23.6
3fWBeIVma S                               Ila        I      I      I     I      I       3    2       2.0    2.10     2.0    2.0a   2.10    20.0      2.3    2.5    2.7    2.9    3.2   13.6
DECALO& ESO                               No         2     2      2      2      2      20     1      2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0   20.0          2.3    2.5    2.7    2.9    3.2    2346
SIM1 mON                                 11131       2     2      2      2      21    20      4      0.0    4.0      3.0    0.0    0.0   40.3        9.2   10.0   30.3   11.2   12.7   54.4
SdVtaUl SENIE 571535                                                                                   14.0   24.0   24.0   14.0   14.0   70.1    16.1   17.4   23.9   20.5   22.2   95.1
F. OTN13 101311190
EELS STNTF ifI  Sff         l0151I00XM  01    no    2      2      2      2      2      20     2      2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0   20.0          2.3    2.5    2.7    2.9    3.2   13.61
WEts. HIE TWINI. SUES /i                  no        2      2      2      2      2      10     2      2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0   10.3    21.3    2.5    2.7    2.9    3.2   13.6
lffSflE C33                                         2      2N   2        2      2      t0     1      2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0   10.3          2.3    2.3    2.7    2.9    3.2   22.6
Sd-Total WaS 13*1113                                                                                   6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0   30.3           6.9    7.5    3.2    3.0    9.5   40.3
SawDJI   cu                                                                                      2.245.3 1.372.3 1.397.3 1,.37. 1.00.3 6,237.5  1.336.3 1,707.4 14.00.3 1s163.6 1,716.0 3.510.5
2.263.3 1,3712.3 1.397.3 1,272.3 t.10.3O 6.217.5  a.f33.3 1o70.4 2.886.3 2.W6.6 1.716.3 1.520.!
IOM  UPJSE FE CC  KUM TRANSFERRE  FlO  OTM  SCUll. P402ZE3 AT STaTE OR ZD0. 11*19N3  CTESM. CUST PEP vE3  35S.5043 [CaLUlST1911 MS TRAIIN 1*10t2*41.
-AT a3555 ES0M   AT T3L09* 11E1a  Fop ALL       O   ECE  8  r3 FlE fa.  AmS  49 PSTCIPSTS pIR 0101510CM  PElCM CURSE5300) INCLUD WIOtiNUTElILS.!    FIELD VISITS.
I-DAY 51190 PER TM, 3030D FORMS 1(5 AM, OUIED AT TALUR LEVEL. A3M0 30 PERT1CI9SIITS PER CUM5. UNIT 35T 05.50 POR FOR TRAINING 01T521.
31-07N CONE  PO3 YEN0 T3EA4 OF ITNE  1MI1I13  LEIEEIS 40 PATICIPANTS PERmm ENS; ECC             ONCE 31 IN s iMIS.
ilT-O*t1IP COMBE 12-2 KM15 ON FILIAL SULJETS; 40 PWT1CIPMItS PR3 COK.
a4P MC EK E CuSC; POFT COST. PS3 WIN. iNCLS   UITIEN IM  S11953.
mM.1 OKIU PER 11* FER lEaED VWK. 47 STaTE OP 2304. LEta( I. 31  25.30 PARTICIPAIFTS PE  MM2.
-AT CURSE' WU BUT FIV nEAM FRm EmOI AEC, EFSUE3 At31513 LEM; 40 PAITICIPSINTS PER EAE
IMT CONK 0C CENT 5 YEARS FE [K13A0. 30-40 PMTCICPANVS PER WEEI. 1S.100 PEO PERTICIU.
-`ER PSC BEGE a1MCI 0oIT CMg, PO39MM, ItNEJ TruII 00 ST9111.
*flMS 7w SELECTED OM0, WEea WEE. 0115211 AT STAVEfZf LEVE.  Im 25-30 PtRMMIIOT  P01 TO. uia? CUT OF 15.200 PER PARTICIO    FE FlEU TRIPS AND07011MM  mTER1tkS.
*2-1AT iMbNING VSUtS. Op6AlZE At DISWIC LEVI.. EACH 5F3002 CISTN 315.1000. (Tab PRE-SEASOSL 5239001P VILL K 101310 VI11N gWrLT 030m.2I
EM  PM  3101( CWISE; MIT' CMST. PEM MuM. I33.3  TUITION00 SD 7191.
---R OF 3V1 aO I 1135*7T2. FIR SELKEI 965.
--CIIL 43 TWaIIN  SUSS  PRm  TO EIOi DV  SEA    (I.E.. 7IOC5 MAINLT;.
i20. 2I33 12233



-72-
IN"A
IThTIML AICtLTUIML FXTEKII   PMECT 11 (AEP-2           T
T*eln 114. IIUTMA - TRAfL ALLOINDS
Ibtailnd Cost Table
(IDIA RUFEES 'COO)
guantiti                                         I.. Costs
~~~~~~~Unt  --------                                              _____
Unit  19B5  1986  1997  19M   2939 Total   Cost  195   1996   217   1911H   199   TOtl
1. RECERlE  COSTS
A. TRAVEL ILNENCES FOR INCREMENTAL STIFF /a
JDA IHEIJUARIERS)                                   No       2      2      2     2      2      10    5    10.0   20.0   10.0   10.0   10.0    50.0
REGIONIL SIISS (1AS)                                NO        9     9      9     a      9      40    4    32.0   32.0   32.0   32.0   32.0   160.0
DISTRICT SNSS (ADS)                                 NO      40    40    40    40    40    200    4   160.0  160.0  160.0  140.0  10.0   Wo.
CENTRAL TALIUA SiSS (ADS)                           NO       60    60    60    60    60    300    4   240.0  240.0  240.0  240.0  240.0 1.200.0
AGRICULTURAL ECUIOHIST (IIIE UNIT)                  No        I     I      I      I     I       3    4      4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    3.0
FIELD IMSTI6ATORS (KE UNIT)                         No       10    10    10    10    10        50    4    40.0   40.0   40.0   40.0   40.0   200.0
UAS EXUNSION TRAINING CUORDINATORS                  No        5     9      S     a      9      40    4    32.0   32.0   32.0   32.0   32.0   160.0
MRIUfS                                              No      66   126   126   126   126    570    2   132.0  252.0  252.0  252.0  252.0 12140.0
Sub-Total TRAlEL ILLIANICES FOR ITEIJITAL STAFF /a                                                           650.0  770.0  770.0  770.0  770.0 30730.0
P. INCREHEUTAL TRAVEL ALLOWCES FOR EXISTING STAFF /b
ADDITIONAL DA (EXTENSION)                           No        1     I      I      I     1      5  2.5       2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5    12.5
05 (NEADUUARTERS)                                   NO       10    10    10    10    10       50  2.5    25.0   25.0   25.0   25.0   25.0   125.0
MIE LUIT EAD (JDA)                                  m         1     I      I      I     1      5  2.5       2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5    2.5    12.5
DM S AIAS (HEADUJMTERS)                            N"        32    32    32    32    32    160    2    64.0   64.0   64.0   64.0   14.0   320.0
DISTRICT PAS (DDAS)                                 No       19    19    19    19    19       95    2    38.0   3B.0   3.0   38.0   3B.0    190.
AUDITIOEML DMS                                      No        8     8      9     8      9      40    2    16.0   16.0   16.0   16.0   26.0    U.S
DISTRICT SWSS (ADAS)                                No       85    85 95    85    95    425    2   170.0  170.0  170.0  170.0  170.0   *50.0
TALUKA AIS                                          No      175   175   175   175   175    175    2   350.0  350.0  350.0  350.0  350.0 1 750.0
CENTRAL TAWIIU SKSS (ADS0)                          N       lo    180   I1O   180   19O    900    2   360.0  360.0  360.0  360.0  360.0  19K00.0
AE5S                                                me      750   750   750   750   750  39750    1   750.0  750.0  750.0  750.0  750.0 34750.0
.IG                                                 *6   59200 59200 5.200 5.200  5.200 26.000  0.5  2:600.0 2P600.0 2600.0 2p600.4 2600.0 13,000.0
HIlE UNIT STAFF (IHADUIMIS 2 FIELD)                           -     -      -     -      -      -          150.0  150.0  150.0  150.0  150.0   750.0
DRIVERS                                             NO      133   133   133   133   133    665    1   133.0  133.0  133.0  133.0  133.0  6U5.0
Sub-Total INCREMENTAL TRAEL ALLONCES FOR EXISTING STAFF tb                                                 4.661.0 4,661.0 4,661.0 4661.0 4:661.0 23,305.0
Total RECUET COSTS                                                                                           5.311.0 5,431.0 5.431.0 5,431.0 5,431.0 27.03.0
Total                                                                                                         5.311.0 5,431.0 543I.0 5,431.0 5r431.0 27035.0
/a  TIW STAFF ARE REtIRED TO TAWJL 1620 DAYS PER  NTH, COPARED VITH PRESENT TRAVEL NRNS OF ONLY 9-10 DAIS PER M IN.
tb  TWl STAFF ARE RE0IRED TO TRAVEL 16-20 DATS PER MTH. CWARED WITH PRESENT TRAVEL NUNS OF ONLY 8-10 DAYS PER IIOTH.
Februarv' 20. 1995  12:35



IUIA
INAIOWV   AIIOtM  ElTEIDIWN PRU      11 11 (W-2)
Table 115. KAt A - WtICIL OEATING E19S
btiled Cost Table
(iUIM IRUES '2C)
.umtitv                                     baa Costs                              Totals Incl,iei Cotinld,1s
.........                      unit 
Unit 19M5  96 197 M1IMI    Total Cost  IM          19U    1987    IM      IM      Total    1M5    1M6    1"7    19         1M      Totl
:1:_=: :'-: :--.    nn Sanre     rr   aSau  rarea  ::is  reesn   5r    -Suuu                    *      a  ~u
1. IltCU NT cosrs
A, OPRAIII G EXPEUS FOR INIEIT*L W1NIC1ES /a
4-Ul DRIVES I(JTLYING TALtKA)                                    55  I15  11! 115 115  515   25  1,375.0 2,315.0 2.975.0 2375.0 2,975.0 12.S75.0  1,m72  3J595 3.5 62.1 4PI92.3 4550.7 17,737.5
4-UL 89WE (NIE INIT)                                      N       I   I   I   I   I    5   25    25.0   25.0   25.0   25,0   25.0   125.0    2il6    31.0   33.6   36.5   39.1   167.2
WII  U*MI                                                 No      I   9   I   9   9   40   15   120.0  120,0  120.0  120.0  120.0   600.0   137.3  :U.t  261.2  175.0   I.9   e1.2.0
MIDW-411S1   UM  (NA)                                     No      I   1   I   I   I    5   20    20.0   20.0   20.0   20.0   20.0   100.0    22.9   24.3   26.9   29.2   31.7   135.3
AI-YISKIM  YAK CUASI                                      No      I   I   I   I   I    5   20    20.0   20.0   20.0   20.0   20.0   100.0    22.9   24.9   26.9   29.2   31.7   135.3
Sub-total GITJNU EV6ES FIn IKMM. WHIOES la                                                             1,560.0 3,060.0 3#060.0 3060.0 306.0 13,900.0  1734.6 319.5 4.110,6 4,462. 4384.5 1IM9.3
1. IITIML  OERAIINS ECUSES FE  EXlSTING YNICLES hb
CARS                                                      M0    15  15  15  15  15   75   25   375.0  375.0  375.0  375.0  375.0  1,375.0   429.0  464.3  503.3  546.8  593.t 295)7.4
4-4WE tM1IS (DISTRICT) /c                                 NO    27  27  27  27  27  135  12.5   137.5  337.5  337.5  337.3  337.5  1,U67.5   316.1  417.9  453.4  492.1  534.2 2M283.7
4-EL DIES (CENTRML TALLKA)                                NO    60  60  60  60  60  300  1225    750.0  750.0  750.0  750.0  750.0  3,750.0   656.0  Y2.6 1,007.5 19093.6  111.1  5,074.S
4-dEL I3III  IIIE t141)                                   NO      I   I   I   1   1    5  12.5    12.5   12.5   12.5   12.5   12.5    62.5    14.3   15.5   16.1   19.2    1,8    84.6
IW (DIST71CT) /d                                          NO    20  20  20  20  20  100   7.5   150.0  150.0  150.0  150.0  150.0   750.0   171.6  135.7  201.5  219.7  237.4  11015.0
Ns   lRicT)                                               NO    10  10  10  10  10   50  7.5    75.0   75.0   75.0   75.    75.0   375.0    85.1   92.9  100.8  109.4  110.7   507.5
Sub-Total   1lNrtMA WMIRIIu  EXPENSS Fr  EXISTIN WUICLES /b                                            17000.0 10I.00 2,700.0 2,00.0 1,700.0  E9500.0  1944.7 2,104.7 2,293.7 2471.9 2,690.9 11.502.
Total MEC2eu  COSTS                                                                                      3,260.0 40760.0 4,760.0 4,760.0 4,760.0 22,300.0  3,729.3 5,893.3 aJ,94.3 &.940.9 74534.1 30A A.2
--nu  .*ng- 555   tunas warren AXzarssuf            stun  sawr-TX cacca. ares.:-       asge
Total                                                                                                     3,260.0 40760.0 4.7600 4,760.0 4.7600 22,300.0  3.729.3 5,193.3 6,394.3 6.Y40.Y 7,534.3 30,49.2
-_------------------  - --- e-ue ---------... - -as  -s -sSS
/a  INLUKES FMEt LUICATIIK 011 MID MAINTECE.
/b  INCLOEI FEL, IJUICATIINI 0IL. AD MINTEWXCE.
/c IuLAcVIS rFR 19 cARs Nm B 4-IEE mIvWS.
/d KP4ACEWTS FOR 20 4-VNEEL DRIES.
febnarv 20, 1M    122234



INGIA
ATIWNL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PRUCT II (NMP-2)
Table 116. KARAITAKA - OTHER OPERATING EXPENDITURES
Detailed Cost Table
(INDIAN RUEES '000)
Quantiti                                  Base Costs                   Totals Includinr  Continfwncies
- ------  --- ------------------- Unit -----------------------   --------------------                      -
init  1985 1986 1987 198 1989 Total   Cost  198S  1986  1987  198M  1989  Total    1995  1986  1987  1999  1M   Total
-Sma    =SS====_===:::_:    :=:=====_===                        =_===zz  =__=: _=:===   ====== =2222 2====   ==   S=   ='
1 RECURRENT COSTS
A. OFFICE AND FIELD OPERATIONS /a
JDA OFFICES (IHEADUPRTERS)          NO       2    2    2    2    2     10      5   10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0    SO5o   10.9  11.9  12,9  14.0  15.2    64,9
DDA OFFICE (NUE LUIT)               No       1    1    1    1    1      5      1    1.0   1.0   1.0  1.0   1.0      5.0    1.1   1.2   1.3   1.4   1.5       6,5
REGIOBUL JDA OFFICES                 NO      8    8    9    8    8     40      1    9.0   8.0   9.0   9,0   9.0    40.0    8.9   9.5  10,3  11.2  12,1   51.9
DISTRICT SmS OFiCES                 ND      40   40   40   40   40    200      1   40,0  40.0  40.0  40.0  40.0   200.0   43.8  47.5  51.5  55.9  60.7   259.4
CENTRAL TALIKA SES OFFICES           NO     60   60   60   60   60    300  0.75   45.0  45.0  45.0  45.0  45.0   225.0   49.3  53.4  58.0  62.9  68.3   291.9
UAS EXT. TRAINING COORD, OFFICES    NO       8    8    8    8    8     40      5   40.0  40.0  40.0  40.0  40.0   200.0   43,.  47.5  51,5  55.9  60.7   259,4
Sub-Total OFFICE AND FIELD OPERATIONS Is                                             144,0 144.0 144.0 144,0 144.0   720M0  157,6 171.0 185.6 201.3 218.4   934.0
O. EGUIPINT OPERATION
COHPIUTER 0o  (HNE UNIT)                                                -          50.0  50.0  50.0  50.0  50.0  250.0   54.7  59.4  64.4  69.9  75.8   324.3
Sub-Total EgUIPENET OPERATION                                                         50.0  50.0  50,0  50.0  50.0   250.0   54.7  59.4  64.4  69.9  75.8  324.3
C. FIELD TRIALs
FIELD TRIALS                         NO    750  750  750  750  750  3r750   0.S  375.0 375.0 375.0 375.0 375.0 1975.0  410.5 445.4 483.2 524.3 568.9 2,432.3
Sub-Total FIELD TRIALS                                                               375.0 375.0 375.0 375.0 375.0 1.875.0  410.5 445.4 483.2 524.3 568.9 29432.3
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                   569.0 569.0 569.0 569,0 569.0 2v845.0  622.8 675.8 733.2 795.5 863.2 3.690.6
:43z:=:_- zzZ:   ===_ - --:= =  == =   - -=  =-- --- - ===  CCZZ
Total                                                                                    569.0 569.0 569.0 569,0 5t9.0 2,845.0  622.8 675.8 733.2 795.5 863.2 3.690.6
3r3- 32:= e =:-== ==--2        -                    =Z: 222: __::: 22::: 33
la  INMUES RENT. STATIOPT, NOT NO COLD VATER CH)R6ES, LIURIES, TELEPHONE OVMbES, FIELD DIARIESt MD OTHER NISFLLANEOUS OPERATIN6 EXPENSS FOR INCRENHTHAL STbfFF
Febrwuri 20, IMRS  12:37



NW a a          use kwl  a a
bsssuc.m. 55.Ush  WomIN
-             -- - - - -- - - -- - - - -    ------ -                   -
s em  mu~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o M                                                         w r             M    a         m q
Odea                                      aS        IS   I   I   I    11   H          U01.S    mid    504A    llA       43.      WI6.      AIml.    Its.4   4*43   in,       n..    .
a.
. mmSIItcI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I.M
W,i    mltm                               .      .          I. .   mf           P H      I        d     1.        14     1.       1.S       51       31      I.      4.        1       m
CII         ms 101 111 1(.            J-I I                      t     as   N-       14      w.m     nm       OA.    4cm       '1.5      21.3     ml.   gi*31.              L       l.
fi  14              S      1'  1   II  II  ii   IS    He  1.114.. I -imS.m  .115.5  4.111.S  2.1 lI.~~~~  5.-S    mdlI.m   m.Em.---.-N... ... --4-----m .......
ti-tI.,I no3m                                                                           .m1. I%.  MA1.    MA1.   4. 54m. 5.5   1.0.5  .  lIl.m   m.rd.  11.1  J.4 Ut I          .1.A  2.1.1
..awm a-W&W                                                                                                                                        S.s
us I                                   a      S,  S-  mp   S   S1  3o              U.S   1.118. .11.m    luS          u- .11.1          951.1 S15.  .:  I4.11   1!4I1   tI,e5 I  I4.Cl
ww.                     ~                  C      m    al4    1.34               N        .4  I  .SM   I.S I      5..6l   16.4 -L . lf.5            .. cW..n.) .SS     l          aE  -Wi..
I. *ust1
CU  Oa                                          H    ejua amm am                      "I:.  cMa. Im.A.    m.4si.                ..       14.    ..       111    q       .sI2m 
os   m.us,.                                                                                                             Z    .u m  ..    ddi.lH.    I.*N.I.A41.    l4t     .1
ci-4    40AliSU'                                  II)V    I   2    .5            m    -'- - m1lI   In..m          In.m .'.    .4'   11.55-I   '.a.    mi.-' u.A.   IWI I mS.m1!..9m.I'
aiM.  *11I5Sm    M M :h                                                              iS.0L-S  -u. I.  :.'-    .y.  :A "a         14.    11'-  41.    .  4   11141i
..      4elm 0                                              .                      
,401 IaIm       sIm    e.                S.     Wmar    n    L                          S..t    n.m .4.   .mI      m     m.. U*N.           11.1  m     &SWA           m      ..      :m
I muuil,a                                                   i  '411fu014-                                                  nm      I-n        -        .,     m          '      ;        *
.1555531411Namla                                .   I           i:        m     '       '        '     f  .     I'S      I'm      r-        n-I    RS      m     SIn:rI.31
ti- 11.11 S;eSt                                                                          ,u'u        'M.          n5 'l-          .5in       1        II U           's      1'5I1l
mun m 'Mami                 In-
iSUInl lIitU                                          I I            I          I        -      5       11.1             MAA ili     A1     V:,        *.   .11 I Il          , *         1
Sa- m m. .                                          1I   I                  1 5          1.1      u .     1...il.S         4..    'I.mA      it.1.  fIt   -    He-S             I:      3l.1
S   a    Calm  511~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aMe                                                                           '
SliM       I111~l:                                        i I                          U.g    N'm        IS-I   IN-I:   mum      amI.              14               II'     -         ml
Mo a    ltibISSm                          RS            mi'mll:    11,4                         11 'm .-i        14-1    Iu-     IN    stS         41.       l 'I              * 
, E01I C a                                                                      1       1.       5        u     4         I1u    12-         m      sa    m           Il      11      11
SaNm-mm  Vimmm                                                            N    II'      .1     cm      m:       46:1    aC       lfl.      ,..I     1.      4:    P$441m                d
SEllS.                11    1:  'I    :   2  a:    a    ~~~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~              ~~~~~I.  IS.    m-  S  .-    IS:  sItu  '5'    411  V W. :  Il.       a-I.
ti-Ilii   n uW              mi I31-5   c  m.   CI..In.m   n..m  3.11m I                                                                        .11    'fu       1m        .   'L.   s.M.
rSuiaIasue.INSmm.              a~~~~~~~~   I I I j  I .   I:   II 2         Il       '14     '. 9" ..          Iu      I1         I.       m      mm      W  UN    IA,lt
a    Amu'aI                                                                                     -       -I     a-  .m    l.a-S            ' 0-11uIJ-I   I1I5a511 *-I.::    "Au'
611141aBL-D                                           I I I I                  1       ftu    '11-    1.       l-       1.    .NI        .N       .9       .1    .13 5  .a  -S   't.14
hIUSfOU1d1Q_INt                          a      I 4   4 4 IwiSnItM                            n.       H        .I .    M 1.1    'mm      141 ..   3   .  ml               SMI dI    :.53
0116 km            lI     m              a      mm   4 4 I    '          4           smi       .       i       t"e-s 5Ma-u                   .~   1.1-   1.-S      155 mm           .f.
aicc"liaLeft                             a      a                                                             Z       26 35 2-   44-I    2 -.1   -34  n.m   1    Is,   II    N'       S
WUtIitup      lid  A                                                             l      '- .0 u1         Ill   u-u~.         II    3.5A8   . 1-4    il        a: I     i-      m         i-
inc00a m*=                               a      I   I   I   I    4        1     .      n-I    s-S       1.4     m.u      mI5 m .                             1        I      I
fi S                                     a       I      l      14        H      I     I-       a-      4.       5-       .a      1. 3-in            :N      Ca      .11-     all     1
Siam!-'         -          ---                       CLI   Ill-I   IflS    mfl.m    4Pm    :.iHel    1111    l"m    Irm    2441    a               '.4bS* 103  ].    M,  I.  I,.  1
n-5i nl.  Ifla      au                                                               ... 35 If        4111A    lfA         W-,mIf'-    A..12.311.U'41uf.n   s1-
A  I-ENI deIS  1116   S11                                                                  to."3 1M,":  a  SI                        I EU  flIab                AN         -' I ul..
II Sum  iSlfl 151Mm  at  ma  as.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---------    ----  ------- --------
ft in Mm ume,a lm Inf amen  ammg s asat
Mato rn am am 11094aWn  rmt. a as.. TO4I 4 a   ?M suns  tun M4- 41t l 6111,
aIdn ean fiu  assoant BALI e
a as    S  Uromn. "me.Odm ampl  tm=  cmoI  I C
11    ~     stem    a  a    GiflI. 411 US4riEteI   f&sfi-
Ian  S  IC         ----  -          -----------------------



-76-
ANNEX 7
IEI*                                                     Table 118
*nTM  fIOCLTURI EXlEISIIII PROJECT II (N0W-2)
Table 118. tlLlMAT - CIVI  005
Detailod Cast Table
113143 RIFlES 0001
Uiantitv                                  Base Costs                         Totals IrtludirM Contamins
-    - ______________    _-   Ihit   -__                                                                        -__Unit
unit 1995 1996 1997 19  1999 Total  Cost   1915    1996    !987  1I9  1999 Total        195    1996    1997  199 199  Total
1. D* E5TfM  CDSTS
A. RE9OI0
1A WARfERS                      weO     1   2   -   -   -       3  3D0    3M0.0   MD.0          -   -   -    900.0    321.0   710.0         -   -   -  I
J.  0FF1S /a                    NO      1   2   -   -   -       3  Sm0    xo.0  1000.0          -   -   -  1,500.0    546.6 1,194.7         -    -    -  I
Do  5iERS                       NO     2   2   2   -   -        6  200    400.0   40D.0   400.0   -   -  1,200.0    437.3   473.9   514.2   -   -
NOSTELS/GARAGES lb              me      1   2   -   -   -       3  BW    II0.0  IPMD.;          -   -   -  2,400.0    974.A  1,995.6         -     -     2
Sub-Total RlElli                                                            2,0M0.0 3,400.0   400.0   -   -  6,000.0  2,196.  4265.1   514.2          -     6
B. DISIRICT
SIIS OTERS                      MC      5  10   5   -   -    20  IN         500.0  1.D0.0   500.0   -   -  2,COM.0   546.6 1,IB4.7   642.7    -   -  2
Sub-Total DIS1RICT                                                            500.0  1.000.0   500.0   -   -  2,0X.0    546.6 1,IB4.7   642.7   -   -  2
C. SIUDIYIlSN
SSI OFFlCES                     "a      2   3   3   -   -       S  325    650.0   975.0   975.0   -   -  2,600.0    710.6 I,155.1  1.253.3   -   -  3
qle OFFICE BMAR iKULS /r         O    15  22   -   -   -    37   25    375.0   550.0           -   -   -    95.0    410.0   651.6           -   -   -  I
SAO/AL.SDA         WSI TUS      N     20  20  20   -   -    60  100  2,000.0 2,000.0 2.000.0   -   -  6,000.0  2zSe6.6  24369.5 2,570.9   -   -  7
T1111  NLLS /d                  NO    10  20  10   -   -    40   50    500.0  1,O00.0   500.0   -            2,000.0    546.6 1,184.7   642.7   -   -  2
Sub-Totl SUDIUISIN                                                          3,525.0  4,525.0  3,425.0    -   - 11,52.0  3,853.8 5,360.9 4.466.9   -   - 13
D. FIEU IEEL.
VEV IUWTERS                     NO   20  400 400   -   - I,OO    60 12,000.0 24,000.0 24,000.0   -   - 60,000.0 13,119.4 2S433.7 309850.8   -   - r..
AME  UTERS                      NO    50 150   -   -   -   200  100  5.000.0 15,100.0           -   -   - 20PM00.0  5,466.4 17,771.1         -   -   - 23
9ub-Total FIU ELD3                                                         17,000.0 39,000.0 244000.0   -   - a0c000.0  195.9 46,204.7 30,950.s   -   - 951
E. bdT N    tRICILTM  UiWERSITY
aLS439    I N1STELS It          No     2   4   -   -   -        6  920  1,S40.0  3,600.0        -   -   -  5,520.0  2,011.6 4,359.8         -   -   -  6.
sR1                             No     3   4   -    -    -      7   16       43.0    64.0       -        -    112.0      52.5    75.9       -   -   -
Sub-Total 0LJAT AGRICLLTUWR L RSITT                                         1,999.0  3,744.0       -   -   -  5,632.0  2,064.1  4,435.7        -   -   -  6, i
Total INVESTNCIW COSTS                                                        24,913.0 s1.869.0 2a,375.0    -   - 105,157.0 27,237.0 61,451.1 36,474.7   -   - 125.
Total                                                                          24,913.0 51,969.0 29,375.0   -   - 105,357.0 27,237.0 61,451.1 36,474.7   -   - 125.
03             =     0        0= 0=   _03  --3=---GO5 2=3 =33         03  *= - -
/a AT StUAT, NEr9AM AM  J19I3.
/b VIT1 I13 IW4L NO QTSNEN; AT FMI    TR4DIND4 CEMIIRS, FOR NmLT  C9SNS.
le FOR EXISTING 9000 CFIfCS.
/d AT 40 I101TIL SEED FES, FOR FOMTNI6TLfY 3I0PS.
/e fULl FULYED R11D EWIWED.
Fsbru   20, IM5 12:40



-77-
NATIWAL AGRICULa;n-:k EXTIISINII PROJECT 11 1AEP-21                                 ANNEX 7
Table 117. GUIPRT - EUIPIIENI                                             Table 119
Detailed Cost Table
(INDIAN RifES '000)
hanits                                     last Costs                     Totals InIltid Cantiancies
tnit it RC6 1997 IM  1am  toUl thit Cxoi  1995   1996   1997   199929 7otal    1995   1996  1917 1999  1999 Total
A. EUIPHE
1. N RN
OFFICE FURNITUIE /a                                  IO00.0 19250.0 500.0   -   - 2v250.0 1,094.6 1,494.6 644.1    -   - 39223.5
PEES I DIIDITI MIT EDIPPENT lb            StT      I        -   -   -    1         1, 50 1,650.0      -    -   -   - 1,650.0 1,711.5         -    -    -   - 1.2.5
CUUOER (IIE U1N1T                         'AET     I   -   -   -   -    1           200   200.0       -    -    -   -  200.0   217.3         -    -    -    -  217.3
hu-total EIEI2NTS                                                                           2,950.0 1250.0 500.0       - 4,600.0 3.1D0.4 2,484.6 644.3    -    - 5.229.3
2. REDa
OFFICE I etDa-ow. E0uPww          te      SET      4   2   -   -   -    6            85   340.0  170.0    -   -   -  S51.0   370.4  19S.9    -    -   -  570.3
u.b-.-  REsm                                                                                  340.0  170.0              -  510.0   370.4  199.9    -    -           570.3
3. DlSRXT
OFFICE I AMIDO-VISt  ElUIPNENT Id         SET      I   -   -   -   -    1            32    32.0          -       -   -   32.0    34.9        -                    34.9
Set-otal DIStRICT                                                                              12.0      -    -   -   -   32.0    34.9          -    -    -   -   34.9
4. SUzNuisaoN
OFFIE I AIIN-9ISUI. EIUIP101T /e          SET      9   -   -   -   -    S            i.   152.0                  -       152.0   145.6       -           -   -  165.6
S-Total SlhVSIUN                                                                              152.0      -    -   -   -   152.0   165.6         -               _  165.6
S. FME
NISCEUAMES EDUM G ft                      SET   77  116   -   -   -  853           0.    221.1   34.       -   -   -  255.9   242.0   41.3    -    -   -  213.4
OISC. ElEPPII FOt ADDITION  Wig is        SET      -   - 300 300 200  000           0.3        -      - 90.0 90.0 60.0  240.0         -      - 116.0 125.9 91.0  332.8
St-Total FEtD                                                                                 221.1   34.9 90.0 70.0 60.0  495.9   242.0   41.3 116.0 225.0 91.0  616.2
6. GLIJHT hNRICTIMAL UNIJWSITY
TE4(1 EUIPIT                                       -    -    -    -    -                   200-0  200.0    -   -   -  400.0   217.9  233.2    -    -   -  453.0
IWFICE EIPT                                        -   -   -   -   -                       200.0  125.0    -   -   -  325.0   217.9  147.0    -    -   -  364.8
OFFICE FINRlWE                                     -   -   -   -   -                       10-.0  200.0    -   -   -  200.0   109.5  119.9    -    -   -  229.2
SA-Total WSiRT hIhIALTIhh  mRmTY                                                              500.0  425.3    -   -   -  925.0   545.2  500.9    -    -   -1,046.1
-,-TOtu EfIPIEt                                                                                4.095.1 1f979.8 590.0 90.0 60.0 6F714.9 4,459.4 2.226.0 760.3 125.9 91.0 7,662.3
L -    -4T    COTS                                                                             4,095.1 1,079.9 590.0 9.0 60.0 6,714.9 4,450.4 2.226.8 760.3 125.9 91.0 7,662.3
4,095.1 1,979.0 590.0 90.0 60.0 6.714.9 44A3.4 2.226.8 760.3 125. 91.0 7,662.3
I 215iRD4in u STATE, 70W. mSRITP, SxIvlxSorw AID FIELD OFFICES AS RE01ARED.
IMS OBPUS, OFFSET MI  PRWIG6 HCNIUES, PIPER CtTDEN  tCE, UTNATIC DIPLICATOR, AMD 40I-COPIFSIT IDN WHIINE.
lU1ES T1P1IMR, SlEEt IJtCATCIR FLAIR 30*RDS PAPER CITTIMS SOlE. PMR MACIEA ETC C.; ONE '7 PR lollE.
MMe DHISIrIUI.T II    6ES 35N  CUEA NO 120 1  CUERBA WUT Cl SRt            SECIL  WLICATOR. SLIDE  IE6S6  Ala FIMIEI. 0OW1, ETC.
213  SLIDE MEE, NIUrAINS AS  OW16ED PROJECTORS; 3 SETS FOR THE 3 SUDIVISIONS 11 KUTCH DISTRICTt AND 5 SETS FOR THE 5 MEW SUBmIWIINIS.
IUES IEFCOESt SLIDE VIEM     LOSE LOOMIND    ETC.. FOR lWERTAL aEOS me  MEIlS.
2l1JE   UIEFU ESA SLIIE VIEWS LODSE BLKIERS, ETC.: FOR I91TI I  VEilS TO BE PITED IN THIRD THROUSH FIFTH FPROECT IEM.
2o0 IM95 U':l



-78-
ANNEt  7
Table 1ZO
l11814
6T0  M6RICL_  EXIESI1SII MJOECT IS (NAEP-21
table  20.  TJOT -  1UICLES
Detailed Cost Table
(INDIAN OWEES '000)
bantite                                   saw btst                           Totals Includins Contnmancies
-  unit                                  -----------------------
hit  M5 196 1SD7 19B3 IM  Total  Cat  IIIS    IM            1987  19S  1989 Total   105   1916   19?  19SI  191   Total
_ s _s  _. muS  u.  ---. ta=sa          * ---- =nn   =ama   mas S71--- Sn              SanDta Sag  rats  as.  art.. S-ia
.. IIaSTRW Cam
CAR                              II      I   -   -   -   -         L  100    100.0        -      -    -    -  100.0   108.8          -       -    -    -    101.3
4-WEELEIVES                      30      2   -O- -   -             2  100   200.0         -      -    -    -  200.0   217.6          -       -    -    -   217.6
4-E1. D1 IlS (IME U4IT)          N0      2   -   -   -   -         2   100   200.0        -      -    -    -  200.0   217.6          -       -    -    -   217.,
SuTotal WA*IMSAR                                                                 500.0       -      -    -    -  500.0   544.0          -       -    -          544.0
2. aZIC
4-NEEL IRMS/a                    No      4   -   -   -   -         4  IO0    400.0        -      -    -    -  400.0   435.2          -       -    -          as.:
Sub-Tta) ZDE                                                                     400.0       -      -    -    -  400.0   435.2          -       -    -    -   435.2
3. USlRltT
4-UeL= DRES                      Po      2   -   -   -   -         2   LO0    200.0       -      -    -    -  200.0   217.6          -       -    -    -   217.6
Sui-Tatal DISTRTCT                                                               200.0       -      -    -    -  200.0    .7.6          -       -    -    -   217.6
4. 9.DIUISIIIN
4-WR 11Et    IS0    19   -   -   -   -    1  10'  1,900.0                                -      -    -    - 1,900.0  2067.1         -       -    -    - 2.067.1
Sub-Total SIRVSIDO                                                             1,900.0       -      -    -    - 1,900.0  2,067.1        -       -    -         - 2.0I7.!
5. FIELD
.OTORCTOES 1b 30    50 100  100                             -   250   10   500.0 1,000.0 1,000.0       -    - 2,500.0   544.0 1.273.0 1,7.B        -    - 2,9-3.S
DCrQES /C                       NO   300 30 300 3 J0 300  I.500   0.6   100.0  10              0.0 180.0 I80.0  900.0   196.6  212.7  230.8 250.5 272.0 1,162.6
Sub-Total FIEU                                                                   680.0 IP1.0.0 1I480.0 180.0 11i.0 3,4W.0   740.5 1,385.7 1,503.6 250.5 272.0  4.152.3
6. uLRr Sl3aLTURAL UNIVERSITT
4-HEE 11MM                       No    11   -   -   -   -    11  100  1u100.0             -      -    -    - 1,100.0  1-196.7        -       -    -    -  1,196.7
Sub-Total GUJART  ORIULTIAL UIIS1ITY                                           1.100.0          -      -        - 1,100.0  1.196.7      -       -    -    -  1196.7
Sub-Total VENICLES (NO)                                                           4,7B0.0 1.10.0 l1l86 0 180.0 110.0 7u50.0 5f,01.0 1.385.7 1503.6 250.5 172.0 9PA12.I
S. LU0ES (EPLACtElMT
1. DISTRICT
sS                               No    10   9   -   -   -    19   IOD IO,0.0  900.0              -    -    - I tM.0  1,007.9 1I055.?         -    -    - 27143.6
Sib-Total  SRICT                                                               1,000.0  900.0       -    -    - 1.00.0 1,007.9 1,055.7         -    -    - 2.143.5
Sub-Totl  IIQCLES (REPUEET)                                                       1.000.0  90.0        -    -    - 2,900.0  1,w7.9 1055.7          -    -    - 2e143.6
Toal I8ST?EI LasTs                                                                   5.0.0 2,00.0 IIB0.0 180.0 180.0 9400.0  62839.0 29441.4 1,503.6 250.5 27.0 10.756.5
Total                                                                                 5070.0 2400.0 21100.0 1I0.0 180.0 94400.0  6,239.0 2W441.4 1,503.6 250.5 272.0 10.75.5
/a FOR      TII NO   NES.
/b FOR SALE TO FIEJ STAF UIM ID46S PNIIDE BY TNE DERTIET.
Ic  FO SAE TO FED STAFF LN        lDE1     PROVIED BY THE DEPRTENT.
Fabmi    20, ISB5 12:43



-79-
AINNE 7
13313                                                                Table  121
MIMaLM Tmmre.m  aTOim 1 M.r 01 1E-21
table 123.  UALA  - T1NE
IsId  Cos Table
niU UDEES  Ile)
botils                                          ha costs                              Totas rloii  ComLtU.ci
- hit
bat    ms   1ik  17   1           19m   Tol   coad   295    1m        1937   13    1        Ttal    19 I        6 M    1937   IM    1      Total
1. I1M33TW CTSFS
A. VrLE E[IEEM    9ERS
IL112l cmiU     /a                   IIOIV    3M     722   300   3ee   310   .452  0.3    90.o   75.6   90.0    0.0   90.0  435.6   103.'  94.   121.5  1321.   143.0  593.6
IEMNTATnI  13E05  lb                    No       21    22    21    21    21    105  0.3          6.3    6.3    6.3    4.3    6.3   31.5         7.2    7.1    *.5    9.2   13.0   C2.0
FI0I1LT UWY       S /c                 NO    4,714  4.734 4.734  4,704 4.734  23.0  0.05   239.2  239.2  239.2  239.2  239.2 I,1t9.0    24.3  297.6   3Z2.9  350.4  30.1 1625.3
9ER         SES  W/d                   1I1V    O5N   IN       0D   IN       W0  4,250  0.2   173.0  170.0  17u.0  170.0  170.0   C.0    M4.t  211.   229.5  24.0  270.2 1,15.1
S01 CUl /a                            H         12    12    11    11    11        55    I    11.3   12.0   11.0   11.0   11.3   55.0    12.6   13.7   14.3   16.1   17.5   74.7
IUT UI   . SMEB  nt                    1EY       20    20    20    20    10        a0    6    60.3  120.0  220.0  120.0   60.3  410.3    60.0  10.3  162.0  175.0   95.4  651.2
TIST 7OUW  /9                          am3       510    00   NO    200   NO        150  0.3    15.0   30.0   6.o   6.0   60.0  225.0    17.2   37.3    1.0   37.9   95.4  313.0
Sh-TOu VILlA       T M ES                                                                         51.5  652.1  606.5   6.5  636.5 3PM.1   67*.3  m11.4  940.3 I2QZ2.2 1,312.5 4461.7
1.  OURIL1I 603  OFFIcUS
ODITATIE OUUS/h                        No         5      5     5      5      5      25    1      5.3    5.0    L.       5.0    5.0   25.0      5.7    6.2    6.7    7.3    7.9   34.0
R1E11    COISES 1i                      2IV02   253   250   290   210   250  1.250  0.3    75.0   7.    75.0   75.0   75.0  315.0    14.0   93.3  101.2  159.9  219.2  509.6
SPECIAL C   P /i                        No       13 13    1a          3    13       90    I    23.0   13.0   13.0   23.0   13.0   9o.0    20.6   22.4   24.3   26.4   23.6  122.3
PUUO .  5          /k         nrmv                 0    20    20    20      0       I0    I    3.0  160.0  160.0  140.0   110.0  440.0    91.7  199.1  216.0  234.4  I2.1  163.3
STtIr ToU    I                         IDly      25    st    75    75    75    330  0.4    20.0   20.0   30.0   30.0   30.   120.0    12.5   24.9   40.5   43.9   47.7  141.5
Sub-Toal in?CT3W  EXTENSUION FF3    9                                                             10.0   270.0  233.0  233.0  203.0 1,250.0   215.6  345.9   33.3  421.3  330.6 1702.7
C. SW.ECT rTTER St[CIUSTS
IETATIEN OsES                          No         I      I     I      I      I      5    I       1.3    1.0    2.0    2.0    1.0    5.0 s       .2    1.2    2.3    1.5    1.6    6.3
i S                 1101.9 IlE P  in    No      1120          2      20    20    ue       1 2 120.0  120.0  120.0  220.    2.0   6.0 l.37.   24.3  162.e  175.3  191.7  315.4
SPEUL CIUS in                          NO         4      1     6      6      6     30    2    12.3   12.0   12.0   22.0   12.0   60.0    13.3   14.9   26.2   17.6   29.1   31.5
. TnIS   SnDES /a                      11         3    13    10    10        5     40   1D    3.3  100.0  100.0  100.0   50.0  400.0    57.3  224.4  135.0  140.5   79.5  5-2.7
SI,'T 7111 1P                          11V       20    20    20    20    20    130    2         0.0   40.0   43.0   40.0   40.0  230.0    45.?   49.    54.0   5.6   63.6  271.3
S.b-ToI UECr AT0T1R SPECLISS                                                                      223.0  273.0  273.0  273.0  223.0 12.           5.7  339.7  3U3.5  399.9  A4.4 1.713.2
.. rF1  OFFI E
*I1II'iAT2E 0   6S                     go         2      2     2      2      2      10    2      4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0   20.0        4.6    5.0    5.4    5.9    6.4   27.2
A   0  L10131PS                      go         I     1      1      I      1      5    1      2.0    1.0    2.0    1.3    1.0    5.0         1.1    1.2    1.3    1.5    1.6       6.0
S3ECM .cRos                            NO         I      I     1      2      1      5    I       1.3    2.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    5.0        2.2    1.2    1.3    1.5    1.6    6.0
STID? ToU  it                          1332       5      s     5      5      5     25    2    10.0   10.0   13.0   10.0   10.0   50.0    11.5   12.4   13.5   14.6   15.9   67.9
SuF-Tta FIELD OFFICES                                                                              16.0   14.0    16.0   16.0   16.3   30.P    13.3  I2.9   21.6   23.4   25.4  100.7
E. SENIM FFICERS
ofI[NTATION    NS                      no         1      1     1      2      1      5    2       2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0   10.0        2.3    2.5    2.7    2.9    3.2   13.6
NN. =DTV OUsW S                        No         I      I     I      I      1      5    1       1.0    1.0    2.0    1.3    1.0    5.0        1.1    1.2    1.3    1.5    1.6    6.3
STIl TOM   I?                          13V        5      5     5      5      5     25    5    25.3   25.0   25.0   25.0   25.0   25.          20.7   31.1   33.7   36.6   39.7  169.9
Suh-Tot  SENIO OFFIC!                                                                             23.0   28.0   20.0   20.0   20.0  14.0    32.1   34.3   37.3   41.0   44.5  190.3
F. olneR 13131;
SPECUL ME   U1 U11 CIB                 2n3V       3      3     3      3      3     15    2       6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0   3.0         6.9    7.5    3.2    3.3    9.5   40.8
IWMTI   CUSES                          10         I      I     I      I      1      5  1.5       1.5    1.5    1.5    1.5    1.5    7.5        1.7    1.9    2.0    2.2    2.4   10.2
STE-tES.   2WS (NO-COEWISN)   10                 1      1     1            1      5    2       2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0   20.0        2.3    2.5    2.7    2.9    3.2   13.6
Si-Toal OilER MMT3Dt                                                                               9.5    9.5    *.5    9.5    9.5   47.5    10.9   11.3   12.1   13.1   15.1   64.6
Tta^l 1315SI2  caTm                                                                               1,356-.0 19726.6 13tI.0 1,311.0 1,121.0 6,055.6  1t211.0 1,563.5 1,76.0 1,920.3 1,791.5 3,24.1
1,35.0 1.256.6 2.311.0 1,311.0 1.121.0 6*.0554  1211.0 IS3.5 1.769.a 1,2.3 1.792.5 3,2061
" D01M FOR EOC i00 6am115312 0E; WAfN     aT sTai 1 23L 16S16 c               msEB. CUTS I0.L1 STiWO mS T7iIK rAIITERImLS.
VAT MM  1W2513107 AT  RISiOICT LEI FOR LL VE  MM E3T iE I135. lIS   40 PUMCIPANTS PER  Ilt5ED CMTS IC1K               1 TR NII I PATDItIL.S AfELD VISITS.
_1-T i61W   FEI S       . YEIAR9  U10 FIIR VWEE AMIU 0MS    UD  AT TI.ZDA   LEIQ; L 011 33 PENMCVt TS 7R P 3.CO .  UNIT COST 75.50 PER FMR 1TI1 OU    TWELS.
I 1:1. MM EW    FIR iAS FOR M  113 CO1128ONE 0          IF TR C AMI W   PER YEA.
YE.31   15 r 511612131 MMII SUCIIIUM  305                     11 20  DISCILIDES AS RANT PROECTIS. N01CUL , SOIL 03A1EOU  ETC.
-VEE iSC DE7EE i i i   1T 055. PER M        INCLUDE 71T11 A1 ST1D.
Eil DaC PER VWM FOR SE1ECTD WE. AT STATE F ZNM  LEL, 3III 2-30 PMTCVPTS PER T1XR.
V AT C0    i ONM BEU   FI  tEIS FtI EAOI ll, 3D          AT DISTRitT LEVL; 40 W.ICIPMITS PER EEE.
_ -3T  E , ONCE EIET lIlE lEAS FM EOt0i0 3D-4D PORTICIPITS PER 0131. RS.300 PER PLMTICIPT.
E li iNS    A             W0012    SY31 6    00ZULTiURL  IOUSIY II 51 DISCIP AES 1 iMMT 9TECT0 . N3I3T2RE. SOIL C0NEITlIO, LTC.
IE YE I21 1S  E COW;  0CTS. PER IMIE  T111711111110 Me ST713.
- 2  IEEIS fDI SE 1  AMl  M    A r1Al9, 0i0222   AT 51TE/211111 LEIEL. 0M  25-30 PARTICIPTS PER TOIM. R5.200 PER PMCPT FOR FIELO Tls IPS AB 6TP11N FATERIIS.
:- T 2-M T 111  iUN    s IIRI   E EU-C.ATIC Z31  [E0  I0iFS0  COSTIS E.1OD. TMII PIE-5             2L il945 VILL KI C103101  ilTS 9Y52   lMSWS. I
_ fE-Ei C33 E50111 IIN313220 n  RUWTi4    01EITY 23 ESI DISFLDIES ASIC                  PR= IECTIIN.- 0 0ILT1E. SOIL CDERMTIOI. ETC.
-_w    ME         3 E 117iS UNIT C0IM. MER AM, 1NCLUD TlIT    MID S,TIP .
JOS5UP111 1F N1WN I13 n3, m SELMT SD91.
JOS OF  RDIB 36TIII. TN D R UE  5           ASECTS DF EXM0  I EFFORTS 1l OIJER STATESt FM ELCE  FIELD  iCES.
.-*   OF IRTIS NATII3r TO SlUI  95111  MO  14 3 SLTUL. L EVEISIM  AM  31EIT,17 FOR SELECID SE1  OFFICES.
-  Wo ,19    12a44



a a as 54         VW mmne a Mvsm t  ai0m set naIm e.a  at aua
VW.1:: 1to  a  a 54 aeananaV.s   a nam  U-It  n.m                                                       was  eal
-------- -- - -- ------~~~eS -   -
rel   rt"  e      r r te   I-:    a I          I    t   G"   I   I         a                                   MlIgUM
ret   ri   ti    ra   it   ra  a   I  I    I    I    I   I  U             SttflI21~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a  '
re    rt   ee    -t re     a  ra   m   a       1 at   at   ci   u   I at    a                           mmo
rt-  re~  eatS  I-t  rte   I-, a, m a  -Aeai
re.t  M.  ret I-S Iel M        a r a     at     W e  MM  "I   Nt I         pm                                  t
I- V"re.t    re.  I-l   I-ti a   a    iWtVa    a    a  t   a  P                                               a u
rat-  ree  ree   reIt  :"PS     1    z   1    u    a rIta                                                ttWm -   i
rt retrtIi    t rt i                        It   a    Pmm5              p                                ai
rat   u-'e  ret  rtt   rMi  I-t                                                                          o3lon pI-   L
m-  I-D   r:   IrZ.   re.  t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-, a    it   a    0    It   it    1. ~ ~ ~ tititt -
le    r.r  tet S..i       s :a-ee                                                                   ate  mee  re-n
ret   re   I-.   I-I~ el I   re    I   e.a                                                         e ShSeN   l
rut   a-cei   e ai    e    -t crte. .3e                                    et                           sImia
r     Irl,  ougrei    I   1ltul.:                           I an ae'lal  a~ gt. e1CMl um n       Ifl-
ree-c    a-mge-  rite'  ICIc- rie-o                                              .me see    'Aktat   eMM W^t.%
Iete    a I       v-Il  It0   rt                                                             sumBonati. Wem-1
ta  etrt I-   I-t  ret                                                             fle  amw     meM Fatli
rer.i    -el  it    ett         a ttI    I    I       I    tI                     eIaeU t,ueMMW a
M.  M    u    a    a    cl   a                                      Mten  a   a -c
lea   ree,  eel     I-e  I-S   I-       ttt9         I    aDti   a         et                                  amm
t-   eLi  c-   tea.  It   reIaMm                                                                            me Ie'i-at
ret re    esC   V.   It   reI                     I t          I    a      pIuNuflMa
.-i       itfi       ti     ii        I    I     t    t    I      e                     *atamtle M e.t
StL  i-i   i;   6-. t         i-t        t    e I        t    I     U                           eaIatlCte
re. -1.               M   0~~~~~~~~~~~M  -
r-le  .I-ta  tweta  re-tme  Ime                                                                           ilt rue-PC
ra-  rStetae                          t   nIa a            t    -          a            -t     l       iaU 
I-etu a, I-a    n etru              tIa    at  I"  eS  a,    et                                            Pa
re  wera   M-  i.a   rat                      ItSte I                                                     SPeIN
rat   e-elI es    I-cua                                  "I 11e It   Ie  e   P i    It C t I    I  N        a.m  M  eL
r-l t~i e-   ret  t-t   I-t   e   Ut    I    I    I    I    I        a                               nci
mama-
I-it  -  ri   t    I-i  rc        i ttV,.                                                  eali m e
liL.u-    -   I't   I.,   i-  a       C       I1    t    tI                                   eI fa
ria Iutrte    It   rI-    PtteIlI
em     Iisre    I-teln     IItNP                                                                               W       inA St
rat   eel ret  re    nit   nt SIN  C              -           et 



-81
IUO                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~ANNU 7
00TI0   tM.iTWL nu.          WIMT 11 (l-2)                                                      Table 123
Tibla  2. l"T -113131841311MP F F
I1|11 [EIm raw     14
oomut                                      NM ends             U          b          s    mdi CImAst Tibiai
m.it 1i1  15 197 1       0  7. Tstu  1C            136    137    1103   33      la       105   136 11      7  13       139    7.m 1
I.    73 1C3
. IMTUi EWEI  FM IIIII 0L to
1. mAwmT
UR                                                   00      1        1  11               32    32.0   32.0   32.0    2       320   22.0   16.UO    I6.L39.   4.1   467    5.7  26.5
4-   EII                                             No   2 2  2        2221022   60 U  .064 .064.0 64.03 0.0   7L2 79.   M0.2   101.4 23.1
4-M      RI1  3 IE  a1)                              1       2   2   2   2   2   1U       2         64. 0 .0 64.1  644 e        A    320.0    7.2   79.2   ILI   92.3  I1IJ    4D.1
Sdl-Ta1ot  EiuAS                                                                                  16.0   10.0   10.0 UO    00   160.0A    00.0  Il.0  19.1  214.9  222.   251.3  1010.6
2. Z33
4-    . 11                                           011     4   4   4   4   4   20   2    300.0   0.0  100.0   10.1  100.0   500.0   114.4   2.0. 144.2  145.1  33.2   676.4
500T-13. ZCIl                                                                                      100.0    Io.0  lo.0  I0.0  100.0   200.0   IN3.4  122.   14.3  145.0  33.    676.4
2. OIiKC
4-  3.15 MM                                                 2   2   2   2   2   30   22    44.0   44.0   44.8   44.0   44.    220.0    3.s3   54.    59.1   S4.2   69.    297.7
Sib-Total D3I3Th                                                                                   44.0   44.0    4.       4 4.0   44.0   220.0    50.3   54.5   5.1       .2 64  6     297.7
4.  UIIIIBI
S4-3  331                                            NO    19  19  If  19  19   95   20         0.0  20. 5 30.0  320     3J0A  3,900.0   434.7  470.5  510.5    4.1  00.5 257.2
Sub-Toal SAOVIMU1                                                                                 30.0  200.0   30    30o.0   30.0 I30.0   424.7  47.5   10.5  354.1  10.5 2a5n.2
S. 30rMT WULxTWM E514I77
4-0EL3mm                                             00    11     11 11  11  11   ss   20   220.0  220.0  220.0  220.0   20.0  3.300.0   251.7  1724  295.5  320.   241.2  1.403
Sub-Total   nUT mIe.1L 0            1                                                             220.0  220.0  220.0   20.   220.0  P10.9   253.7  22.4  295.   22.   30.2 1,413.4
Sk*b-Toal nTIU            M FM i1 srri. 3OCLE2  a                                                     01.0  1014.0  904.   104.e4  904.  4.s20.0  1,04.1 1#119.2 1.24.4 1.21162  431.49 6,316.0
3. 14e11. WInT     DMF5I5 FO EasnE 3112  lb
1. WS
cm                                                   me      2    2    2    2    2  1       U   32.0 32.0    32.           32.0   22.0 1 L6 O    I6.  3944            46.7   10.7   216.5
4-M. 311 W S                                                 2   2   2   2   2   10   U         22.0   32.0   12.0   22.0   52.0   360.0        6.    29.6   42o   4W        50.7   22.5
Sb-Total EIuMbl                                                                                    44.0   4.O   "4.    04.0  64A 4        20.0    722   79.2   56.    9.   101.3   4l.J-
2. 331300
:031 WmN                                                    I   I   3   0   *   40 12.3   100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  1.    5                    .0 M 14.4  32.   14.2  143A.   33.3   676.6
Sib-Toaul 05330                                                                                    3;0.0  1001100.0       00.IIN0  100A    500.0   134.4  32.    3.    45.   33.    676.6
2. DSRICT
ls                                                   NO    19  19  39  19  19   9    11   2"3.   20.0  20A .0 .2 9.             A  l2.0 O 02D 229.3           21.e  J04.3  230.3  1,41.2
4-401   13                                           00     2  32  32  22  32  I"    U    32.0  322.0  32.0  352.0   32A  1,760.0   402.7  425.   472.9  S512.   C'.2  2.31.1
Sdb-Toa313Cr                                                                                      501.   5110A  501.0  S01.   561.0  2350     61.0  694.   716   3l neo               2.73.9
4. SiM Sn3
4-400313Es                                           00    95  95  95 9n  95  475   10   0O     950.0  950.0  95.   33.0  0350.0 I.0671,176.23.2.2 3,3 n3.337  6.4.1
3b-Totbl 3113 -151195. 1 50.4   950 .A  950.0  9.0 4,750.0 1,0071 12 76.21,2 I .211.30.r137  642.1
Sb-TOtal Im u.L  WUIiW   BMW  FM   V53  3 S   it                                                   1,n e.0 3,OS  1U        u05.8 1,65. 17.0    .C 1,961 207J 2.52 .12u42.S2,151.3 1,232.7
TOWal  BIT  P3TS                                                                                      2 .0 2379.0 257.0 2,59  2.57.0 12095.  20.2 3,1Jn     3401.5 276.7 412.2 170.3
-- - I                                                    -- - ------ - -I 
Total                                                                                                  2,79.0 2.a 9.0 2579.0 2,379.0 2.57N  122-.0 2na  02 3.19k 2A4WS 3,760.7 4.1.2 1749.5
h. 222S1  FilL       31T1  OIL, -  WDIC
lb  22U        FEL# LlMlhTIIa  OIL. MG 33O1UUOCE
Fda.., 2.905121=0



AMWE 7
31136. cRam1 1 111    ImM  P32W   U 06 -112                                     Table 124
TOE. 124. h1T - 11l111R 01311IDUSIlTUI
hPULId Codt Tail.
wm,su.                                    kw Cosa                            Totals larISas CertIsmwio
bait ~
a. wmvn ursa
"t.m
im                           0 ~~~~~~~ 2    2   2   2   2    11    5  14.0  33.0   14.0   10.0   10.0   30.0  30.9   21.9   22.9   34.0   15.2   64.9
KEEn SWU                                       3   3   3   3   3    15         1   3.0  3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0   135.0   3.3    3.6    3.           4.2    4.i   it
1M I11 I   nTIml                     U       1   1   3   1   3         2    4   4.0  4,0    4.0    4.0    4.0   20.0   4.4    4.135.2    5.1    6.3   25.9
1*Tota  If*3LM1D                                                                     17.0  37.0   21.0   17.0   17..0   0M  33.6   20.2   23.9   23.8   20.0  310.2
2. DV
.36                                    le     2 2   2 22             261     12.02.0             2.0    2.0    2.0   20.0   2.2    2.4    2.6    2.3    3.0   13.0
SICSIUEJ,,3195S)                    U       6    1   6   6   6    30        1   6.0  6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0   30.0   6.6    7.1    7.7    3.4    9.1   JL.Y
1331ft  OFFEN)                      U       2   2   2   2   2    20    2   2.0  3.0    2.0    2.0    2.0   30.0   2.2    2.4    2.1    2.3    5.0   23.0
DFT3U  W EI111 VA)                     MD     A   A   I   6   6    N0    2  U12.  22.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   60.0  13.1   14.3   15.5    6.3   13.2   77.3
iTata  260                                                                           22.0 2n.e   2a.0   to.    22o     uoo   24.13 2.1  23.3    30.  323.4  342.7
3. NITRIC
WCtoIlD3IIIRICT                        No      I   1   3   1         3         I 13.0  2.0    2.0    3.0    1.0    5.0   1.1    1.2    1.3    1.4    1.5    6.5
A33T2KmU.i(EI   O       MIRCT)         le      I   I   1      I         5    1    1.0  1.0    3.0    1.0    1.0    5.0   1.1    3.2    2.2    3.4    1.3    6.5
mU                                            37  37  31  37  37   105  0.5  18.S  1.3.   16.5   13.5   13.5   32.5  20.3   22.0   23.3   251,   20.1  120.0
Sd-Tota  DETMCT                                                                      20.5  20.5   20.5    3.3    20.5  132.5  22.4   24.3   26.4   23.7   32.1  233.0
4. U331W5
am                                     *       a    I   I333            40 0.3    6.4  6.4       6.4    6.4    6.4   22.0   7.0    7.         3.2    3.9    9.?   41.5
60MT1K  NM0                            go      3   3    3   3   3    15  0.6   2.3  2.3    1.0    1.0    3.3    9.0   2.0    2.2    2.3    2.5    2.?   12.7
932                                    U      16  16  16  16  16    30  0.5    LO  3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0   40.0   0.3    9.5   20.3131.2   12.1   31.9
21*-EtLM 93091326                                                                    26.2  14.2   16.2   16.2   16.2   31.0  27.7   19.2   20.9   2Z,7   24.6  105.1
5. 919.0 036115
NM                                     AD   334 IN  IN  310  300  1.314  0.3  147.2 241.0  244.0  240.0  246.0 1.107.2  161.1  235.0  369.3   MA.  364.1,2 1.6.1
gN                                     MD   013 53 533  =I 539   WM7   0.5  16.5 276.3  276.5  276.5  276.5 1.312.5  312.7  323.4  336.3  336,   419.4 1I193.4
AMTITEE  K /a I.                               -    - 26   48  000 1, 00 .5                    150.0  100.0  400.0   00.0       -       -  113.3  41,4  06.381.21Y.5
3*i-Total 91M2  313133                                                              423.7 516.5  666.5  814.   916.5 3,319.7  463.3  613.4  33.9 1.141.6 1.390.3 4,443.0
6. M3E WNIT
AMC. EMI2IT 43)                      NOU        1   12   1   I         5    1   1.0  1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    5.0   1.1    1.2    1.3    2.4    1.5    6.5
10T139103 [M)                         no        1   13   1   1          3    1   1.0  1.4    1.4    1.0    1.0    5.0   1.1    1.2    1.3    1.4    2.5    6.5
UIIKUIT(fill                           No      1   1   2   1   1         5    1   1.0  1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    5.0   1.1    1.2    1.3    2,4    13.    6.5
DOW.FIDJEVOISU   (SW)                  NO      6   6   6   6   6    N0    I   6.0  6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0   30.0   6.6    7.1    7.7    3.4    3.2   31.9
kbl-Total NE onT3. 9.0     9.0    9.0    9.0   45.0   9.9   10.7   11.1   12.6   IL?    3.4
7. FA111 TRO3233 013.
M1nCV       TM. 11116 OWIZEN  6.36)    M      3    3   3   3   3    15        4  12.0  r.o    12.0   12.0   12.0   60.0  23.1   14.3   25.3   16.3   11.2   77.3
m117 (M)                           *       3   3         a 3 a    15       2   3.0  3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0   15.0   3.3    3.6    3.0    4.2    4.6   19.5
fl.SliMOM=1U02ECTSM          BI UA)    N       3   3   5   3   3    15           13.0  3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0   23.0   3.3    3.6    3.9    4.2    4.6   :9.5
COU2C*T20511fM31   low3              M       3   3   3   3   3    15         3   3.0  3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0   15.0   3.3    3.6    3.0    4.2    4.6   29.3
bATdotl ISM   132311  3313                                                           21.0 21.    21.0   21.0   21.0  103.0  23.0   24.9    VA.   20.4   31.9  33.2
U 928TOM1111In16Iin                 MU            13 3 1 1             5    553.05.0           5.0    5.0    5.0   25.0   5.5    5.9    6.4    7.0    7.64
01131001323        111 C IfAi          No    1i  ii  12  11  21   5M          2  22.0 22.0   22.0   20.0   22.o   110.0  24.:   26.1    3.]30.o1   33.4  IQ.;
ltar*IIU F3II                         M       1   2   1   I   1         5    2   2.0  2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0   10.0   2.2    2.4    2.6    2.0    3.0   13.0
3*qiu  5)01 CEtilie  EE2KEII                                                         29.0 219.0   29.0   29.0   29.0  145.0  31.7   34.4   37.    44.3   44.0   26.1
3*-Tutu  WIlE 013T236                                     S.4 651.2  301.2  95~~~~~         ~ ~~~~1.216124.1  641.2  773a% 1.032.J 13.94 1.34.7 5,341.7
*32423. Mm ?o                             No      I   I   I   1   1         5   ii  15. 1.0  15.0    1 5.0        25.0   15.0  O   16.4   17.3   29.3   21.0   22.3   17.3
1JPJlNM (SE WTI                          do      I   1         1   1       5   50  56.0 31.0    50.0   31.0   50.0  2o.o  5g.?   59.4   64.4   69.9   75.0  324.3
ms-moTvt  nra. Eujau                                                                    65.0 65.0   65.0   65.'  63.0  325.0  71.2   77.2  3103.  90.    9.6  42.66
C. FIELS TRIES
FIBSTRIM                                  U     s* so   m1 MD s   2.75  0o.s  m3.o27s.o  27.oQ  ns3.0   2              i.z1,3o  315.   342.2  37.2  402.1  437.0 2,3d63.
Su*-Total TIDi tRIMS                                                                   275.0275.0  27..  2750  275.0 1.375.0 325.4  342.2  372.2  442.1  437. 0 1,3l0.6
TOWa  -mm     cumS                                                                        M93. 9.2 1.141.2 1.2f1.2 1.31.2 3*713.2 997.7 34:92. 2.47  .41323.6 2.130.3 7p.42.
Total                                                                                      69 d4 91    14.21.321.21,391.2 5,713.2  997.7 1.192.3  PW 1,4.2,34 .6 2137".63.
/o lNOuD   113 TM Ul11t11113 VI PSACT MA FM f1iDvI11  CM             tF 6.L91   MAL1
Ft's.- 23. 15  1215



t-33
bfTINL,   11331M. WEME 951 it Ie-23                                                         ANNEX 8
Tali 1n. .3U  MD 50 1 -  1         DIM .L  rIm                                                    Table 125
htailed Lest Table
(3116 0t51   0003
bmamill                                           gmse gnu                                   ulta   klr lu C0^t,rIsin
[hit 1395        1m 7   20   It9 TOa   cd          29d 5    206    097    20    1i9   Tdl               S1     1i3k    27    190         199   TRi
_      _    _     -    _  a  _  a                  .. .. ..................  _                                                                   _ __  __ _ _ __
w NTICI
iu IN3a_L SN1B
1. IE_IE0
T    DIIIOO T0T                    No      I     I      I     I      I         3X    3A.0    30.0    30.0    30.0    30.0    15.0          31.3    D3.9    36.      39.      43.3    10.3
_m9m S     1W  ( )                         3     a      I     a S         37   22    110.0   176.    176.0   S76*0   l76.0    314.0    114.7   2".1   216.0   214.4   254.3  1I011,4
mm  4310TUT                        ND     2      2      2     2      2    10   12        40    24.0    24.0    24.1    24.0    320.0        25.0    27.2    29.5    32.0    34.7    141.1
SbTai  _AN6TM                                                                             164.0   210.0   230.0   220.0   23.0  1.054.0    271.0   260.:   2r.3   306.3   332.3  1.332.1
2. 0209
DOs                                No     2      2      2     2      2    10   25      50.0    30.0    30.0    30.0    30.0    2Y.0         32.1    54.    01.4    6.6    72.2    306.9
Sub-Ttael 53160                                                                           50.0    50.0    50.0    50.0    30.0    230.0        32.1    3.6    61.4   6,6.    12.2    30.9
L usrICT
SES                                XI    I       a    3      30    3D   106   201   I6.0   160d.  600.0   600.0   600.   2,1203.0.8   11.6    136.4   796.9    W.1  2,749.
-Tute  0sm11                                                                              260.0  l26.    600.0    0.0   a0.   2.120.0    2A.0   102.3  713.4   7".9   56.9  2.741.9
4. 3J 03i20e
gSm                                N      36    36    36    56 S     6   20o   16    06.0   096.0   3.0   19.0   396.0  4w46.0    934.1 1013.5   0.6  1,393.1 124.3  3S54.0
Es                                 No    40    o    120   142   14    324   16    640.0 1P230.0 I,2.0 2,272.0  22n.0  8,354.0    667.2 1.447.0  2,356.3  3,025.3 322.5  109779.2
ereT   l oa M N 10301110                                                                1536.0  2.276.0  2,816.0  3.2630 3,1108.0  22,04.0  2,601.3 2,462.3 3.616.0 4,216.4 4.57.O 16,314 0
S. Fmo
Am5                                48    37    37    37    57    37   2M0   14    73.0   79.0   793.0  7M.0   73.0  39901    031.9   12.1   M7.   2,2.6 I.132.   4,92.4
8O  700 1,000 1.210 1,300  WA363 53565   12  0,400.0 12000.0 14,400.0 15.00.0 16D0.A  6730.0    ,.0 13.3.4 217,672.5 20.M  .1 665.1 04.440.
b-tai rFLE                                                                              9.129.0 12,799.0  1.2.0 26.391.4 17.170.0  70,77.0  9.301. 14.47.0 1.83.1 213030.1 24.11.0  09,369.9
6. ME molT
M  lunT WA)                        NO      I     I      I     I      I     3 S         25.0    25.0    25.0    23.0    25.0    12.O        26.1    21.3    30.7    33.       36.1    154.4
NW01                               go      2     2            2     2    1t  2         44.0    44.0    44.0    44.0    44.0    20.0         45.9    4.       54.0    3.6    63.6   27.3
STAllSlC*AL PF1n                   No     2      2     2      2      2    10   12      24.0    24.0    24.0    24.0    24.0    123.0        25.0    27.1    29.3    32.0    34.7    140.3
3. STAT. AEIIfUTS                  No     4      4      4     4      4    20   10      40.0    40.0    40.0    40.0    40.0    200.0        41.7    43.2    49.1    53.3       7.3    247.
A. STaT. AUISTAITS                 No     2      2      2     2      2    10    0       16.0    16.0    16.0    16.0   126.0    b:          16.7    16.3     3.6    22.3    23.1       "J.5
FMJg 3USTI S                       a      1i    2            2E0   20   12    2o    16M.0   20.0   200.0   210.0   zo.0  [200.0    166.8   316.7   343A.   372.0   44.3   16064.5
5-Telllal O  PUT                                                                         309.0   429.0   429.0   429.0   429.0  2.c2s.0    322.1   4s.2    26a.   572.2   629.3  224.2
7. 230m35 3T1F
0AISCTE   . '5  is                 No     2      2      2     2      2    12   25      50.0    0.0    30.0    30.0        0.    230.0       32.1    36.6   61.4    66.6    72.2    300.?
uiro To                            a      2      2      2     2      2    1    25      s0.0    30.0    30.0    30.0    50.0    230.0        32.1    56.6    61.4    66.6    72.2    300.9
1323D2D6 NC F S                    U      6      6      6     6      6    30   20    120.0   120.0   22.0   120.0    20.0    600.0    025.1   235.7   147.3   59.3   173.4    741.3
S-Toll TFA IIl STFF                                                                      220.0   220.0   220.0   220.0   220.0  1.100.o    229.4   243.1   270.0   2.9   317.3  1,335.0
3. WFM STAFF
IIMTSS CTUl0           LF2U       10     6      6      *     6      6    30   U2      72.0    72.0    72.0    n.0    72.0    360.0         73.1    31.4    60.4    ss.9   104.0    444.3
481012T*1                          a      id    16    Id    26    16    s       10    160.0        160.0   160.0 100.0 160.0               la0.  1a.3   202.0  1268.4   213.1   23.2    90.4
11  WFVERS                         me      2     2      2     2      2    12   10       20.0    20.0    2.O    20.0    20.0    100.0        20.9    22.6    24.5    26.6    2.9    123.5
anl FnT2  SlITf                    U      So    78    71    70    7.   162    1    400.0   624.0    24.0   62.0   624.0  2.O9O    417.0   7s5.0   765.0   w30.9    0.3  3,621.1
UJES                            48   329   129   129   12W   129   043    7    903.0   903.0   9LO    90.0   903.0  4-5315.0             41.4 12.4  1.108.2  1,202.4  1,304.6  3573.0
48    42    n1      2    n1I    366   10    420.0   n10.0   010.0   30.0   910.0  3,660.0    437.9   916.2   194.1  103.6 I1,70.3  4f37.0
~Teti1 m997TlInTFF                                                                 2,925.0  2.39.0  2.9.0  2,sno.0  2,30.0  1222331.0  2053.9  2,93.5 3377.4 3447.e  3,740.5  352.7
3d-Total 11N   ILU S101*A5                                                               13,612.0 10,432.0 22,132.0 23,650.0 24,464.0 2    0  14,190.5 21,067.3 V-161.7 31,337.0 35,344.6 129.331.2
P 5I3       Cam15                                                                        13,612.1 1,3.0 22,132.0 22644.0 24,4.0 102,544.0  14.1".3 2106.5 327161.7 31,337.0 35,344.6 129,331.2
13-612.0 1,032.0 22,132.0 23.64.0 24,44.0 102,544.0  14,299.5 22397.5 27,161.7 31,337.0 353344.6 19,331.2
2IUI1 1133IhillDIB    1.25   AT Sl"4114013 41  il r          Elt7mz Ty.
on 20, Im   12132



-84-                                                      ANNEX 8
rable 126
EVhIIIS SICIERlM EXTE11 PScT 1U (WAE-2)
Table 126. JWU AM IUCmIR - CaIV  InS
Detailed Cost Table
(DIII pEB  'ON
hantiat                                     as  Casts                              Totls Including Continnvcies
unit--
Unit IM  196 137 1991 9M  Total Cost 195   196            1997    19M     Il   Totl   I"S   199           17       1993    IM      Total
--    e33  33 - as    553   *33  5533_ 3U-SDe 335in                 338  ,3   5333353 333   38355  35333  5333333 3
I.    -        cUsTs
A. mivisi.
GM  afTERS    NO        -   I   8   3   -   24  150    -  12O0.0  li200.0 1200.0              - 3,600.0     - 1.421.7  19542.5 1674.0        - 4,1
SWW ICIES    II         -   B   I   8   -   24  110    -   E80.0            0.0  890.0         - 2v60.0      - 19042.6  1,131.2  1,227.6       - 3.
Sub-Toew  wu,Ivu                                                - 2090.0  2*060.0  2,060.0        - 6v240.0     - 29464.3  2,673.7  2,901.7       - 8F-
1. FIELD
MED  MRUS       10      -  50  50  39   -  139  150    - 705D0.0  7*500.0 5,850.0              - 20.850.0     - 09,91.5  9,640.9  89160.9      - 269L
up     TU        C H    -  50  50  50  50  200   75    -  3.750.0  3.750.0  3.750.0 3750.0 15.000.0          - 4,442.8 46f8.4  5,231.4 59677.3 20 -w
Sub-To    FIELD                                                 - 11250.0 11,250.0  94600.0 3,750.0 35850.0    -13.328.3 146461.3 13t392.3 5,677.3 46k---
Total D8QIEI CISTS                                                 - 13.330.0 13.330.0 11,680.0 3,750.0 42,090.0    - 15.M.5 179135.1 12Y3.9 5i677.3 5491
Totl                                                               - 13330.0 13,330.0 11,680.0 3.750.0 42090.0      - 15.M.5 l7.135.1 16.9. 5,677.3 54A,
Fobnmng  =_, 1935- --1-----
F.;dun 20. 1M t 2:53



5-'S
OUM                                           MENEX 8
*T1. miCIim  DIE IPMII TAI l 01               2)                    Table 127
Table 127. AW   m      INIR - EU0IMU
btalled Est Tble
(ilnU Wm l0o)
SUtu                                     gm Costs                        Totls J dlidi Cont amticin
-         Uiit                                                    _ _ _ _ _              _
Unit 1IM  19361 1     11 TI tl7   Cast              1      1937 1111  113   Ttal    1M5   193   1937  19  1    Toral
A. WJIMUW
1. W0
YIIIISlMTIU /a            ET      I   -   -   -   -         I  146   140.0         -    -    -   -  146.0   152.5          -    -      -   -  152.5
HUE tniTib               SET      2   -   -   -   -         2   301      0.0       -    -    -   -   66.0    65.4          -    -    -   -   65.4
llllll /c               i1 -   I                  -        2  15N         -   150.0 150.0    -   -  306.0          -  176.4 11.4      -   -  367.1
Suh-Total IEAWUIlS                                                       260.0  150.0 150.0      -   -  500    217.9  176.4 191.4         -   -  9s.6
2. 13
OFI  E1IENT /d           SET      4   -   -   -   -         4   20    30.0         -    -    -   -   90.0    37.1          -    -    -   -   87.1
iI*Dh1/,                 SET      -   1   1   -   -         2   42         -   42.0 42.0      -   -   34.0          -   49.453.6       -   -  103.0
VIMR FUL ITI             ET       4   -   -   -   -         4   33   132.0         -    -    -   -  132.0   144.           -    -    -   -   144.5
STotal a5i1                                                              212.0   42.0  42.0      -   -  296.0   231.6   49.4  53.6        -    -  334.6
3. DISTRICT
WF    ElUEIT /t          SEr    14   -   -   -   -         14   l0   140.0        -    -    -   -  140.0   152.5           -    -    -   -  152.5
WMIF  RtITTIE            SET    14   -   -   -   -    14   17   238.0             -    -    -   -  231.0   260.5           -    -    -   -  260.5
VANN$ Ii                 ET      14   -   -   -   -    14   20   230.0            -    -    -   -  230.0   340.0           -    -      -   -  305.0
S-Toal OISICT                                                            4:l63.0     -    -      -   -  63.0    718.0         -    -      -   -  713.0
4. SU.ISO
OUFIC   PEiLTEi A        ET      23  23    -   -   -    56    5    140.0  140.0    -          -   -  26.0    153.2  14.3         -     -   -  319.5
W FJ MrCE                SEr    28  28       -  -  -       56   12   336.0 33.0         -     -   -672.0  367.8 3 .1             -    -   -76.9
TiANUlC                  KY      21  2B   -   -   -    56    U   224.0  224.0    -    -   -  448.0   244.0  263.4    -                 -   -  507.4
sSS j                    SET    46  70  70  70   -   256    2    92.0  140.0 140.0 140.0    -  512.0   100.2  164.6 1n7.6 194.0    -  637.5
iTotal SU5SlmMIO                                                          792.0   80.0 140.0 140.0    - 1122.0   965.3  993.4 173.6 2' 0    - 2e231.2
5. FIELD
fES A                      0    310  15   -   -   -   325  1.5   465.0   22.5    -            -   -  487.5   509.0   26.7        -     -   -  m3.
VW  /1                    30   700 4   400 300   -   9oo          1   7M0.0  400.0 400.0 360.0    - 1MO.       76.2  475.1 515.4 419.4    - 2,17A.2
T*-etaI FIELD                                                           l,165.O  422.'3 400.0 30.0   - 2237.5  1,275.2  501.3 515.4 419.4    - 2.711.9
Sb-Total EI WT                                                           31027.0 145P.5 732.0 440.0    - 5s3.5  3P360.0 104.!0.4 939.1 6U3.4    - &6581.4
TURI ZMSTINM  WeTS                                                           34027.0 1v454.5 732.0 440.0    - s.5u3.5  3M36.0 1.720.9 939.1 623.4    - 6#51.4
bl                                                                          3,027.0 1.454.5 732.0 40:0    - 5v43.5  3.366.0 10720.9 939.1 613.4    - 6581.4
_ -               .mm  m _ 1            sm         EE         A    Z_c .m _
4 TWDIWS, 50t CHUMP TiLESB  NO OllE  WFICE FUIW.
2 IlIFIRSv 2 CLCtUTOMR  MS 071I (FFICE FIITIE.
E13W MS FRERTIM.
' C'UlUD    2  WIrAITIHU 410 2 TrMTTEh.
'-   WT FM MID-WSW VW.
l1i3IU  1 i           1p1DI  1 IIISLICATOR.
TEE 113 ni  WDAlW NRCL        3, PA SVSTEN  PROETO6   M1D  MDSC.A1 tOFFICE EWIPIT.
-TnSm mss  me EmIxIew.
MM  1.EC1TES  SENe  PU.ECT, TAPE EIIDUS, MS OTtER NISCELLNE     OFFICE EQUIPN1..
FIELO EEW0T I  T19UII1 UTEIALS.
-uw M PwZ   .
-  93. EW            AW US    TWON1  U1ERTLS.
- t  2k 195  12:54



-46-
ANNEX 8
INIA                                               Table 128
iiTaimL ICRIOLTIAIUL ETENSIN PROECT II (CW-
Table 129. JUlO AID KASHIIR - VENICMES
Det ilad Cost Table
(IJDIS KES '000)
tiatit.                                  ase Cats                       Totls Inciudins C.ntinuhrcteb
-   lint  ------------- ----                                       ----
blit 1955 19961   IlE lIm  Total Cat  1915   19"   19   199 f9   Total    1M5    1996   197   1M  19  17
-  -   _-   -  --  -           -      must  ssn    ut          gsu    oun   stun   uuuus  uuuutttt
1. IIIISEIT UISTS
a. sian
1. NET13R5
4-1  (   tVES              NO      3   -   -   -   -    3  100   300.0            -    -   -   -   300.0   326.4           -       -
"NINfES                   MD      I   1   -   -   -    2   150   150.0  150.0          -   -   -   300.0   163.2  176.0           -   -   -
S*Tsb-.al WESUSE                                                          450.0  150.0    -   -   -   600.0   499.6  176.0            -   -   -
2. 1(I6N
4-UE   DRIIES              NO      4   -   -   -   -    4   100   400.0            -    -   -   -   400.0   435.2          -
AUD13101SK VMS             ND      -   2   -   -    -    2  300            -  600.0    -   -   -   680.0           -  703.9        -   -   -
5mb-Total RISEl                                                           400.0  600.0    -   -   - 1PM00.0   435.2  703.8            -   -   - 1
3. DISTRICT
4-UL DRIVES                No      7   7   -   -   -   14  100   700.0  700.0    -   -   - 1,400.0   761.6  921.1                  -   -   -  I
Sub-otal DISRCT                                                           700.0  700.0    -   -   - 1t400.0   761.6  921.1            -   -   - I
4. SDIIVISION
4-Sl DRIVES                1      29  20   -   -   -   56  100 2,0e0.0 2'80M.0          -         - 5,600.0  39046.2 3,284.4       -- 6
Sb-Total s3i0VISi                                                       2,s00.0 2,900.0    -   -   - 5,600.0  3,046.2 3.294.4         -    -    - 6
5. lEU
NOI O.ESNIWE1/a            NO    90  9   95   -   -  275   10   9.0  900.0950.0   -   - 29750.0   979.1155.719209.1    -   -3
DIC.  lb                  NO   425 425   -   -   -   50s   0.6   255.0  255.0    -   -   -   510.0   V7.4  29.1                   -   -   -
Sub-Totl FIEU                                                           1,S5.0 1,155.0 950.0   -   - 3,260.0  1,256.6 1354.8 1,209.1   -   - 3,
Sub-Total  IIES                                                            5.50.0 5#405.0 950.0   -   - lIB6O.o 5,9m.0 6,340.1 I,209.1              13i
Total IIUESTINT COSTS                                                        5,505.0 s$406.0 950.0   -   -11,60.0  5,m.0 69340.1 1,209.1    -   - 13,
Total                                                                         5,505.0 5,405.0 950.0    -   - 11i860.0  5,1.0 6'3440. 1,209.1    -   - 131
muss _t _   suis t         s. usuu   estu   ans esums nu   s: tu -
/a FOR SLE TO FELD STAf! IJI   LOAS PUVIDO DY TIE WEPANOT.
lb  FOR SOLE TO FIELD STAF IEER LOIS PIDED  DY TIE IfT         .EN.
Fabnra  20, 195 12:5



-a?-
mD"" 11 11121                                      ANNEX 8
aTIim      zcMIWAi    511311  PUBYz  11 IW-~2)                             al   2
Tnbl 12'. JT1 N1O M1RII - 1N1T l                                            2
btail.d Cost Table
(ileum    15   000l
butit.                                 DM  CoEts to.lo    Itcludin C,Lmsnarcit
Wi4t
bit  19  290m 917 1ow 1"9 Toal  Cut 195   91  397  190  3m9 ToWl   Im     3     I37  1911 199  Tdal
...  __ so" __s  Dm             _                            *_  __m ma mn  SS  ea BSS *_                  U *__
1.-          11613W at
A. WILLU   SUFIK  k1K
Icnf  CU         . /a               iov  300   -   -   -   -   HO   0.3  90.0            -    -    -    -   90.0  103.2    -    -    -    -  103.2
MICIIAITIE 01Al                       00      35   9   9   5   I    39  0.3   4.5  2.7  2.7  I.5  0.3   11.7   5.2  3.4  3.6  2.2  0.5   14.8
r"FIlhTL e inrS      b                NOU   727 72  720 720  720 3440   0.1  72.8  72.9  72.0  72.9  r.7.   364.0  83.5 90.6  99.3 106.6 115.7  494.7
02131 cauRS                          I0S      -   - 20  320 333   933  0.1           -    - 28.0 32.0 33.3   93.3         -    - 37.8 46.9 52.9  137.6
MCI:II.   C     /1 1                         15  25  is  40  40   255  0.5   7.5  12.5  17.5 20.0  20.0   77.5   8.6  15.6 23.6 29.3 31.8  100.9
99IIIIIIL SIIJIS /d                  1KnW     5 10   2 le   I10        45    6  30.0  60.0 *0.0 60.0 60.0  275.0  14.4 74.7  91.0 V7.9 95.4  373.3
STIErTTM  /                          IINIK   s s 50  50 o             7 50   20  0.5  25.0  25.0 25.0 25.0  2S.0  125.0  29.7 31.i13.7 36.6  39.7  169.9
Sta-Total VLA  EXIE611111 1                                                         229.9 173.0 206.0 221.3 211.4 19331.5 263.5 215.3 278.1 309.s 336.0 3 .402.3
1. IICILTIRL CXTElS IN  1i#
IIKTIII COMES                        IIV  251    -   -   -   -   253  0.3  75.9           -    -    -    -   75.9  17.0    -    -    -    -   97.0
SUSTAT2ONeCOSES                       N       I   I   -   -   -         9    I   9.0  3.0    -    -    -    9.0   9.2  1.2    -    -    -   10.4
NII3 CMESt                           1r.-   .i  67  6   62  42   310 0.15   9.3  9.3  9.3  9.3  9.3   46.5  10.7  11.6  12.6 13.6  t4.0   63.2
VMCL CII   E   /0                     N       10  10  10  I0  10    50    I10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0   50.0  11.5 12.4  13.5  14.6  15.9   67.9
InKIT        TIsIo  Ah                2IU   10 i i 15    l0   -    50    6  60.0  0.0  0.  60.0             -  300.0 B8.9 122.0 121.5  17.9    -  390.2
STilT TEl /1                          U      20  20  20  20  20   30          120.0  20.0  2C.0  20.0  20.0  300.0  22.9 24.9 27.0 29.3 31.8  L35.9
kbTtal   UOTI   CEXIE1610 IMIS                                                      133.2 130.3 1V.3  9.3  39.3  5M.4  230.1 162.1 174.6 145.4 62.5  754.7
C. 33LECT 1mITIR IECII.ISTS
*RIENIAT3U COlES                      U       2   2   2   2   2        30    1   2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0   30.0   2.3  2.5  2.7  2.9  3.2   13.6
. r31     31099 (ZNLl                 No     24  24  24  24  24   320    1  24.0  24.0 24.0 24.0 24.0  120.0  27.5 29.9 32.4  35.2  33.3  163.1
MCCTI.  UCS                           No     10  10  30  10  10    50   0.5   5.0  5.0  5.0  5.0  S.0   25.0   3.7  6.2  6.7  7.3  7.9   34.0
931O9W. Sll3WES Ij                  DIMU      3   5   B   9   B    30    8   8.0 04.0 64.0  64.0 64.0  240.0   9.2 49.8 06.4  93.7 102.7  340.8
113 TOM3 A                           WIUlis 15  15  15  15  35    75    2  30.0  30.0 30.0  30.0 30.0  150.0  34.4  7.3  40.5  43.9 47.7  203.0
ab-Total !ET  11TTR9  I LIMS                                                        69.0 101.0 125.0 125.0 125.0  545.0  79.1 125.7 168.7 193.1 12.7  7M5.3
'. FlIV  OFuIC   ISS)
*11TAnN 13E2                          No      2   2   2   2   2        :0    2   4.0  4.0  4.0  4.0  4.0   20.0   4.6  5.0  5.4  5.9  6.4   27.2
WA. OW  MMU                           on      I   I   I   I   1         5    1    .0  I.0 1.0 1.0  1.0           5.0   1.1  1.2  1.3  1.5  1.6    6.
iF CL aEs3                            Uo      2   2   2   2   2    10    1   2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0   10.0   2.3  2.5  2.7  2.9  3.2   13.6
ST    TM7                            INIKV         5   5   3   5    25    210.0  30.0 10.0  30.0  20.0  5D.0  11.5  12.4  13.5  14.6 15.9   67.9
bToal FIEU 0WEIRS Is4 s)                                                            17.0  17.0  17.0  17.0  17.0   95.0  19.5  21.2 22.9  24.9 27.0  215.5
E. OF' n FOCS (iWIt0)
ENWATnm  cES                          U       2   2   2   2   2        10    2   4.0  4.0  4.0  4.0  4.0   20.0   4.6  5.0  5.4  5.9  6.4   27.2
I    2TWOIES                          U10     I   I   I   I      1      5    1    1.01.01.0  1.0  1.0    5.0   1.1  1.2  1.3  1.5   1.6    6.8
WOOL a .JES                           U       2   2   2   2   2        10    1   2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0   10.0   2.3  2.5  2.7  2.9  3.2   13.6
S3T M 1                               INKV    5   5   5   5   5    25    4  20.0  20.0 20.0  20.0  20.0  100.0  22.9 24.9  27.0  29.3 31.8  135.9
-TOMrtal 4I 13R OFCR  (IJRMI                                                        27.0  27.0 27.0  27.0 27.0  135.0  31.0 33.6  36.4  39.3 42.9  133.5
F. PIL ClZ.
S3=  STAFF CI S  IIO-IITIIWI)   UD            1   1   1   1   1         5    2   2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  1.0   2.3  2.5  2.7  2.9  3.2   33.6
!1N. UNg TW M DECU                    NO      2   2   2   2   2        10    2   4.0  4.0  4.0  4.0  4.0   20.0   4.6  5.0  5.4  5.9  6.4   27.2
DFrnI       T13OII  C9I E             No      2   2   2   2   2    10  1.5   3.0  3.0  3.0  3.0  3.0   15.0   3.4  3.7  4.0  4.4  4.0   20.4
kTota  FCUiL COMM                                                                    *.0  *.0  9.0  9.0  9.0   45.0  10.3  11.2  12.1  13.2 14.3   61.2
TOtl  PISSIIf 015                                                                     535.0 457.3 513.3 411.6 429.7 2422.9  613.5 5s.0 62.9 715.7 601.3 3,272.4
Tbal                                                                                   535.0 457.3 513.3 440.6 42s.7 2e422.9  613.5 59  692.9 715.7 Ul.3 3P272.4
-     sm msSw  .-    B                a. _S    __.   .B .BS   _ .
/a  FI ML 3  23A T       O    FUM  MS1n1 1S2      .
l  2a  mIs muLy F_ ER I  1II=I.
/C IIE-        alIN1 SIII2    V SIL_I MUlatitZ          UINIRTt IN SUMS  NCt S 45  AnqT tRECi 011 IATCLLTtREr 5111 CITDI111 RC.
Id  4-,Y  MC39         C1W VW  M33 PE           . B12.E TUITIT IMI STIPEND.
lel I    e U     E PRW    Fa UELED MU, *1 STATE K ZUR LEVELP 0IT3 25-30 P7TICIPIT  PER TMR.
nf OM FM EE      IN EUI     T FWE TI.
/1  NE-410   111   313 NV SINI AILTM   IIU IN 10    KSCJIPlCS AS KANFT FINtECIZOP, MIE LITLURE. SOIL CSIC TITP ETC.
m  2-1U2 IC IN    K 331 LU!T CIM3P. M 14W3  I'UOE IWTIOt NO S1I3913
A1  1-2 FW   41EIE13 4IIB OC5 A VA. _ZE1 AT STATID. LEV.VM111  25-30 PORTICIPNTS PER Tt. tIT COST W RS.L.000 FIO FIELD TRS NID TlU1DNl1 IWTRIAS
/.  2-t1 FM KM6   COMO tilT a           ws M    , MOM .ICLE  TUITION A  3141T90.
A T1M 92U 101T I N0W    TIMP M 4I0131033S
robin  20. 19u  12256



"1    1~~313 11U.ECT 11 0P-21                                                                      -
1dl  In. Am  a  11111U  -   _WL   111 1
ktallsi Cat 1"
(11141 wpm    MO)@
owditv                             DM~~~~~~.. Cast                      To al 41d    cu.lMlan
_bit            -                         __              ____________
lIAt IM  11116 1917  I3    Iva  1d.l  1at  13           130    1W   3m     SW         eA         1     3M36   3W7   ld    17   Tgal
I. _. m.   S
1._
FNLW  coffo _vm                                  a       I       I  I     I      1     5    5       5.0    s.e    5.0    .1.     2.0   32.3       S.5    5.6    6.4    7.0    7.        =A.
Km         tl ("I                                        5 s   I    I     I      I *1  3.1    17.5   2.0   21.0    3A    20.0  133.1    19.2   33.3  JAi..   3.3   42.5   13.
*4ta  w.NIAmM                                                                                        2.1   33.0 3I.0   33.0    3.0    54.5    24.6   J7.2    A.5   46.1   5.1 3 .
2. KM
011_.  C                                        U       2   2      2     2      2    13  3.5       7.0    1.0    7.0    7.0    7.0       3.e      7.7    ea      9.0    9.    18.      4.4
Idd    -                                                                                               7.0    7.0    7.0    7.0    1.0       .0      7.7    3.3    9.0    9a    10.6    6.4
nlcT                                             U M   0           30    is    10   146    3    24.0   24.0   90.0  e.    94.0   3o1.0    26.3   20.1  1U6.0  US.   I3J                  41 1.1
9TtOtl NIlUT                                                                                          24.0   24.0    .0    *.0   *.0        1 3.0    26.1   3.5   116.0  3J   L36.    43D.1
4. _A13733
a     so  5s   5s    so    so   30   Iou..  I".6  10.0  130.0  211.0   10.0   w3.9  ]"J.   26.1   24.9  324.9 3I.7
Ol. M                                            N      40  a    120   l2   142   S24    3   120.4  240.0  368.0  42.   420.0  1,572.0   133.4   MA.6   463.9  1n.A   66.2 2.3.2
-_Tolal  I      Dm                                                                                  231Q.0  000.0  SD.0  394.0  P.O  2d412.   31.1  404.6  610.4  1ue.5  901.3  3211
5. IELD
U     57 D     n  7    57    D7   2         2   134.0  314.0  114.0  314.0  114.0   n73.0   124.1  313.4  146.9  19.4 172.,   73.4
VE111                                            U    400  M0  3.100  .300 6           1 1.3 . 363    1   400.0  900.0 1.100.0 1.000 1.3Ix.0  ,061.0   437.9 30031.9 1.417.S 13037.6 2.07   6012.5
9*-Toal FU                                                                                           514.0 2,434.0 1.214.0 1,414.0 1,479.0  S.O0    1.4 ,1X4.3 1,1A.4 3.9M    2.243.  7,33.J
A. OK  MT
J  NOT WI                                        NO U      I    I      I  I      I     5  3.S       3.5    1.5    3.5    3.S    1.1    17.5       1.1    4.2    4.5    4.t    Si        32.7
U      2   2      2      2     2    1 03.         7.0    7.0    7.0    7.0    7.0       3.0      7.7    0.3    9.0      a    10.6    4.4
.TTIC0 0LPI(ME)                                  U       2   2      2     2      2    to    3       6.0    6.0    6.0    0.0    6.0    20.0       0.6    7.1    7.7    B.       9.3    M.
N. 3T31l        z"n1                             U       4   4      4     4      4    20   .        6.0    6.0    6.0    0.0    0.0   23.0        6.6    7.1    7.7    0.4    9.1    A.
FMIQ  D 110T                                     U      1   21    23 2D            23   I2   1.S    24.0   42.0   42.0   42.0   42.0    m.       20J.  49.9   54.1   3.7    UW.7    2.7
Se-iboJ Il PKn                                                                                       406.    64.5   04.5    4.3   64.5   314.5    18.9   76.6   I.1    90.2   97.0    MA
.LU ,              VW EM
l11bmINl1111                                     U      2   2       2     2      2    30  3.1      7.0    7.6    7.0    7.0    1.0   13.0         1.7    8.3    9.0    9.a   1.        4.4
3101011                                                  22         2     2      2    30    I       2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    30.0       2.2    2.4    2.6    2.8    3.        3U
300133UM1 1 UP                                           0          4     A      o    20    I      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    20.9        6.6    7.1    7.7    3.4    T.1    J.9
*-TeaI lnIUM  WFll WiM!                                                                              35.0  13.0   11.0   11.0   11.0    75.0    10.4   17.1   19.3   21.0   22.8    973
9*--oGa  1_EAL  III           ImM I.W   K    ar /a                                                    V1. 1,505.5 3.951.5 2,217.5 2.M2.3 113.0  1,03.61 3.32.3 2.114.7   MA.4  ,42.5 31.91.A
3. Dr3TI         L   L1           FM    17N  ElM!F lb
3. nn1unCI
_U    14  14    14    14    14    70  1.1    21.0   21.0   21.0   21.0   21.0    1d.0    22.0   24.9   27.1   29.4   31.9   1264
UD    1     4 1   4    34    14    10  1.3    23.0   21.0   21.0   71.6   21.0    MA.0    21.    24.9   27.1   29.4   31.9   1302
0a.-Toal NIEWIC                                                                                      42.0   42.0   42.0   42.0   42.0    10.0    4.0   49.9   54.1   M.,   6.7            2d2A
2. FlU
KmD0                                             M1    2J   215    23   2J  1.-R5    I   253.0  253.0  Z53.0  29.0   23.0  3,21.0   276.9  330.5  2.6  3.1  2J.   I.A
U    200300    300   7c00 0 e 2.5100  4.1   110.0          .    50.0  u0a  310.0   M10A    104.2  178.2  193.3    9.7  227a    72.
-ITm FlM                                                                                            403.0  403.0  403.0  4010  003.0  2,011.0   441.1  4.    1             1.3 sIIJJD
8*-bua! mr         L  MM  LLO 11     31311 ETMF lb                                                     443.0  405.0  44.0  401.0   45.0 2.22.0   40I   23.5 s2         3.   6.   071.1 2111.3
Tral  ini  oon                                                                                          136u.0 2-010.5 2-'6.5 2.662.5 2.7s7.5 I1,119.  1.491.9 2v3J 3111.22  722.6 4P17.6 3471a
TolI                                                                                                     1.362.0 2.010.5 2.2n        5  .a62. 7 227. 11,1t.0  14,11.9 2.7.3 W 40.2 3uM.6 4637A 14907.1
isa 1Y Pr0F ME SOUP  14         . 36-o23I PR  MI&  WUE  #11Pg MM  T_rO    r    U rT Al1 FIC 15P 510w.
A13 TN MSW  OK        3  1111V    1   163 0015M PO332131 CNM    3113 FREW  lRA. kVM          13.1 3-30 01S PO1 MIN.
Fe00oa,_ Ur1IM_21



-89-                                                          ANNEX 8
INDIA                                                  Tabe 112
IATINIAL U1CILTtAL EXIEISIU MfECT U llWIP-2)
TaIe 132.  liiMW  1111- OTIER  EPATliOIN. EIKSITIES
Deta1ie Cast Table
(1DiM RIFEES '00.
Omtitu                                       kw Casts                             OUta  IncS adarS Cantfar11rCff
-                  -- IMat -------
tint 1915 19  1917 19 I3 1TI 1   Cost  1935   1936   I1           I1      191    TeUI    2i9S    1936   It7         919    199   T1
.03 M!  TS
A. OFFICE WRAT IOS
1. WEAMTERS
CMIN3TIDI                      -        -     -    -    -  -        30.0   30.0   30.0   J00    30.0  250.0    32.3   35.6   31.7   41.9   45.5  294.
NIUENIT                        -    -   -   -   -         -         14.0   21.0   21.0   21.0   21.0    "9.          IS.1   24.9   27.1   2A4   31.9  123.5
TMINIMcow                      -    -        -    -    -  -         58.0   56.0   53.0   59.6   58.0  290.0    63.5   68.    74.7   31.1   31.0   376.2
Su*TeWau  WEUAIRTS                                                    202.0  209.0  109.0  109.0  109.0  533.0   111.7  129.5  140.5  152.4  165.4  69.3
2. BII                                           -   -       -          9.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0    4.0           3.3   11.9   12.9   14.0   15.2   62.7
3. DISTRICT /                     -    -    -   -    -       -        100.0  150.0  20.0  20s.0   m.0   965.0    109.5  279.2  264.2  236.4  311.0 1914.4
4. SIIU ISIN lb                   -    -    - -              -        460.0  530.0  580.0  510.0  5s0.0 20780.0   503.5  619.B  747.4  810.9   3n.9 3.630.6
SubTtaI OFFICE WER*TIlU                                                  670.0  94.0  904.0  904.0  904.0 4t231.0   733.4 1009.3 I.164.9 2263.9 11V3?.4 59541.9
1. iAUlTIL.L UIVERSITY
EESION S1                         -       -     -    -3-     -        100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  500.0   109.5 He. 128.1 29   19.3  151.7  64.6
S*-Totl A10LTIAK   UNIVERSITY                                            100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  500.0   I09.5  118.3  221.1  139.3  151.7  64.6
C. FM  TRIALS
FI TRIALS                 NO   325  325 325   5  325  2625   0.5  162.5  162.5  122.5  162.5  162.5  912.5   177.9  193.0  20.4  227.2  246.5 1054.0
b-Tat  Fi1 TRIALS                                                        :62.5   162.5  162.5  162.5  162.5  312.5   177.9  193.0  209.4    7.2  246.5 1.054.0
I  EOENT  CMTS                                                          P32.5 1,111.5 1.166.5 1166.5 II66.5 5,543.5  1,020.7 2.320.1 1503.2 16A.9 1,769.E 79244.5
932.5 1,111.5 1,166.5 1,166.5 1.166.5 5543.5  1,020.7 19320.l 1503.2 163.9 1 769.6 79244.5
--ATIMU AND IEDISTRTION EUENWT  FM  95P AEOS AS VES.
'IRATIN5 MS   KNITMTZU  EIIlIWJIT FOR S/IS  AM  AID ';EI.
irv 20 I295 12:59



Table 131
.iiin  NULI. EXIMI ini U (WP-21
TM1 131M. _A _NO           - VIIUE tDTI
htaIm  Cost 1*1.
(D3 WB 'US)
~~Utu                      k~~~~m Cast                    Totals Jal1fiU CwAinomias
gait
It 15 13  1   133 13 9 1 Ti  Cos5  1S    17   l1    139   TI    15  1                  1M     1     139   Toal
I._ E>1 S
A. M1J   WE FE 81 L   SlO
BI    B EKES                             *2  77  n   77  77  33   20  .0 1,510.   1,50.0 51 .01,5.1.0.0 A7.3.6 99 131.6 72AM7 2.254 2,7.  
_S                                     O     1    2    2   22      9  20  20.0    4.0   40.0   46.    *.0  S. 0I   . ZLY        .756        4 3.3
1  .                ID    -   2   2   2   2   3   15    -   30O0  30.0  30.  130.3  123.0    -   V.1   43   47   47.5
af-Tom d T   EW   HR Fat15         L v-amB                                   86.0 Idl0 1,6U0. 8    141 0.0 7,33.0 "L 193.3 212.6 2W37.7 263. It
TOM n     T cum                                                                 1.01I,410.0 I     1U0. UM 1I61.0 7400.0 7   9e. . 3 13.3 2, 237.7 2,53. It
Ta                                                                              8.0 1o 16.0 1.30.0 1,610.0 1,10.0 7.33.0 35. 1,3.3 2,2#3 2 .7 2564 I
Fumrs 216 135 JZS
*1



-91-
1IA                                       ANNEX 9
NATIIIIU. AiRlILTUl. EXTENSIOU PltOt II  (lP-2)
FP1QECT COST S ~U8
tISIM IlfES  '000)              (UISS '000)                 Z Total
Foreiun   as
Local  Foreign   Total      Local  Fareign Total   EX          CDsts
-                               -               -    -  =
A. IUAYU
1. CIVL v1E                     419004.5 2,205.5   44U1lO.0  3,492.0  183.B  3,675.8         S       6
2. EEflPEN                       2,719.1   325.9    3,045.0    226.6   27.2   253.8         11        0
3. WEDES                         Y.062.5 3,297.5   13,150.0    821.9  274.0 1,095.8         2S       2
4. llAINDlS                      24265.0   937.5    3,202.5    199.8   79.1   266.9         29        0
5. ICRENETMrL  STAFF SARIES      15,196.0      -   1lSwl6.0  1W266.3       - 1P266.3         -        2
6. TWAVEL NLIOMCES               146285.3      -   149285.3  1,190.4       - 19190.4         -       2
7. YEHIE WOPEIITE EXPEVSES       4,815.0   S35.0    5,350.0    401.3   44.6   445.8         10       1
B. OTIIR OETINS EXPBNIrTES       4,410.0       -    4,410.0    367.S       -   367.5         -        I
Sg-Total ARYTM                     95,457.4 7,2.4  1027U4.8  7,954.9  -W7.6 8,5624              7       a
3. KARATAKA
1. CVL -IMf                     85,025.0 4i475.0   89,500.0  7,095.4  372.9 7t458.3          5       it
2. E    UJPEI                    34154.4   395.6    3,540.0    262.9   32.1   295.0         11       0
3. YEHICLES                     21t195.0 7,065.0   29,260.0  1,766.3  588.8 2i355.0         25       4
4. TRAI                           6,297.5      -    6,297.5    524.0       -   524.0         -        I
5. DERBEETAL STAFF SALRIES       22t720.0      -   22,720.0  1,893.3       - 1893.3         -       3
6. TRAVEL  .ICS                 27,035.0            27,035.0  2Y252.9      - 2,252.9         -       3
7. VEHICE WRTING EPENES         20,070.0 2,230.0   22,300.0  1,672.5  185.8 1t85N.3         10       3
9. OTHER OPERATIN EXE9D1IlRES    2P,45.0       -    2,845.0    237.1       -   237.1         -       0
Sub-Total KARTAKA                 19S9331.9 14,155.6  202,487.5 15,694.3 19179.6 16,974.0       7      25
C. EUJARAT
1. CNIL WW                      99,9P9.2 5,25?.9  105157.0  B9324.9  439.2 8f763.1           5       13
2. EDUInT                        5,711.1  1,O03.8    6,714.9    475.9   83.7   55Y.6        15        1
3. VEHCES                        7,185.0 2,215.0    9v4O0.0    599.8  IS'.6   783.3         24        1
4. TRADIIG                       6,055.6       -    6,055.6    504.6       -   504.6         -        I
S. INCILEENTAL STAFF SALAIES    123P730.0      -  123,730.0  10,310.8      - 10,310.8        -       15
6. TRA103ELLA  E                 36,365.5      -   36,365.5  3,030.5       - 3,030.5         -       5
7.  HICLE OPEIATD6 EIWISES       11,605.5 1,289.5   I2W995.0    N67.1  107.5 14074.6        1        2
8. OTHER OPERATIN EEDITU7ES      5,713.2       -    5,713.2    476.1       -   476.1                  I 1
Sub-Total GUJAAT                  2?6P265.1  9,766.2  306,031.2 24,688.8  813.8 25,502.4        3      38
D. JD INO KASHMIR
1. CIU WO5R                    39S985.5 2,104.5   42,090.0  3,332.1  175.4 3,507.5          5       5
2. EUIPIET                       5244.7   408.8    S,653.5    437.1   34.1   471.1           7        1
3. VEHICLES                      89,95.0 2,965.0   11,860.0    741.3  247.1   998.3         25        1
4. TAIN                          2,422.9       -    2,422.9    201.9       -   201.9         -       0
5. INCRE)ENTAL STAF SAARIES     102,544.0      -  102544.0  89545.3        - 8,45.3          -       13
6. TRANEL LIANCES                11,159.0      -   11,159.0    929.9       -   929.9         -        1
7. VEICE  EATIN EXNS             6,570.0   73D.0    7,300.0    547.5   60.8   608.3         10        1
8. OTTER OPETIN6 EENDITUES       5,543.5             5,543.5    462.0      -   462.0         -       1
SbTot  JMMIU  AND KASMIIIR        182,364.6 6,206.3  188,572.9  15,197.1  517.4 15,714.4        3      24
E. HINADL PRAIESH
Total BASELIE cOSTS                 762,418.9 37,421.5  7,9840.4  63,534.9 3,118.5 66,653.4       5     100
Physical Cntingweiis              31,999.8 2.157.2   346156.9  2,666.6  179.8  2,846.4         6       4
Price Cntiri.ies                 164,901.3 4,139.5  168940.8 139733.4  345.0 14,079.4        2      21
Total PROJECT COSTS                 95PP220.0 437718.1 1,002,938.0 79S,35.0 3,643.2 83,S78.2      4     125
__ba2 ___= __ =   ====
Febur 20, 1985 13:06



-92-
AN=x 10
RAfIOhAL AMIcULTDRML RXMSION  RMOJLCS I
IWLWIWTTIOW  SCIMLI
state Sub-Proiect.
I  19.1-30*15          lIZ                                  lb-the After Effectiveness
IMXK                                | PPESZBSATIOW    ECIETUNU"nDs    1  2  3  .  5  6  7  8  9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22
Civil UErks                         t
Site Selection 
Prepare Tenders 
C.ustructiou                     t
T*bicl- and  t iveut                I
Prepare Tenders                  l
Purchase:  vE icles              I
EUipment                                           -------
Staff                               I
Appointments-I
Fbeade,arters                1
Rugioual 1
District                                        -      ---------------                                                     ---------
Sibdivision                                     -
Field                        t
Nanitoriag and hvaluation   t-_
Trarsin                             I



-93-
ANNEX 11
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTU-PAL EXTENSION PROJECT II
(US$ M)
Schedule of Estimated IDA Disbursements
Actual Average         /b
IDA Fiscal Year                                        Z Rate for Three    Regional
aud Semester      Semester    Cumulative      Z      1st Phase States    Profile
FY86  1st          1.0 /a       1.0          2             -                 4
2nd         2.9 /a        3.9          8            -                 7
FY87  1st          3.0          6.9         14             -                12
2nd         3.9          10.8         22             3               18
FY88  1st          3.4         14.2         29            12                25
2nd         6.8          21.0         43           28                33
FY89  1st          3.5         24.5         50            34                41
2nd         5.5          30.0         61           54                50
FY90  1st          2.8         32.8         67            58                59
2nd         6.9          39.7         81           74                67
FY91  1st          5.9         45.6         93            79                95
2nd         3.4          49.0        100           84                82
FY92  1st           -            -          -             92                88
2nd          -             -          -            94                90
97
100
Expected completion:    June 30, 1990
Expected Closing Date:  March 31, 1991
IL Including retroactive financing.
/b Profile for IDA Agricultural Projects in India (1984).



ANNEX 12
Chart I
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT 11
Hoiyana Subproject
Exdension Organization
DIRECTOR OF AGRICULTURE
ADA(DaN)
I            |  4SENIOR SM
ZONES (3)                         ZONAL JDA
DtSTRCTS(12)                                                                    8 DUTK
OFRCER~ ~~~~~~~~~~FHJ
SLBDMSKO)S (35)            SJCVSONAL AGRCUTUR)  
AEO
I MEWI
8 FARMER UI1S/VEM
ud Bank-26W08



-95-                     ANNEX 12
Chart 2
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT 11
Haryana Subproject
Unkages Between Extension and Research
STAE LB'EL                         SGAWI
TECHMCAL                        R _   _   _   - _ ESEAR1 ICCLtL
cOMMIrEE                            (HA)
/ "    '-  I.   J\ss 
DE                                                   H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.AIYANA
AGRK)ATURE                                           AGRICL~~~4  ~ JLURAL
jAG~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LNVRS I  vY
/          _  ~~~~HEADQURTR
I   _t'~~~~~~~
DI.TRCT LE,FD ZZONAL
X   TECHNICAL    \ZONKSHOP                      RSEARCH
/                    '\ OMMME
D-=IT                                                FIL TRIA
DAO                       ---_PROGRAM
SI     I    ID__S
SDAO
Wotld Bonk- 26609



-96-                               ANNAE 12
Chart 3
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT 11
Kamataka Subprject
Extension Organization
DIRECTOR OF AGRCUTURE
SENOZR                                            .REQDMA^
SKM TEAM                         - --     -  -  -  -  - _--   ____ Sa    gE
INPUr CORDIUTO
DMSIONS (8)                         DSL D
DI51RICTS (I Qfl20)             PRINCIPAL AGRCULIURAL                    KTM
OFFICER)  m(106)
TALI(S                                            CENTRALTALLJK
Centrl   60)                                   ASSISTANT DIRECTOR
Other  (115)                                     OF AGRICU.TURE
Totol   (175)                                  (COORDINATION)
TALlWK                                        - e/                                  TALIK
ASSISTANT DIRECOR                                                                   ASSM NTDIRECrOR
OFAGRO.VeURE                            1                      /                    OF ACRCLJTURE
OFGiCULUR                                                  /\I
AEO(750)                                               AO---'  C                                  AEi
l       |   ,-l                             l       I ,,,\ 
VEW (5200)    VEW                                       VW                                           W
8 FARMER UN 5JITSVW
World Bonk-2661 0



7ANNX 12
Chart 4
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXrENSION PROJECT 11
Karnataka SubproJect
Unkages Between Extension and Research
a IRECTORATE  I                     STATE LEVEL                         LR4VNCEOF
OFAGRICULTURE                         TECHNICAL    _    _                  KiRAL
COMMMEE                              SeC8E
,I' 
DIAGRECUUTOR    pR                                                                  |STATUTORY
OFAGQIM                                                    -  -  -   RESEAPC COUNCIL
DIVISION                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ZONAL
|  DA                   HELD IM= jR(4pSAK
PAO                               TECHNICAL               P ROGRAM
I    (SS)  I                  I   COMMMlEE
TALUKA
TAO
AEO
WMx1d Bonk-26611



-98-
ANNA 12
Chart 5
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT 11
Gujarat Subproject
Exfension Organization
|  DIRECTOR       |
OF AGRICULTURE    l
ADA (EXTN.)
ZONES 6                          ZONAL(JDA)    J
DIS1r-T
DEVELOPMENT K
OFFKCER        
OFR          _    DBRICT AGRICULTURAL
DISIRICTS 19                      OFFICER
4-5
ESMS T
SUDMSIONS 45                    SUBDMSIONAL
AGRCULTUQAL OFRCER
[ADO]                    ~~~~~~~~~2-3
r~~~~~~~~~~~~
VVEW~
8 FARMER UNITS/VEW
10 CONTACT FARMERS/UNIT
And 24 Aiftionol Sutcdvsional Agricultural Cfcers.
For Intersiv lrrigated Area. Rctlo of I VEW/500 FoemWcs.
Wo/ald Eznk-26612



-9
ANNEX 12
Chart 6
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT 11
Gujarat Subproject ,
Unkages Between Extension and Research
STAlE LEVEL                      STATGUTORY
IECHNICAL     - _         -   RESErRCH COUNCIL
COMMETEE            .                .
o     |           \            \ s     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~GUJA4RAT |
OF AGRICULTURE                                                      AGRK\ IINRAL
-                    N~~~-
EXN
|DTI LEVEL  |ZONAL                        ZONAL
TECHNCAL                WCSHOPArICAL 
it  COMMrrrEE    \                  r     U
DAO       F__         _     __       _         SEEFM
ISUBDN IS---
SDA0L ,N_
AEO
WoU Bork-26613



-100-
ANNEx 12
Chart 7
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXrENSION PROJECT 11
Jammu and Kashmir Sub-Project
Extension Organization
PROJECT COORD|TOR
|(ADDIIONAL SECRETARY)
DRECTORS OF AGRICULTURE|
JAMNLJ & KASHMR (2)
RB;GONS 2)         |REGIONAL JOINT DIRECTORS
REGtOS (2)  | OF AGRICULTURE (2)
DISCT (114)            DSTRICT AGRCULTUrALDsCTA
SUB-DNSION AGRICULTURAL          UB-ODMSION
W&DIVISIONS tS6)   |       OFFICES (56)                  SUS
L   '   I~~~~~
AEOJ
~~V~EW
FARMER UNITS
Wogid Bar*-2680a



-101-                          ANNLEX 12
Chart8
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL KIENSION PROJECT 11
Jommu and Kashmir
Linkges Behveen ExtenIon and Research
ADDffKX4&I                STArE LeVL                  D?5a
SECREC           - _     TEL_1CHNICA.
DEPARMMS Of ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ OM~E
Of AGRICULIURE             OMITE.CMIV
~~~~~~I                   ..    N vsv . 
i ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ / \"""  I 
AGra/A GULtURE
HOITCULAME                  UNIVRSITY
*          I  </~~~~~~~~~~
DlRECIORSOF/                       -
T          ~~ZONAiL          ZONAL             ZONAL
/ C.x91TTEERT  \       S OP            STATION
I~~~~~AP /          \             oR
DA_/HA0 F__IELD T1LAL
PPOGdAn-
I AEO/ 
_ t                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~wofla Bank-26M
f - '



-102-
AMNUE 13
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT II
Selected Documents and Data Available in Proiect File
B1      Haryana Subproject, Project Preparation Report
Department of Agriculture, Earyana
Chandigarh, April 1984
32      Gujarat Subproject, Project Preparation Report
Directorate of Agriculture, Gujarat State
Absedabad, June (Revised) 1984
33      Rarnataka Subproject, Project Preparation Report
Karnataka State - Department of Agriculture,
Shasbdri Road, Bangalore, June 1984
34      Jaxou & Kashmir, Project Preparation Report
Directorate of Agriculture, Srinigar, Kashemir,
December 1984
Cl      Project File, September 1984
Item 1         Earyana State Subproject
Agricultural background, progress of Phase I and
proposals for Phase II
Item 2         Gujarat State Subproject
Agricultural background, progress of Phase I and
proposals for Phase II
Ite 3          Karnataka State Subproject
Agricultural background, progress of Phase I and
proposals for Phase II
Item 4         Jasu & Kashmir Subproject
Agricultural background and proposals
Item 5         Project Cost Summary, by components by year
Items 6, 7, 8, Memoranda of understanding between GOR and RAU,
9, 11    GOK and KAU, GOG and GAU, GOJK and JIAD.



lBRD 1851 9R
AFGHANISTAN'                                                                                    N
I                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INDIA
-. tHJMACHALNATIONAL AGRICULTURAL
vPUNJB  -r-            C &EXTENSION PROJECT U
PU t NJAB  2t          -z  _       y                / /  NA ! P 1 AlIAS
PA K I S T A N                                                                              as ,_r N    :- -: HAlF I Als  -  STATE CAPITAIS
1"tSTmNG PROJECTS    a  NATIONAL CAPITAL  %
_ g X ,~~~~~~~~~~                                                                 A:HR 
7\000MMIN  TAR  NTT---'R PRASHM-,I
-.       QHAu_vSASS MA
HAR          (BASILN?   NGLADESH' L
BESN        !eiPLZ A?\ MIA
A  BU RM A
NADtJ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s
a.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d
~~~~~~~~~~~~S~~~~~~~~~~ -~ ~-                                                                  tIDWTA,
SRI LAPWA                              n      c
-  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nn~~~~~~~~~~~nn~~~1                                  ?
FEBRUARY 19l5



