Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USIE ONLY
Report No. 13632
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1569-IND)
OCTOBER 25, 1994
Agriculture and Natural Resources Operations Division
Country Department III
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Name of Currency (Abbreviation) = Indian Rupee (Rs)
Appraisal Report (March, 1985)                         US$1.00 = Rs.12.00
Average During Project (1985-93)                       US$ 1.00 = Rs. 17.36
Completion Date (March 1993)                           US$1.00 = Rs.3 1.26
FISCAL YEAR
GOI and all States: April 1 to March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
AA                 Agricultural Assistant
AAO                Assistant Agricultural Officer
AO                 Agricultural Officer
AEO                Agricultural Extension Officer
CAD                Command Area Development
CAEP               Composite Agricultural Extension Project
DANIDA             Danish International Development Agency
DCA                Development Credit Agreement
DOA                Department of Agriculture
DOE                Directorate of Extension
GOI                Government of India
IAS                Indian Administrative Service
IDA                International Development Agency
IPM                Integrated Pest Management
J&K                Jammu and Kashmir
M&E                Monitoring and Evaluation
MOA                Ministry of Agriculture
NAEP               National Agricultural Extension Project
NARP               National Agricultural Research Project
NGO                Non-Government Organisation
PCR                Project Completion Report
PWD                Public Works Department
SAR                Staff Appraisal Report
SAU                State Agricultural University
SDR                Special Drawing Right
SMS                Subject Matter Specialist
T&V                Training and Visit
VEW                Village Extension Worker
WB                 World Bank



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
October 25, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on India -
Second National Agricultural Extension Project (Cr. 1569-IN!
Attached is the Project Completion Report on India Second National Agricultural
Extension Project (Cr. 1569-IN) prepared by the South Asia Regional Office. Part II was not
provided by the Borrower.
The project had the objective of strengthening and deepening the T&V extension
services previously supported in three states (Haryana, Gujarat and Karnataka) and to introduce
T&V in Jammu-Kashmir. The outcome is typical of many T&V projects previously evaluated in
India. On the positive side, the project undertook substantial staff training, further emphasized the
technology focus of the extension service and adapted the traditional T&V methodology somewhat
to local circumstances, improved staff transport and facilities, enhanced the monitoring and evaluation
(M&E) mechanism, and instituted procedures to strengthen the linkage of extension with research.
On the negative side, however, at project end the regular visits were often ritualistic, training was not
adequate to provide the needed expertise to provide responsive services, marginal farmers in rainfed
areas were not given due attention (by research or extension), M&E survey results were not used
effectively, and fiscal constraints posed sustainability questions (there has been a net decline in
staffing levels due to employment restrictions).
There is sufficient evidence to indicate that the project met the general objective of
further institutionalizing and improving the T&V extension service. However, the PCR correctly
identifies the problems with the existing T&V system and points out that changes in strategy may be
necessary for sustainable, efficient and effective public extension services to be provided. The project
outcome is rated as marginally satisfactory, with modest institutional development and uncertain
sustainability.
The PCR provides a comprehensive analysis of the project. Its findings are consistent
with the 1994 OED extension study (Report No. 13000). No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT II
(Credit 1569-IN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ............................................................                                  i
EVALUATION SUMMARY  .............................................................. Hii
PART I PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  ..............1..................... 
1. Project Identity.                                                                                 1
2. Background.                                                                                       1
3. Project Objectives and Description.                                                               2
4. Project Design and Organisation.                                                                  2
5. Project Implementation                                       .5
6. Project Results.                                                                                  8
7. Project Sustainability .11
8. Bank Performance.13
9. Borrower Performance .13
10.  Project  Relationships ............................................................            14
11.  Consulting Services ............................................................ 14
12.  Project Documentation ...........................       ....................................... 14
PART II PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE (not received) ... 15
This documnent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.   0



PARTII  .......................................................                                             16
1. Related Bank Loans and Credits .16
2. ProjectTimetable .16
3. Credit Disbursements .17
4. Project Implementation .18
5. Project Costs and Financing .19
A. Project Costs .19
B. Project Financing.                                                                                20
6. Project Results                        ..20
A. Direct Benefits .20
B. Economic Impact .21
7. Status of Covenants                        ..21
8. Use of Bank Resources .23
A. Staff Inputs .23
B. Missions .24
C. Costs .25
FIGURES: 4-Year Moving Averages Cereals, Oilseeds, Pulses Production .........                    .............. 26
Figure 1 - Gujarat ...................................................... 26
Figure 2 - Haryana..                                                                          .......... 27
Figure 3 - Jammu   and   Kashmir ......................................................                     28
Figure 4 - Karnataka ...................................................... 29
ANNEX 1: Crop Production Statistics
Table 1 - Gujarat ...................................................... 31
Table 2 - Haryana ...................................................... 32
Table3 -  Jammu   and   Kashmir ......................................................                      33
Table 4 -  Karnataka ...................................................... 34



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT II
(Credit 1569-IN)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the National Agricultumal Extension
Project II for which an IDA Credit of SDR50.26 million (Credit 1569-IN) was approved on March
26, 1985. SDR10.77 million was cancelled on December 5, 1991 during the funds redeployment
exercise. The Credit was closed on March 31, 1993, two years behind schedule. Fmal
disbursement from the Credit was made on October 1, 1993 and the balance of SDR1.42 million
was cancelled.
The Preface, Evaluation Summary, and Parts I and III of this PCR were prepared by
an FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme mission which visited India in August/September
1993. Borrower's Part II has not yet been received.
The PCR (Parts I and III) is based on a review of the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR),
the legal documents, supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower,
internal Bank memoranda, and project files, field visits to the project areas, except for Jammu
and Kashmir, and discussions with project staff of the Government of India and State
Governments of Gujarat, Haryana, Jammu and Kashmir, and Karnataka, and Bank staff at
Headquarters and in New Delhi who had been associated with the project.






iii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT II
(Credit 1569-IN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.        The objective of the project was to build upon the institutional base developed under
the Composite Agricultural Extension Project (CAEP, Cr. 862-IN) in the States of Haryana,
Gujarat and Karnataka to improve the coverage, depth and quality of their respective extension
services and assist the State of Jammu and Kashmir in the improvement and reorganisation of
agricultural extension. The project provided (i) additional staff to enable increased specialisation
and broader coverage of extension, (ii) extensive training programmes in association with State
Agricultural Universities (SAUs), (iii) staff to strengthen monitoring and evaluation (M&E)
capability, (iv) offices, training facilities and staff housing, (v) vehicles, and (vi) essential
equipment to support training and extension activities. The total project cost was estimated at
Rsl,003 million (US$83.6 million) with IDA providing a credit of SDR50.26 million (US$49.0
million) to cover 59 percent of expenditures.
Implementation Experience
2.        Although the project was slow in starting and closed on March 31, 1993, two years
behind schedule, many of the quantitative targets were substantially met for training courses and
workshops and purchase of equipment and vehicles, but not for civil works and incremental staff.
Total project expenditures were 119 percent of SAR estimates in Indian rupee terms, but because
of devaluation of the Rupee against the US$ and SDR, total expenditures were only 82 percent in
US$ terms and only 66 percent of the SDR credit was utilised (Part I, para. 5.4). Political and
budgetary problems in all States and civil disturbances in Jammu and Kashmir adversely affected
staff recruitment and maintenance of pre-project extension staff numbers, the objective of exclusive
use of staff for agricultural extension activities, some training programmes, purchases of staff-
owned motorcycles and bicycles and civil construction programmes (Part I, paras 5.5 and 5.10).
Results
3.        The project helped in institutionalizing the T&V system, improving professionalism
and competency of the extension personnel, increasing mobility of extension staff and upgrading
offices, training facilities and staff accommodation. It had a positive impact in consolidating the
extension services and technology development capacity within the State DOAs and SAUs. The
T&V system provided direct extension advice and promotion of new technologies to about 20
percent of farm families (Part I, para. 6.3). However, the project achievements in terms of
improving the quality of extension operations and broadening and deepening extension coverage
have been less than satisfactory. The extent to which improvements in extension services have
affected farmers' incomes and production cannot be quantified. Examination of production and
yield trends indicate that there have been substantial increases in cereal production in Haryana and
for oilseeds in Haryana, Karnataka and Gujarat. Many of the farmers interviewed had increased
their crop production and returns to a greater extent than increases in input costs and attributed their
improved economic circumstance to promotional assistance received from the extension system.
However, for most other crops there have been no or only small increases in production and yield,
with little increase in cropping intensity and crop diversification.



iv
Sustainability
4.         Project sustainability is threatened in all States. State government moratoria on
recruitment of VEWs and AEOs has resulted in a continuing increase in extension staff vacancies.
Budgetary difficulties in meeting salaries and operating costs for all sanctioned positions and
adequate maintenance of facilities constructed under the project are expected. If this situation
continues, consideration would have to be given to redefining fewer, but larger, extension units
with consequent relocation of staff and modification of the extension approach, in order to provide
uniform and adequate coverage to all farm families.
Lessons of Experience
5.         There are many reasons provided in this PCR to support the position that the
extension services, as implemented under the existing T&V system in these four States, are at a
critical juncture and require major changes in direction and strategy. The main lessons of
experience for future projects for extension and technology development are summarised below:
(a)    A mechanism  and methodology for identification of the separate target
groups, which constitute the numerous project beneficiaries within a State, and
consequent project outcomes of targeted activities for such groups, should be clearly
set out. This would ensure a purpose-driven project with good strategic planning to
optimally utilise scarce resources; to tailor extension activities to the potentiality for
improvement within stratified groups (farming systems); to encourage greater
adaptability in development and delivery of extension services and technologies to
target groups; and thereby obtain higher quality extension advice and benefits to
farmers.
(b)    The existing extension system needs to be reformed to (i) work with fewer
but better qualified and trained extension staff commanding larger areas, (ii) be
structurally more flexible to adjust to local requirements for extension services, (iii) be
less oriented to top-down message development and delivery, (iv) be capable of
developing a more participatory group approach to extension, (v) provide a more
broadbased extension service (holistic farning systems approach) with good technical
back-up from line departments, (vi) empower the farmers in decision making ability
through farmer training, knowledge building, and farmer participation in extension
and on-farm research, (vii) embody a better understanding and evaluation of the
economic returns and consequences of adopting recommendations, (viii) utilise more
widely the mass media in communication of extension messages, (ix) better integrate
and utilize technical support services in extension advice, such as soil testing, input
supply, biological control services, etc., and NGOs in extension activities, and (x)
develop a true professionalism in SMSs that allows them to be more technically
competent and more thoroughly involved in and responsible for technology
development.
(c)    M&E units are a vital part of a more efficient and farmer responsive extension
service. They should help define profitable directions for extension activities, research
priorities and programmes for technology development. It is crucial for M&E units to
develop essential computer skills and capabilities and to be staffed by biometricians,
statisticians, economists and experienced agriculturalists to provide an adequate
service capability.
(d)    Future projects should give adequate emphasis to marginal farmers in dryland
areas, longer-term implications of extension initiatives on sustainability and



v
environmental issues, women's role in agricultural production and development and
poverty reduction in disadvantaged groups.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT II
(Credit 1569-IN)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity
Project Name           :            National Agricultural Extension Project I
Credit Number          .            1569 - IN
RVP Unit               .            South Asia
Country                :            India
Sector                 :            Agriculture
Subsector              :            Agriculture Support Services
2. Background
2.1   Agriculture has all along been the dominant sector of the Indian economy. The successive
development plans of the Government of India (GOI) since independence of the country have
assigned priority to increasing agricultural growth, alleviating poverty and creating employment in
rural areas.
2.2   The Bank's agricultural programme in India for about 15 years since late 1960s has had the
objective of assisting the country to achieve self-efficiency in foodgrains and to increase farm
incomes in an equitable manner. During this period, the Bank became actively involved in some
60 agricultural projects representing large investments in infrastructure and expanded agricultural
services. Improving agricultural extension services was recognised as one of the main relatively
low-cost means of increasing agricultural productivity, of making more effective use of past
infrastructure investments and of reaching all farmers, particularly the smaller ones. Some 12 IDA
credits were, therefore, approved during the above period to assist 13 Indian states to introduce
improved agricultural extension by adopting what is generally known as the "training and visit
(T&V)" system and strengthen the Directorate of Extension (DOE) of GOI's Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA) to improve its ability to assist state extension efforts.
2.3   While the overall experience of the above assistance of helping to establish more
professional extension services and broadening their coverage of the farming population was
positive, it was recognized that considerable scope still remained for improving the design of the
agricultural extension system and its effectiveness. The National Agricultural Extension Projects
were therefore conceived to initiate the implementation of second phase activities that would further
strengthen and deepen the extension effort. The first National Agricultural Extension Project
(NAEP I, Cr. 1523-IN) was approved in October 1984 to further strengthen GOI's DOE and the
extension systems in the States of Madhya Pradesh, Orissa and Rajasthan. NAEP-I was shortly
followed by NAEP-II (Cr.1569-IN) which also closed simultaneously with NAEP-I at the end of
March 1993 and by the ongoing NAEP-II (Cr.1754-IN). NAEP-I was the fourteenth in the series
of 15 IDA-assisted agricultural extension projects approved to date by the Bank.



2
3. Project Objectives and Description
Project Objectives
3.1    The project objective was to build upon the institutional base developed under the previous
Composite Agricultural Extension Project (CAEP) (Cr. 862-IN) in the States of Haryana, Gujarat
and Karnataka thereby improving the coverage, depth and quality of their respective extension
services and to assist the State of Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) in the improvement and
reorganisation of their extension service. This was to be achieved by (i) consolidating the
administrative changes and institutional improvements of the reorganised agricultural extension
system in Gujarat, Haryana and Karnataka; (ii) introducing the T&V system of extension in the
State of Jammu and Kashmir, (iii) improving the quality of extension; (iv) further strengthening the
linkages between extension and research in the project States; and (v) broadening and deepening
the scope of the extension service to cover such activities as water management, horticulture, farm
mechanisation and some aspects of farrn forestry; and more directly assist agricultural production
activities of women, rural youth, very small farmers, tenants and sharecroppers, and tribal and hill
populations.
Project Description
3.2   The project was designed to provide: (i) additional staff to meet the needs of a more
specialised extension service covering a broader range of technologies; (ii) training for all levels of
extension staff, including fortnightly training sessions for village extension workers (VEWs),
monthly workshops for Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs) and upgrading of formal qualifications
(promotional training); (iii) strengthening of monitoring and evaluation (M&E) units to improve the
quality and speed of survey and analysis of technology adoption and the effectiveness of operation
of the T&V system; (iv) civil works to provide offices, training facilities and staff housing; (v)
replacement of old vehicles, procurement of extra vehicles and the provision of loans to staff to
purchase bicycles and motorcycles, and (vi) essential equipment, including office furniture, audio-
visual systems and extension kits to support training and extension programmes.
3.3   Total project costs, over a five year period, were estimated at US$83.6 million (Rs 1002.9
million). The IDA approved Credit of SDR50.3 million (US$49.0 million) was to fund 59 percent
of the costs, while the GOI and the State Governments were expected to contribute the balance of
41 percent. The project was to be implemented independently by the four participating State
Ministries of Agriculture and coordinated through the DOE of the GOI, which was responsible for
providing leadership and guidance to the States in planning and implementation of their extension
programmes, and coordination and evaluation of training programmes for extension staff 1.
4. Project Design and Organisation
Project Concept
4.1    NAEP II was designed to build on the achievements of CAEP (Cr. 862-IN) and further
develop institutional capability in delivery of extension services to farmers. The project concept,
although not innovative, was appropriate in relationship to the achievements of CAEP, which had
helped establish a professional and single-purpose extension service with a direct link with selected
farners (Contact Farmers) and more widescale coverage of farmers in the villages. However, it
1   As noted earlier (para 2.3), support to DOE to build up its capacity was provided under NAEP I
(Cr. 1523-IN).



3
was considered that at the conclusion of CAEP, the extension services were not established firmly
enough to be self-sustaining in any State, and in the case of J&K, where most village level
government staff were involved in non-agricultural extension activities, there was a need to
strengthen and reorganise extension services to increase agricultural production.
4.2   The concept of continuing to use the T&V system of extension delivery established under
CAEP was appropriate given the level of expertise of the extension staff (both management and
field staff) and the condition of agricultural development in the project States, at the time of project
formulation. The T&V methodology was also appropriate for the level of institutional maturity of
the extension organisations at that time; its highly structured methodology required little or no
innovation in implementation, allowed for easy understanding and enabled effective monitoring of
the tasks conducted in training, extension and technology development.
4.3   In retrospect, however, the project concept suffered from lack of identification of precise
goals, and inadequate identification of project beneficiaries and existing constraints of extension
services. Project performance would have been enhanced by setting specific goals to address the
problems of stratified target groups of farmers that recognised differences in socio-economic status
(caste, creed, tribe), farm resources (land, labour and capital), farming systems and environmental
attributes (water and soil resources) and thereby differences in potentiality for improvement among
the target farmer groups. As a result, the project implementation suffered from: (i) a lack of focus
and poor strategic planning for the utilisation of scarce resources (particularly staff), (ii) a narrow
interpretation of the role of extension workers and the philosophy of the T&V concept, and (iii) a
lack of innovation during project implementation, all of which contributed to insufficient quality of
extension services and advice.
Project Design
4.4    While the scope and scale of the project was appropriate to the stated objectives, the ability,
and in some cases, the commitment of State governments to fully implement various components
of the project (civil works, appointment of incremental staff, study tours, etc.) came under
budgetary and political pressure. In addition, while the concept of the T&V extension methodology
was understood by the relevant extension personnel at all organisational levels in DOAs, lack of
clear project goals and poor understanding of extension processes (particularly the T&V system) at
higher levels of government meant that there was a lack of commitment by government
administrators to supporting the strengthening of agricultural extension services. This was
particularly the case in Karnataka and Gujarat which have the strong local government
administration under the Panchayat Raj, where at district level extension staff were recruited by and
administratively responsible to the local government, but technically responsible to the DOA. Thus
at district level in these States there was a perceived conflict in resource allocation (budget and staff
activities) between agricultural extension and other local developmental programmes (non-
agricultural), which also require the use of an effective extension service. The project design did
not also provide the framework for the government extension services to mobilise other
organisations such as non-government organizations (NGOs), supply agencies and other
government organisations to deliver extension services to farmers.
4.5   Training for farmers in more basic concepts of crop production could have been
advantageously included in the project. This would have improved the capacity of farmers to
modify recommendations and improve management decisions (eg. integrated pest management
[IPM] and water management) in their own crop production system. There was also no evidence
of training in the use of community development processes in the implementation of the project to
gain farmer participation in planning of extension programmes.



4
4.6    Women make up approximately one third of the rural workforce and agriculture is the main
employer of women. NAEP II did not specifically address the role and needs for providing
extension and training to assist women's participation in agricultural development. In Karnataka,
women extension officers were appointed to each cluster (association of 1-3 extension circles)
under the Danish Government (DANIDA) funded Women and Youth Training Extension Project
which commenced in 1980. This has been a very successful programme for promoting both
agricultural and non-agricultural knowledge and skills among women. In J&K, there are 31
women in field extension positions who are working within the T&V system while in Gujarat and
Haryana activities for women focused on traditional home science training.
Project Timing
4.7    The start of the project coincided with the availability of technologies offering substantial
increases in production from irrigated agriculture, which had not been spread to all potential users
and were still relevant at that time. The extension of these technologies (high yielding varieties,
herbicides, pesticides, fertiliser and improved agronomic management techniques) provided a
timely opportunity for the government extension services to improve agricultural production and
build their credibility with the farmers. The initiation of the Second National Agricultural Research
Project (NARP II) in 1986 was timely for the thrust of NARP II was for research and technology
development to focus on relatively small agro-ecological zones and thereby on developing more
relevant technologies for extension, rather than developing broadscale recommendations.
Project Organisation
4.8   In general, the role and responsibilities of the institutions and agencies involved in project
implementation were clearly understood but the role and the commitment of the State Agricultural
Universities (SAUs) took some time to develop. The tasks and duties of extension staff were also
well understood. However, the role of the SMSs was narrowly defined with too little
responsibility given to technology development, resulting in a general under-utilisation and under-
performance of the SMSs, particularly with respect to on-farm trials and demonstrations.
Conclusions
4.9    Overall, the aspects of the project's design and organisation which most contributed to its
successes were: (i) the clear definition of roles and responsibilities of most extension staff, (ii) the
routine nature of the T&V system which provided regular training, farmer contacts and farm visits,
(iii) the availability of technologies that still had the potential to achieve significant increases in
production and incomes of many farmers, (iv) increased mobility of staff which allowed frequent
farmer contact, (v) increased levels of commitment (through training) by extension staff to
technology promotion, and (vi) strong project M&E units, which enabled regular monitoring of
project activities and conduct of special studies to highlight project achievements and deficiencies.
4.10  On the other hand, the aspects of project design which impeded its achievements were: (i)
the lack of clear definition of agricultural development goals for the project (problem definition and
purpose), (ii) lack of planning and implementation scheduling of activities to ensure broadening
and deepening of extension coverage, (iii) lack of training in extension methodologies per se, farm
management and communication skills, (iv) lack of consideration of adverse effects on the T&V
system of State government commitment to establishing a decentralised administration system in
Gujarat and Karnataka which created dual administrative responsibility for extension staff, and (v)
failure to anticipate the macro-economic and policy issues that were, and still are, impacting on
farmer families, such as, access to inputs and credit and the prices paid for their products (the



5
project design assumed that the research system was effective, credit was available and input
supply adequate).
5. Project Implementation
Credit Effectiveness and Project Start-up
5.1    After a number of changes in States to be included in the project, with consequent changes
in project cost estimates, the credit was approved in March 1985. Credit effectiveness occurred in
December 1985 and the project closed in March 1993 after two extensions, each of one-year
duration.
Achievement of Physical Targets
5.2    Project activities in the first three years were constrained by inadequate counterpart
funding and somewhat intransigent attitude on staffing issues, particularly in Karnataka and
Haryana. This affected recruitment of additional staff and general mobility of staff (restricted
purchase of new and replacement vehicles and motorcycles/bicycles). Civil works were also
greatly delayed, but had little short-term effect on early project activities. Major difficulties were
also experienced in recruiting suitably qualified SMSs. By project completion, physical targets for
vehicles and equipment and for many training activities had been met or exceeded by all States,
while civil works for J&K and Haryana, and staff recruitment and some training activities in all
States, were well below targets (Section 4, Part III). In January 1989, each State had a mid-term
revision of physical targets. The only significant changes were for civil works, where there was
some upward revision of number of offices and downward revision of numbers of staff houses to
be constructed. Changes for other targets were minor.
5.3    A total of 68 offices (86 percent of SAR proposal), 43 training halls and 7 classrooms (89
percent of proposed), 18 hostels (95 percent of proposed) and 807 staff houses (30 percent of
proposed) were constructed. A large number of houses in J&K and small number in Karnataka
were still partially constructed at project completion due to civil disturbances, problems with land
titles and budget limitations. In J&K their completion is still uncertain because of lack of budget
allocation in 1993-94. A total of 60 cars, 453 jeeps, 16 vans (including some audio-visual vans)
and 7 minibuses were purchased, as new and replacement vehicles. A total of 1,038
motorcycles/mopeds/bicycles were purchased by AOs and VEWs under the loans scheme provided
in Haryana, Karnataka and J&K; data were not available for Gujarat. For these three States, the
utilisation of the loans scheme for purchase of motorcycles/mopeds/bicycles for private use was
considerably under target (54 percent) because of the reluctance of the State governments to
provide loan funds for this purpose, not allowing staff to choose the most appropriate type of
transport, and financial constraints perceived by VEWs in purchase and operation of these
vehicles. A large number and variety of training courses and workshops were conducted according
to the original proposals and 298 staff (45 percent of proposed) undertook formal BSc, MSc and
PhD training in Indian universities. Proposed staff training for BSc was not supported in Gujarat
and Haryana due to decisions to employ only graduate extension staff. Proposals for study tours
were well supported in Gujarat and Karnataka but not in the other States. Data were not provided
on actual numbers of new recruitment to the State extension services, but only on initial and final
staff numbers, with indication that the incremental staff included redeployed staff. Nevertheless, it
was clear that new recruitment was essentially limited to some SMS, the M&E unit and university
positions. Many new SMS positions were filled by promotion within the government service and
very little new recruitment of VEWs (AEOs) and AOs occurred, except in J&K where all available
graduates were recruited to AEO positions. Moratoria on staff recruitment for VEW (AEO)
positions in Gujarat and Karnataka have existed for a number of years. This, together with internal



6
promotions has resulted in considerable reductions (vacancies) in the number of "grassroots"
extension staff in all States.
Project Costs and Disbursements
5.4    Total project expenditures were estimated at Rsl,196 million (US$68.85 million), or at
119 percent of the SAR estimate in Indian rupee terms but only 82 percent in US dollar terms.
Overall, expenditure on civil works was much lower than scheduled in the SAR, whilst
expenditure on salaries in J&K and Karnataka and operating costs in Gujarat and Haryana were
much greater, with other expenditure categories about as scheduled. Expenditures on salaries and
operating costs were a large proportion of total expenditures; 51 percent, 73 percent, 86 percent
and 48 percent for Gujarat, Haryana, J&K and Karnataka, respectively. Utilisation of IDA Credit
in US dollar terms was well ahead of SAR estimates in the first two years, but thereafter gradually
fell behind to end up at 57 percent of the SAR estimate by the original project completion date of
March 1991. Two project extensions, for a combined period of two years, allowed credit
utilisation to increase to 88 percent in US dollar terms mainly due to savings arising from the
devaluation of the Indian rupee against the US dollar. Civil unrest in J&K also adversely affected
credit utilisation (see para 5.15). A total of SDR$10.77 million of the Credit was cancelled during
project implementation because of exchange rate movements. As October 1, 1993, SDR38.07
million or 76 percent of the total Credit of SDR50.26 million had been disbursed, and the
undisbursed balance of SDR1.42 million was cancelled.
Project Risks in Implementation
5.5    The lack of promotional opportunities for SMSs in their own fields of expertise and
restrictions on recruitment of new SMSs from outside the civil service was one of the major
weaknesses identified in the T&V concept at appraisal and caused adverse effects on SMS
performance in all project States. The reality of the seniority- based promotion system meant that
many SMSs were in fact neither experienced nor had an acceptable level of expertise in their
particular disciplines; SMSs were often promoted from other disciplines or from administration
responsibilities and were not specialists in the position to which they were appointed. The function
of the SMSs was further weakened by the appointment of SMSs at the same level as their
immediate supervisor causing, in many cases, supervisory and motivational problems.
5.6   There were general administrative constraints and policy problems consequent to: (i)
promotions based exclusively on seniority, (ii) frequent transfers of staff, (iii) inappropriate
selection criteria for staff to participate in training, and (iv) lack of delegation of authority, which
were also identified at appraisal and had adverse effects on project implementation. Rapid turnover
of extension staff did not maximise the value of their contribution to local development because of
insufficient time to fully appreciate the local agricultural situation and to develop good relationships
with farmers.
5.7   The risk of limited support from the SAUs to extension services was initially a problem but
by the end of the project the working relationship between the SAUs and the DOAs in all Project
States was acknowledged by both parties as being adequate, but with room for improvement in the
level of commitment to extension. At most SAUs, the allocation of staff and resources is strongly
skewed towards research, followed by education and lastly extension. In some instances, there
was duplication of activities of SAU staff and DOA SMSs. This was a serious issue in Haryana
which was raised repeatedly by Bank Supervision missions but was never resolved.



7
Weaknesses in Project Implementation
5.8    Credit disbursements under the project depended on prior expenditure by participating
States, and, therefore, on adequate provisions being made in their budgets and timely release of
allocated funds. This meant that the utilisation of the IDA Credit was determnined to a large extent
by the overall political and financial priorities, policies and decisions of State governments, rather
than by the State DOAs who were responsible for implementation of the project. This had
considerable adverse effects, in terms of delays and shortfalls, on achievements of physical targets.
5.9    The development of extension services reflected the strong emphasis on achievement of
tasks (process-oriented), rather than the development of a range of strategies to achieve project
objectives (purpose-oriented). By the end of the project the routine of fortnightly and monthly
training with regular visits to contact farmer groups had become ritualistic and non-targeted.
Extension managers in all four States realised this problem and in some States had moved to
reducing the frequency of training and workshops. There was strong evidence that extension
services needed greater technical expertise than that could be provided through their regular training
programmes, and, therefore, needed training of a different type geared to enhance their technical
capabilities.
5.10   Although the project aimed to broaden and deepen extension activities, insufficient
emphasis was given to marginal farmers in dryland areas, longer-term implications of extension
initiatives on sustainability and environmental issues, absorption capacity of different fanning
communities for new technologies, women's role in agricultural production and development,
poverty reduction and economic assessment of overall farm production and new recommended
production packages. This was due in part to a lack of institutional staff development and lack of
specific focus in the project design. These remain priority areas for development of appropriate
extension services.
5.11  In Gujarat and Karnataka, the dual line of administration responsibility of agricultural
extension staff to both the DOA and the district level administration continued during the project
implementation period. The adverse effects of the dual administration system were associated with
the appointment of inappropriately qualified staff, delays in disbursement of funds and the
demands on managers and field extension workers for administration and implementation of non-
agricultural (technical) extension activities. However, the dual responsibility system did also have
some positive impact in bringing agricultural extension services into closer contact with broader
development issues at the district level as well as providing an opportunity for the District
Agricultural Officer (extension manager) to directly interact with government administrators.
5.12   During project implementation, regular M&E and special studies reports were produced at
both national and state level. These reports contained a wealth of information on assessment of
extension performance and uptake of new technologies. However, evidence suggested that senior
management made insufficient use of the M&E information in their decision making processes.
Initially, an inordinate time lag between collection of survey data and the publication of reports
diminished the relevance of some of the findings, but this was overcome to a certain extent by
publishing summary reports as soon as possible after collection of field survey information. For
example, despite M&E reports consistently identifying low level of diffusion of new technologies,
due to the ineffectiveness of the Contact Farmer/Follower Farmer system, no concerted action was
taken by extension managers in any State to rectify the situation. The response by extension
managers to the need to expand services to underprivileged farmers, livestock and horticulture was
minimal. Despite the moratoria on the appointment of new staff, management made no positive
efforts to readjust staffing resources and structures to ensure maximum utilisation of staff for the
delivery of extension services to the farmers.



8
5.13  Training provided by the project strongly emphasised knowledge building but with little
emphasis on personal communication skills and extension processes. The training component of
the project could have been strengthened considerably by application of principles of adult
learning, more use of experiential and on-the-job training, and the use of learning contracts to
specifically help extension staff and SMSs to do their job better. Trainers training (or training in
teaching techniques) for Master Trainers, SMSs and extension staff would have better equipped
these people to carry out their training functions. The training programmes could have been further
strengthened by conducting participatory analysis of training needs with the VEWs to overcome the
often cited problem of the lack of relevance of some of the training.
5.14  The PCR mission's discussions during field visits revealed that despite project support, the
research system was unable to continue to develop relevant technologies for farmers which were
more area specific. It was also unable to continue to identify technologies appropriate to the
improvement of agricultural production in the dryland areas and failed to respond to the increasing
need for commercialisation of the farmer. Until recently, researchers continued to concentrate on
commodity/discipline specific research, generating high input and high cost technology packages
while there was an increasing need for farming systems research which considered the impact and
interaction of adoption of individual practices on both yield and marginal rates of returns, both for
individual crops and the whole farm production system.
5.15  Finally, the civil unrest in Kashmir, which was unforeseen at the time of project appraisal,
had a major negative impact on the implementation of the project, particularly in the northern part
of J&K. The Government of J&K could not settle annual accounts for 1991-92 and 1992-93 and
claim reimbursements for project expenditures.
6. Project Results
6.1   The project improved the extension services and technology development within the State
DOAs and SAUs, through: (i) the institutionalisation of the T&V system (the DOAs are the only
organisations that have contact systems in most villages in India), (ii) improvement of
research/extension linkages forged through the formalisation of steering committees, regular
training programmes, workshops, diagnostic teams, and on-farm trials and demonstrations, (iii)
improvement of the professionalism and competency of the extension personnel (through regular
training and education), (iv) improvement of mobility of extension staff, and (v) improvement of
housing accommodation of the field staff. Each State government now has an extension service
structure in place which, while not fully staffed, is providing extension services to farmers on a
regular and systematic basis.
T&V System
6.2   The project design assumed that the T&V system would work effectively and efficiently in
all its various aspects. In general, the knowledge of VEWs and frequency and regularity of their
visits to Contact Farmers, increased during the life of the project, but anecdotal inforrmation
indicated that the level of contact was falling towards the end of the project, and less than 50% of
Contact Farmers understood their role in the transmission of extension information. The concept of
technology inforrnation sharing between Contact and Follower/Fellow Farmers was assumed to be
an automatic process which would lead to the extension services reaching 500 to 800 farm families
per VEW. Reportedly informal teashop meetings facilitated filtering of considerable information
from Contact Farmers to others. However, M&E reports from all States indicated that this process
was not always effective. The level of contact between the Contact Farmer and the Follower
(Fellow) Farmer was below 35 percent in all States. Attempts were made to change Contact



9
Farmers but not always successfully as farmer interviews by the PCR mission revealed that in
many cases there was no regular rotation of Contact Farmers to allow a more widescale experience
and exposure to extension advice.
6.3   The Bank expected that improved extension services in the 13 States receiving IDA
assistance would eventually reach about 70 percent of farn families. Projections of the number of
farmers reached by the extension service under NAEP II were greatly overestimated because of
biases in sampling procedures. M&E survey sampling overestimated contacts and adoption
because of sampling bias to larger farms and the exclusion of circles without VEWs; in Karnataka
there are presently 1,426 circles without field extension staff (27 percent of the AA and 23 percent
of the AAO positions are vacant). It is estimated, using projections based on current levels of
contact between VEWs and farmers and the level of contact between Contact and Non-Contact
Farmers in recent M&E surveys, that the level of extension coverage between the DOA extension
services and farm families might be as low as 20 percent.
6.4   Many farm families are receiving advice and new technologies from the regular mass media
programmes of the DOAs and SAUs, although this was not supported directly by the project. The
widespread use of extension materials and mass media have become institutionalised extension
practice in all DOAs and the awareness of farmers of the services of the DOA has increased in all
States. Mass media has been used effectively to increase extension coverage with TV and radio
programmes, and articles in local newspapers supporting extension activities. This is a vital as well
as effective means of extension communication which would need to be emphasized in future
development of extension services.
6.5    As the T&V System became institutionalised through the conduct of regular training
courses, meetings and workshops and contact with farmers, the simple application of the T&V
methodology has been modified advantageously in a number of ways in some States, viz.: (i) a
change from monthly to bimonthly training workshops for SMSs with the introduction of more
intensive preseasonal workshops, (ii) a decreasing emphasis on the contact farmer with greater use
of the group approach to extension, (iii) more broadbasing of extension advice to include other
farm production activities (horticulture, animal production, social forestry), and (iv) increasing
flexibility to adjust the level of extension activity to the intensity of agriculture and size/remoteness
of each extension unit.
M&E Units
6.6    M&E Units were strengthened under the project through provision of more staff. These
units produced regular reports for kharif and rabi seasons based on the standard survey
methodology produced by the World Bank. The survey manual was subsequently revised in 1990.
In addition, special studies were undertaken on specific topics. Considerable amounts of data were
collected to assess the degree of implementation of the T&V system and uptake of recommended
practices by Contact and Follower/Fellow farmers, as indicated above. The data generated have
proved valuable to assess the impact of extension activities and to define problems which require
more emphasis in extension and research activities.
6.7   Data was analyzed manually in Haryana and J&K and by computers in Gujarat and
Kamataka in recent times. The M&E units in Karnataka and Gujarat had special software
programmes written for entry, analysis and tabulation of data. This was not shared with other
participating States. The capability of these software programmes is limited to data entry, simple
analysis and tabulation; inter-relationships between various activities and practices were not
generally analyzed. The value of M&E reports could have been substantially improved by the use
of computer systems and software to allow multiple factor analyses to assess the effectiveness of



10
the T&V system, in terms of both functionality and farmer adoption of promoted technologies, and
more importantly, examination of multiple relationships between crop production and many other
measured factors associated with crop production. Additionally, provision of computer capability
with appropriate software programmes would have greatly enhanced the usefulness of the total
analysis of survey data by reducing the time lag between the collection of data, analysis,
interpretation, identification of  significant inter-relationships and  report production.
Notwithstanding the above comments which could be noted for future improvement, introduction
of computerisation in M&E activities was by itself a welcome achievement.
6.8   The lack of funds for computers for all States during early project implementation has
constrained the development of an effective M&E capability. The DOE of the GOI has recently
provided a networked (four terminals) computer system (UNIX-based) to each State M&E unit to
enable the development of a unified system for evaluation of monitoring surveys. Assistance has
been provided by the National Informatics Centre. Thus far no systems are operational, due to
inadequacies in computer training and unavailability of suitable work environments. Software
provided, however, is still inadequate to fully exploit in-depth analysis of the considerable amount
of data collected. A short-term consultancy is required to review and advise on optimum evaluation
of data and the development of suitable software systems for survey data analyses at district, State
and National levels.
Research/Extension Linkages
6.9   The project sought to strengthen research/extension linkages and develop a more demand
driven system of research under the SAUs. Formal mechanisms were established to achieve these
objectives through: (i) monthly workshops organised by the SAUs for SMSs; (ii) joint SAU/DOA
seasonal workshops which reviewed research by the SAUs and on-farm trials of the DOA and
determined future research programmes of the Zonal Research Stations, on-farm trials and
demonstrations and technology recommendations; (iii) joint quarterly meetings which discussed
outcomes of M&E reports; (iv) joint inspection of on-farm trials and demonstrations; and (v) joint
diagnostic teams which made regular field visits. Undoubtedly there is close collaboration and
exchange of research information between the SAUs and extension services and the mechanism for
technology transfer from research to extension is firmly established in all States.
6.10  The critical questions are whether research designs, methodologies and analyses used in on-
farm trials were appropriate and whether research is now sufficiently demand-driven. The
establishment of NARP II has assisted the development of more locally specific research. All
States have undertaken a large number of on-farm trials and demonstrations each cropping season.
However, there is scope for improvement. In many instances on-farm trials were very poorly
designed, monitored and measured and neither clearly demonstrated incremental effects of
application of technologies nor produced data that could be interpreted satisfactorily. On-farrn trials
were also limited to one or two locations rather than a wider scale evaluation of a new technology
in a target zone. In some instances demonstrations simply compared existing farmer practice with
an improved package of technology. In this situation the researcher, VEW and farmer cannot
separate the benefits of individual technological improvements contained in the package, either in
terms of yield or economic returns. This is necessary if farmers are to continue the process of
technical development by adding further refinements of their own.
Project Impact on Agricultural Production
6.11   There has been an increase in the area sown to high yielding varieties of the major crops
(see Part III, Annex 1, Tables 1 to 4) and an increase in the consumption of fertilisers, insecticides
and herbicides in all four States. The trends in crop yields indicate that in Gujarat there appear to be



11
smaller upward trends for cereals, oilseeds and pulses production during the last 8 years, which
was preceded by a period of falling production (Part Ill, Figure 1). In Haryana, there have been
large increases in production of cereals due to increase in yield, and of oilseeds due to both
increases in area and yield, with little change in production of pulses (Part III, Figure 2). In
Karnataka, there has been little change in production of cereals and pulses, but an upward trend in
oilseeds production, associated with a large increase in sown area (Part Ill, Figure 3). In Jammu
and Kashmir, production of cereals has stagnated, with small upward trends in oilseeds production
and recent increase in pulses production, both due to increasing sown area (Part III, Figure 4). In
all States, there have only been small increases in crop intensification and diversification.
6.12   Project impact on farmer incomes and production is difficult to quantify because of the
problem of apportioning increases in crop production and farmer incomes to different factors, such
as better input supply, irrigation, incentive producer prices and extension activities. Many farmers
interviewed had increased their crop production and returns to a greater extent than increases in
input costs and attributed their improved economic circumstance to promotional assistance received
from the local extension agent. On the other hand, it is also apparent that there have been
significant increases in irrigated area in some States and some of the technologies adopted have
been driven by the demand of farmers seeking ways to increase incomes, spread risk and diversify
production. For example, evidence suggests that the increase in total oilseed production has been a
result of price increases for oilseed, although extension was able to provide the necessary technical
advice to support this situation. Overall, however, while no conclusive evidence can be produced
as it is difficult to disaggregate the incremental production benefits of extension from the other
influencing factors, it is apparent that the project impact on improving agricultural production has
been positive and significant.
6.13  However, along with some positive impacts such as production increases, some negative
impacts, such as the over-exploitation of the groundwater, increased soil salinity and reduction in
water quality and loss of access to potable water, can also be attributed to extension promotion
under the project. Extension advice and recommendations therefore must not only consider shorter-
term gains but longer-term implications to agricultural production.
7. Project Sustainability
7.1    The current economic situation in all the Project States and the resultant fiscal constraints
being applied by the GOI on staffing, travel allowances, and funds for recurrent costs, impose
potential risks to the ability of the State governments to maintain a T&V extension service to
farmers. Competition for limited funds from the State governments may force policy makers to
seek cheaper and possibly more cost effective extension systems in preference to the T&V system
which has high overhead costs associated with large numbers of staff needed to reach all farmers
through individual contact system. All State governments have made funding commitments for the
extension services within the 1993-94 budgets and under employment regulations of the civil
service, will be obliged to fund salaries of staff hired during the project. Examination of the State
budget provisions for 1993-94 indicated that while the plan budget had been reduced, there
appeared to be sufficient funds for salaries of existing staff (not the full staff complement),
sufficient operating expenses (although one district in Karnataka had no budget for local travel
expenses), but with no budget provision to complete the civil works programme in J&K. Budget
provisions for the Public Works Department (PWD) for maintenance of civil works constructed
under the project appear to be inadequate.
7.2   There is a need for sectoral policy review and reform including improving the structure of
incentives for farmers. There is strong evidence to suggest that changes in government policy are
more likely to influence the agricultural output than any technology based extension schemes.



12
Extension goals to accommodate the needs of the diverse farming systems need to be clarified at
the State and District levels and the M&E Units need to readjust their focus from the monitoring of
tasks and activities to providing information to management that indicate the degree that these goals
are being achieved. Sustainability of an effective extension service is dependent on extension
managers becoming more responsive to the rural community's needs and identifying innovative
ways to address these needs. Utilisation of NGOs and other service and input supply organisations
can greatly increase the coverage and effectiveness of the extension service.
7.3   The T&V extension methodology has been institutionalised in both the DOAs and SAUs
and there is a general commitment to the methodology with some modification. The limits of
growth in the agriculture sector through high yielding varieties and increased fertiliser usage are
being approached with few new technologies in the pipeline. The gains from the growth in the
agricultural sector have not been spread evenly and there is a continuing neglect of crop
diversification, innovative cropping systems and trade opportunities. The sustainability and
relevance of the extension service is at risk if extension continues to have a narrow focus and the
research system continues to fail to generate new appropriate technologies with further tailoring of
recommendations to specific agroclimatic zones and in particular to dryland agriculture. The
increasing attention by research on area specific farming systems under NARP II should ensure
that the extension system has viable technology to extend to the farmers. Technology development
and promotion must consider the potentiality of production within credit constraints imposed on
farmers by their level of commercialisation of crop production, labour costs and off-farm income.
7.4   There is need to move away from the concentration of the extension and research effort on
wheat, cotton, rice and sugar crops to more broad-based issues such as farm management, land
management, social forestry within the context of optimising productivity and net returns of the
whole farm system. The broad-basing of extension to include all agricultural activities, including
livestock and fodder production, horticulture and agroforestry, will ensure the commitment of the
government to whole farm extension approach, but this will require better quality extensionists, a
more direct linkage between line agencies and extension, and more intensive technical backup for
extension staff, which were not addressed under the project.
7.5   The staffing of the extension systems remains one of its major weaknesses and the current
experienced but aging extension workers are not being replaced nor do those existing extension
workers have a defined possible career path. There is a perception that the present hierarchial
structure is too top-heavy and there needs to be a redeployment of some higher level staff positions
to more 'grass-roots' activities. The appointment of SMSs for farm machinery and input supplies
needs to be reviewed while deployment of SMSs for horticulture needs to be more dependent on
information needs assessments in local extension areas.
7.6   Lack of timely supplies of production inputs and credit were often cited as constraints to
increasing crop production. There were suggestions that the government should be responsible for
organising convenient access of input supplies for farmers at local level. This should be
discouraged as it would restrict the available time of extension staff for providing extension
services. Instead, there is a need for government policy changes to encourage private sector
participation in input supply and reform in the credit system to allow more equitable access to
credit. Increased competition in input supply would then bring better services and price competition
to rural areas.
7.7   The sustainability of the extension effort in improving production and incomes can be put
at risk by extension activities which promote long-term over-exploitation of natural resources. The
promotion of irrigation development has resulted in dropping water tables and increasing



13
salinisation of water in some areas of Gujarat, Karnataka and Haryana, which are putting at risk
some of the production and income gains made from the private investment in tube-wells.
8. Bank Performance
8.1   The officials of the participating State governments were appreciative of the assistance and
guidance provided by the Bank during project implementation. Two project extensions were agreed
by the Bank to enable the Borrower to fully utilise the Credit because of difficulty of
disbursements, particularly for civil works. In all States, extension managers indicated that
supervision missions provided constructive assistance in resolving implementation problems.
8.2   The Bank used about 85 staffweeks for project preparation/ appraisal, and about 138
staffweeks for project supervision which provided 2-3 specialists for about 5 days every six
months (Part III, Section 8). Ten consolidated supervision reports were prepared. Joint Bank
supervision missions for NAEP II and NARP II also helped obtain better coordination and
interaction between research and extension.
8.3   The main issues handicapping project implementation, such as counterpart funding, lack of
annual work plans and very slow appointment of SMSs, were consistently noted by supervisory
missions from the commencement of the project. These issues were discussed at both state and
national levels with some incremental improvement during the life of the project. However, the
routine nature of project supervision reports (issues such as budgetary difficulties, staff vacancies,
performance of SMSs, and the quality and quantity of some of the training activities were
consistent themes) was raised in an informal communique in 1988 suggesting that while extension
had changed considerably, supervision continued to emphasise these matters to the detriment of
more rigorous examination of second generation problems such as extension policy, level of
management and quality issues. Some innovative ideas to improve the accountability and
commitment of research organisations, by instituting formal mechanisms to enable extension to
positively influence research, were suggested, but not pursued.
8.4   The main lessons of experience that may be relevant to other Bank-financed technology
generation and dissemination projects have been summarized in the Evaluation Summary. The
most important among them is that future efforts should be directed towards: (i) improving the
quality of extension operations, and (ii) broadening and deepening the coverage of the extension
system through promotion of farming system approach and improving the coverage of production
activities of rural women and other underprivileged farming population.
9. Borrower Performance
9.1   The performance of GOI and the participating State governments was generally
satisfactory. It was apparent, however, that political and financial decisions of the State
governments, that often resulted in inadequate and/or delayed release of counterpart funds,
adversely affected project implementation (slowing civil works, staff recruitment and some training
programmes). Within these constraints and limitations in project design, the State DOAs
endeavoured to make the project a success. The result was a slow disbursement of funds and while
the States expended the total project budget in Indian rupee terms, they failed to fully utilise the
financial allocations in US dollar and SDR terms leading to cancellation of part of the Credit and
two project extensions. Thus it is important for the borrower to carefully assess the budgetary
implications before committing themselves to implement any investment project and later ensure
adequate and timely budgetary support to avoid implementation delays and secure sustainability.



14
9.2    A comprehensive set of covenants were provided in the Credit agreement. There was
compliance with most of these covenants. The outstanding non-compliances were the inability of
the States to: (i) fill incremental staff positions, (ii) assign project staff exclusively to agricultural
extension activities, (iii) provide sufficient loans for staff to purchase motorcycles/bicycles, and
(iv) for J&K to provide properly audited accounts for 1992 and 1993. Consideration should have
been given to the inclusion of a covenant requiring all States to maintain existing staff positions, as
the project was planned on the basis that these staff would be available to implement the T&V
system.
10.  Project Relationships
10.1  The relationship between the Borrower and the Bank was good throughout the project and
the continual liaison between the two parties at the biennial review meetings meant that any issues
were able to be resolved through consultation. The strong involvement of resident Bank staff
allowed for continuity in supervisory missions and local availability for liaison outside these times.
10.2  The relationships between the DOAs and the SAUs was generally good although all States
indicated that the SAUs took some time to see their role in the extension process and to make a firm
commitment to supporting NAEP II. The association of the NARP with the SAU and development
of Agro-ecological Zone Research Stations was seen as a positive assistance to the development of
new technologies for extension promotion and strengthening of the research/extension linkages.
11.  Consulting Services
11.1  The project benefitted from a number of additional external technical inputs. The M&E unit
of the DOE used a system of internal consultancies involving the exchanges of senior staff between
project States using special funds provided by NAEP I and NAEP III. The Bank staff made
technical inputs into the project and the review missions also contributed technically to the project.
The DOE also retained the services of the National Informatics Centre to assist them with the
development of a computerised system for storage, analysis and presentation of M&E survey data.
There were no external consultants used to assist project implementation and development.
12. Project Documentation
12.1   During project implementation, the SAR provided a useful framework for the Bank and
Borrower for monitoring of physical achievements and budget expenditure against SAR target
estimates. However, the SAR failed to clearly define the goals of the project, did not provide
methodologies and schedules for achieving some of the stated objectives, such as broadening and
deepening of the extension coverage, and did not provide sufficient guidance to M&E Units in
procedures for assessment of impact of extension on improvements in agricultural production and
the implications of these findings to project implementation and management.
12.2  As requested, information was provided by each State for the preparation of the PCR by
the FAO/CP mission. Adequate data were provided to assess the main components of the project,
particularly physical and financial inputs and crop production information. These documents could
have been even more informative if some of the findings of the seasonal and special M&E reports
relating to project impact, had been included.



15
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(not received)



16
PART III
1. Related  Bank Loans and/or Credits'/
Loan/Credit Titic                          Purpose                     Year of      Status          Conients
Apprv
Composite Agricultural   Rcorganization and strengthening State         1979      Closed 1984     PCR issuedl985
Extension Project       extension services in Gujarat, Haryana and                               PPAR issued 1986
(Cr.862-I.N)            Karnataka (lst phase), and improvement of
GOI/DOE capacity to assist State extension
efforts.
National Agricultural   The rlrst of a second phase of extension projects    1984  Closed 1993      PCR under
Extension Project I     to provide follow-up support to already                                     preparation
(Cr.1523-IN)            participating states (Orissa, M. Pradesh and
Rajasthan), and to further strengthen the
GOT/DOE capacity.
National Agricultural   Follow-up to NAEP 11, to provide further        1987       Ongoing    Implementation is two
Extension Project Ill   support to Assam under Cr.728-IN, introduce                             years behind original
(Cr.1754-IN)            T&V system to Himachal and Uttar Pradesh,                              schedule, and expected
and to replenish the Special Sub-Project Fund                            to close in 1996.
established in GOI/DOE under Cr.1523-IN.
t In addition to the national projects listed here, the following state level IDA-assisted projects are related to introduction of the
T & V system in India: Rajasthan CAD Project (Cr502-IN); Chambal CAD Project (Cr562-IN); Orissa Agricultural Development
(Cr.682-IN); West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project (Cr.690-IN); Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and
Research Project (Cr.712-IN); Assam Agricultural Development Project (Cr.728-IN); Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research
Project (Cr.737-lN); Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project (Cr.761-IN); Kerala Agricultural Extension Project (Cr.
1028-IN); Maharashtra Agricultural Extension Project (Cr.1135-IN); Tamil Nadu Agricultural Extension Project (Cr.1137-IN);
Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension Project (Cr.1138-I.N); Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Extension Project (Cr.1219-IN).
2. Project Timetable
Item                               Date Planned                  Date Revised                 Date Actual
Identification                          NA.                          NA.                     Feb. 7, 1984 1/
Preparation                             NA.                          NA.                      1983 to 1984
Appraisal Mission                    May 1984                                                May/June 1984
Credit Negotiations                  Oct. 1984                     Feb. 1985                 Feb. 22, 1985
Board Approval                       Jan. 1985                       NA.                     March 26, 1985
Credit Signature                        NA.                          NA.                      May 10, 1985
Credit Effectiveness                 June 1985                       NA.                      Dec. 13, 1985
Project Closing                   March 31, 1991               March 31, 1992/              March 31, 1993
March 31, 1993
Credit Completion                   July 31, 1993                July 31, 1993              October 1, 1993
1/ Date of the first projcct bricf.



17
Comments
Major issues raised at each stage of the project cycle as recorded in the Project Brief,
Issues Paper, the Decision Memorandum and the Agreed Minutes of Negotiations were
as follows:
Identification/Preparation: Preliniinary cost estimates were US$60 million, including
contingencies, for Haryana, Gujarat and Karnataka, which was subsequently revised to
US$70 million. It was proposed that 60% of all eligible costs be financed by IDA and
accordingly US$42 million was estimated for the Credit requirement.
Appraisal: Subsequently, Jammnu and Kashmnir (which had been dropped from NAEP I)
and Himachal Pradesh were included as first phase sub-projects in NAEP II and it was
proposed that the IDA Credit be increased to US$61 million.
Negotiations: On account of a delay in obtaining cabinet approval for the inclusion of
Himachal Pradesh in NAEP II, it was dropped and the Credit was reduced to US$49
million (SDR 50.26 million).
3. Credit Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(SDRs Million)
IDA Fiscal Year        1986   1987   1988   1989  1990  1991   1992   1993   1994
(I July-30 June)
Appraisal Estimate      5.03  11.06  21.61  30.66  40.71  50.26     0      0      0
Actual Disbursed        5.33  10.77  14.78   17.2  22.02  29.66  33.32  33.33  38.07
Actual as % of
Appraisal Estimate      106    97      68    56    54    59    66         66     76
Final Disbursement
was on October 1, 1993
Comments: SDRs 10.77 million was cancelled on December 5, 1991.
The undisbursed balance of SDRs1.42 million was cancelled on
October 1, 1993. The revised credit amount was SDRs38.07 million.



4. Project Implementation
Units ........... Gufat ...................... H            ia ........... ....    Jnun  & Kashn* ...        ......... Kam       .
SAR                 Achl as       SAR                  Acdu as       SAR                 Acal as      SAR               Acudl as
Estimate    Actual      o d SAR    Estmate     Acul         of SAR    EsSbiat    Achul    % of SAR   Estimate   Acua   % of SAR
CMi Works
Offices                                No.        11         13         118           9           I         11          24          6         25         41       48       117
Training Hafs                          No.        40         35          88           0           0          0           0          0                     8        8       100
Hostels                                No.         9          4          44           2           6        300           0          0         57         8         8       100
Classrooms                             No.         6          1          17           2           6        300           0          0                    0         0
Houses                                 No.      1289        206          16         446          40          9         339        193                  600       368        61
Vehikes
Cars                                  No.         39         36          92           4           6        150           5          4         80         10       14       140
Jeeps                                  No.       172        168          98          55          53         96          72         72        100       203       160        79
Vans                                   No.         0          0                      17           5         29           2          2        100         30        9        30
Minibus                                No.         0          0                       3           3        100           2          4        200          0        0       250
Motorbicydes/l3icycles                 No.      1750                                500          84          17       1125        204         18        300      750
Training
Induction                            Indiv.      750       1050         140         500          24          5         553        357         65        750      277        37
Orientation Courses                    No.       340        340         100          45          39         87          78        316        405        165      171       104
FortnightlyTraining Courses            No.    22750       18284          80        4550        6164        135        3640       8051        221      22750    32725       144
MonthtyWorkshops                       No.      1140        500          44         180         178         99         120        545        454       1140     1590       139
Refresher                            Indiv.     5950       2494          42        1690        1077         64        1243        692         56       6065     5044        83
Special Courses                        No.       140        438         313         155          52          34        275        519        189        200      110        55
Promotional Study                      No.        96          0           0          96           1           1         45         25                    96       94
B.Sc (VEWs)                          No.         80          0           0          16          10         63         50          49         56        s0       40         98
M.Sc (AEOs)                          No.         32         42         131          16           6         38         30           7         98        32       28         50
M.SciPh.D                          Indiv.      1190       1190         100         375          11          3        481          57         23      1190      1098        88
Study tours                            No.         5         31         620           0           0                      5         16         12         25       10        92
Management Workshops                   No.        10         16         160           0           0                     10          8        320         10        9        40
Special M&E Courses                    No.        10         16         160           0           0                     10         12         80         10       12        90
Information Courses                    No.        10         13         130           0           0                      5         17        120         10        9       120
Senior Executive Courses                                                                                                                     340                            90
heaainntal Staff
Project Coordinator                    No.         2       n.a.'/                     u        n.a.1/                    1       n.a."/                   0     n.a.I/
Deputy Directors Agricuhure            No.         4       n.a.                      30        n.a.                      8       n.a.                     0     n.a.
Subject Matter Specialists             No.        64       n.a.                      33        n.a.                    100       n.a.                    20     n.a.
S.'Division Agricultural Officers      No.         2       n.a.                       0        n.a.                              n.a.                    42     n.a.
Agricultural Officers                  No.        11       n.a.                      79        n.a.                              n.a.                    17     n.a.
AgricuturalExtensionOfficers           No.       300       n.a.                       0        n.a.                     57       n.a.                    17     n.a.
Vdlage Extension Workers               No.       600       n.a.                      41        n.a.                    700       n.a.                    61     n.a.
M&E Staff                              No.        35       n.a.                      54        n.a.                     27       n.a.
Training Staff (SAU)                   No.        60       n.a.                      68        n.a.                     10       n.a.
Information                            No.        46       n.a.                      50        n.a.                   245        n.a.
Technical Assistants                   No.         a       n.a.                       0        n.a.
Support Staff                          No.         0       n.a.
Other Staff                            No.         0       n.a.
Data for actual incremental staff recruitment was not provided, only total staff at initiation and completion of project.



19
5. Project Cost and Financing
A. Project Cost
SAR Estimte                             Actual
(Rs miUlioa)    (US$ million)      (Rs million)     (US$ million)
GUJARAT
Civil Works                                              105.16             8.76              79.69             4.58
Equipment & Vehicles                                      16.11             1.34              51.06             2.96
Training                                                   6.06             0.51               5.63             0.23
Incrementai Staff                                        123.73            10.31              76.70             3.91
Operating Costs                                           54.97             4.58              65.79             4.03
Physical Contingencies                                   13.64            1.14
Price Contingencies                                      65.65            5.47
Sub-total                                                385.32            32.11             278.87            15.70
HARAYANA
Civil Works                                               44.11             3.68              29.61             1.71
Equipment & Vehicles                                      16.20             1.35               9.98             0.59
Training                                                   3.20             0.27               1.57             0.08
tncremental Staff                                         15.20             1.27              29.63             1.66
Operating Costs                                           18.70             1.56              79.75             4.79
Physical Contingencies                                    4.81            0.40
Price Contingencies                                      19.36            1.61
Sub-total                                                126.92            10.58             15053              8.84
JAMMU & KASHMGR
Civil Works                                               42.09             351              45.05              2.66
Equipment & Vehicles                                      17.51             1.46             20.39              1.46
Training                                                   2.42             0.20               3.15             0.20
Incremental Staff                                        10254              8.55            379.88             21.11
Operating Costs                                           17.43             1.45              30.84             1.94
Physical Contingencies                                    4.79            0.40
Price Contingencies                                      46.37            3.86
Subtowal                                                 239.73            19.98             479.31            27.38
KARNATAKA
Civil Works                                               8950              7.46              87.61             4.91
Equipment & Vehicles                                      31.80             2.65              37.42             2.18
Training                                                   6.29             052                653              0.37
Incremcntal Staff                                         22.72             1.89              49.64             2.90
Operating Costs                                           52.18             4.35              68.12             4.15
Univ. Agric. Sciences                                                                         38.14             2.41
Physical Contingencies                                   10.93            0.91
Price Contingencies                                      3756             3.13
Sub-total                                                250.97            20.91             287.47            16.93
Total                                                    1002.94           8358             1196.18            68.85
Actual total cxpenditures for the Karnataka University of Agricultural Sciences (SAU) was provided separately and could not be
allocatcd to cupentidure categories.



20
Comments
SAR estimates for Gujarat, Haryana and Karnataka are based on summary project costs
in SAR (Table 4.2), which do not agree with detailed SAR cost tables in Annexes 5,6
and 7.
By agreement, actual incremental staff salary shown for Karnataka is calculated as 6%
of total staff salary expenditure.
B. Project Financing
SAR Estimate                  Actual                     Actual
Local    IDA      Total   Local   IDA        Total   Local  IDA    Total I/
(US$ million)              (Rs million)              (US$ million)
Gujarat        13.5    18.6      20.9    51.0    227.9    278.9   n.a.2/   n.a.      15.7
Haryana         4.3     6.3      10.6    35.0    115.5    150.5   n.a.    n.a.        8.8
Jammu and       8.2     11.8     32.1    295.2   184.1    479.3   n.a.    n.a.       27.4
Kashmir
Karnataka      8.6      12.3     20.9    40.7    246.8    287.5   n.a.    n.a.       16.9
Total          34.6    49.0      83.6    421.9   774.3    1196.2   25.8   43.1       68.9
Percentage     41.4    58.6    100.0    35.3       64.7    100.0   37.4   62.6    100.0
-/ Based on annual exchange rate conversions of Rupee disbursements during 1985-93.
-/ Separate data for actual expenditures from local and IDA sources in US dollars were not available.
6. Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
No direct benefits were quantified in the SAR, as is the practice for
agricultural extension projects. Indications of changes in areas, yields and production of
main crops for Gujarat, Haryana, Jammu and Kashmir and Karnataka during 1978-92
are given in Tables 1, 2, 3 and 4, respectively. Trends (four year moving averages) of
changes in areas, yields and production of total cereals, oilseeds and pulses in Gujarat,
Haryana, Jammu and Kashmir and Karnataka during 1978-92 are given in Figures 1, 2,
3, and 4, respectively.



21
B. Economic Impact
(Not Applicable)
C. Financial Impact
(Not Applicable)
D. Studies
No special studies were undertaken from NAEP II funds.
7. Status of Covenants
DCA Sectioe                     Cvcwnat                  Dcadlinc for Compianc                   Status
GOI 3.04           GOI(DOE) shall: (a) monitor and                                             Fully complied.
coordinate extension activities; (b)
provide technical assistance; (c)
fumish the Association with semi-
annual progress reports each June
and December.
GUJ 3.01 (a), PA    (a) Project statcs to maintain                                             Fully complied.
records & accounts; (b) Project
states to furnish the Association with
accounts and statements cerTificd by
an auditor not later than 9 months
after the end of each financial year.
GUJ 3.02, PA       Project states to havc their accounts                                       Fully complied.
and statements audited and fumish
the Association with the report of
such audit.
GUJ SCH.2, PA      Project state shall: (a) carry out                                          Fully complied.
effcctive monitoring and evaluation
and fumish annual summanes to the
Association.
(b) Ensure all staff assigned to the                                     Partially complied.
project shall be used cxclusively for
agricultural extension.
(c) Provide loans on suitabic terms                                        Fully complied.
to staff for motor-cycle/bicycle
purchase and provide adcquate
travel allowances.
(d) Fill incremental staff positions                               Partially complied - not affecting
with properly qualificd and                                                implemcntation
experienced staff.
(c) Prepare and furnish to the                                             Fully complicd.
A..soiation a mid-lerm review of
priject execution by Siept. 30, 19)86.



22
DCA Section                      Covenant                  Dcadline for Comipliancc                   Status
GUJ SCH.2, PA       (f) Submit annual project budgets to                                          Fully complied.
(cont.d)            the Association each July.
(g) Ensure that a single line of                                     Partially complied - not affecting
command is established within DOA                                            implementation.
from District level to VEW.
HRY 3.01, PA        (a) Project states to maintain                                                Fully complied.
records & accounts; (b) Project
states to fumish the Association with
accounts and statements certified by
an auditor not later than 9 months
after the end of each financial year.
HRY 3.02, PA        Project states to have their accounts                                         Fully complied.
and statements audited and furnish
the Association with the report of
such audit.
HRY SCH.2, PA       Project state shall: (a) carry out                                            Fully complied.
effective monitoring and evaluation
and furnish annual summaries to the
Association.
(b) ensure all staff assigned to the                                          Fully complied.
project shall be used exclusively for
agricultural extension.
(c) provide loans on suitable terms                                  Partially complied - not affecting
to staff for motor-cycle/bicycle                                             implementation.
purchase and provide adequate
travel allowances.
(d) fill incremental staff positions                                         Fully complied.
with properly qualified and
experienced staff.
(e) prepare and fumish to the                                                 Fully complied.
Association a mid-term review of
project execution by Sept. 30, 1987.
(f) submit annual project budgcts to                                          Fully complied.
the Association each July.
J&K 3.01, PA        (a) Project states to maintain                                                Fully complied.
records & accounts.
(b) Project state to fumish the                                              Non compliance.
Association with accounts &
statements certified by an auditor
not later than 9 months after the
end of each financial year.
J&K 3.02, PA        Project slate to have its accounts                                           Non compliancc.
and statements audited and fumish
the Association with the report of
such audit.
J&K SCH.2, PA       Project state shall: (a) carty out                                            Fully complied.
effective monitoring and evaluation
and furnish annual summaries to the
Association.
(b) ensure all staff assigned to the                                          Fully complied.
project shall be used cxclusivcly for
agricultural extension.
(c) provide loans on suitable terms                                           Fully complied.
to staff for motor-cycle/hicyclc
purchase and provide adequate
travcl allowanecs.
(d) fill incremcntal staff positions                                          Fully complied.
with properly qualified and
cxl rncnccd staff.



23
DCA Sectiou                     Covcnant                Deadliie for Compliance                  Status
J&K SCH.2, PA      (e) prepare and furnish to the                                            Fully complied.
(cont.d)           Association a mid-term review of
project cxecution by Sept. 30, 1987.
(f) submit annual project budgets to                                      Fully complied.
the Association each July.
(g) By August 31, 1985, establish a                                       Fully complied.
co-ordination committee.
KAR 3.01(a), PA    (a) Project states to maintain                                            Fully complied.
records & accounts; (b) Project
states to furnish the Association with
accounts and statements certified by
an auditor not later than 9 months
after the end of each financial year.
KAR 3.01, PA       Project states to have their accounts'                                    Fully complied.
and statements audited and furnish
the Association with the report of
such audit.
KAR SCH.2, PA      Project state shall: (a) Carry out                                        Fully complied.
effective monitoring and evaluation
and furnish annual summaries to the
Association.
(b) Ensure all staff assigned to the                                    Partiaily complied.
Project shall be used exclusively for
agricultural extension.
(c) provide loans on suitable terms                                      Fully complied.
to staff for motor-cycle/bicycle
purchase and provide adequate
travel allowances.
(d) fill incremental staff positions                              Partially complied - not affecting
with properly qualified and                                              implementation.
experienced staff.
(e) prepare and furnish to the                                           Fully complied.
Association a mid-term review of
project execution by Sept.30, 1987.
(f) submit annual project budgets to                                      Fully complied.
the Association each July.
8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
FY84 FY85 FY86 FY87 FY88 FY89 FY90 FY91  FY92  FY93  Total
Stage of Project Cycle
Identification/
Preparation               11.6                                                                                     11.6
Appraisal                   13.4    59.6                                                                              73
Negotiations                          3.5                                                                            3.5
Supervision                          12.2    32.9    18.3    21.4    13.3    11.2    11.7          5.2    11.7   137.9
Total                       25    75.3    32.9    18.3    21.4    13.3    11.2    11.7            5.2    11.7      226



24
B. Missions
Stagc of Project  Month/Year   No. of    Days in   Spccialrzation Rcprcsented11         Pcrfornance         Typc of
Cycke                            Persons     Ficid                                    Rating Status 2     Probktns 3/
ldcntification                      -          -
Prcparation         Feb. 84         2          2                 AG, AG
Appraisal 1         June 84         3          30              AG, EC, FA                     -
Appraisal 2
Supervision I     (Mar. 86)/        -          -                                             2                  F
- J&K               Oct. 85         3          4               EX, AG, AG                     -                 -
- Gujarat           Dec. 85         2          5               AG, EX, AG
- Haryana           Jan. 86         3          5               EX, AG, EX
- Karnataka         Feb. 86         3          5               AG, EX. AG                    -
Supervision 2      (Jun. 87)/       -          -                                             2                F, Nt
- J&K               May 86          2          6                 AG, EX                      -
- llaryana          July 86         2          5                 EX, EX
- J&K               Nov. 86         1          6                    EX                       -                  -
- Gujarat           May. 86         2          S                 EX, EX
- Gujarat           Nov. 86         2          6                 EX, EX
- Karnataka         June 86         2          5                 EX, EX
- Karnataka         Dec. 86         2          5                 AG, EX
- Haryana           Jan. 87         2          5                 EX, EX
Supervision 3     (May 88)4/        -          -                                             2                F, M
- Karnataka         May 87          2          4                 AG, EX
- J&K               July 87         1          7                    EX
- llaryana          July 87         2          5                 EX, EX
- Gujarat           Aug. 87         2          5                  EX, EX
- J&K               Nov. 87         2          5                 AG, EX
- Kamataka          Jan. 88         1          6                    EX
- Haryana           Jan. 88         3          5               AG, EX, FA
- Gujarat           Mar. 88         3          8               AG, EX, EC
Supervision 4      Jan. 894/        -          -                                             2                F, N1
J I&K               May 88         3           6               AG, AG, EX                    -
- Karnataka         July 88         2          6                 AG, EX
-  laryana          July 88         2          5                 EX, RS
- Gujarat           Nov. 88         1          5                   AG
- J&K               July 88         2          3                 AG, EX                      -
- J&K               Dec. 88         1          4                   AG
Supervision 5     (Aug. 89)4/       -          -                                             2                F, M
-  laryana          Jan. 89         3          5               AG, RS, RS                    -
- Karnataka         Fcb. 89         2          5                 AG, RS
- J&K               Apr. 89         2          5                 EX, AG
- Gujarat           May 89          3          5               EX, RS, AG                    -
Supervision 6     (Jun. 90))/       -          -                                             2                F, M
- llaryana          Sep. 89         2          4                 AG, RS                      -
- Karnataka         Oct. 89         2          S                  EX, RS
- Gujarat           Dec. 89         2          5                  RS, EX                     -
Supervision 7     (Feb. 91)/        -          -                                             2                F, M
- Karnataka         Mar. 90         2          5                 AG, RS,                     -
- Karnataka         Nov. 90         2           5                 FC, RS
- liaryana          May 90          3          5               FO, EX, AG
- liaryana          Dec. 90         2          5                  EX, RS
- Gujarat           May 90          3          5               AG, EX, EX
- Gujarat           Jan. 91         3          4               AG, AG, RS



2 5
Stage of Prjcct  Month/Ycar   No. of    Days in   Spccialization Rcprcscnted1d       Pcrforiatnce        Type of
Cyc                            Pcrsons      Ficld                                  Rating Status2/    Problcmts31
Supervision 8    (Nov. 91)4/       -          -                                           1          I1M
- Gujarat          July 91        2           4                AG, EX
- Haryana          Aug. 91         2          5                AG, RS
- J&K              Sept. 91        1          6                  EX
- Kamnataka        Oct. 91        2           4                AG, RS
Supervision 9    (June 92p/        -          -                                           I               F, M
- Haryana          Mar. 92        2           5                EX, RS
- Gujarat          Apr. 92        2           4                AG, RS
Supervision 10    (Jan. 93p/       -          -                   -                       I
- Karnataka        July 92        2           5                AG, RS
- Gujarat          Aug. 92         1          3                  AG
- Haryana          Nov. 92        2           4                AG, EX
Completion            93           -          -
1/ Specialization: AG = Agriculturist; EC = Economist; EX = Extension Specialist; FA = Financial Analyst; RS = Research
Specialist; SO = Sociologist; FO = Forestry Specialist.
2/ Performance Rating Status: I = No significant problems; 2 = Moderate problems, significant but not critical deviations from
project goals; 3 = Major problems, serious enough to require special attention and usually intensive supervision; 4 = As in 3.,
but the problems are not being addressed adequately.
3/ Type of Problems: F = Financial; M = Management; P = Political; T = Technical.
4/ Month/Year of Form 590 issued. The project supervision was undertaken by NDO throughout the implementation period. Since
the project covered a wide-geographical location (four States), separate supervision mission, each comprising of 2 to 3 specialists,
were sent for about a week for each State at about 6 month intervals. Each team produced a Field Report on completion of the
visits. Formal supervision reports with Form 590 were produced by the Agricultural Division of NDO, based on these Field
Reports, annually, with a few exceptions.
C. Costs
Data are not available on cost of staff inputs broken down by each stage of
the project cycle.



26
Figure 1. Four-year moving averages of total cereals,
oilseeds and pulses production in Gujarat
T otal cereal production in Gujarat (4-year means)
: 
-4  WJ42  U-44 83-45"  2I-44  1-8   8 " 85 I "8"8-  87-_1 U-02
-.-Yield (kg/ha)   _Area (000 ha)   . Production (000 t)
otal oilseeds production in Guiarat (4-year means
-,Yield (kg/ha)   _Area (000 ha)   . Production (000 t)
otal pulses production in Gujarat (4-year means)
40 -
-,Yield (kg/a)  .-Area (000 ha)      Production (000 1)



27
Figure 2. Four-year moving averages of totai cereals
oilseeds and pulses production in Haryana
-..  Yi ld    (k ha)   . . A re* 0 O 0j ~ ...~P oductioA   {000   t)
T                                     a
:t d
.    Yiehj   (kz,'& a) _-Area (000 h a) .    PrsdJu ctio.    ( 000t)



28
Figure 3. Four-year moving averages of major cereals,
oilseeds and pulses production in Jammu
and Kashmir
Maior cereals producton in J&K (4-year means)
-          .--   it  .  .'-U  .3- II-.  4-  .2-   .  -
Yield (kg/ha)  _Arta (000 ha)  _ Production (000 t)
Major oilseeds producton in J&K (4-year means)
LM
_Yield (kg/ha)  _Area (00 ha)   ,Production (00 t)
Total pulses production in J&K (4-year ma ns)
fl     fl-U    n-U    *,-U   42-U   *4U0   44-5   *4.
_Yield (kg/ha)  _Area (00 ha)  ,. Production (00 t)



29
Figure 4. Four-year moving averages of total cereals
oilseeds and pulses production in Karnataka
T  tal cereals ,>oduction in Karnataka (4-years nmea)
. =1
.n-p2 %9-u     1-63 Ia- l  L-U  ai1l   S  16.91 p i-u I.-
- YieId (kg/ha)   _Area (000 ha)  -.Production (000 t)
.lotal oilseeds production in Karnataka (4-y-ear me rs
71-Si  719-l     SO-    Si-IS  82-14   Si-Si   ItU    st-59   it:-go   2-SI   84-9    SI-li
. YicId (kg/ha)   _Area (000 ha)  .  Production (OOO t)
,;  tal pulses production in Karnataka (4-year meani
29- A Ield  59a'-4 S   8a 1-a5 7 (-SI   4 U  . it: PUO SI-cti  (000i St-)
,Yield (kg/hi)    _Area (000 ha)  ~Production (000 t)



30
ANNEX 1
CROP PRODUCTION STATISTICS



Table i. Crop areas, yields and production of main crops hI Gularat during 1978-92
78-79     79- G o     0-D      Bt1-s2    82-83    93-84       84-s85     5-86    86-87      87-88      8s-8s    89-90    90-9t    91- 92
Crcp Area                                                                        (xxmrds hetre3)
RIcO                     529        550       575       610       591        628       627       563        558       49s       538        801       531       598
SOr9ln                  1063       1097      1092      1106       1130      1O06      1063       1134      1127       768        781       873       653       509
Maire                    299        310       313       320        328       330       328        309       339       342        337       323       369       344
Petrimikt               1454       1432      1502       1513      1490      155t      1509       1506      1493      1213       1489      1332      1158       1150
GO'I.6"                 2086      2106       2179      2178      2106       21ee      2091       1s6e      1827      1362       1623      2072      1702       1942
Pig.a,pea                197        230       287       305        340       378       403        360       366       402        337       382       402        397
Other pUise              406        406       437        455       432       437       451        423       401       252        327       399       360        359
Whmt                     552        643       617       676        636       812       672        507       378       327        649       819       717        409
Grwn                      86         6         70       102        143       114        121       86         57        47        108       110       170         69
BeWy                      14         13        12         14        13        12         10        II         9        10
StLaeIane                 83         62        96        117       119       114        122       123       119        120        94       loe       118        120
cetrn                   1622       1717      1566      1514       1512      1285      1334       1451      1322       762       1091      1187       921       1135
Totl00Neejt             2457      2534       2651      2709      2681       2811      2794       2492      2376      1857       2411      2795      2702       2851
ToblCereals             4166      4263       4324      4445       4379      4586      4416       4213      4049      3301       3932      3842      3es9       3074
Totl PuLses              669        713       794       661        918       929       975        870       827       701        772       891       932        823
Cxzp rbe                                                                         f0logratms/hecre)
Rice                    115a        938      1185       1507      1040      1460       1498       939       960        799      1624      1360      1490       1155
Sorn                     se576      581       629       697        481       584       560        370       274       250        544       475       444        391
M12ze                    832        451      1278      1272       1018      1455      1210        353      1404       330       1352      1486      1436       1020
Pseiminoet               99         954       817        994       811      1118       1104       473       778        458       999       995       889        713
GrCak-kA                 774        8O8       741       999        610       834       763        253       727        122      1577       818       619        360
Pgeonpesa                514        577       61o       823        737       682        754       733       396       315        744       834       877        604
Other pLAses             494        500       534       469        458       O04       625        181       229       208        530       457       442        319
Wheet                   1908       1810      2069       2010      2255      2192       2075      1750      1911       1660      2331      1779      2014       2215
Gret                     s975       480       763       914        802       977       867        571       569       504        809       80e       881        591
Belra                   1323       1580      1236       1104       904      1161       1096       955      1067       758
Stgaicanr  our)         9041       7626      8047      7040       7292      7851      6014      5s09       7552      7348       8442      8638      8983       8519
c1t,(nk4                 200        178       169       229        183       194       275        249       149        93        229       251       244        177
TobtlOisenh              799        885       756       1028      e69        693        851       387       736       323       1466       883       774        571
TobiCereals             1003        933      1028       1128       970      1241       1170       665       80e       565       1230      1094      1143        976
Total Putaes             541        521       655       647        61e      863         706       442       327       289        634       637       673        479
Cfip PradLtcion                                                                  (#ords tormes)
Rice                     613        5le       e81        919       815       917        939       547       534       396        870       817       791        691
Soi^juy                  624        837       687       771        544       624       6e         420       309        192       425       415       379        199
Malze                    249        140       399       407        333       480       397        109       476        113       456       480       530        351
Pearlmmlet              1448       1366      1227       1504      1208      1740       1668       712      1162        55e      1466      1325      1029        820
GrLxt%A                 1615       1855      1615      2178       1285      1808       1595       473      1328        166      2559      1695      1054        699
Plegwipeu                101        137       232       251        251       250        304       264       148        127       251       319       353        240
OIhe piises              201        203       233       213        198       264       282         77        92        52        173       182        159       115
Whit                    1052       1164      1277       1359      1439      1780       1394       887       722        543      1513      1101      1444        9oe
Grent                     64         32        53        93        115       III        105        50        32        24         66        87       11 4l1
Bwke 19                             21        15         15        12        14         11        11        10          8
Sqaivree bur)            750        625       789       824       8we        895        734       715       899      862         794       91s      1060       1022
Colorntp1)               364        306       296       347        277       249        367       361       197        71        250       298       225        201
TobtlOiseeds            1963      2243       2004      2785       1871      2510      2378        964      1749       600       3583      2466      2091       1828
Tobl CIMsetS            4178      3977       4438      5014      4248       5e91      5187      2802       3272      1665       4836      4203      4218      300
Total Puls               362        371       520       557        5H4       a25        N9o       385       270       203        489       568       627        394



Table 2. Crop areas yields and production of main crops In Haryana during 1978-92
78-79    79-80    Bo-8i    81-82    82-83    S3-B4    S4-8s    8s-86    B6-87    37-Be    68-89    89-9o    9o-91    91-92
Crop Ar                                                                          (Ihouind hectares)
Rice                     458        508       483       506        490       536        557       584       628        464       602       641        661       637
Sortum                    145       135       136        118       116        152       151       115        151       134       155        103       130       103
p4tre                     89         78        71         68        56        54         61        51         54        40        43        41         35        29
Pearlmlet                872        814       871       852        780       841        748       646        774       485       786       627        609       557
KheriPulses                23        25        37         31        25         44        47        47         37        46        61         58        68        67
Wheat                    1482      1477      1479       1564      1722       1784      1705      1700       1783      1731      1827       1857      1850      1806
Gram                     1065       548       723       1047       506       647        622       761        611       201       645        525       649       307
Balmy                     9 1        8 1      125        120        82        77         67        89         69        63        64         5 1       5 1       56
Fabi Pubes                47         28        36         35        27        27         24        37         30        18        22         20        24         15
Sugrwie (w)               '191      132        113       145       147        132       116        103       126       142        131       137       148        162
Coltoneirin              286        315       316        329       397       404        293       345        380       417       433        470       490       505
TotlOssecb               130        140       309       216        176       206        326       360       295        335       391        446       482       645
TotalCsreeh             3137       3093      3165      3228       3246      3444       3289      3185       3459      2917      3477      3320       3336      3188
TollPilses              1135        601       796       1113       560       718        693       845       678        265       728        603       741       389
Crop Yield                                                                        fdlogrsms/hectsre)
Rlce                    2680       1852      2606       2475      2604      2485       2447      2797       2457      2321      2397       2730      2775      2831
SorVim                    182       215       354        264       238        133       294       244        273       103        159       252       492       286
Maie                     784        640      1134       1052      1002       1168      1307      1252       1249       838       983       1468      1414       1604
Peertmnlet               440        341       544        582       646       656        639       487        453       236      1219        695       864       563
WortPU3es                806M       840       811        613       760        795       645       894        990       783       908        862       838       910
Wheat                   2293       2231      2360       2357      2524      2499       2593      3094       2836      2808      3407       3181      3479      3597
Grem                     980        571       629        296       555       487        513       821        676       331       936        699       722       659              Q
Baeley                   1573      1202      1451       1288      1506       1306      1425      1802       1479      1564       1998      1941      2092      2074
RFbPulses                465        571       500        514       519       518        542       514        600       556       643        650       667       667
Sugvcene (gur)          3607       3117      4067       3975      3744      4450       4176      4864       5432      3691      5021       5375      5273      5587
Cotton I6M)              357        317       346        354       360        239       353       367        404       281       332        431       401       451
Total Oseeds             726        535       606        697       667       799        937       800        780       994       1238       978      1324       1031
TobalCereal              1673      1516       1748      1763      1951       1895      1971      2342       2070      2125      2537       2493      2703      2762
TotlPPuses               955        562       632        312       562       507        523       812        690       425       925        713       731       703
Crop Prockctlon                                                                   (thousands tonnes)
RIce                     1227       941      1259       1252      1276       1332      1363      1633       1543      1077       1443      1750      1834       1803
Sorghum                   26         29        48         31        28        20         44        28         41        14        25         26        64        29
MaIze                     70         50        81         72        56        63         80        64         67        34        42         60        49        47
Peeimlet                 384        278       474        496       504       552        478       315        351       114       958        436       526       314
Khuri Puses                19        2 1       30         19        19        35         30        42         37        36        55         50        57        61
Wheat                   3398       3295      3490       3686      4346       4456      4421      5260       5057      4861      6225       5907      6436      6496
Gram                     1044       313       455        310       282       315        319       625        413        67       604        367       469       202
Barley                    143        97       181        155       123        101        95       160        102        99        128        99       107        116
RAtw Pulses               22         16         18        18        14         14        13         19        18        10         14        13        16         10
Sugvcewne (g.)           689        411       460        576       550       587        484       501        684       524       658        736       780       905
Cotton fkI               102        t00       109        118       143        97        103       127        154       117        144       203       196       228
ToblOlseeds               94         75       187        151       117        165       305       288       230        333       484       436        638       665
TotlCereab              5249       4690      5533       5692      6333      6526       6482      7460       7161      6198      8821       8278      9017      8805
Totl Pubs                10U4       350       503        347       315       364        362       686        468       113       673        430       542       273



Table 3. Crop areas. yields and production of main crops In Jammu and Kashmir during 1978-92
78-79     79-80      80-81      81-82    82-83       03-84      84-85      85-86    86-87    87-88         88-89      89-9)    90-91        91-92
Crop Aroe                                                                           (hocusundhectars)
Rice                      287        288        284        285       275        278        275        288       287        263        284        275        288        282
Mri2e                     273        292        275        278       273        278        282        287       289        293        292        295        298        295
Whes                      205        202        198        202        203       213        222        220        235       239        223        231        241        244
TolalONseecb (00h4        558        479        519        529        525       590        850        730        540        880      IOD
MAoe Ceesab               748        782        737        745        748       785        779        773        791       795        779        801        805        821
TotWPuls  (OOhe)         402        488        538        492        502       480        470        450        450        78D       830
Crop Yield                                                                          (kbgramsAiectre)
Rlce                     3095       2733       3129       3155       3173      3259       3128       3340       3339      2418       3314       2015       3152       2945
Maim                     1457       1348       1793       1858       1491      1875       1817       1721       1797       1019      1512       1585       1497       1710
Wihed                     983       1021       1032       1010       1018       839        747       1223        891       1019      1188       1150       1222       1283
TotiOflseecb              a11        877       1232       1304       1295       904        949        972        800        887       9g0
MaorCerab                1910       1748       2087       2014       1983      2014       1902       2138       2048       1481      2024      I1OD        1982       2001 
TotaiPub                  672  -    617         853        850        817       e38        851        838        637        388        578
Crop Productkon                                                                     (lhcuswnd tonnes)
Rlce                      828        732        828        838        873       899        880        a88        892        835       875        554        838        830
Meia                      398        393        493        480        407       482        458        494        519        299       442        4Q2        448        504
Wheel                     204        208        204        204        204        179       188        289        209        244       280        288        295        308
TotelOhseerb (00?)        340        420        839        890        e80        589       817        710        432        781       9gm
MaorCwrab                1429       1332       1523       1500       1483      1540       1481       18S1       1820       1178      1577       1281       1579       1843
TotaWPulsO (OOQ           270        300        350        320        310       305        308        288        287        301        483



Table 4. Crop areas, yields and production of main crops in Karnataka during 1978-93
78-79     79-80    80-81       81-82    82-83    83-84         84-65      85-86      86-87    87-88    88-89    89-90    90-91    91-92             92-93
Ar                                                                                 (Ihojsand hectare5)
Paddy                    1091       1146      1114       1163       1074      1138       1124       1041      1108        995      1176       1124       1118      1219       1688
Sorghum                  1985       1930      1991       2113       2139      2115       2227      2201       2509      2341       2000      2222       2041       2002      2190
Maze                                            144                                       188        167       226        205       255        253
PestriIIt                                      505                                        435        448       486        469       465        515
Pubm                     1153       1182       1034      1152       1360       1069      1019       1053      1116       10G0      1043       1109       10O4      1056        985
WMtod                                          311                                        330        249       270        267       237        249
Cotton fit)              1011        883       1028       953        887       856        791        637       395        452       622        662        571       568        599
TotaOiseedb               905       1090       1148      1900       1399       1587      1875       1787      2063       2585      2188       2152       2408      2873       2645
TotalCerods              5978       5883      5574       5937       5869      5665       5548       5359      5896       5535      5383       5614       5144      5267       5377
Total Puism              1516       1546       1530      1569       1516       1496      1566       1508       1574      1683       1545      1564       1540       1738      1538
Yild                                          .(kilgramslhectare)
Paddy                    2939       3070      3071       3080       3065      3048       3123       2952      3167       2858      3252       3198       3292      3458       2635
Sorghum                   818        934       770        829        700       840        780        616       763        681       773        725       628        808        918
Maize                                         2584                                       2450       2187      2585       2442      2654       2772
Peslmil8t                                      305                                        386        462       475        552       437        550
Fhgermilet               1387       1250      1029       1240        971      1377       1167       1070      1309       1082       994       1200       972       1416       1642
Whed                                           578                                        588        410       525        528       700        510
Cottonfint)                90        103        106       107        133        125       153        135       195        208       251        228        191       287        287
TotalO7seech              591        587        520       621        559        697       730        549        608       578        626       644        556        663       679
TotblCoreds              1100       1129       1030      1126       1001       1181      1114        989       1145      1014       1165      1160       1109       1357      1493
TotalPules                440        403        319       397        337        417       385        325        373       397        299       349        350        466       372
Prodctim                                                                           (t,rssand tonnes)
Paddy                    3205       3518      3421       3582       3292      3470       3511       3073      3508       2844       3823      3595       3679      4217       4448
SorO,m                   1624       1803       1533      1752       1497       1777      1737       1356      1914       1594       1546      1611       1282       1618      2010
Maize                                           371                                       460        365       585        500        677       701
Peulmilt                                       154                                        168       207        231       259        203       283
Fhgermillt               1599       1478       1064      1428       1321       1472      1189       1127       1461      1147       1037      1331        976       1496      1618
Whes                                            180                                        194       102        142       141        166        127
Cottonlk*l)                91         91        109        102       118        107        121        86         77        94        156       151        109        163       172
TotalOiseed               535        640        597       621        782       1106       1369       981       1254      1494       1370       1386      1339       1905      1796
TotalCeraeJs             6576       6642       5741      6685       5875       6690      6181       53D0       6751      5612       6271      6512       5705       7200      8028
TotblPulse                667        623        488       623        511        624       603        490        587       668        462       546        539        810       572



