Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HLE  jtu v
Report No. P-3983-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED IDA CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 50.26 MILLION
TO INDIA
FOR THE
SECOND NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
March 5, 1985
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfennance of
their official dutie  Its contents may not otherwise be dilosed without World Bank authoriuaton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of February 22, 1985)
US$1.00      =  Rs  13.12
Rs 1.00      =  US$ 0.076
Rs 1 million =  US$ 76,219
The US dollar/rupee exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were, except
as otherwise noted, made at the rate of US$1 to Rs 12.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
AEO       -        Agricultural Extension Officer(s)
CAEP      -        Composite Agricultural Extension Project
DAO       -        District Agricultural Officer(s)
DOE       -        Directorate of Extension
GOI       -        Government of India
GOG       -        Government of Gujarat
GOH       -        Government of Haryana
GOJK      -        Government of Jammu and Kashmir
GOK       -        Government of Karnataka
MOA       -        Ministry of Agriculture
M&E       -        Monitoring and Evaluation
NAEP I    -        National Agricultural Extension Project
NARP      -        National Agricultural Research Project
SAU       -        State Agricultural University/Universities
SDAO      -        Subdivisional Agricultural Officer(s)
SMS       -        Subject Matter Specialist(s)
T&V       -        Training and Visit System
tons      -        Metric tons
VEW       -        Village Extension Worker(s)



-iv-
Estimated CosL 1/
(USs million equivalent)
Local         Foreign         Total
[ncremental Staff                             22.0             -             22.0
Civil Works                                   22.3             1.1           23.4
Vehicles and Equipment                         5.3             1.5            6.8
Incremental Operating Costs                   12.6            0.4            13.0
Training                                       1.4             0.1            1.5
Subtotal           63.6             3.1           66.7
Physical Contingencies                         2.6            0.2             2.8
Price Contingencies                           13.8            0.3            14.1
Subtotal            16.4            0.5            16.9
TOTAL              80.0             3.6           83.6
Financing Plan:
(US$ million equivalent)
GOI/States   IDA            Total
Haryana(GOH)/GOI                                       4.3        6.3           10.6
Karnataka (GOK)/GOI                                    8.6       12.3           20.9
Gujarat (GOG)/GOI                                     13.5       18.6           32.1
Jammu and Kashmir (COJK)/COI                           8.2       11.8           20.0
TOTAL                                            34.6       49.0            83.6
Estimated Disbursements 2/
(USS miLlion equivalent)
FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90    FY91
Annual             3.9      6.9    10.2       9.0      9.7      9.3
Cumulative         3.9    10.8    21.0    30.0    39.7    49.0
Rate of Return: Not applicable.
Appraisal Report: No. 5254-IN, dated March 7, 1985.
1/ Includes taxes and duties of US$0.88 million equivalent.
2/ According to IDA fiscal year.



INIEI4NATI ON.Ai. !rVEKLOPMENT ASSOCTATI N
REPORT ANP' P::Cl M!MFN:A! I ilN (OF THE PRESIDE-ANT TO THE
EXU'ITTIVIP l.1idRECTORS OtN A PROPOSE!D CREDIT rTo INDIA
FOR TIE :;F! ';!N NA'T! "N,; . AfR  tR! _I.T'iA.i .X1NCS i'JN  ROJECT
1.      T submit tin- t',l!nw;nri rvrt'r( r  a1sd rertmmendation on a proposed develop-
ment credit to India for SDH1 'fUbt6 mill ion (uS$49.0 million equivalent) on
standard IDA terms, tto h-1p finance a nat ional agricultural extension project
for the purpose of reorganizinig ani(i strengthening agricuiltural extension serv-
ices in the States of Gujarat, Ilarvana and Karnataka and introducing the T&V
extension system in the State- of Jaimma and Kashmir for the first time.  The
proceeds of the credit would be channeled to the State Governments concerned in
accordance with the Government of India's (GOI) standard terms and arrangements
for the financing of State development projects.  The foreign exchange risk
would be borne by COT.
PART_1_- TUE ECONOMY 1/
2.      An economic report, "Situation and Prospects of the Indian Economy -
A Medium Term Perspective" (4962-IN, dated April 16, 1984), was distributed
to the Executive Directors on April 23, 1984.  Country data sheets are attached
as Annex I.
Background
3.      India is a large and diverse country with a population of about 750 mil-
lion (in mid-1984) and an annual per capita income of US$260. The economy is
dominated by agriculture which employs more than two-thirds of the labor force.
Rowever, the land base is not sufficient to provide an adequate livelihood to
everyone engaged in agricultural activities, especially those who own little or
no land. Growth of value-added in agriculture -- 2.2% since 1950/51 -- has
been slower than growth of industrial value-added (5.3% per annum). As a
result, there has been a gradual decline in the share of agriculture in GDP (at
factor cost) from 52% in 1950151 to about 33% in 1981/82, while the share of
industry rose from 20% to around 26%. But industrialization has not been rapid
enough to absorb the growing labor force, or to bring about a rapid economic
transformation, with significantly higher productivity and income levels. As a
result economic growth has been slow over the past three decades, averaging
about 3.6% per annum since 1950/51.
4.      Nevertheless, there has been steady progress, with per capita income
rising by about 1.4% per year in the period 1950 to 1980.  Despite the large
population base and its relatively rapid growth, India has been able to
eliminate persistent dependence on foodgrain imports through significant
improvements in agricultural production. Savings and investment have increased
markedly since 1950/51: the gross national savings rate more than doubled from
10.8% of GDP (at factor cost) to 22.7% in 1983184, while the gross domestic
investment rate rose from 12.5% of GDP to 24.87 in 1983/84. Foreign savings
(balance of payments deficit on current account) have never financed a major
1/ Parts I and II of the report are similar to Parts I and II of the
President's Report for the West Bengal Minor Irrigation Project
CNo.P-3962-1-N), dat;d FebrU3ry 2t,. 1085.



-2-
portion of domestic investment: a peak of about 20% was reached during the
eurly 19609. Currently, foreign savings account for about 8% of investment.
External assistance haa been low both as a percentage of GDP and in per capita
Lerms, never rising above 3% of GDP and averaging )'elow 12 for the past five
years. Net use of foreign savings has never risen above 3% of GDP. and
pr-euently stands at 2.1%.
5.      Before the 1970s, India placed relatively less emphasis on export
promotion and more on import substitution. The volume growth of exports
between 1950/51 and 1969/70 averaged only 2.2% per annum, while the volume
growth of imports over the same period was 4.3%. In the early to mid-1970s,
however, India's terms of trade, which had remained roughly constant during
the 1960s, deteriorated sharply. In response, the Government introduced
various policy measures designed to stimulate exports. As a result, the volume
of lndia's exports grew on average about 7.3% per annum for the 1970s as a
whole, a performance which demonstrates that sustained rapid growth is
possible. While expanding world markets, particularly in the nearby Middle
East, contributed to this growth, liberalized access to imported inputs and
more effective export incentives played a major role.
6.      Moving into the second half of the 1970s, the Indian economy was buoyed
by higher levels of investment and an expanding level of foodgrain output. As
a result, growth in real GDP and in agricultural and industrial value-added
substantially exceeded the historical 30-year trends (paragraph 3) averaging
5.3%, 3.3% and 8.1%, respectively, during the 1975176 to 1978/79 period.  In
1979/80, however, this momentum was broken when the worst drought in recent
years, combined with a doubling of international oil prices and domestic supply
shortages, led to a sbarp fall in foodgrain production, a decline in GDP, and
the opening up of a relatively large trade deficit. Severe inflationary pres-
sures also emerged after several years of virtual price stability. These
setbacks coincided with the preparation of the Sixth Five-Year Plan which laid
down a program of adjustment that aimed at improving the trade deficit, remov-
ing infrastructural bottlenecks and ensuring price stability with an overall
growth of the economy of 5.2% per annum.
Recent Trends
7.      Despite the effects of two aevere droughts ia 1979/80 and 1982/83,
India's economy in the early 1980s continued to grow at the faster pace of the
second half of the 1970s. Between the two droughts (from 1979/80 to 1982/83),
GDP growth averaged almost 5% per annum, while between the two recovery years
(from 1980/81 to 1983/84), it was 4.5% per annum -- substantially higher than
India's long-term growth rate of 3.6%. Continued rapid economic growth has
resulted from a development strategy which includes higher investment levels
and liberalized policies on imports, industrial licensing, prices, and commer-
cial borrowing. These policies, by easing constraints on the supply of
infrastructure and basic commodities, were a determining factor in the improved
performance of the economy and the industrial sector. This overall improvement
in performance, combined with a more restrictive monetary policy in 1981/82 and
1982/83, resulted in a sharp decline in the rate of inflation. The growth rate
of wholesale prices declined from over 18% in 1980/81 to only 2.6% in 1982/83,
but roze to over 9% in 1983/84, mainly due to the effect of the 1982/83 drought
on food prices. Further improvements in the policy euvironment vill be
required to maintain these higher levels of economic growth and investment



W itli 0lt pI]tt I KI  *:.-..  i     .    -,           :: - I.... . r -- viving  infla-
t ionar'  eM-. t tt
8.        Fciin'.v:.                                      ,        _, . -- .;-- ...............  -.mlainlly  because
of the efi  e ,       .u.....                            -      : :e  . f I  Al!. t I 'I; j1rig the period.
In 1980/81  a.,d Itr,a1.;n    :  -i , .--r-  frtan! the  1979
drought, with  rv:e  f.L'  r _1  ..             .            ., -  r. :i'-   :V,-]v.  While
industrial oiutp.a   -.-i:;  :         .i<- ,(I -iH :                           82, recovery was
particuIar!y i      .il.n    1                       ,-  .                       o :   ..,p..J  eutput to rise
by more thaii '    .I "*     :   , -     . :                       ' * 1'  powe:-, coal, and rail
transport. alrtea.ld  Tr.;        I .!   ''-. -           'X11aiI.it-d il  1981/82,
recording growt h : !r t          ! *    L r                          r' .t  pt - n  '  r-spett ively .  This over-
*         all improvement  I: n . t        -ti.,.     :  -        :.;     . .'.t1 i  '     liH y a severe drought
in mid-1982 which, rdlf;                                      :i        . broutght down the GDP
growth  ratea tO i         *ii    ' [1:1_*i  ..!!1:' -          '-.iz   .tdly dtificult balance
of payment. .anTd d-n;;.-.* i  .          -   :       -u   - . '- :n;r ' v 1mxIZ!ementation of
various economaiic polit-it  r.                   ::Viorrain      rts. pro.curement and
distribution, arld  tli., .t . '. .. t- .    ..                  it 'I ro1 ps mitigated the
otherwise very  di st r.t;!-       * lu;    .iw.'o..   Tue economy recovered
in 1983/84, le-d by a                                                 g*o.. t  .;   .   '. ---  -  t ew by about 6.5Z to 7%
with agricultural  pr..             ..I  r*:  t'.- i- l    r .in.g  and industrial growth
of 4.5%.  Th- ma'r ,i:. t,_.. .                ':             ;;!-.i ero.neinc performance
during 1983/B4 war.- t!'   -  .            :   :.. - . *.-!;iI! I. ilh  a.equate agricultural
policies and  progr.ms   ,.'11.        j  *.. r :    *    I :  * :.- cw1 '   he coal and transport
sectors.  The powebr Sv.t 'rr, ::..-.  i,  *    *  l waln is a constraint on higher
growth,  especiall!  in  !ii:lI; Tr:
9.        Agriciltuial    lla t iU l * !U:,Ii sit roza: I y iu 1 983/84 in response to
the monsoon, improved  t.-,c-                       Ci i.nutut expallsisut  of irrigation.
Overall foodgra in  prodin t- ie-n  r-s4.              2 '!::--1 r2Ve r the previous year, reaching
a new record of  142-144 !,1' 1                   .! t-,': t lnt ,   i.rcroase over the previous
peak of 133  miilliOn  til- m'- I                    -' t!'.i7' welt.!if-r variations,
foodgrain product inn:iTI? ca     ;'            .;t w a i .1 t :-lndl oi 2 t?   per annum--sufficient
to maintain a broad ba Link t- t-  %t i-l. sup:  I   i,,tnd t 'Iad 1ii   increasing domestic
demand.   Nonetheless,  th- hal iit1- ' ---alns delicate,  and the need for foodgrain
imports to maintain con.;tIer m              . s ar ;i.!'-.;;3;it  O'Ife('r stocks could arise
from time to time.   Thus. ald- -pi:it- *TiP-i * Tr r           t sf iorad-rain stocks  and programs
to expand  irrigatl         '-t, *.     i...            <.2  -   *-.lr.i:t  the efficient use of
other agricultural  inDm:tS  -(]ITI i3it l-   I   -. uVe high  priority.
10.       Basic  intrastr-ii. t,-- .i trn. --. i.ic ..    i .11 ..rm.lrt  in 1983/84,
partially  because  at sf TIn       iI i.:T  ii;:.:11 y') dtii i ng the  first half of
the year but also duie ti  a .3 :.::   -   !"i:;i:'  thi, productivity gains of
1980-82.  Electricitv  crin.rar !-r gr               u- I v Ihv aloiit. 3.1I  due to low reservoir
water levels during  th1t  tirs.I !;il l!   i. vcdt, dt-lays  in the coumissioning
of new capacitv, and a titotI 1i.--ar:tic-. 1: *,p;ai;tv uLti!izatican in thermal plants.
As a result,  power gener:iti.n w.~!!-.nt  i *   be!ow requiremeuits and con-
stituted a major bottleneck  in the Pconomy.   Kev industries which we-e adver-
sely affected by power constr:aints  incltided steel,  fertilizers, cement,  and
coal.   To  improve pvert S-f:-.i-.p I:.            --r  .--t-r,  t' h.-overnment  recently
increased  incentives f.  I.;            'I.ip--  .-:a.aaia tm,nt  productivity  in thermal
planits.   Railway  froit-e  'T?M   .       m.- asL!red  in tfn-kins. grew bv only 0.5%  in
1983/84,  reflecti;ng  s1Iuudi ;h 8- -toip.. .  - - ia  ;relucu ito. *increased by about 6.5%
in 1983i8&   ra.c-b.-t.  '-   . , - :              ;-: : stocks already avail-
able this  lov--v            - .                       -              t.- :e:nrively siow demand



-4-
growth.  Infrastructural constraints would have emerged much more sharply had
the pace of industrial growth and demand been more rapid. It is therefore
critically important that India maintain the pace of investment in these key
sectors, mobilize sufficient resources to do so, and implement programs to
enhance productivity.
11.     The Indian economy has reverted from a situation of resource surplus in
the late 1970s to an aggregate resource deficit. The gap between gross invest-
ment and national savings increased from negligible levels during the late
1970s to an average equivalent to 2.1% of GDP in 1980-84. India's gross
national savings rate, which averaged 22.6% of GDP in the last four years, is
high by any standard, particularly considering India's low income and the large
proportion of its population below the poverty line. The scope for a substan-
tial increase in the savings rate is therefore quite limited. If India is to
maintain investment at about 25% of GDP, a major effort will be required to
raise additional domestic resources particularly in the public sector. Future
increases in savings will depend heavily upon the enhanced profitability of
public sector enterprises which would require better utilization of capacity,
more efficient operations and adequate pricing policies. This would also allow
a marginal decline in the use of foreign savings from the recent 2.1x-2.3% of
GDP to 1.5Z-1.8%, to ensure a sustainable external debt service burden.
12.     India's external resource position has changed notably since the late
1970s. The current account balance, which recorded surpluses from 1976/77 to
1978/79, reverted to deficits averaging US$3.5 billion and 2.12 of GDP during
1980/81 to 1983/84. Several developments contributed to these relatively
larger current account deficits. First, the terms of trade deteriorated
sharply in 1979/80 due to the second round of oil price increases and continued
to move against India during the first three years of the 1980s. Second, a
more liberal import policy towards industrial inputs was pursued. Third, net
invisibles declined as travel receipts fell off, workers' remittances stagnated
(reflecting slower development activity in the Middle East), and payment of
interest on higher levels of foreign debt increased. Faced with severe
infrastructural constraints and a deterioration in its balance of payments,
India initiated an adjustment program in 1980/81 designed to raise the growth
rate from its historical level of 3.6% to 5.22 while adjusting the country's
external balance to the adverse price developments in the world markets. The
main elements of this strategy, which is being successfully implemented, are
export promotion, import substitution where economically justifiable, implemen-
tation of a coherent energy policy designed to meet the eaergy needs of the
economy while curbing the growth of oil imports, and continued movement toward
a more liberal import policy aimed at providing producers with access to inputs
for higher capacity utilization, greater efficiency, improved technology and
capacity expansion.
13.     A positive development in India's balance of payments is the reduction
in the trade deficit from US$7.7 billion in 1980/81 to US$5.9 billion in
1983/84 despite unfavorable world market conditions and import liberalization.
Export volume growth and import substitution of oil and petroleum products,
metals and fertilizers more than offset the substantial increase in "other"
imports. These "other" imports consist mainly of industrial imports and capi-
tal goods which historically have been in chronic short supply and which are of
critical importance to capacity utilization, product quality, and plant modern-
ization and expansion. A major factor in the decline of the trade deficit was
the lower net import bill for petroleum, which dropped from US$6.7 billion in



-5-
1980/81 to USS3.4 billion in 1983/84 in response to a successful oil develop-
ment program that reduced import needs and allowed crude oil exports, which
totalled about US$1.5 billion in 1983/84. These structural changes in the
balance of payments are to a significant degree the result of India's develop-
ment and adjustment efforts over the past three years. It is expected that the
balance of payments will continue to be under strain for the next several
years, since the adjustment strategy will continue to require high levels of
imports.
14.     Even assuming a favorable export performance, India will need external
capital flows to augment its own resources for the foreseeable future, given
the low per capita income level in the country, the already high savings rate,
and the structural adjustment process. Faced vith a growing need for external
capital inflows and stagnation in the availability of concessional assistance,
India decided at the start of the Sixth Plan to increase borrowings from the
International Monetary Fund (IMF) and commercial banks to substantial levels.
In the period covering the fiscal years 1981/82 to 1983/84, India drew SDR 3.9
billion from the Extended Fund Facility of the IMF. In addition, India bor-
rowed significant amounts on comercial terms from the Euro-dollar market and
increased the use of suppliers' and export credits. In the period 1980-84,
India contracted commercial loans totalling over US$6,000 million and
suppliers' credits of over US$1,000 million. The bulk of this borroving has
been used for specific development projects in the public and private sector
(mostly for petroleum exploration and development, steel, power, aluminum and
shipping). India's favorable debt service position and the nature of its
borrovings, for project-related purposes instead of direct balance of payments
support, enabled it to tap commercial capital markets at favorable spreads.
This larger commercial borrowing and transfer of funds under the arrangement
with the IMF has stemmed the use of foreign exchange reserves which had fallen
to less than four months of import coverage in 1981/82.
DeveloDment Prospects
15.     The experience of recent years illustrates that India has the capacity
to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the industrial sector is
small compared to the size of the economy, it nevertheless is large in absolute
terms and has a highly diversified structure, capable of manufacturing a vide
variety of consumer and capital goods. Basic infrastructure - irrigation,
railways, telecommunications, power, roads and ports - is extensive compared
to many countries, although there is considerable need for additional capacity
as well as improvement in the utilization of existing capacity. India also has
a wide range of institutions capable of fostering development and is well-
endowed with human resources. Finally, India has an extensive natural resource
base in terms of land, water, and minerals (primarily coal and ferrous ores,
but also gas and oil). With good economic policies and reasonable access to
foreign savings, India has the capability for managing these considerable
resources to accelerate its long-term growth.
16.     The Government is currently preparing the Seventh Plan which will lay
down the development strategy for 1985/86-1989/90. This strategy is expected
to continue the emphasis of the Sixth Plan on agriculture, energy development,
export promotion, domestic import substitution where economically justifiable
and the removal of infrastructural bottlenecks. Overall Sixth Plan performance
has been encouraging, with aggregate real investment projected to be about 30%
higher than in the period 1975-80-a creditable performance indeed. The Sixth



-6-
Plhi11 xpu.ndiLure targets, however, will not be fulfilled an resource mobi-
Il.Jt.n L,y tLie public sector will fall short of the financing requirementL of
'idtlned public investment.  Actual aggregate real investment is projected to be
ab.'uL iX below the original target for the period 1980-85, private investment
be:ng 5% to 10 higher and public investment about 20% lower in real terms than
akti;ally projected. In terms of meeting Plan expenditure targets, the perfor-
mIalrtt ot the Central Government is considerably better than that of the State
G(v(IItmeLsts.  The Central Government's Plan outlays are likely to reach about
80Z tr0 9n% of the original Plan allocation in real terms, while the States'
will probably achieve only about 50Z of their targets, due principally to
shottzalls in resource generation. Bottlenecks in key sectors such as power,
transport and irrigation are likely to persist as a consequence of real invest-
ment shortfalls relative to original Plan allocations.
.
1..     Although Sixth Plan expenditure targets will not be met, India's capi-
tal formation rates have increased from 22.6% in 1975-80 to 24.7% of GDP in
1980-84. Recent higher capital formation rates are encouraging for future
income growth, but returns to investment have so far been relatively low. Much
of this phenomenon relates to India's stage of development, in which a large
and growing proportion of investment has been needed to build up basic
infrastructure services which have inherently high capital-output ratios.
However, there is scope to reduce capital-output ratios through improvements
in efficiency. As discussed in greater detail in our recent economic reports,
performance in the basic service sectors can be improved through better plan-
ning and management, thus leading to higher productivity and capacity utiliza-
tion throughout the economy. At the same time, programs to expand domestic
capacity are vital. In the case of tradeable commodities like coal, steel and
cement, this is justified on the grounds of comparative advantage. For sectors
such as irrigation, power and transportation, expansion of planned capacity in
accordance with the requirements of the rest of the economy will be vital for
sustained growth.
18.     Under the Sixth Plan, India has an ambitious oil development program
backed by substantial financial commitment. Performance under the program has
been excellent with real investment and oil production levels running well
ahead of Plan Targets. In 1981, and again in early 1983, resources for
exploration and development were raised by successive price increases for
domestic crude and products. While the gap between domestic consumption of
petroleum and production remains large, India's dependence on oil imports
dropped from 63% of consumption in 1979/80 to about 41% in 1983/84 and is
expected to decrease to about 33% of consumption by 1984/85. The rapidly
expanding level of exploration activity, combined with the possibilities for
accelerated offtake from known fields, offers much encouragement for India's
longer-term energy prospects. At the same time, the increases in domestic
petroleum prices have helped encourage conservation and slow demand growth.
19.     India-s development prospects over the next few years will hinge on
the extent to which the economy can be brought into both internal and external
balance, while at the same time achieving more rapid growth than in the past.
This will require the continuation of the current development strategy which
assigns high priority to export promotion, public finance discipline, improve-
ment of economic efficiency, and investment in infrastructure, supported by
adequate flows of external borrowing and aid. In the short term, a relatively
large level of external borrowing, including an increased emphasis on commer-
cial borrowing, will be necessary to cope with the balance of payments conse-



-7-
quences of such a growth strategy. However, an important element in providing
India with the capacity to adjust flexibly will be adequate flows of conces-
sional assistance since India is still a very poor country with a large rural
sector and enormous investment requirements for human development and basic
infrastructure. Although India is currently in a position to increase borrov-
ing on commercial terms from the very low levels of the past, there are, of
course, limits beyond which India will choose to sacrifice growth objectives
rather than accept debt on unfavorable or unmanageable terms. Nevertheless,
with a more open trade policy and expanded efforts to remove constraints on the
growth of productive capacity, supported by adequate mobilization of both
foreign and domestic savings, India is demonstrating that it can sustain a rate
of growth closer to 5.0X per annum than to the long-run trend of 3.6Z per
*       annum.  If the rate of population growth can be brought to below 2.0Z per
annum, a 5.0% growth rate would mean a doubling of the trend rate of growth of
per capita income of 1.42 per annum. Success in these efforts would make a
significant difference to the prospects of easing poverty in India.
20.     A large and growing population and severe poverty underline the need
to accelerate India's development efforts. The 1981 Census indicated there
was no decline in the rate of population growth, which remained about 2.2% per
annum in the 1970s despite a measurable decline in fertility rates. The
population growth rate failed to decline in the past decade due to a reduction
in the infant mortality rate and an increase in life expectancy, reflecting
larger availability of food and health services. While this is a welcome
development, it implies a greater strain on the economy and re-emphasizes the
need for continuing efforts to strengthen the health and family planing
programs in a broad range of activities and services. These efforts are given
high priority in the Sixth Plan, which aims at a rise in the proportion of
protected couples in the reproductive age group from its estimated 1979/80
level of about 23% to over 35% by 1984/85. The Government is reviewing its
population policy for the Seventh Plan, with indications of a determination to
retain the emphasis on the implementation of family planning, health, education
and literacy programs aimed at reducing fertility rates.
21.     Reduction of poverty remains the central goal of Indian economic and
social policy. More than one-third of the world's poor live in India, and more
than 80% of the Indian poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers
and small farmers. About 51% of the rural population and 40Z of the urban
population subsist below the poverty line. Significant reductions in poverty
will depend primarily on an acceleration of economic growth, particularly in
agriculture, combined with effective implementation of poverty alleviation
programs. India's poverty alleviation strategy appropriately recognizes that
production-oriented programs, which aim at accelerating the overall pace of
economic growth, and poverty alleviation programs, targetted at those least
able to participate in the general growth of the economy, can be mutually
reinforcing rather than substituting for each other. Major poverty programs
operating on a nationwide basis at present include: the Minimum Needs Program
(MNP), the Integrated Rural Development Program (IRDP), and the National Rural
Employment Program (NREP). The IRDP and NREP are targeted programs aimed at
increasing the incomes of the poor rapidly, either through the transfer of
productive assets or direct employment.  The HNP, aims at broadening the provi-
sion of social infrastructure and basic services which enhance the human capi-
tal of the poor and improve living standards. These programs represent a
vitally important commitment of the Government to address the needs of the
poorest. The scale of the poverty problem in India, combined with the inherent



-8-
diflicultieu in implementing poverty programs in any countiy, imply the need
for continued efforts to enhance the effectiveness of Lhese programs.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
22.     Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 82 loans and 165 development
credits to lndia totalling USS6,526 miLlion and USS12,268 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,524 million has been
repaid, and USS6,207 million was still undisbursed as of September, 30, 1984.
Bank Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year through
September 30, 1984 totalled US$171 million, representing a decrease of about
40 percent over the same period last year. Annex II contains a summary state-
ment of disbursements as of September 30, 1984.
23.     Since 1959, IFC has made 29 commitments in India totalling US$223
million, of which USS34 million has been repaid, US$56 million sold and
US$34 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$98 million, US$91 million repre-
sents loans and US$7 million equity. A summary statement of IFC disbursements
as of September 30, 1984, is also included in Annex II (page 4).
24.       The thrust of Bank Group assistance to India has been consistent with
the country's development objectives in ita support of agriculture, energy and
infrastructure. Of particular importance have been investments in irrigation,
extension and on-farm development designed to increase agricultural
productivity, and efforts to improve the availability of basic agricultural
inputs Lo farmers through credit, fertilizer, marketing, storage, and seed
projects. Major elements of the lending program have also been directed at
helping to meet the energy needs of the economy while curbing the growth of oil
imports, and to ease the infrastructure bottlenecks which have hampered
economic growth in India, particularly through power generation and
distribution, and railways and telecomunications projects.  The Bank Group has
also provided financing for a broad range of medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises, primarily in the private sector, through its support of develop-
ment finance institutions. Recognizing the importance of improving the ability
to satisfy the essential needs of urban and rural populations, the Bank Group
has supported nutrition and family planning programs, a rural roads project, as
well as water supply and sewerage and other urban infrastructure projects.
25.     This pattern of assistance remains highly relevant, and consonant with
Government priorities, as reflected in the Sixth Plan and in the approach being
taken by GOI in the preparation of the Seventh Plan.  First, high priority will
continue to be given to GOIVs agricultural program. While India has made
significant progress in agriculture, productivity growth will have to be sus-
tained to improve the balance between food demand and supply and to contribute
to poverty alleviation and employment. Thus, the Bank Group will continue to
support irrigation, fertilizer production and distribution, and agricultural
extension and credit. Second, alongside GOI's efforts in promoting greater
efficiency and faster development of the industrial sector, increased assis-
tance will be provided for industrial development. Third, the review of per-
formance under the Sixth Plan confirms the high priority that should continue
to be given to the expansion and more efficient use of basic infrastructure
capacity and to the development of India's indigenous hydrocarbon resources.
Accordingly the Bank Group will continue to support the development of the
energy, transport and telecommunications sectors to alleviate critical
shortages which constrain output in both agricultural and industrial sectors.



-9-
Fourth, support of urban development and other GOI basic social services
programs for the poor vill also continue in light of the growth in population
which, despite successes in lowering birth and death rates, still increases by
about 16 million each year.
26.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India successfully
adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid-1970s.  However, India
continues to require a substantial level of foreign aLsistance both to uffset
the overall deterioration in the world trade environment, and to sustain the
relatively higher investment and growth rates achieved during the first four
years of the Sixth Plan. As in the past, Bank Group assistance for projects in
India should aim to include the financing of local expenditures. India imports
relatively few capital goods because of the capacity and competitiveness of the
domestic capital goods industry. Consequently, the foreign exchange component
tends to be small in most projects. This is particularly the case in such
high-priority sectors as agriculture and irrigation.
27.       India's poverty and needs are such that whenever possible, external
capital requirements should be provided on concessional terms. Accordingly,
the bulk of tne Bank Group assistance to India in the past vas provided from
IDA. However, IDA lending to India is declining from a peak of US$1.6 billion
in FY82, mostly due to funding constraints related to IDA. The amount of IDA
funds available to India is likely to remain small in relation to India's needs
for external support. Thus, this requirement for additional assistance will
have to be met, in part, through larger Bank lending. Given its development
prospects and policies, India is judged creditworthy for Bank lending to sup-
plement IDA assistance. A continuation of efforts already underway to achieve
growth in productive capacity, trade expansion, higher levels of savings,
foodgrains self-sufficiency and a reduction in the rate of population growth
should result in continued economic growth and improvement in the balance of
payments. India's debt service ratio is estimated at about 15.2Z in 1984/85.
This ratio is projected to rise to around 20Z by 1989/90, mainly due to the
hardening structure of India's debt; and to increase slightly over this level
through the mid-1990's. Although the projected debt service ratios are con-
siderably above historical levels, they are still manageable and will not
adversely affect India's creditworthiness.
28.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank Group
accounted for 34Z of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements, and 12% of
net disbursements as compared with 62%, 33Z and 37Z, respectively, in 1983/84.
In 1983/84, about 19.0% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank
Group. On March 31, 1984, India's outstanding and disbursed external public
debt was estimated to be about US$26.9 billion, of which the Bank Group's share
was USS9.6 billion or 36% (IDA's US$7.8 billion and IBRD's US$1.8 billion).
As of September 30, 1984, outstanding loans and credits to India held by the
Bank totalled USS17,271 million, of which USS6,207 million remain to be
disbursed, leaving a net amount outstanding of US$11,064 million.



-10-
PART IIl - ACRICULTURE AND ACRICULTURAL EXTENSION IN INDIA
A6ri culture
2'9.    A major objective of agricultural policy in India during the past
;5 years has been to achieve self-sufficiency in foodgrains and to
izicrease farm incomes in an equitable manner. Significant progress has
been made: there has been a remarkable increase in foodgrain production
with India attaining self-sufficiency, although a shortage of edible oils
persists. Nevertheless, continuing efforts to improve agricultural
productivity are essential to meet the increase in demand for food for a
population that is growing at about 2.2% per annum. Moreover, in recent
years the rate of yield increases has been falling, and parts of the
cuuntry have shown little growth in agricultural production. The projec-
tiuns of demand for foodgrain by 1990, the last year of the Seventh
Five-Year Plan, call for foodgrain production of 168-170 million tons
annually, compared with the production of about 151 million tons in
1983/84; these projections require an annual growth of about 2.7%, com-
pared with the growth rate of about 2.5% per annum over the past 15
years.
30.     Nearly 90% of the recent increases in food production have come
from wheat and rice, predominantly in irrigated areas. Less impressive
results are expected in the future because cultivated areas benefitirng
from high-yielding technology are beginning to experience problems not
confronted previously, including increasing incidence of pests and disease
and micro-nutrient deficiencies, demanding even more sophisticated
technology. Moreover, most of the future increase in foodgrain production
will have to come from rainfed regions, which are expected to constitute
more than 50% of the area under cultivation, even after the nation's
irrigation potential has been fully developed. Hence, greater problems,
both in developing the improved technology needed for such heterogenous
agroclimatic conditions and in transferring this technology and know-how
to farmers can be anticipated.
31.     The future pattern of agricultural development in India points to
the crucial role that improved agricultural extension and research will
have to play in helping the country sustain self-sufficiency in
foodgrains. The improvement of agricultural extension remains a major,
yet relatively low-cost means of increasing agricultural productivity, of
making more effective use of past investments in infrastructure and
research, and of reaching all farmers, especially small farmers.
Agricultural Extension
32.     Soon after independence in 1947, the Government of India (GOI)
began sponsoring a number of programs designed to meet the need for more
effective, country-wide agricultural development, but these programs
mostly met the needs of larger farmers. In order to achieve a more
broadly based increase in agricultural output and in response to changing
rural conditions, GOI introduced in 1977, with IDA assistance, a different



l-11
approach to agricultural extension through the training and visit (T&V)
sysLem. The T&V system aimed at increasing farm productivity and the
income of farmers by simultaneously aadressing constraints to the transfer
ot new agricultural technology, the dissemination of the results of
research, and obtaining feedback on actual farm problems. It did so by
providing farmers, on a reguLar and systematic basis, with up-to-date
advice on proven farming practices best suited to their specific
conditions. These objectives were accumplished by a fixed schedule of
training and visits by field staff supported by professional advice from
state-level institutions.
33.     Organizationally, the T&V system has sought to establish a single
Line of command from the State Director of Agriculture to the Village
Extension Worker (VEW) and to merge the VEWs and aLl agricultural field
staff into a unified extensicn service, employed exclusively on agricul-
tural extension. Between 700 and 800 families are served by a VEW, work-
ing through selected contact farmers. An Agricultural Extension Officer
(AEO) supervises about eight VEWs and works with them during field visits.
Subdivisional staff include a Subdivisional Agricultural Officer (SDAO),
with an Assistant SDAO in larger units, to ensure satisfactory
supervision, training, and guidance to about 6 - 8 AEOs. To strengthen
technic.' support and training, a team of Subject Matter Specialists (SMS)
at the sub-divisional level instructs VEWs in agronomy, plant protection
and related topics. At the district level, a District Agricultural
Officer (DAO) supervises the work of subdivisional staff.
World Bank Activities in Agricultural Extension
34.     World Bank assisted projects have introduced the T&V system of
agricultural extension in 13 Indian States. 1/ However, introduction of
1/ The Orissa Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 682-IN, April 1,
1977); the Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project
(Cr. 712-IN, June 1, 1977); the West Bengal Agricultural Extension and
Research Project (Cr. 690-IN, June 1, 1977); the Assam Agricultural
DeveLopment Project (Cr. 728-IN, June 30, 1977); the Rajasthan
Agricultural Extension and Research Project (Cr. 737-IN, November 14,
1977); the Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project
(Cr. 761-IN, January 6, 1978); the Composite Agricultural Extension
Project (Cr. 862-IN, February 16, 1979 - covering the States of
Gujarat, Haryana and Karnataka); the Kerala Agricultural Extension
Project (Cr. 1028-IN, June 25, 1980); the Maharashtra Agricultural
Extension Project (Cr. 1135-IN, May 7, 1981); the Tamil Nadu
Agricultural Extension Project (Cr. 1137-IN, May 7, 1981); the Second
Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension Project (Cr. 1138-IN, May 7,
1981); and the Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Extension Project
(Cr. 1219-IN, May 5, 1982). The National Agricultural Extension
Project (Cr. 1523-IN, October 2, 1984) supports foLlow-up extension
work in the States of Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Orissa bringing
the total World Bank assisted T&V system projects to 14.



-12-
Lhe T&V system has not been easy. The shitt from a system based on multi-
purpose functionaries to one based on professional agricultural extension
carried out by single-purpose extension workers involves major administra-
tive and conceptual reform that inevitably encounters bureaucratic,
poliLical, and logistical hurdles. The new system also calls for major
attitudinal changes on the part of farmers and concerned Government
oilicials. The early years of implementation of the T&V system have
highlighted a number of underlying problems in agricultural extensinn
projects financed by the World Bank in India which need urgent attention.
These include: the involvement ot extension staff in non-extension
activities; insufficient research-generated technology; poor feedback from
field to research institutions; weak incerministerial and interdepartmen-
tal coordination; and poor monitoring and evaluation.  The continuing
involvement of extension staff in non-extension activities and the
problems concerning relevant technology being extended to farmers, which
are the two most intransigent constraints, are being addressed under the
National Agricultural Extension Project (NAEP 1) 1/ and would be given
equal attention under the proposed project.
35.     Indicators of the impact of completed five-year, IDA-supported
agriculturaL extension projects are favorable. Recent monitoring and
evaluation studies 2/ undertaken in Gujarat, Haryana and Karnataka under
the Composite Agricultural Extension Project (CAEP) (Cr. 862-IN) have
shown that some 90% of contact farmers and 70% of non-contact farmers knew
their VEW by name, and that over 75% of contact farmers received regular
visits tram extension staff. These studies have also consistently indi-
cated a positive relationship between the frequency of VEW farm visits and
technology adoption. While the direct impact of the T&V system on
agricultural production is difficult to quantify, appreciable improvements
in oLutput and the adoption of recommended practices have been achieved.
In Gujarat, average foodgrain production during the period 1978/79-1982/83
increased by about 25%, compared to the five-year average of the
preproject period. Increases were also registered in the average yields
of pearl millet (47%), sorghum (24%), wheat (22%) and pulses (11%) during
the same period. In Karnataka, agricultural production has increased
measurably over the past few years. In 1983/84, a year of unusually
favorable weather conditions, Karnataka reached record production levels
in foodgrain (7.1 million tons), pulses (0.9 million tons), oilseeds (1.3
million tons), and sugarcane (14.0 million tons). As a result, the State
moved from being a traditionally foodgrain deficit area to one reporting a
marginal surplus. In Haryana, Eertilizer consumption almost doubled from
1977/78 to 1982/83 and pesticide usage increased by 65%, with resulting
gains in average foodgrain production during 1980/81-1982/83 being 25.6%
above the average level of 1976/77-1978179. Furthermore, a special study
1/ Credit 1523-IN of October 2, 1984.
2/ Monitoring and Evaluation Reports for Rabi Season (October-February)
1982/83 and Kharif season (June-September) 1983/84 for Karnataka,
Haryana and Gujarat.



- 13--
carried out in Haryana 1/ has aLso shown that since 1981 wheat yield
increases of 2% per annum are directly attributable to the effects of
improved extension. More significant for the longer run, there have been
important changes in cropping patterns in Karnataka and Gujarat which are
clearly the consequence of extension advice given to farmers. Although it
is difficult to ascertain and quantify which of these improvements are
directly attributable to extension, it is not unreasonable co expect that
some of them have resulted from improved extension services and from
closer links between extension and field-based research activities.
36.     Overall, the World Bank's experience with improving agricultural
extension services in India has been positive. There is growing evidence
of its favorable impact and it has received wide support from the farming
community and State Departments of Agriculture. Experience also shows
that the system adopted for technology transfer is fundamentally sound and
that the impact on production, even in the short term, can be substantial.
In several States, the extension service is able to identify constraints
at the farm level and the agency responsibLe for their alleviation. It is
also exerting considerable pressure on the research support network to
re-orient its research priorities to meet the needs of farmers. Hence, it
is intended that the World Bank continue supporting the introduction of
the T&V system of extension in the States that currently operate a dif-
ferent system but wish to change. Moreover, since extension reorganiza-
tion is still institutionally immature in many States which have accepted
the T&V system, it is essential that the technical and supervisory support
of the Bank be sustained.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
37.     The proposed project was prepared by the Government of India and
the State Governments of Gujarat, Haryana, Jammu and Kashmir, and
Karnataka. The project was appraised in June 1984. A report entitled
"Staff Appraisal Report - National Agricultural Extension Project II"
(No. 5254-IN, dated March 7. 1985) is being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. in
February 1985. The Government of India and the participating State
Governments, were represented by a delegation coordinated by Mr. Prithvi
Singh of the Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance. A
Supplementary Project Data Sheet is attached as Annex [II.
Project Objectives and Rationale
38.     During the initial years of an extension project emphasis is
usually placed on the establishment of an administrative framework for
extension and the provision of an information service focussed on low-cost
technology. Under che proposed project, this would be the objective in
1/ The Impact of Agricultural Extension. A case study of the T&V System
in Haryana, India by Gershon Feder and Roger H. Slade.



-14-
iHie itaTt* nt Jammu and Kashmir in which the T&V extension system would be
iWr,du,td for the tirst time. At the same time, while current extension
pr,ijects have helped to establish more professionaL extension services and
lbroaden the coverage of the farming population, further strengthening and
.leepelning of the extension effort is required to help to firmly establish
the r&v extension system on a continuing basis in the States already
ct,vered. In addition, more attention needs to be given at both the Center
anrd State levels to moniLoring and e-aluation of the impact of extension
activities. Thus the proposed project would build upon the inscitutional
base developed under the Composite Agricultural Extension Project (CAEP)
(Cr. 862-IN) in the States of Gujarat, Haryana and Karnataka to improve
Lhe coverage, depth and quality of their respective extension services.
Through IDA's involvement in the project, state governments would be
assisted in providing a more sophisticated and complete extension system
which wouLd be capable of addressing all aspects of farm improvements and
ensure strong linkages with agricultural research currently being sup-
ported by IDA under the National Agricultural Research Project (NARP I).
39.     The project seeks to achieve the following specific objectives:
(i) Administrative Consolidation and Institutional Development.
While the T&V extension system has already been successfully introduced in
three of the participating States (Gujarat, Haryana and Karnataka), its
benefits can be further increased. The project aims to consolidate the
administrative changes introduced under CAEP (Cr. 862-IN) and to sustain
the commitment among decision-makers and extension staff in the par-
ticipating States to a full acceptance and improved effectiveness of T&V
extension. The project would thus provide an important incentive for
ensuring the continuation of extension reform in these States. In
addition, the proposed project would introduce the reorganized extension
service along with related training, adaptive research, and monitoring and
evaluation in the State of Jammu and Kashmir based on the experiences
gained in previous State extension projects in India.
(ii) Expanded Coverage. Experience gained thus far from existing
State projects has identified the need for more specialized extension
support in order to meet the needs of aLl farmers to provide more relevant
and usable recommendations, and thus to realize the potential production
increases which could be achieved through expanded coverage. The project
is designed to address this need by broadening the technical subjects
covered under agricuLtural extension to include, inter-alia, soil and
water management, farm management, horticulture and farm forestry. More
emphasis would also be given to tribal and hiLly area communities, and
small and marginal farmers. The project would also expand extension
services into new agriculturaL areas not previously covered under the
Composite Agricultural Extension Project (Cr. 862-IN).
(iii) Quality Improvement. The project would seek to ensure improve-
ments in the quality of extension services. In addition to training
programs required to establish reorganized extension in the State of Jammu
and Kashmir which is seeking to change its existing service, special
emphasis would be placed on expanded and improved training programs to



-15-
address the additional Lechnical subjects to be covered. The Directorate
ot ExLension (DOE) of COI's Ministry of Agriculture would help to develop
the capability ot the States and guide them in coordinating extension
approaches, improving the roLes ot SMSs, AEOs and contact farmers; estab-
lishing close permanent links with research, and in implementing fieLd
trials and adaptive research on which to base relevant Location and
resource-specific technical recommendations. Other areas which require
qualitative improvement incLude Lhe development of more responsive and
specialized training, and information/communications support, including
improved utilization of mass media to complement the T&V extension system.
(iv) Extension/Research Linkages.  Although research is providing
increasingly effective support to extension, improvements are needed in
adaptive research and field trials related to actual farming conditions,
and in better communication between extension and research staff on farmer
needs and research priorities. The project would aim to improve
research/extension Linkages by ensuring farmer/extension staff participa-
tion in the identification of research programs and by encouraging the
State Agricultural Universities (SAUs) to adopt research strategies
designed for differing farm situations. At the Central level, the Indian
Council of AgriculturaL Research (ICAR) staff would participate in the
Extension Technical Advisory Committees, to be established under NAEP I,
and join regular field visits of extenson staff to review actual farming
conditions and activities.
40.     To enable participation in the proposed project, the governments
of the four project States have made adequate financial provision to cover
the first year of project costs in their 1985/86 State Plans and confirmed
that their projects would be included in their future annual State Plans
with sufficient funds to cover all project costs. Beginning July 15, 1986
and each year thereafter, the project states would furnish their Project
annual budgets to the Association for its review (para. 6, Schedule 2 to
the draft Project Agreement). Each state has also made suitable arrange-
ments with its SAU regarding the SAU's role in project implementation.
The States ot Gujarat, Haryana, and Karnataka have utilized all proceeds
of Credit 862-IN or have made satisfactory arrangements for the disposal
of any balance of funds available under it. They have also submitted
draft completion reports covering these investments. The individual
elements of Lhe project components are summarized below.
Project Description
41.     Incremental Staff Requirements.  Beyond the staffing levels
required under the Composite AgriculturaL Extension Project
(Credit 862-IN), the three states of Gujarat, Haryana, and Karnataka would
require additional field staff, supervisory personnel, and SMSs to meet
the needs of the broader coverage and increased specialization provided
for under the proposed project. The additional SMSs would be required to
handle new technologies. such as water and soil management, and the
development of tribal areas in Gujarat; and dry-land farming,
horticuLture, mechanisation and plant protection in Haryana and Karnataka.
In addition, lower ratios of farm families to VEWs are justified in cer-



-lf.
tnin ran', *iuch a!} 1n newly irrigated areas, and tribal and hilly areas
requlring more  ntenlqivp extensiun coverage.  In Lhe State of Jammu and
Kaqhmir (J&K), an thi TI&V system is introduced, agriculrural. extensinn,
adaptive research and training activities would need strengthening. The
stafE numbers, disciplines and training required have been based on the
experience with similar 1&V projects in other states. Due to the hilly
terrain in J&K, the r&v system would be suitably modified in areas where
travelling and contacLing a specified number of farmers (8-10) on a daily
basis is difficult. incremental staffing requirements vary among the four
participating States. [n each, incremental staff positions created under
the project would be tilled by staff with satisfactory qualifications and
experience in accordance with an agreed schedule (para. 4, Schedule 2 to
the draft Project Agreement).  Furthermore, all extension staff under the
project would be used exclusively for agricultural extension activities,
and the emoluments, benefits and promotional prospects of staff assigned
to the extension service would not be adversely affected as a result of
such assignment (para. 2, Schedule 2 to the draft Project Agreement).
Moreover, by September 30, 1987, each participating State wouLd furnish
IDA for its comments, a mid-term review of project execution focussing
especiaLly on the adequacy of extension field staff arrangements and
adjust the staff and facilities deployed to the extent found necessary by
the review taking into account IDA's comments (para. 5, Schedule 2 to the
draft Project Agreement).
42.     Infrastructural Facilities
(a) Buildings. The availability of appropriate housing within the
field workersirareas of operation is critical to effective extension.
Low-cost housing would be provided to meet these needs where they are
required. However, all participating States would continue to encourage
the use of rented accommodation by field staff wherever this is possible.
The project would also provide for additional office buildings and train-
ing facilities in each State.
(b) Transport. Effective agricultural extension is based on a
system of regular and frequent farm visits by field staff. Adequate
transport would be provided to maintain fixed visit schedules and to
enabLe supervisory staff to reach the field easily and frequently.
Motorcycles, mopeds, and bicycles would also be provided on a loan-
purchase basis under satisfactory terms to meet project needs and to
ensure their use by field staff.  Accordingly, the project States would
provide its staff with credit for the purchase of vehicles and financial
incentives, including appropriate travel allowances, to encourage their
optimal use (para. 3, Schedule 2 to the draft Project Agreement).
(c) Equipment. To meet the needs of expanded coverage of exten-
sion activities and increased training, the project would provide funds
for the incremental costs of office equipment and furniture and for audio-
visual aids to support extension operations.
43.     Training.  Given the increased sophistication and specialization
of extension services in the States of Gujarat, Haryana and Karnataka,



-17-
training programs tollowed under the Composite Agricultural Extension
Project (Cr. 862-IN), would be further intensified. The extension educa-
tion wings of the Agricultural Universities of Cujarat, Haryana and
Karnataka would continue to be responsible for the in-service training of
SMSs and other higher level extension staff through regular monthly
workshops. Courses would be developed to cover the new areas of
specialization such as watershed management, horticulture, farm forestry
and soil conservation. To improve project implementation and supervision,
training courses in monitoring and evaluation, and extension management
would also be added to the training curricuLum. The induction and in-
service training needs of the State of Jammu and Kashmir would be
organized by its Department of Agriculture (DOA) in collaboration with its
State Agricultural University and include induction orientation and
refresher courses, monthly workshops, fortnightly training sessions,
additional seasonal training programs and special short courses for VEWs
and AEOs. Training programs would also be arranged by DOA and SAU for
more senior staff. The training programs in all participating States
would support staff development through courses tailored to the needs and
qualifications of staff. Additional training facilities (seminar halls,
trainee hostels) and training coordinators would be provided to meet
participating State needs as required.
44.     Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E).  In Gujarat, Haryana, and
Karnataka, M&E units established in State Departments of Agriculture (DOA)
under Credit 862-IN would be strengthened under the proposed project to
expedite and improve the quality of analytical work. For this purpose,
these units would be provided with additional staff (field investigators,
technical officers, agricultural supervisors and agricultural economists)
and incremental operating costs as identified during appraisal. A new M&E
unit wouLd be established in Jamnu and Kashmir in its DOA with respon-
sibility for executing M&E in line with the methodology already estab-
lished and agreed for the other participating States. Retroactive financ-
ing has been provided for these components (see para. 54) to ensure that
the staff of these units would receive early training to undertake their
responsibilities under the project (para. 3 of Schedule I to the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
45.     Adaptive Research.  Adaptive rcsearch support for the extension
service would be strengthened in Cujarat, Haryana, and Karnataka by the
provision of additional funds for the conduct of on-farm trials and new
adaptive research facilities would be developed in Janmnu and Kashmir.
46.     Operating Costs. The project would provide funds for incremental
operating expenses to cover the costs of publicity, training and demon-
stration materials, housing and travel allowances and the operation of
vehicLes.
Project Organization and Implementation
47.     At the Central level, the Directorate of Extension (DOE) would be
responsible for overseeing project implementation, for policy guidance of
extension strategy on a nationwide basis, and for coordination with



-18-
r,1.it.d Govvrnment departments and other institutions, particularly in
,-ipcL -it training.  DOE would also be responsible tor providing the
pri]ect States with such technical assistance as they may require, as well
as tor monitnring and evaluation of extension activities (Section 3.04 of
ihe draft Development Credit Agreement).
48.     At the state level, the Secretary of Agriculture and the Director
,it Agriculture would have overall responsibility for implementing
SLatewide extension programs. Within each State, an Additional Director
ot Agriculture (Extension) would be responsible for the day-to-day manage-
ment of the extension service supported by the administrative machinery of
the Department. In the case of Jammu and Kashmir, an Additional Secretary
o[ Agriculture would coordinate implementation of the project with a Joint
Director of Agriculture responsible for day-to-day management in the two
divisions of the State. Project Coordinating Committees (PCC) already
exist in the Project States of Gujarat, Haryana and Karnataka and a PCC
would be established in Jammu and Kashmir by August 31, 1985 (para. 8,
Schedule 2 of the draft Project Agreement). The PCC's would be chaired by
the Agricultural Production Commissioner or Secretary for Agriculture,
with the Additional Director of Agriculture (Extension) acting as
Secretary, and the Vice Chancellor of the SAU, Directors of Agriculture
and Horticulture, and representatives of concerned departments and agen-
cies as members. The Committees would meet at Least twice a year to
review progress of project implementation and resolve any problems that
may arise.
49.     L ordination among extension, research, and allied agencies (input
supply, finance, credit, irrigation and the SAU) would be maintained
through a series of interdisciplinary committees at State, zonal and
district levels, as well as through informal contacts, exchange of staff,
workshops, training courses, and collaboration in field testing programs.
Programs of research and extension cooperation would be reviewed by exist-
ing State Technical or Research Advisory Committees, priorities determined
and recommendations formulated for adoption in the next agricultural
season.
50.     DOE would undertake comprehensive semi-annual field reviews of
each State subproject, and together with the States, be responsible for
the preparation of semi-annual progress reports. DOE would submit these
semi-annual prcgress reports each June and December to IDA, giving for
each subproject a summary of activities undertaken during the prior six-
month period (Section 3.04(c), draft Development Credit Agreement). The
States would also prepare completion reports for their respective sub-
projects.
Monitoring and Evaluation
51.     While continuous monitoring and evaluation (M&E) is an integral
part of all ongoing IDA-assisted extension projects in India, participat-
ing States have been slow in establishing M&E units and in collecting and
analyzing appropriate data. Recognizing this shortcoming, in 1981/82, IDA
developed an operational manual designed specifically to strengthen M&E of



-19-
T&V extension projectr;. Nevertheless, the quality and relevance of much
ot the M&E work being done has remained substandard as many State M&E
units continue to suffer from constraints in staffing and other resources.
52.     Under the proposed project, monitoring, reporting and analysis
of physical and financial inputs would be the responsibility of each State
Department of Agriculture. StaLes would undertake monitoring and evalua-
tion of the project in accordance with procedures satisfactory to IDA and
the summaries of results would be forwarded to IDA (through DOE) at agreed
intervals (para. l(b), Schedule 2 to the draft Project Agreement). DOE's
Field Extension Unit will also provide technical guidance to State M&E
units.
Project Costs and Financing
53.     The total project cost is estimated at US$83.6 million, of which
US$3.6 million represents foreign exchange costs. Physical contingencies
(US$2.8 million) of 5% have been applied to civil works, vehicles,
equipment, travel expenditures and other operating costs, and 10 for
training and vehicle operating costs. Price contingencies of US$14.1
million have been added for local costs at 8.5% for 1984/85-1990/91, and
for foreign costs at 3.5% for 1984/85, 8% for 1985/86, and 9% for 1986/87
onwards.
54.     The proposed IDA credit of US$49.0 million equivalent would
finance about 602 of total project costs, net of taxes and duties, and
would cover all foreign exchange costs. The balance of funds for the
project would come from GOI and participating State Governments. GOI
would channel the Credit to the participating States in accordance with
its standard terms and conditions for Central Government development
assistance. The project would provide for retroactive financing of up to
US$2.0 million for expenditures incurred after September 30, 1984 for
essential start-up activities including induction, orientation, and pre-
service training of extension staff, as well as the establishment of a
monitoring and evaluation unit in Jammu and Kashmir (para. 3 of Schedule I
to the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement 1/
55.     Annex IV attached, details the manner in which items would be
procured under the project. Civil works contracts mostly for houses and
training facilities (US$28.5 million) would be small and widely dispersed,
both geographically and over time, and therefore would not be suitable for
international competitive bidding. Contracts would be awarded on the
hasis of local competitive bidding in accordance with existing State
Government procedures, which are satisfactory to IDA. Where contractors
are not forthcoming to execute the works, small civil works estimated to
1/ All figures in this paragraph are inclusive of contingencies amount-
ing to approximately US$16.9 million.



-20-
c.iqt US$25,000 vquivaIent or less may be carried out through force
account. Vehicles (US$6.1 million) and equipment (US$1.8 million) of
various types would be required unter the project. These would be pur-
chased in small quantities over several years and their use would be
widely dispersed in rural areas. To ensure adequate maintenance and the
availability of spare parts, they would be procured by local competitive
bidding under Lhe State Governments' normal procurement procedures which
are satisfactory to IDA. All contracts for civil works, vehicles, equip-
ment and furniture estimated to cost US$100,000 equivalent or more would
be subject to IDA review. Orders for the purchase of minor equipment,
furniture, and supplies would be bulked wherever possible and purchased
according to established local bidding procedures, except where valued at
less than US$50,000 equivaLent, in which case they would be purchased by
prudent shopping through normal commercial channels. The balance of
project costs (US$47.2 million) for che four States would consist of
training (US$2.0 million), incremental saLaries (US$28.1 million),
incremental operating expenditures for offices and vehicles and travel
allowances (US$17.1 million), all of which would not involve procurement.
57.     The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed against the
incremental costs of civil works (55% of expenditures); vehicles,
equipment, furniture and materials (100% of foreign expenditures and 70%
of local expenditures); training and research (100% of expenditures);
incremental salaries 2/ (66% expenditures); incremental operating expen-
ditures (55% on a declining basis). Disbursements against staff costs,
operating expenses and payments of less than Rs 300,000 under civil works
contracts, and payments under Rs 150,000 for training, localLy-procured
vehicles and equipment, would be made against certified statements of
expenditure. These statements of expenditure would be audited at least
annually and the audit report submitted to IDA not later than nine months
after the end of each year. Supporting documents for these expenditures
would be retained by State Governments and the DOE for inspection in the
course ot project review missions. Disbursements against expenditures for
all other items would be fully documented. Copies of all State disburse-
ment applications would be provided to DOE prior to submission to IDA.
Benefits and Risks
57.     The principal benefits of the proposed project would be co
increase crop production and. thus farm incomes in the four project States
by providing improved extension services to farmers.
58.     Attributing a precise level of economic benefit to this type of
project is difficult, since it is impossibLe to determine what proportion
of benefits expected from improved agricultural practices is due to exten-
2/ Actual disbursements against this category in the States would be
made against a proportion of total eligible staff costs (18% for
Cuiarat, 6% for Haryana, 53% for Jammu and Kashmir and 3% for
Karnataka) as the basis for estimatirg 66Z of incremental salaries.



-21-
sion alone and what is due to such other factors as past research efforts,
the use of additional inputs, or more work by the farmer. In practice, it
is generally the combination of all these factors , with extension serv-
ices acting as the catalyst, that brings the desired benefits. Since the
incremental cost of the project is very low per hectare and per farm
family, even small production increases would generate high rates of
return. In areas where the reformed extension system has been in opera-
tion for some time, including the States of Cujarat, Haryana and
Karnataka, yield increases are indicated which would give a rate of return
well in excess of the opportunity cost of capital (12%).
59.     In late 1981, a study undertaken by the World Bank in collabora-
tion with Haryana Agricultural University 1/ concluded that the T&V exten-
sion system is more successful in delivering information to farmers than
the traditionaL extension system, achieving significantly more direct
contact with farmers and that rates of knowledge diffusion for all farming
practices were faster than comparable rates under the previous system.
The results of the study suggested that there has been in the case of
wheat, a yieLd increase of 2% per annum over the first four years of CAEP
(Cr. 862-IN), and even though the results for rice were inconclusive, the
wheat yield increase alone would be sufficient to generate an internal
rate of return in the range of about 30-40% to the incremental investment
in extension. Moreover, there is clear evidence from areas where the T&V
system is well established that it is exerting considerable pressure on
other support services, particularly research and input services, to
improve performance in parallel with extension, which underscores the
important lead effect of a strong extension service.
60.     As mentioned above, however, maintenance of a reformed agricul-
tural extension system is not achieved without difficulty. Direct IDA
involvement in the project would decrease the risk that a single-line,
single-purpose extension service would be used for non-extension functions
and that extension staff would be transferred to handle other administra-
tive activities within the Department of Agriculture. Although extension
activity would continue to be vulnerable to outside pressures, there is
increasing recognition that its primary function must be technical and
that it cannot substitute for weaknesses in other support services. To
reinforce this concept an assurance was obtained that all extension staff
of all Project States assigned to DOA for the purposes of the Project
would be used exclusively for agricultural extension work and that such
staff would not be adversely attected in respect of their entitlement to
emoluments, benefits and promotional prospects (para. 2, Schedule 2 to the
draft Project Agreement).
61.     To develop professional cadres within their respective fields of
expertise is difficult, but nevertheless necessary for achieving higher
professional standards and to encourage staff to remain within their
1/ The Impact of Agricultural Extension. A case study of the T&V System
in Haryana, India by Cershon Feder and Roger H. Slade.



-22-
Iper :i ai ies.  rhe training that would be involved, with the increased
specialization and expansion at extension services could present
ditticulties. There has been considerable improvement more recently i.,
systematically identifying training needs by drawing up suitable training
programs to meet these needs and selecting appropriate staff for training.
rhis trend is being further encouraged under NAEP I through the
strengthening of the Extension Training Unit of the Directorate of
ExLension of COI's Ministry of Agriculture and through the training com-
ponent in the State subprojects under the proposed project.
62.     Without an effective two-way communication between research and
extension, it is unlikely that the technology needed by farmers to
increase productivity would be developed and transferred. To promote such
a linkage between extension and research, each State participating in the
project has provided a written memorandum of understanding between the SAU
and the Department of Agriculture spelling out university responsibilities
for the support of the extension services. To date, technology has not
been a major constraint, but as the backlog of research findings becomes
more widely adopted, additional adaptive research, field testing and
development of new technology would be required. While early work may be
aimed at zonal and district recommendations, ultimately technology
development needs to be directed more at meeting the needs of smaLler
groups of farmers and those in more remote and difficult areas. The
National Agriculture Research Project (for which a second project is under
appraisal) would help to strengthen research efforts to provide relevant
technology for extension transfer to such farmers.
63.     A number of general administrative constraints and policy problems
encountered in current extension projects, especially in the early years
of implementation could impede development of extension and wouLd require
the continuing attention of GOI and IDA. Among these are promotion by
seniority, frequent transfers, changes of discipline and failure to imple-
ment objective selection criteria for training. Some success has, however,
been achieved in other aspects of administration, benefitting extension.
These include the installation of a singla-function extension service,
provision of additional monthly travel allowances and increased vehicle
maintenance allowances to extension staff, as well as Loans for individual
purchases of vehicles by staff engaged in extension field work in all
participating States.
PART V - Legal Instruments and Authority
64.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the
Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and the
States of Cujarat, Haryana, Jammu and Kashmir and Karnataka and the
Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section ltd),
of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately.
65.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.



-23-
bb.     I am satistied that Lhe proposed credit would comply with the
Articles ot Agreement ot the Association.
PART Vl - Recommendation
67.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
March 5, 1985



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
T A B LE  A
INDIA                  - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHIET
IniA                                 kEERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) '.
uicT                      (MOST RECENT ENTIMATE) 'b
jqbotb    I9Ob    RCECNT              LOW INCOME            YIDDLE IcOME
sesbo -    i9u0ob    ETIMATILb         ASIA A PACIFIC         ASIA & Prciplr
ASIA (TIOUAND  Q2. C)
TOrTAL                                1287.6    3287.6      3287.4
ARICULTURAL                           17B3.5     7110.5     1812.3
(MP PRE  CAPITA (053)                      hi.1 1n1U.1          2hO.n            271.6                   I303.2
CCC   COWSISTIOU PR CAPITA
(KILOGRAMII or OIL FIUIVALENT)         79.0      111.0       158.0            272.0                     567.3
POWATZO  A   VITA. TL TI8TICU
POPULATION.Mhl1-YZAR (THOUSANDS)    434149.0  547569.0   711915.0
URSAN POPULATION (2 (ur TOTAL)          391.0     39.0        24.3             21.7                      34.7
POPULATION PBOJZCTIIl2S
PJPULATION IN YrAl 2o00 MI:LL)                             994.4
SITATIONARY POPULATION (NILL)                             1707.2
POPULATION MOYENTUM                                          1.7
P-1PULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. DI.                          132.3     365.6       213.4            166.6                     261.9
PER SQ. KM. AGI*. LAND              246.6      307.5       317.1            345.5                    1735.1
POPULATION AGE STIUCTUtE (t)
0-i' YltS                            40.9      42.7        39.3             35.8                      39.0
35-44 YRS                            54.5       54.2        57.6             59.6                     57.6
45 AND ABOVE                          4.6        3.1         3.1              4.3                       3.3
POPULATION CROWrTN RATE (X)
TOTAL                                  1.89      2.3         2.2              1.9                       2.3
URBAN                                  2.3       3.3         3.9              4.3                       4.3
CRUDE MIRTH RATE CPER THOUS)           47.7       41.4        34.2             27.7                      30.1
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER TIOUm)            23.5      37.8        12.7             10.1                      9.5
GRoss REPROoUCTION RATC                  2.9        2.8        2.2              1.6                       2.LO
FAMILY PLANNINC
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (TrOUSi            64.0    3782.0       6826.0
USERS (2 0F MAr ED WN)                 ..       11.7        28.0               ..                      52.7
INDEX OIP Poo PROD. PER CAPITA
(l9b9-73-100)                          91.0      302.0       301.0            132.8                     123.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALOtRIS CZ 07 RKqUIRURNTS)           96.0      93.0        ".               97.7                    314.4
F11o11mf  (DIMS  Pa DAT)             34.0       50.0        46.0             36.8                      37.0
OF  NHICH ANtKAL AND PUBRR          17.0       15.0       13.0 /           14.9                      14.1
CHILD (ACES 1-4) DATH RAE              26.2       20.7        11.0              9.8                       7.2
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (TEARS)          2.5       47.5        54.6             60.0                      60.4
INFArT HOLT. RATE CPER TNOUS)         163.0      139.0        94.0             83.8                     66.3
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER tPOP)
TOTAL                                   ..      17.0        33.0 jd          32.9                      37.0
URBAN                                  ..       60.0        83.0 f           70.9                      54.8
RUItAL                                  ..       6.0        20.0 7j          22.3                      26.4
ACCESS TO ERCRETA DISPOSAL
(E OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                   *-      18.0        20.0             18. 1                     41.3
URS                                     ..      85.0        87.0 2           72.8                      47.4
RURAL                                   ..       1.0         2.0              4.6                      33.3
POPULATION PU PHYSICIAN              4850.0    4890.0       3690.0 if        3484.2                    7749.4
POP. PER NUSINGC PERSON             10960.0 j   7420.0      5460.0           4793.1                    2460.4
POP. Pn HOSPITAL RED
TOTAL                               2130.0    1630.0      1290.0 if        1066.5                    1044.2
URUAN                                   ..                 370.0 Jj         293.0                     651.2
RURAL                                   .          .     30410.04          5993.4                    2594.6
AIDISSIONS PM  HOSPITAL BED              ..         ..          ..               ..                      27.0
AVERACE SZZ OF lUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                  5.2        5.6        5.2               .
URN                                    5.2       5.6
RURAL                                  5.2        5.6        5.3               ..
AVERAGE NO. oP PERSONS/OON
TOTAL                                  2.G       2.8
Up"                                    2.6        2.8
UlhAL                                  2.6        2.8
ACCUSS TO ELECT. (2 07P laR.LIWu)
TOTAL                                   ..        ..
trln                                   ..         ..
SISAL                                   ..        ..          .                 ..



ANNEX I
Page=2 of 5
r _ IScIAL INDIRATO;Ut DATA BH1IT
REIEC   RW   U  IGTID AVERAUKS) f
MOnT                        (MUlT RECENT EITIAIAT) 'b
RCENT                LoW  INCOWI             MIDIILIR !NCOME
I9SnOI     lY7OLk      ETIM5ATTIk         AlIA 4 PACIFIC           ARIA A PArCIic
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PBIMARYt   TnTAL                        61.0        73.0         79.0              97.4                       102.I,
MALE                        80.0        90.0         93.0              110.I                       I05.9
FEMALE                      40.0        58.0         64.0              83.7                         98.2
SECOIIDARYI TOTAL                       20.0        26.0         30.0              35.9                        46.0
KALE                         30.0       36.0         39.0              44.6                         48.7
FEMALE                      10.0        15.0         20.0              16.8                        43.1
VOCAT11UNAI (It (F SECONDARY)              2.8         1.0          0.7 /a            2.2                         17.5
PUP IL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                                 46.0        41.0         54.0              38.5                        31.8
NECINDARY                               16.0        21.0                           IH.7                        23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE t21                   27.8        34.1         3b.2              53.4                         72.9
CONlI6TION
PASSENGER CARSITHlUSAND POP               0.6         1.1          1.  /h            0.9                         10.1
RADIO RECE1vERSITHoUSAND POP               4.9        21.5         *3. b            112.1                       113.6
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP                  0.0         0.0          1.7              15.7                        50.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST"3 CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATXON                 10.6        16.2         19 4 A6 2                                     53
CSIDMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA            1.2         6.2          3.7 7             3.6                          3.4
LABOR POO
TOI.:L LABOR FORCE CTHOUS)            105951.0   219194.0    282169.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                        30.7        32.5         31.8              33.3                        33.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                   74.0        74.0         71.0              69.6                        52.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                      11.0        11.0         13.2              15.6                        17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOAL                                    42.8        40.0         39.4              42.6                        36.7
KALE                                    37.0        52.4         52.0              54.7                        50.9
FEMALE                                  27.3        26.9         25.9              29.9                        26.6
rCONCRIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                  1.1         1.1          1.1               1.0                          1.1
UICIRI DORTRITDTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOHE
RECEIVED BY
HICHEST 52 OF HOUSEHOLDS                26.7        26.3 /       22.2              22.2                        22.2
HIGHEST 202 OP HDUSEHOLDS               51.7        46.9 jj      49.44             49.0                        48.0
LOWEST 202 or HOUSECOLDS                 4.1         6.7          7.07              6.4                         6 4
LOWEST 402 OF HOUSEHOLDS                13.6        17. 2 L      16.274            15.5                        15.5
POVTT TAnr GROWPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCONE
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                                           132.0 lh          133.9                       188.6
RURAL                                          n. 114.0 7_                        111.6                       152.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCG(E
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                                                                 .                       177.9
RURAL                                            .                 .         .       ..                       164.6
ESTLMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL CE)
URnAN                                     .           .          40.3 Ih           43.8                        23.4
RURAL                                                            50.7 74           51.7                        37.7
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a   The group a-eragee for each Lndicator ara popularlon-uetghtad arltmatic eane.  Coverage of countries anong the
indicators dependm an ava*lbillty of data and Is not uniform.
/b   Unlase otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year betwean 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and date for "Most Recent Eatimate" betwean 1980 end 1982.
/e   1977;  /d 1976;  le 1975;  /f 1978;  /I 1962; 1h 1979;  /I 1964-65.
JUS, 1984



VVP.las    iad as-    Ms -  VVIa-ss   n-         q  sa.s
s1sas. s          A.       ( aI-      sas:s            s    ai5   5
J. (55L,*,P
PI-  - "-*na us hisIs slp us
Sass  ~ags-.:sac-  puasi  555- 5i2flJ*:i  .'I   4A,,d
"St                                                        V_~~~~~~~~~~~~1  a   m5  uu:585* P ius aS V.C as-ut.    n
u.s%jG-d    W-        -..-                                                             Ps"  Osas    seuPtaaa   a    '.-  .sa                        uss
155505 5u5i5J515La  a   ls~~i5  5la517a                           .sq pus..a5   as 55555s   jass pus-a. .~~s:s.u. alas.. a..J
a        M       I'M   M .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  l-~   t  su                                    lt  -s.:'n  s  ss..    sssshp  ss
Vq. -4 P-PAP  S 1-1 VVIAB~5Ph   WCiI  m5i5.n*5i'asint al       i 
Ad-    -t-ldo IVIVVI.-M               i susan Is .t5  15..5 -d  (-flu   asl *s~ (-usu   DstIE
.ssssa.s  -.  tisasa us   .ss ls           .usia- IVVI.                              ft.ns   *au  as 55   iSV  aVIs-P  ft. -  TiiIf-   if3XiiS
so. -I.V s...sad 1-sift-aa  alas-Jsasiss. -uu-.asls.  sSa,as
-sass soas 51 0:51: P  5. aOlPu 55  us5IP5 ltu   ,5-l.1 Pid S.                                                                   _Tdd
ssss us n.e pfltaap *s u-si 5.s-aa   aaaaa  p. s-hi Is-sasS           SSS, a..:  a  a.   ssu  sqsJ..s s-a.,dl  aaa .5 I-a J. spaiatnA
J. VsflM a.  Oai   .r:S            1:.im            aa.-susuaSa                              uP55~                 tOss V    it5usai s  a   a           il
- it... us suas- (ssis5a a-  miiasi s-~sm  aaas ansla.iupsa, sa               5:  ss-  asIus           s am- ws.ss.     .S- Mbs*  s!   m-i_     51P.
-  N.s.a ssus - dsnls.  -ss   Pdal is.. -,as:  ns5'iq.uta                                                --sea,  am-- ---u-- Su55 Pa  sat
V.  -  Pd S. Pd     -isad            ...M nepsaaa.             lu.a. "IV---                             sssapaau    J.a.      -sesaasa
us  5-suLMsss a aa      ss~ss-55.~sI=.             s---alt isu   1a-a  rs   s  sls                                                     7 Jq as-i p-    O,.
-P-1 -1. 9-1 p- -_1 I.O.. ... J.55   -5.lsa i5 _                                                pls.  -atiii.pfs 5ftusals.y
55 ssaan s   snan u     sasa P."   *55 -"L     f ...     15*55p  .ssaa                --mnl             al    aa   asdl~d  Lis.VVV1a     ss  a      .   il 
.aqnaeq uiess  - Psus u   s-a-:1 oiV  aas  ssidaadaod         ai* ..aa-                    s usia55s-s-usas                  s  iia Jis;  Vs.  15a
II. 1- VVIVadU.Ii.5   mP'.spa:d                                                                         t.  %-:t:Ia:   i5s5   a
ss as a  as  ps :  s..  s..s     iss...   - MW aEmaspss  s                                    sssP s aUsj as    sSh swLs-  P555  "54      pus 55--             s
*                        9   usas -iu  S~~~~~~~i us  asuss~~iSs  us isssaasusa    iaiu                                 s a -a      ut.,s. . ...........s   i,s  *idssq                sa
5555016 s.!ti-Js  sm% t- :-:q-   .5 .           ssp  n,        u.s..  u.:su.-sm siasias                                             sa       la.  isuss-s
Addi tusus  ss   i.      - P.nsis    u-    a-t   Vils  js          arVa..                   -st. sPtnf91ssisu                     iss         -I.su.             s.
.dAs  stIas 1-  5:s-  us  5:hd  lam.   -AMss.  '   sssti                                                                                                        u
-a., ~~    n   5anaa                 as   ui5~e      i. Y                     ~            sms  s Vs ususm    UaI-1-tAV        stis-' a..dd  -slaPu  w-s as tsp
V.                            I      :21~~~~~~as .....               a..ia    ,.  siaaad                              sin.       ulaa
.3sdsij. :1 : -_  " 1- --s-111.  p-                                      u            _.ns. ss. -u..uaa   s      I  Psssp:u        P
-  iVt-VVP5d         sssssluuuau a-   usg  Ssspn                                                         __s.su-iuu                                      ssp
.I..S  -.    -sJ  sd-u   aaa5I   I  ssl. ,           is -     ssSss.a   san                           ..  - IPss5iu:5555asaa                      Vtld   iia
sass-u. *u  -  s-an hupassss-u siuaauas 555 sssuSaisdQ                                                                    Vrut
i-sPd' n -   - asep   anI.    Musa.u   -:   is    ssuuau                                          s*..'u    uuus  .a.   saoaa:s-ss    uut
sipsaas .. .sa .ii   so.. sum  51 a. 531555u   ai.as-.l-'sls  u   p-sittft   5siusa
....... ...*5l   is das   . asa:    u          ...a                             sa-*   sasnI  5sZ-555-,hss, sss-d                               isa
sspsa -   .aiss,,as--:L , u._s          ' -  aVisIasal-uusuausps'ss. V -                                                       t-sm o-s   as.ss 
-ss:ass  Saatlsputis':a   ass5assP lsa  -ilII    iusa-C  Sstsua   sltif
a idids-a    d.o  aau-.P 3ra-   uss5sIsss  siOLsusw                                                                          *15us           iu:   uuusss
-s-uSls-)saw  aa..sj   isutss5. psls.ulas. ."dsasasassasps  -Sauaii-ss   ssaaammp5:5a mss  5
-    -m. pspus-a Vdf: sl TN= si =uii.u.M aa   s usu--suuiul                                                           'upt.ue  i.   s.'s """
uuV-n.i-'5*- isdau-d      a   I - uu      VA,u sap--  u      ss
uus  uwps-a  i s-alsap      a        lu- -                                                                        sup't:ps
uus Tsss                   i's    i..m    -saai  .,-suu.-  us    ua                             s
51a-s.ti  a.usaasi-  -'psau~'p-usa M s-i as                          -u      as.su-s'i1-5    I-ueusuaaslsu
'ass-sas  s.s55- Isus    VVV- *i -a ussn.Ii.                                                                           ...sssas   sas   ,ausPs   u~    isuiuaIS Vwust- a . .    55'15
ro-aI asasuPs,s -. I usl   t-nstslasasssss  .  55us   ssi  -umsssusa                                                                    'ss  uss   s
ftsss  u., plasaStu.h  sieaI-au ss    l:-                                           551       usu   su5   alfssaaimla  u5    is                        su
sis        hs'us'  ssg    sas    s   la usf7~lZui                                  lisus..auaS.Vsa   -as-u-d.sSI-ualsists.su:
_.V1 A.                    pas    siss    sumW'a'd-dmsi-*as    a    a tls  u    uila.a   s.at5
ZhI~M  -li~55l  P5s  55ls5uss  5lsasaasaw  'ssaaua  busu:t 
I.M.  -U.N. ~ ~ ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     .a   psmsi  -us  Uiua  ss   ssu   uaa    ua
'L~.~  asu   sIu u- iIs.555'snu-  is. . a-                      s-    ss   S   .~ss   uils   s  au-s   t                     a
sn-  eas.. issta us  .-oaLm,-uk  -                                  -                                        ..us.   .aa  ..a.  . -si-s
sssu5s ts-uuu -s us uiss  uu                                          sst r.m  pu  'muli u.i.'......s I..
suaras  n-   s.-        su       sp-ua    i-  *    iuua                       us   -.utssss1.,1   asia                  a     aiu  (59ussaee 
sassa    hu.i sas. as~sp~ppulis    asjs  usiss P.suss                     '-IsIsa   u.s.-. als 15115 iisik  ,s-5.n. .i... ....7W
Js. u   o s  isn ag ped       s-a         uuwis sa.ntps
I  raw ~     ~      ~ ~ ~ ~ T                           ~        gtmps'.'.s'um"nu -~r ~~ d-



AM I
49n *. at 5
SCONOHIC DSVD IT0P11 DATA
CGP Pn CAPITA IN 1981 U11260 a/
GRoIlS :_eMSTIC PRODUCT IN 1982183 b/                                                ALOIUAL RATE O  CGZ   (S. Contat Price.) c/
1955t56-1959/60  1960i61-l1b4/b3  1965/66-196P/70  1970/71-197&i75  1975/J7-197118b
US) sin.    X
GDP at  Marcel Price.                 170.74   100.0                       1.7                3.6                3.7               2.9                4.1
c-Gro   Doaaatis  Invstment            41.99    24.6
Gross Natlunal Savtng                  31.12    22.3
(urrant Actonut Balance                 3.87   - 2.3
OUlTf. LAS   F OURCE AND PRODUCTIVITY 1N 1981
Value  dded (at factor coast         Labor Force i/        V.A. Par Worker
UlS Dln! -2._                                     7         lS    2 of National AvraEg
AaLtL,.t.1                             51.7                   35.1         172.7      70.6      299         50
tnduatry                               35.2                  23.9          11.6      12.9      1114        155
Sarvtica                               60.6                  41.0           40.3      16.5     1504        249
Tot 'lAvger                            oir 1                                  r00 -rare 6ur 10  0
COVEL3StXT FINANCE
Gneral Government  *I                                  Centrl Governmt
E. Bin               S of CDP                       a. Sin.             I of CDP
1982/83      1982/63    1978179-1982/83            IU83 1              90 8  1976/79-1952/83
Currant Racalpta                        333.34       20.3            19.5                  17.611        10.7           10.5
Current Expenditures                    340.09       20.7            19.0                  268.59        11.5           10.8
Currant SurplualDalicit                -  6.75      - 0.4             0.5                 - 12.98       - 0.8          - 0.4
CapItal Expendituree fl                 131.28        8.0             8.1                   95.13         5.8            5.?
External Aealetance (net) d/             19.30        1.2             1.0
MUNEY. CREDIT AND PRICES               1970/71  1973/76  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80  1950/81  1981182  1982/83  February 1983  February 1984
(Is BiliIon outatanding at and or period)
Honey and Quasi  onay                   109.8    224.8    329.1    401.1    t72.3    555.5    624.9    723.8             711.7           845.7
Dank Credit to Government (net)          54.6    106.3    137.3    159.3    200.1    257.2    309.1    352.4             353.5           406.6
Sank Credit to Cm_orcial Sector          64.6    156.2    212.2    255.3    310.1    363.5    430.5    504.5             487.7           576.4
(Parcentage  or Index Numbera)                               Apr-lab 1982/83  Ar-rob 1983/84
Money and Qucal Honey as a 1
a! CDP                                 27.3     30.3      36.7      41.1      44.1      Z3.6     42.0      4.0
Uhaleale Price Index
(1970171 - 1OO)                       100.0    173.0    185.8    185.8    217.6    257.3    281.4    288.6             288.1               314.8
Annual percentage chengaa in:
Jholesele Price Index                     7.7      -1.1      5.2       -        17.1      18.2       9.4      2.6          2.3                  9.3
Dank Credit to Goverment (nat)           15.0      22.7     16.3      16.0      25.6      28.5     2D.2      14.0         21.0 A/              18.9 h/
Bank Credit to Comerclal Sector          19.4      22.7     12.6      20.2      21.5      17.2      13.4     17.2         15.5 gI              17.9 b/
*/ The per capita CUP eatmete I eat markt price.. using World Dank Atleo mebodology. bass priod 1979-1951.
All other conversionn  to dollar.       his table era at the average *xchena  rate provefling durin  the period covered.
b/  Qu1ck Eetlatss, Central Stettet...- Organiration.
el  computed from trend lin  of CI* at factor coat serlie   including one obaervation before firet year and one  obrwetion atcer leet yer of
latmed perlod.
d/  World Bank  antmatas of net disbursement  of conceoelonal aid aa' DP1D.
;/  Trannatre between Centre end State. lava b-en netted out.
7/  All loan. and advance. to third parties have bean netted out.
A/  Percentage change trom amd-March 1982 to end-February 1983.
h/  Percentage change from ard-MArch 1983 to end-February 1984.
1/  Total Labor Force and peremntage breakdon from 1981 Census.   nclude. data for ALen.



AMM I
km  S of 5
BAIAiLE Dr PAYNUITS                       19002DI   1912   19Uf1131' 131-                     wamiSC  C1s  (i RAv   1971510-1912/R3) SI
I2SS  i"n.)                                                                                                                Uu$ Mln.      I
tupartm oR Coode                          a,10       3.119     5.001      .64                 gio_ rlmg Good. x/             950        12
Importm .f Goode gl                     -l.z204   -15.100   -146249   -14.12                Ta                                055        6
rrade bRelnc.                           - 7.700   - 6.9U1   - 6.245   - S.944              t                                 779         9
NFS lnet)                                  1.l35       974       940        D56             Clothing                          13         1
Latbr end lather Product         65W         6
Reut   Balan.e                          - b.ll6,331   - 6.W07   - 5.308   5.490             Jute    utMmmfctura              331 
Iron Ore                        310          1
Intereuc Incue  (notI kL                   600        236   -   415   -   6Ui             Cotton Teatilem                   321         &
NeL Translers 1/                           2.771     2.313      1.649     1.790             luger                             N6         I
Otherm                         3.549        46
Balance on Current Ascount              - 2.9"   - 3.603   - 3.174   - 1.U44 
iffILlal LoAns 6 Grante                                                                    TDLSZ                           5.z43       300
Crams Dlmburommntm                         2.6S1     2.570      3.050     I."[              UTONAL OUT, HuW    312  1981
so.rtlzarion                            -   700   -   674   -   701   -   7133
131S bl11lon
Irrn.atlon with 1tF (nut)                 1.03l        690     1.NO       1.291            Outstanding and Dlmburmd                     19.6
All *lther Ite. 27                      -   361   - 1.S1I          12       531             D dimburmed                                 21.2
Outetanding  acluding Undlaburmed           30.7
In,rease in  eervm  (-3 345                          2.395   -   503   -   536
[rums Rummreo  (end year) e               6.859      4.461     4.9b4      5.5DO             DaT SFCVICC RATIO FOR 192/S13 jI f          10.1 per cent
Net  emervem (end year) al                6.532      3.697     2.055      1.4b9
tlaD/IDA LUIDlIN. 114ROt 31 195 [/
Futl and Related NaterlelU
fep.rr  (IPetroleum) St                   6.672      5.590     4.413      1.395                                                  15tD    IVA
Outatandiu  asd Diaburmed           1.520      7.924
UndLiburamd                          2.081      4.331
Outtasnlag includLng Undimburas   3.907    12.255
RATE OF EIACIANGE
June 296b to mid-December 1971          US91.00 - BP 7.50
Se 1.00 - US50.13333
MId-Deceeber 1971 to end-Jun  1972      US61.00 - Re 7.27927
Rs 1.00 - liSSO.137374
After end-June 1972                     Floatin  Raze
Spot Rate end-arch 1983             :    SS1.00 - R.  10.0301
Re 1.00 -  ss50.0117
Spot Rat end-March 1954                 US#l DO - Rs 10.7181
is 1.00 - USSO.0933
jI1 Entmtlatd
ki  figurne given cover all Investmnt inm  (nt). Major pajoate are DItetemL On foreign ioane ad chmrges peld to IM. and ajor raceLpte is
interLmc earned on foreig   "note.
I,  Figures give  include workers' raittanee but excnda offIcial Brant e"itate  otich La included witbin official lon  and grante. and
non-remIdent depomite which are included wittin all othbr Its.
j/  Exclude net use of D1  credit.
1t  Aortization and interest paynete  on foreign loane a a percentage of total current reclpts.
ol  Includes exchange rate edjsiatantm to the valuation of renrmes nd fimncing of iahlace1  In rupn  trade.
ti  Excluding gold.
SI Ret of crude petrolem eSperta.
rl  Including iron and stel.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1984)
USS million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                         Bank         IDA S       Undisbursed 2/
50 Loans/                                              2,164.0          -
93 Credits fully disbursed                                 -        5,535.2            -
482-IN    1974      Karnataka Dairy                                   30.0           8.15
610-IN    1976      Integrated Cotton Development         -           18.0           0.03
1251-IN    1976      Andhra Pradesh Irrigation           145.0          -            24.94
1273-IN    1976      National Seeds 1                     25.0          -            11.19
1335-IN    1977      Bombay Urban Transport               25.0          -             1.17
680-IN    1977      Kerala Agric. Development             -           30.0           8.45
682-IN    1977      Orissa Agric. Development             -           20.0           1.65
690-IN    1977      West Bengal Agricultural
Extension & Research                -           12.0           7.32
1394-IN    1977      Gujarat Fisheries                    14.0          -             2.62
720-IN    1977      Periyar Vaigai Irrigation             -           23.0           1.52
728-IN    1977      Assam Agricultural Development        -            8.0           1.34
747-IN    1978      Second Foodgrain Storage              -          107.0          52.65
761-IN    1978      Bihar Agricultural
Extension & Research               -            8.0          4.93
1511-IN    1978      IDBI Joint/Public Sector             25.0          -             1.72
1549-IN    1978      Third Trombay Thermal Power         105.0          -             3.60
788-IN    1978      Karnataka Irrigation                  -          117.6          37.38
793-IN    1978      Korba Thermal Power                   -          200.0          30.11
806-IN    1978      Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture            -           14.0           9.91
815-IN    1978      Andhra Pradesh Fisheries              -           17.5           8.40
816-IN    1978      National Seeds II                     -           16.0           4.86
1592-IN    1978      Telecommunications VII              120.0          -            15.10
824-IN    1978      National Dairy                        -          150.0          43.85
842-IN    1979      Bombay Water Supply II                -          196.0         141.11
844-IN    1979      Railway Modernization
& Maintenance                       -          190.0         25.05
848-IN    1979      Punjab Water Supply & Sewerage        -           38.0           5.28
855-IN    1979      National Agricultural Research        -           27.0          14.06
862-IN    1979      Composite Agricultural Extension    -             25.0           2.94
871-IN    1979      National Cooperative Development
Corporation                         -           30.0           0.83
1648-IN    1979      Ramagundam Thermal Power             50.0          -            50.00
874-IN    1979      Ramagundam Thermal Power              -          200.0          10.71
889-IN    1979      Punjab Irrigation                     -          129.0          38.32
899-IN    1979      Maharashtra Water Supply              -           48.0           6.72
911-IN    1979      Rural Electrification Corp. II        -          175.0           4.45
925-IN    1979      Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry         -           23.0           2.24
954-IN    1980      Maharashtra Irrigation II             -          210.0          42.74
961-IN    1980      Gujarat Community Forestry            -           37.0           6.51
963-IN    1980      Inland Fisheries                      -           20.0          16.07
981-IN    1980      Population II                         -           46.0          27.63



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                    (Net of Cancellations)
UredL   Year of
No.      Approval         Purpose                          Bank         IDA L/      Undisbursed 2|
1003-IN    1980      Tamil Nadu Nutrition                    -           32.0           19.48
1011--IN    1980     Gujarat Irrigation II                   -          175.0           94.88
1012-IN    1980      Cashewnut                               -           22.0           16.11
1027-IN    1980      Singrauli Thermal II                    -          300.0         159.67
1028-IN    1980      Kerala Agricultural Extension           -           10.0            7.56
1033-IN    1980      Calcutta Urban Transport                -           56.0           17.76
1034-IN    1980      Karnataka Sericulture                   -           54.0          30.32
1046-IN    1980      Rajasthan Water Supply & Severage   -               80.0          49.09
1843-IN    1980       Industry DFC XIII                    100.0          -              5.37
1887-IN    1980      Farakka Thermal Power                  25.0          -             25.00
1053-IN    1980      Farakka Thermal Power                   -          225.0         113.52
1897-IN    1981      Kandi Watershed and
Area Development                    30.0          -             20.31
1072-IN    1981      Bihar Rural Roads                       -           35.0           14.38
1078-IN    1981      Mahanadi Barrage.                       -           83.0          42.64
1082-IN    1981      Madras Urban Development II             -           42.0           19.49
1108-IN    1981      M.P. Nedium Irrigation                  -          140.0          85.73
1112-IN    1981      Telecommunications VIII                 -          314.0          89.58
1116-IN    1981      Karnataka Tank Irrigation               -           54.0          37.68
1125-IN    1981      Hazira Fertilizer Project               -          400.0         117.86
1135-IN    1981      Maharashtra Agricultural Ext.           -           23.0          13.92
1137-IN    1981      Tamil Nadu Agricultural Ext.            -           28.0           17.08
1138-IN    1981      M.P. Agricultural Ext. II               -           37.0          28.05
1146-IN    1981      National Cooperative
Development Corp. II                 -          125.0          70.25
1172-IN    1982      Korba Thermal Pover Project II          -          400.0         273.61
1177-IN    1982      Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation         -          220.0         154.99
2050-IN    1982      Tamil Nadu Newsprint                  100.0          -            18.15
1178-IN    1982      West Bengal Social Forestry             -           29.0           19.92
1185-IN    1982      Kanpur Urban Development                -           25.0           15.13
2051-IN    1982       Icici xiv                            150.0          -             57.70
2076-IN    1982      Ramugundam Thermal Power II           300.0          -            269.54
2095-IN    1982      ARDC IV                               190.0          -              0.43
1219-IN    1982      Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Ext.    -                6.0            4.69
2123-IN    1982      Refineries Rationalization            200.0          -             96.43
2165-IN    1982      Rurrl Electrification III             304.5          -            274.48
2186-IN    1982      Kallada Irrigation                     20.3          -             20.00
1269-IN    1982      Kallada Irrigation                      -           60.0          30.57
1280-IN    1983      Gujarat Water Supply                    -           72.0          60.11
1286-IN    1983       Jaimu/Kasbmir and
Haryana Social Forestry              -           33.0          24.97
1288-IN    1983       Chambal Kadhys Pradesh                 -             -
Irrigation II                        -           31.0          19.65
1289-IN    1983       Subernarekha Irrigation                -          127.0          105.96
2205-IN    1983      Krishna-Godavari Exploration          165.5          -            140.52
2210-IN    1983      Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                     200.0          -           197.04



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                    (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year ot
No. __   Appruval         Purpose                          Bank         IDA 1/      Undisbursed 2/
1299-IN    1983      Railways Modi-rnization 6
Maintenui-ct 11                      -          200.0          177.00
2241-lN    1983      South Basseini GaN Developmtnt        139.3          -            133.71
1319-IN    1983      Haryana Irrigation It                   -          150.0          114.38
1332-IN    1983      U.P. Public Tubewells I1                -          101.0           89.79
1356-IN    1983      Upper Indravati Hydro Power             -          170.0          148.38
2278-IN    1983      Upper IndravatLi Hydro Power          156.4          -            156.01
1369-IN    1983      Calcutta Urban Development 111          -          147.0          132.10
1383-IN    1983      Maharashtra Water Utilization           -           32.0           26.95
2308-IN    1983      Maharashtra Water Utilization          22.7          -             22.64
2283-IN    1983      Central Power Transmission            250.7          -            250.07
2295-IN    1983      Himalayan WaLershed Management         46.2          -             45.89
2329-lN    1983      Madhya Pradesh Urban                   24.1          -             24.04
1397-IN    1984      Orissa Irrigation 11                    -          105.0          83.20
1424-IN    1984      Rainfed Areas Watershed Dev.            -           31.0           29.37
1426-IN    1984      Population III                          -           70.0           66.23
1432-IN    1984      Karnataka Social Forestry               -           27.0           25.57
2387-IN    1984       Nhava Sheva Port                     250.0                       249.38
2393-IN    1984      Dudhichua Coal                        151.0                       150.62
2403-IN    1984       Cambay Basin Petroleum               242.5                       241.90
2415-IN    1984      Madhya Pradesh Fertilizer             203.6                       203.09
1483-IN    1984      Upper Ganga Irrigation                             125.0          117.38
1496-IN    1984      Gujarat Medium Irrigation                          172.0          164.14
2417-IN    1984      Railways Electrification*             280.7                       280.70
2442-IN    1984      Farakka II Thermal Power*             300.8                       300.80
Total                                     6,526.3    12,268.3
of which has been repaid                1,350.8         173.0
Total now outstanding                      5,175.5    12,095.3
Amount Sold                      133.8
of which has been repaid    133.8            -            -
Total now held by Bank and IDA 3/          5,175.5    12,095.3
Total undisbursed (excluding *)            2,712.69    3,494.35
1/ IDA Credit amounts for SDR-denominated Credits are expressed in terms of their
US dollar equivalents, as established at the time of Credit negotiations and as
subsequently presented to the Board.
2/ Undisbursed amounts for SDR-denominated IDA Credits are derived from cumulative
disbursements converted to their US dollar equivalents at the SDR/US dollar
exchange rate in effect on September 30, 1984.
3/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
*   Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1984)
Amount (US$ million)
Fiscal
Year                     Company                       Loan      Equity    Total
1959             Republic Forge Company Ltd.            1.5         -        1.5
1959             Kirloakar Oil Engines Ltd.             0.8         -        0.8
1960             Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                 1.4         -        1.4
1961             K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                      0.2         -        0.2
1963-66          Precision Bearings India Ltd.          0.6        0.4       1.0
1964             Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.           0.8        0.4       1.2
1964-75-79       Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.         11.8        1.3      13.1
1964             Laksbmi Machine Works Ltd.             1.0        0.3       1.3
1967             Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                1.1        0.1       1.2
1967             Indian Explosives Ltd.                 8.6        2.9      11.5
1969-70          Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.             15.1        3.8      18.9
1976             Escorts Limited                        6.6         -        6.6
1978             Housing Development Finance
Corporation                            4.0        1.2       5.2
1980             Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.        7.5        1.2       8.7
1981             Coromandel Fertilizers Limited        15.9                 15.9
1981             Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0           -       38.0
1981             Mahindra, Mahindra Limited            15.0         -       15.0
1981             Nagarjuna Coated Tubes Ltd.            2.9        0.3       3.2
1981             Nagarjuna Signode Limited              2.3         -        2.3
1981             Nagarjuna Steels Limited               1.5        0.2       1.7
1982             Ashok Leyland Limited                 28.0         -       28.0
1982             The Bombay Dyeing and
Manufacturing Co. Ltd.             18.8         -      18.8
1982             Bharat Forge Company Ltd.             15.5         -       15.5
1982             The Indian Rayon Corp. Ltd.            8.1         -        8.1
1984             The Gwalior Rayon Silk Manu-
facturing (Weaving) Co. Ltd.        3.7         -       3.7
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS         210.7       12.1    222.8
Less:   Sold                          53.0        3.4      56.4
Repaid                        34.0        -       34.0
Cancelled                     33.0       1.4      34.4
Nov Held                      90.7        7.3     98.0
Undisburmed                   44.1         _      44.1
=mm==Mi             M



ANNEX III
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PkOJECT DATA SHEET
Section 1:       Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
About 12 months.
(b)  The agency which has prepared the project
GOI and the participating State Governments.
'c)  Date of first presentation to the Association and
date of first mission to consider the project
March/April 1984.
Cd)  Date of departure of appraisal mission
May/June 1984.
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations
February 22, 1985.
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness
June 24, 1985.
Section II:      Special IDA Implementation Actions
None.
Section III:    Special Conditions
(a)  All extension staff would be used exclusively for
agricultural extension activities; their emoluments,
benefits and promotional prospects would not be adversely
affected as a result of such assignment (para. 41);
(b)  The Project States would provide its staff with credit
for the purchase of vehicles and financial incentives,
including appropriate travel allowances, to encourage
their optimal use (para. 42).



ANNEX IV
INDIA
SECOND NATIONAL ACRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
PROCUREMENT METHOD /1
(USS Million)
Project
ELement              ICB          LCB        Other        N.A.         Total Cost
Incremental
Staff Salaries    -              -           -         28.1             28.1
(16.0)          (16.0)
Civil Works           -           28.5         -           -              28.5
(15.7)                                  (15.7)
Incremental
Operating Costs   -              -           -         17.1             17.1
(9.4)           (9.4)
Vehicles and
Equipment                         7.9                                     7.9
(5.9)                                  (5.9)
Training                           2.0         -           -               2.0
(2.0)                                  (2.0)
TOTAL                 -           38.4                   45.2             83.6
(23.6)                 (25.4)          (49.0)
1/ Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the Credit.



16SRD 16519R
I ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                           N .... 
F-~~ ~                             .  .-7----~  .                                              'BDi~9
4IJ4-s F 'jMt *", \,               NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL
EXTENSION  PROJECT nl
e'    it  ,i,. .                                 N. I I .
P A K I  T A N9'. ;'   ., t ..   .,,.
TTAk~~~~~~ 16A[,hF,,  ,t ,(_ 
RAJASTHAN                             sAS.AM
BI4AR              ItANC4A SHI A.- H
-          ~ ~~~~~,-rWEST\   R--A
-i/74/    -                         *                           \ * . SENGjA7 L     l,
t v   /                  :         <                        \    h l I k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)P M A
MAHARASHTRA  rr~  ? >>   gS;Ss"                                         H M
X~~~~~~   ,
ANDHRA
,, , A   7     o~~RADESH 
- --    *-----Q                 s--                
KERALA |Ri LANCA                   q SRIZLAW
.______                F
__.... - r- --
__0b     _A . -
.~~~~~~~ _t                                                             SIlNAa   tX 
___~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FBUR 196



