CREDIT NUMBER 1569 IN
OFFICIAL
DOCU M ENTS
Project Agreement
(Second National Agricultural Extension Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
STATE OF GUJARAT
and
STATE OF HARYANA
and
STATE OF JAMMU AND KASHMIR
and
STATE OF KARNATAKA
Dated         J    /O             , 1985


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1569 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     <?2ay    /o              , 1985, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and STATE OF GUJARAT and STATE OF HARYANA and STATE
OF JAMMU and KASHMIR and STATE OF KARNATAKA, acting by their
respective Governors (hereinafter collectively called the Project
States).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to fifty million two hundred sixty thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 50,260,000), on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on
condition that the Project States agree to undertake such obliga-
tions toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS in accordance with the Borrower's standard arrange-
ments for development assistance to the States of India, the
proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit
Agreement will be made available to the Project States; and
WHEREAS the Project States, in consideration of the Associa-
tion s entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the
Borrower, have agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) The Project States declare their commit-
ment to the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2
to the Development Credit Agreeement, and, to this end, shall
carry out the Project described in said Schedule with due dili-
gence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate admini-
strative, financial, engineering and agricultural practices, and
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Project States shall carry out the Project
in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Association and the
Project States.
Section 2.02. Except as the As3ociation shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agree-
ment.
Section 2.03. The Project States shall carry out the obliga-
tions set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08
of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, mainte-
nance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the
Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) The Project States shall, at the request
of the Association, exchange views with the Association with
regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of their
obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to
the purposes of the Credit.
(b) The Project States shall promptly inform the Associa-
tion of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere
with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, or the performance by the Project States
of their respective obligations under this Agreement.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. Each of the States shall cause its departments
aud other agencies and authorities responsible for the carrying
out of its part of the Project or any part thereof to: (i) main-
tain separate records and accounts adequate to reflect, in
accordance with sound accounting practices and procedures consis-
te-.:-.y applied, their resources, expenditures and operations
related to the Project; and (ii) furnish to the Association
copies of their accounts and financial statements related to the
Project for each fiscal year, certified as to their accuracy and
authenticity by an independent auditor acceptable to the Associa-
tion, as soon as available but in any case not later than nine
months after the end of each such year.
Section 3.02. Each of the States shall cause its departments
and other agencies and authorities responsible for the carrying
out of its part of the Project or any part thereof to: (i) have
their accounts and financial statements related to the Project
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association
immediately following its finalization, the report of such audit
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Asso-
ciation shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the
Association such other information concerning said accounts and
records, financial statements and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of the Project States thereunder shall terminate
on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or


﻿-4-
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
the Project States of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For State of Gujarat:
Secretary to the Government of Gujarat
Agriculture and Rural Development Department
Sachivalaya
Gandhinagar, Gujarat, India


﻿-5-
Cable address:
AGRICOPSEC
Gandhinagar, India
For State of Haryana:
Financial Commissioner and Secretary
to Government-Haryana
Department of Agriculture,
Civil Secretariat
Chandigarh, India
For State of Jammu and Kashmir:
Secretary to Government
Agricultural 'roduction Department
Civil Secretariat
Sarinagar/Jammu, India
Cable address:
AGRISEC
Sarinagar/Jammu, India
Cable address:
AGRISEC HARYANA
Chandigarh, India
For State of Karnataka:
Secretary to Government
Department of Agriculture and Horticulture
Bangalore, India
Cable address:
AGRISEC
Bangalore, India
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be
taken, and any document required or permitted to be executed,
under this Agreement on behalf of each of the Project States may
be taken or executed by a Secretary to the Government in each
Project State or such other person or persons as each Project


﻿-6-
State shall designate in writing, and each Project State shall
furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By SIb(~u           A,c
Acting Regional Vice President
South Asia
STATE OF GUJARAT
By              8
Authorized Representative
STATE OF HARYANA
By
Authorized Representative
STATE OF JAMMU AND KASHMIR
By                 ea'
Authorized Representative
STATE OF KARNATAKA
By
Authorized Representative


﻿-7-
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.   General Procedures
Except as provided in Parts B and D hereof, contracts for
civil works, vehicles, equipment and furniture shall be let     on
the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for equipment and furniture estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or less may be procured by prudent shopping
through normal trade channels.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in August
1984 (the Guidelines) shall apply.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditures. Such contracts shall be
retained until one year after the Closing Date.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
D.   Procurement Without Contracting
Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 each
or less, may be carried out through force account.


﻿- 8 -
SCHEDULE 2
Japlementation Program
1.   The Project States shall: (a) establish procedures, satis-
.factory to the Association, for carry4ng out effective monitoring
and evaluation of their respective parts of the Project and carry
out such monitoring and evaluation in accordance with said
procedures; and (b) prepare and furnish to the Association,
through DOE, annual summaries of the results of such monitoring
and evaluation.
2.   The Project States shall ensure that: (a) all extension
positions assigned to the administrative control of DOA for the
purposes of the Project shall be used exclusively for agricul-
tural extension and retained under such administrative control
and; (b) staff assigned to carry out extension work under the
Project shall not be adversely affected, in respect of their
entitlements to emoluments, benefits and promotional prospects,
by reason alone of such assignment.
3.   In order to ensure the mobility of staff engaged in exten-
sion work under the Project, the Project States undertake to make
available: (a) to all eligible staff in need of credit for the
purchase of motorcycles, mopeds or bicycles, such credit on terms
and conditions designed to provide incentives for the purchase of
such motorcycles, mopeds or bicycles; and (b) such financial
incentive, including appropriate travel allowances, in order to
encourage optimum use of the motorcycles, mopeds and bicycles to
be purchased under paragraph (a) above.
4.   The Project States undertake to fill incremental staff posi-
tions wi-L staff having qualifications and experience satisfac-
tory to the Association and in accordance with a schedule agreed
with the Association.
5.   Each of the Project States: (a) shall, no later than Septem-
ber 30, 1987, prepare and furnish to the Association for its com-
ments, a mid-term review of the Project execution, such review to
determine inter alia the adequacy of the existing field staff
arrangement; and (b) if the findings of such review reveal that
the number of staff or other facilities deployed under the
Project are not sufficient for the efficient implementation
thereof, shall increase the number of staff and other facilities
so deployed taking into account the Association's recommenda-
tions.


﻿-9-
6.   Beginning July   15, 1986 and each     year thereafter, the
Project States shall furnish their annual's Project budget to the
Association for its review.
7.   Gujarat shall ensure that a single line of administrative
command within DOA from the district agricultural officer level
down to the level of village extension workers is established.
8.   In order to coordinate the implementation of Part A of    the
Project, Jammu and Kashmir shall by August 31, 1985, establish a
coordination committee with functions and me!mbership satisfactory
to the Association.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the    0day of                  ,
198F                          SC     T
FOR SECRETARY


