Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16682
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
THIRD FISHERIES PROJECT
(Credit 2146-BD)
June 12, 1997
Agriculture and Natural Resources Division
Country Department I
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization. 



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit           Taka (Tk)
At Appraisal (March 1990): Tk 32.27 =   US$1.00
Currently (June 1997):    Tk 43.65  =   US$1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)        =    1.1 yards
1 hectare (ha)     =   2.47 acres
I metric ton (m ton) =   2,205 pounds
1 kilogram (1 kg)    =   2.205
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
July I - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BWDB    -   Bangladesh Water Development Board
BMCs    -   Beel Management Committees
DOF       -   Department of Fisheries
ERR       -   Economic Rate of Return
FRI       -   Fisheries Research Institute
FAO/CP   -   Food and Agriculture Organization/Cooperative Program
GOB       -   Government of Bangladesh
ICR       -   Implementation Completion Report
IDA       -   International Development Association
MTA       -   Management Technical Assistance
MTR       -   Mid-term Review
MOFL    -   Ministry of Fisheries and Livestock
NFMP    -   New Fisheries Management Policy
NGO       -   Non-governmental Organization
O&M       -   Operation and Maintenance
ODA       -   Overseas Development Administration
SAR       -   Staff Appraisal Report
STA       -   Social and Technical Assistance
TFP       -   Third Fisheries Project
UNDP    -   United Nations Development Program
Vice President               :Mieko Nishimizu
Acting Director              :Fakhruddin Ahmed
Division Chief/Manager       :Ridwan Ali
Staff Member                 :Benson Ateng



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
,BANGLADESH                        FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THIRD FISHERIES PROJECT
(Credit 2146-BD)
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE .u....................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ......................................... iii
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives .........................................I
B. Achievement of Objectives .........................................2
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project ..........................................6
D. Project Sustainability ....6.....................................6
E. Bank Performance ..........................................7
F. Borrower Performance ..........................................9
G. Assessment of Outcome .......................................... 0
H. Future Operation ......................................... 10
1.  Key Lessons Learned ..........................................11
PART II- STATISTICAL TABLES
Table I Summary of Assessments .12
Table 2 Related Bank Loans/Credits .13
Table 3 Project Timetable .14
Table 4    Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual .15
Table 5  Key Indicators for Project Implementation .16
Table 6  Key Indicators for Project Operation .16
Table 7 Studies Included in Project .17
Table 8A  Project Costs .......................................... 19
Table 8B  Project Financing ......................................... 19
Table 9    Economic Costs and Benefits .........................................                   20
Table 10  Status of Legal Covenants ......................................... 21
Table 11  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .............        ............................ 24
Table 12  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .........................................                   24
Table 13  Bank Resources: Missions ......................................... 25
APPENDICES
A. Mission's Aide-Memoire .........................................                                26
B. Borrower's Evaluation .........................................                                 39
MAM: IBRD No. 21887
This document has a restricted distribution  and may be used by recipients only in the
performnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
THIRD FISHERIES PROJECT
(Credit 2146-BD)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Third Fisheries Project in Bangladesh,
for which Credit 2146-BD in the amount of SDR34.6 million equivalent was approved on May 29, 1990
and made effective on January 8, 1991.
The credit was closed on December 31, 1996 (original date) except the civil works category that
was extended to March 31, 1997. SDR 22 million was canceled from the credit on January 27, 1996 at
the Borrower's request. Final disbursement is expected to take place on July 31, 1997, at which time any
undisbursed amount will be canceled. Cofinancing for the project was provided by ODA and UNDP,
with grants of about US$4 million equivalent from each.
The ICR was prepared by a mission led by Benson Ateng (SAIAN) of the South Asia Region
and reviewed by Messrs. Ridwan Ali, Division Chief, and Henry Gassner, Acting Project Advisor.
Comments received from the Borrower and cofinanciers were incorporated into the final version.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion mission for
this purpose in November/December 1996. It is based on material in the project file. The Borrower
contributed to preparation of the ICR by commenting on the draft ICR and preparing its own evaluation
of the project. A copy of the Aide Memoire of the final supervision/completion mission and the
Borrower's completion report are attached as Appendices A and B, respectively.
Mission members also included Messrs. Imtiazuddin Ahmad, Ronald Zweig, Lars Soeftestad (IDA); and
Ian Payne (ODA-funded consultant).






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
THIRD FISHERIES PROJECT
(Credit 2146-BD)
Evaluation Summary
Introducto
i.         Third Fisheries Project (TFP) was in response to the Government's request to IDA to assist in
financing fisheries development in Western Bangladesh. IDA's operations in the sector started in the mid-
seventies with the Oxbow Lakes Fishery Project (Cr. 0890) followed by Shrimp Culture Project (Cr. 1651).
TFP incorporated lessons learned from previous projects. It also benefited from the findings of fisheries
sector reviews carried out by IDA in 1983 and 1990. The project focused on stocking floodplains with
fingerlings, developing infrastructure for coastal shrimp culture, advancing other fisheries activities,
improving fisheries institutions, promoting fisheries research, and providing technical assistance and
training.
Prject Obectives
ii.        OiJectives: TFP supported a wide range of objectives (para 1):
(1) Increasing the incomes of fishing families, particularly of the poor. and producing fish and shrimp for
domestic consumption and export through: (i) improving floodplain fisheries management and
promoting aquaculture, (ii) making improvements in public infrastructure (improved polder
embankments, sluices and foot bridges over water channels) on poldered land already under shrimp
culture, (iii) assistance to under-privileged groups including women and assisting small land owners to
go into shrimp production themselves rather than lease their land to the rich for shrimp farning, and (iv)
carrying out of other fisheries development activities, including studies and provision of extension
services at the District and Upazila levels for fresh water shrimp production and other fisheries activities
in ponds, lakes, rivers, and minor floodplains.
(2) Supporting the fisheries development program in the West (the proiect area) with emphasis on
private sector participation through involving the private sector in fingerling production and floodplain
stocking.
(3) Accelerating the expansion of fish production in the floodplains through: (i) stocking of floodplains
with fingerlings, (ii) better fisheries management, and (iii) carrying out research projects, including
ecological assessment, fish food, fish disease, fishing gear in floodplains, and catch effort parameters in
coastal fisheries.
(4) Strengthening sectoral institutions through: (i) logistical support and technical assistance to the
Department of Fisheries (DOF), including on-the-job, in-service, and overseas training in management
and fisheries related areas, and construction and rehabilitation of office and training facilities and
(ii) technical assistance to DOF, Fisheries Research Institute (FRI), and Bangladesh Water Development
Board (BWDB) for carrying out technical and socio-economic studies, organizing shrimp farmers and
fishers.



iv
iii.       Special covenants or agreements: These included provision of substantial technical assistance
and reliance on the private sector to alleviate possible delays in implementation which may arise from
failures in management; intensive monitoring; and studies which would enable the formulation of a viable
cost recovery policy. There was also a special cost recovery covenant and an agreement to divest some
public sector fish seed farms (para 26 ).
iv.    Evaluation:  The objectives were mutually supporting, clear, realistic and important for
Bangladesh, a country that depends on fisheries for 80% of animal protein intake and 7% of total protein
supplies and 11% of export earnings. They reflected the Government's and the Bank's development
strategy for the fisheries sector -- increased fish production with particular emphasis on poverty
alleviation and on export potential. Project design recognized the declining resources of the floodplain
fisheries and instituted measures to reverse the situation. Research funded under the project had direct
benefits. The project was designed to redress some of the environmental problems and address some
environmental concerns in both floodplain fisheries and coastal shrimp culture. It also gave recognition
to under-privileged groups including women. While the project was complex and demanding for the
implementing agencies, the need for institutional strengthening was recognized and technical assistance
programs were provided for in the design (paras 2, 3).
Implementation Experience and Results
v.         Achievement of obiectives: Most of the objectives were achieved, albeit on a smaller scale
than originally envisaged; the ratings range from partial to substantial:
(1) Achievement of the objective of increasing the incomes of fishing families, particularly of the poor,
was mixed. Reports indicate that all sections of the community benefited from the floodplains component
of the project. Initially, there was some inequity in the distribution of benefits with a high percentage not
going to the targeted rural poor. However, following the mid-term review (MTR), with the introduction
of NGOs, cancellation of leases giving fishing rights to more powerful segments of the community, and
introduction of taxation of "kuas" (pits which diverted floodplain fish to the landowners), there are
indications of significant improvement in the distribution of benefits (para 4, 8).
(2) Production target for the floodplains fisheries was substantially achieved. An average of eight-
compared to the ten-fold increase in stocked species production indicated in the Staff Appraisal Report
(SAR) was regularly attained. The project has demonstrated the technical, financial, and economic
feasibility of floodplain stocking with fingerlings. While the 43,500 ha of floodplains stocked in 1996
was 43.5% of SAR target, it was 72.5% of revised target established during the MTR. The shortfall was
due to non-availability of the minimum floodplain area prescribed in the SAR, implementation delays
due to late recruitment of NGOs in the floodplain areas, environmental factors, and delays in
implementation of the New Fisheries Management Policy. Re-estimated average economic rate of return
(ERR) for this component is nearly 40% (compared to an average ERR of over 100% in the SAR). The
difference is explained by the higher fingerling costs than anticipated at the time of appraisal (settling at
around Tk 84/kg compared to SAR figure of Tk 45/kg), poor performance of silver carp (dropped in
1994), poor performance of Haiti Beel (dropped in 1994), 1992 drought, increase in NGO costs, and
reduced stocking area. Increase in shrimp production is yet to be realized since implementation started
late and construction of shrimp infrastructure is not yet completed. However, about 10,400 ha of
shrimp/rice culture farms of the planned 13,000 ha were taken up under the project. There has been an
overall shift toward small landowners actively taking up shrimp farming with the overall percentage of
leasing to outsiders down from 66% to 47%, with active involvement of owners up from 34% to 53%.
Projected incremental benefits with completion of infrastructure and anticipated reduction of shrimp
disease within one year show the re-estimated ERR still to be at least 20% which is comparable to the
SAR estimate. Results of the Other Fisheries component have been mixed. Some sub-projects worked
well with clear ownership by the beneficiaries, helping to assure sustainability, while others are not
succeeding as well due to technical and social problems which can be attributed in part to DOF's lack of



v
required experience in dealing with the social complexities of such initiatives during the early stage.
DOF officers have gained experience in preparing, planning and implementing projects with socio-
economic objectives through direct interaction with women's groups (paras 5-8, 14).
(3) The objective of supporting the fisheries development program in the West (the proiect area) with
emphasis on private sector participation has been substantially achieved through involving the private
sector in fingerling production and floodplain stocking. During the project, some 2,600 mt of stocked
fingerlings were supplied by contractors to the floodplains. Overall, contractors delivered over 80% of
their contractual obligations and showed progressively improved performance by attaining 95% in 1995.
Fingerling quality was assured by DOF inspection procedures (para 9).
(4) The objective of accelerating the expansion of fish production in the floodplains has been
substantially achieved through stocking of floodplains with fingerlings, better fisheries management, and
carrying out of research projects. Stocking has accelerated production of stocked species. Observed
increase in production of non-stocked species is attributed in part to better management of floodplain
fisheries. Despite a slow start, the research objectives were achieved, and the results were applied by
DOF to project operations. A major activity included support to FRI to conduct targeted applied research
on availability of fish food, impact of gear selectivity on stocked species and fish diseases. Dissemination
of research findings at the fishing community level has been achieved through extension and production
and circulation of simple booklets in the national language (para 10).
(5) Achievement of the objective of strengthening sectoral institutions has been satisfactory. The
substantial management element of this project, particularly via the ODA-funded Management Technical
Assistance (MTA) component, laid emphasis on improved project management capacity within DOF,
particularly in the fields of procurement, contract management, and intensive monitoring. Over the
duration of the project, there were increasing numbers of women fisheries officers operating at field
level, facilitating provision of technical assistance to women fishers.  Further, MTA  has been
instrumental in creating innovative enhancement in DOF's administrative capacity at the local level. An
unusual feature was the equal emphasis on regional as well as central capacity. Regional DOF staff
gained confidence in using a computerized stocking management system, and introduction of the system
greatly assisted production monitoring, record keeping, and timely reporting. Similar gains were made
centrally, but overall capacity for coordination and information management at all levels still requires
strengthening. UNDP-funded Social and Technical Assistance (STA) was valuable in the areas of
production monitoring, research, shrimp farm planning, and social activities by NGOs (paras 11-12).
vi.        Sustainability: Success of the project in achieving its major objectives is already manifest.
However, the probability that the project will maintain the achievements is uncertain. For example,
sustainability of the achievements of the floodplain stocking component is contingent upon continued NGO
support and Government stocking until the beneficiaries have developed the capacity to do so themselves.
The Government has initiated an evaluation of the public stocking of floodplains and has indicated that
continuation of the public stocking program would depend on the outcome of the evaluation. Innovations
developed on a pilot scale in the later years of the project, to increase self-management by floodplain
fisheries groups and operation and maintenance (O&M) responsibility by groups of shrimp beneficiaries
point a way to improved sustainability. A planned follow-on project is expected to continue and/or expand
some of the activities under the project (TFP was conceived as the first in a series of sector-wide fisheries
projects planned for IDA support). This is expected to enhance the probability that the project will maintain
the achievements already generated (paras 17-19).
vii.       Financing and implementation timetables:  The IDA credit of SDR34.6 million was
supplemented by an ODA grant of US$4.3 million for management technical assistance and a UNDP grant
of US$4.2 million for social and technical assistance. SDR22 million was canceled from IDA credit on
January 27, 1996 at the Borrower's request. This was due to (i) an over-estimate of area suitable for
stocking under the Floodplain Fisheries Component (para 14); (ii) an innovative re-design of the Coastal



vi
Shrimp Culture Component that resulted in substantial cost savings; (iii) a 20% shortfall in the planned area
of shrimp farms to be developed (para 15); and (iv) exchange rate changes substantially increasing the Taka
equivalent of the SDR (para 13). The IDA credit closed on December 31, 1996 as planned except for the
civil works category that was extended to March 31, 1997 to allow for completion of construction of a
Fisheries Academy and for correction of some problems in shrimp infrastructure (Tables 3, 4, 10). The
deadline for receipt of withdrawal applications for this category is July 31, 1997, at which time any
undisbursed amount from the current balance of US$2.7 million equivalent (SDRI .96) will be canceled.
viii.      Key factors affecting achievement of major objectives: The project's achievements were
mainly due to the Government's commitment to the objectives of the project, intensive NGO involvement,
and good cooperation between the donors, the Government and NGOs. Flexibility by the Borrower and the
Bank in adjusting project design in the light of experience gained in the course of implementation
contributed significantly to the success. Negative factors included less than anticipated availability of
floodplains of the minimum size prescribed in the SAR. There were also delays in appointing NGOs in the
floodplain areas. Environmental factors also reduced the area stocked with Halti Beel dropped from the
program because of low productivity and the expected stocking of Beel Dakatia prevented due to lack of
sufficient water. The shortfall in shrimp area developed was due to a late start as a result of delays in
appointment by BWDB of the design consultants. In addition, a highly virulent white spot shrimp
disease outbreak in early 1996 had a devastating effect on shrimp production. A major, innovative re-
design of the component to reduce land acquisition through optimizing the use of existing canals in the
area increased benefits of this component. The shortfall in achieving the objectives of other fisheries
component was due to lack of experience among DOF officers to formulate acceptable proposals
required by the project with an emphasis upon poverty alleviation (paras 14-16).
ix.        Bank and Borrower Performance: The Bank is rated satisfactory for identification, deficient
for preparation and appraisal, and satisfactory for supervision (paras 20-24, Table 1.C), while the Borrower
is rated satisfactory on preparation and implementation and deficient for covenant compliance (paras 25-28,
Table I.D). The Borrower and the Bank succeeded in adjusting the project during implementation to
overcome some deficiencies in preparation and appraisal.
x.         Outcome: The project's outcome was satisfactoIr in view of achievement of most of its major
objectives (para 28). In addition, the re-estimated ERR is about 40% and 20% for the floodplain and shrimp
components.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations. and Key Lessons Learned
xi.        Findin.gs: A number of findings stand out (paras 4-12): (1) The operation proved that it is
technically, financially, and economically feasible for Bangladesh to enhance floodplain fisheries
production through stocking the floodplains with fingerlings and that with better management, production
of non-stocked species can also increase. (2) The operation proved that power structures and fishing
patterns that have been in place for many years cannot be changed overnight. However, empowerment of
the fishermen through NGO motivation and group formation can enable them to stand up to the stronger
segments of the community for their fishing rights. (3) Implementation of the shrimp component showed
that it is possible for small and medium scale landowners to produce shrimp economically through
improved extensive and more environmentally appropriate methods, and that, with some ingenuity, it is
feasible to design some projects to avoid or minimize land acquisition which is a major cause of project
implementation delays in Bangladesh. (4) The failure to involve beneficiaries of the shrimp component
from the initial stages and planning for their involvement in O&M, is expected to make cost recovery more
difficult. (5) The operation confirmed that it is feasible to involve women in some fishing activities in
Bangladesh.
xii.   Future operations: In the final phase of the project a series of participatory workshops, for the
floodplain component, which included representatives of all stakeholder groups, were held to arrive at a



vii
mutually agreed master work plan for sustainable stocking into the future. This is a 29 step action plan for
co-management, including technical, organizational and licensing procedures. The key element is the fully
representative Beel Management Committees (BMCs) which already exist in the project stocking areas.
Fishermen and NGOs are already included in the stocking and checking procedures and all decisions are
made through the BMCs. The plan lays out the rules and responsibilities of all parties into the future,
including increased contributions by its beneficiaries of the stocking process. Plans are underway to
introduce beneficiary group responsibility for O&M of shrimp infrastructure. There are plans for FR] to
continue its inland fisheries research initiated under the project. FRI staff and operating costs may be
covered by the revenue budget or by contract research financing from the IDA-assisted Agricultural
Research Management Project. In the case of Other Fisheries component, DOF plans to continue providing
technical guidance to the ongoing sub-projects as part of their regular extension duties in the project areas.
xiii.      Lessons: Five main lessons were learned: (1) Stakeholders (including beneficiaries) should be
involved from the planning stage of the project; (2) Mechanisms for cost recovery and/or sharing should be
agreed with all concerned during project preparation; (3) NGOs are more effective than public sector
agencies in motivation and formation of beneficiary groups. Involvement of NGOs, particularly local
NGOs, for the floodplain component proved to be a very effective way of mobilizing and organizing the
beneficiaries into groups to help them take advantage of increased value of a common property resource;
(4) Adjustments in project design during implementation can play an important role in achieving success.
These adjustments included reductions in project size, increased roles for NGOs, changes in floodplain
stocking patterns, development of a community-based floodplain management program, which basically
evolved in the course of project implementation, and development of a more effective shrimp infrastructure
program, based on existing canals, instead of land acquisition; and (5) Untested concepts, such as stocking
open water bodies and other fisheries programs, should be tried out first at a pilot level. (para 33).






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
THIRD FISHERIES PROJECT
(Credit 2146-BD)
PART I - Project Implementation Assessment
Proect Identiy
Name:    THIRD FISHERIES PROJECT
Credit:    Cr. 2146-BD
RVP Unit:    South Asia
Country:    BANGLADESH
Sector:    Agriculture and Natural Resources Operations Division
Sub-sector:    Fisheries
Bakground
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
1.    The project was designed to support a sectoral development process aiming at:
(a) increasing the incomes of fishing families, particularly of the poor. and producing fish and shrimp for
domestic consumption and export through:
-   improving floodplain fisheries management and promoting aquaculture,
*   making improvements in public infrastructure (improved polder embankments, sluices and
foot bridges over water channels) on poldered land already under shrimp culture,
*   assistance to under-privileged groups including women and assisting small land owners to
go into shrimp production themselves rather than lease their land to the rich for shrimp
farming, and
*   carrying out of other fisheries development activities, including studies and provision of
extension services at the District and Upazila levels for fresh water shrimp production and
other fisheries activities in ponds, lakes, rivers, and minor floodplains;
(b) supporting the fisheries development program in the West (the proiect area) with emphasis on
private sector participation through:
*   involving the private sector in fingerling production and floodplain stocking;
(c) accelerating the expansion of fish production in the floodplains through:
*   stocking of floodplains with fingerlings,



2
*   better fisheries management, and
*   carrying out (by Fisheries Research Institute) research projects, including ecological
assessment, fish food, fish disease, fishing gear in floodplains, and catch effort parameters
in coastal fisheries; and
(d) strengthening sectoral institutions through:
*   logistical support and technical assistance to the Department of Fisheries (DOF), including
on-the-job, in-service, and overseas training in management and fisheries related areas, and
construction and rehabilitation of office and training facilities,
*   technical assistance to DOF, Fisheries Research Institute (FRI), and Bangladesh Water
Development Board (BWDB) for carrying out technical and socio-economic studies,
organizing shrimp farmers and fishers, and
*   revitalized fisheries administration.
2.     Though many, these objectives were clear, realistic and important for Bangladesh.  They
appeared important for a country that depends on fisheries for 80% of animal protein intake and 7% of
total protein supply, and 11% of export earnings. They reflected the Government's and the Bank's
development strategy for the fisheries sector -- increased fish production with particular emphasis on
poverty alleviation and on export potential. For subsistence part-time fishermen, fish is often the only
source of protein, essential minerals, and vitamins through open access fishing from the declining
resources of floodplain fisheries. A concerted and systematic effort was therefore needed to accelerate
the development and realization of the country's potential fisheries resources in a sustainable manner.
The objective of sustainable development was implied but not stated explicitly
3.     The project design recognized the declining resources of the floodplain fisheries and instituted
measures to reverse the situation. Research funded under the project had direct benefits. The project
was designed to redress some of the environmental problems and address environmental concerns in both
floodplain fisheries and coastal shrimp culture. It also supported under-privileged groups including
women. While the project was complex and demanding for the implementing agencies, the need for
institutional strengthening was recognized and technical assistance programs were provided for in the
design. Emphasis on regional management was appropriate. Quantifiable performance indicators were
useful for tracking the project's performance. A system for monitoring and evaluation was provided and
used in fine-tuning the rates, size, and species composition of fingerling stocking. The project was also
prescriptive, for example with regard to stocking procedures and cost recovery rates, without giving the
rationale for the prescriptions. The scale of the floodplain stocking component, which employed
previously untested concepts, should have been sized as a pilot. Project design was, however, flexible
and made it possible to make adjustments in the course of project implementation.
B. Achievement of Objectives
4.     Performance on increasing incomes of fishermen, particularly of the poor fishermen, has been
mixed. A number of socio-economic surveys have been undertaken to ascertain how benefits have in fact
been distributed. Difficulties of defining and identifying the various target groups as well as measuring



3
quantitatively how much each group benefited not withstanding, reports2 indicate that all sections of the
community benefited from the project. Initially, there was some inequity in the distribution of benefits
with a high percentage not going to the targeted rural poor. The problem was identified in the course of
project implementation (some social impact and participatory analysis had been done during project
preparation, but the Bank's emphasis on these issues was not as strong as it is now) and actions were taken
during Mid-term Review (MTR) to address the problem. A decision was made to introduce more NGOs
into the floodplain stocking activities. There were, however, long delays in contracting the NGOs who did
not start work until November 1995. However, with NGO intervention in later years, there are indications
of significant improvement in the distribution of benefits. Other actions to improve distribution of benefits
included cancellation of leases that gave fishing rights to the more powerful segments of society,
introduction of the New Fisheries Management Policy (NFMP) which improved direct access to floodplain
fisheries by the bonafide fishing community and which based fishing license fees on capacity and efficiency
of fishing gear, and treated "kuas" (fish pits) as fishing gear subject to taxation. However, cancellation of
leases does not in itself ensure access to the water body by landless fishermen and other disadvantaged
groups. The NGOs proved effective in organizing the target groups to improve access. The above strategy
challenged the existing power structures and fishing patterns that have been in place for many years and
succeeded in improving access to all interest groups.
5.     The objective of increasing fish production through stocking and better management of
floodplaina has been substantially achieved. A total incremental production of 20,000 mt of stocked fish
were produced. An average of eight- compared to the ten-fold increase in stocked species production
indicated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) was regularly attained.3 The continuous evaluation and
modification of the stocked species mixture used proved a significant factor in attaining the sustained
high incremental production. The non-stocked species' diversity and productivity were found to keep
pace or exceed the baseline condition. The project has demonstrated the technical, financial, and
economic feasibility of floodplain stocking with fingerlings. While the 43,500 ha of floodplains stocked
in 1996 was 43.5% of SAR target, it was 72.5% of revised target established during the MTR. The
shortfall was largely due to less than anticipated availability of the minimum floodplain area prescribed
in the SAR (para 14). Re-estimated average economic rate of return (ERR) for this component is nearly
40% (compared to an average ERR of over 100% in the SAR). The difference is explained by the higher
fingerling costs than anticipated at the time of appraisal (settling at around Tk 84/kg compared to SAR
figure of Tk 45/kg), poor performance of silver carp (dropped in 1994), poor performance of Halti Beel
(dropped in 1994), 1992 drought, increase in NGO costs, and reduced stocking area. However, despite
the lower than projected figure, the 40% average ERR is well above the opportunity cost of capital (12%)
in Bangladesh.
6.     The obiective of increasing shrimp production and export through making improvements in
public infrastructure on poldered land already under shrimp culture is being achieved. About 10,400 ha
of shrimp/rice culture farms of the planned 13,000 ha in the SAR were taken up under the project. The
shortfall in area developed was due to a late start as a result of delays in appointment by BWDB of the
design consultants. A major, innovative re-design of the component to reduce land acquisition through
optimizing the use of existing canals in the area made this component more cost effective, simplified
infrastructure requirements, and reduced environmental impacts of polder development by returning the
ecological condition closer to that which existed prior to embankment construction.
7.      The objective of providing assistance to under-privileged groups and assisting small land
owners to go into shrimp production themselves rather than lease their land to the rich for shrimp
faniing is being achieved. Available data indicate that for the polders developed under the project, there
2Such reports include studies conducted by Bangladesh Centre for Advanced Studies, Food Consumption Study,
Socio-economic Studies, and Progress Reports prepared by the project NGOs.
3 Independent scientific monitoring was done by consultants (BCEOM/BCAS). The Mid-term Review verified
the methodology. DOF subsequently monitored the data based on a tested system.



4
has been an overall shift toward small landowners actively taking up shrimp farming with the overall
percentage of leasing to outsiders down from 66% to 47%, with active involvement of owners up from
34%  to 53%.  Some landowners also lease to neighboring land owners.  For organization and
management of the project areas, the NGO assisted in forming Block and Sluice Gate Management
Committees.  Overall, the amount of extension information on improved shrimp culture and
environmental management (harvest of shrimp to allow timely planting of rice; selective collection of
shrimp seed and conservation of other species) provided to the farmers increased as a result of the NGO's
efforts in disseminating information provided by the DOF. Increases in shrimp production have not yet
been achieved due to many of the infrastructure elements having not yet been completed, and
Bangladesh shrimp farms being adversely affected since early 1996 by a highly virulent white spot
shrimp disease. However the projected incremental benefits are expected to show an ERR of at least
20%, which is comparable to the SAR estimate, provided the planned infrastructure is completed and the
impact of shrimp disease is reduced as anticipated.
8.     The objective of increasing the incomes, particularly of the poorer fishermen through carrying
out of Other Fisheries development activities (including studies and provision of extension services at
the District and Upazila levels for freshwater shrimp production and other fisheries activities in ponds,
lakes. rivers, and minor floodplains) has been partially achieved. The SAR objectives of this pilot
component were to initiate 55 sub-projects, concerning private sector promotion of pond culture, minor
floodplain, river, and freshwater shrimp culture development. These sub-projects were to be formulated
with the assistance of Thana Fisheries Officers with the objective of  providing employment
opportunities primarily for groups of landless women. Of the 55 sub-project target, 32 were appraised
and mostly implemented satisfactorily. DOF narrowed the scope of the component to pond culture
development, including in some instances polyculture of freshwater prawns and integration with
livestock, due to DOF's greater experience with pond culture techniques. One clear advancement as a
result of the component has been the improvement of and experience gained by the DOF officers to
prepare, plan and implement projects with these objectives through direct interaction with women's
groups. The results of the component's implementation have been mixed. Some sub-projects worked
well with clear ownership by the beneficiaries, helping to assure sustainability. Others have not
succeeded as well due to technical and social problems which can be attributed in part to DOF's lack of
required experience in dealing with the social complexities of such initiatives during the early stage. In
addition, as part of DOF's extension program, financial management training for the beneficiary groups
needed to be provided, as part of sub-project preparation activities, to assure that there is advance
knowledge and acceptance of how the benefits would be distributed. There are examples of the diffusion
of demonstrated technologies such as the fish drying project at Chanda now being replicated at Moller
Beel. The ERR was not re-estimated for this component due to scarcity of data.
9.     The SAR objective of successfully involving the private sector in fisheries has been substantially
achieved in the floodplain stocking component. During the project, some 2,600 mt of stocked fingerlings
were supplied by contractors to the floodplains. Overall, contractors delivered over 80% of their
contractual obligations and showed progressively improved performance by attaining 95% in 1995.
Fingerling quality was assured by DOF inspection procedures as required by the project. A high
accountability at stocking was achieved through the first three years by an internationally-recognized
local certification firm, which was subsequently replaced with an independent checking system
incorporating fishers and NGOs.
10.    The objective of accelerating the expansion of fish production in the floodplains through
stocking with fingerlings, better fisheries management and research proiects has been substantially
achieved. Stocking has increased production of stocked and non-stocked species. Observed increase in
production of non-stocked species is attributed in part to better management of floodplain fisheries.
Despite a slow start, the research objectives were achieved, and the results were applied by DOF to
project operations.  A major activity included support to FRI to conduct targeted applied research on
availability of fish food, impact of gear selectivity on stocked species and fish diseases in stocked



5
floodplains. Dissemination of research findings at the fishing community level has been achieved
through extension and production and circulation of simple booklets in the national language. The
dissemination program should continue if the impact is to be sustained. Beyond the original objectives,
FRI has produced a preliminary categorization of floodplains by production potential with modified
stocking procedures appropriate to each category, which is an essential step for any future stocking
assessments. The fish hatchery at Shantahar, which was transferred from DOF to FRI, has been
successfully converted into an effective research station for inland fisheries.
11.    The objective of strengthening sectoral institutions has been satisfactorily achieved.  The
substantial management element of this project, particularly via the ODA-funded Management Technical
Assistance (MTA) component, laid emphasis on improved project management capacity within DOF,
particularly in the fields of procurement, contract management, and intensive monitoring. Further, MTA
was instrumental in creating innovative enhancement in DOF's technical and administrative capacity at
the local level. An unusual feature was the equal emphasis on regional as well as central capacity.
Regional DOF staff gained confidence in using a computerized stocking management system, and
introduction of the system greatly assisted production monitoring, record keeping, and timely reporting.
Similar gains were made centrally, but overall capacity for coordination and information management at
all levels still requires strengthening. Over the duration of the project, there were increasing numbers of
women fisheries officers working on the project. Increasing numbers are operating at field level (Thana
Fisheries Officer). UNDP-funded Social and Technical Assistance (STA) was valuable in the areas of
production monitoring, research, shrimp farm planning and social activities by NGOs. In the early
stages, there were performance problems with STA senior management which were rectified by changes
in personnel. Evaluation of training by a Government committee found the overall performance to be
satisfactory.
12.    The primary objective of the NGO involvement was to assist DOF with organization of the
fishing communities to improve their capacity to understand and participate more fully in the floodplain
stocking program. The NGO intervention combined with the implementation of the NFMP has had a
radical effect in the ability of the fishing groups to organize themselves, take advantage of increased
benefits, and contribute to cost recovery. The use of group bank accounts and the willingness of DOF to
issue licenses against bank receipts in some cases has increased transparency and provided a future
mechanism for savings to be accumulated for community stocking. There have, therefore, been increased
gains in several dimensions at the regional level.  The project has also assisted DOF in successfully
completing the construction and rehabilitation of office and training facilities in a number of districts.
13.    Following the MTR and at the Borrower's request, SDR22 million was canceled from the Credit
effective January 27, 1996. This was due to (i) an over-estimate of area suitable for stocking under the
Floodplain Fisheries Component (para 14); (ii) an innovative re-design of the Coastal Shrimp Culture
Component that resulted in substantial cost savings; (iii) a 20% shortfall in the planned area of shrimp farms
to be developed (para 15); and (iv) exchange rate changes substantially increasing the Taka equivalent of
the SDR. Revised project costs are about US$30 million equivalent (Table 8B). About US$15.32 million
equivalent (SDR1O.64 million) has been disbursed from the IDA credit, with about US$0.4 million more
expected to be disbursed. About US$8.6 million equivalent have been provided by ODA and UNDP
(US$4.3 million each). The construction of a Fisheries Academy had not been completed at the project's
scheduled closing date of December 31, 1996. In addition, there was a need to correct some of the shrimp
infrastructure. The closing date for disbursement from the civil works category was therefore extended to
March 31, 1997 to allow for completion of these two components. The deadline for receipt of withdrawal
applications for this category is July 31, 1997. Thereafter, any undisbursed amount from the current
balance of US$2.7 million equivalent (SDRI .96) will be canceled.



6
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project
14.    The SAR recommended that the minimum area of floodplain to be stocked should be 5,000 ha.
This turned out to be impractical since DOF could not identify enough floodplains of that size. The
minimum floodplain area was subsequently reduced to 1,000 ha at the MTR. Total target area to be
stocked was revised from 100,000 ha to 60,000 ha at the MTR. According to DOF figures, the maximum
area stocked in any one year during the project period was 43,500 ha. Other factors also contributed to
the inability to achieve the original target area.  There were implementation delays due to late
recruitment of NGOs in the floodplain areas. However, greater NGO involvement in the later years
greatly enhanced performance of the floodplain component. Environmental factors also reduced the area
stocked with Haiti Beel dropped from the program because of low productivity and the expected stocking
of Beel Dakatia was prevented by lack of sufficient water. Delays in implementation of the NFMP
which required transfer of fishing rights from the Ministry of Land to the Ministry of Fisheries and
Livestock (MOFL) was another factor resulting in some floodplains not being stocked at all in some
years. DOF also had difficulty in identifying beels of the necessary area even when the minimum area
was reduced to 1,000 ha. A major drought in 1992/93 also had adverse effects on production.
15.    About 10,400 ha of shrimp/rice culture farms of the planned 13,000 ha in the SAR were taken up
under the project. The shortfall in area developed was due to a late start as a result of delays in
appointment by BWDB of the design consultants. In addition, a highly virulent white spot shrimp
disease outbreak in early 1996 had a devastating effect on shrimp production. A major, innovative re-
design of the component to reduce land acquisition through optimizing the use of existing canals in the
area increased the benefit of this component.
16.    The shortfall in achieving the objectives of Other Fisheries component was due to: (a) a late start
of the component; (b) the complexities of formulating sustainable sub-projects oriented toward poverty
alleviation among the rural poor; and (c) lack of experience among DOF officers in formulating
acceptable proposals required by the project with an emphasis upon poverty alleviation.
D. Project Sustainability
17.    The sustainability of the floodplain stocking component and the shrimp culture development
program is dependent on continued action by various Government agencies and NGOs and continued
progress by beneficiary groups. While appropriate plans have been made, sustainability must still be rated
as uncertain until they are carried out. To ensure the sustainability of the stocking component, continued
NGO support and fingerling stocking of the floodplains by the Government, until the beneficiaries have
developed the capacity to do so themselves, will be required. In the absence of NGO support, there would
be strong likelihood that the necessary group participation would not continue, resulting in inequities in the
distribution of benefits. UNDP has agreed in principle to extend NGO support by a year up to December
31, 1997. It is expected that, subsequently, the NGOs will provide support from their own sources. The
Government has initiated an evaluation of the public stocking of floodplains and has indicated its intention
to continue the public stocking program if the outcome of the evaluation is favorable.
18    A number of specific actions being taken by DOF and BWDB need to be completed as part of
the ongoing development of the shrimp culture component to assure the component achieves its
objectives and becomes sustainable. The actions include: (a) cancellation of leases of public canals in
the project area; (b) acquisition of some land for the construction of new water supply channels;
(c) revision of the Government Act concerning cost recovery; (d) extension of NGO (CARITAS) support
through December 31, 1997; (e) formulation of an action plan for turning over the operation and
maintenance responsibilities to the beneficiaries and the provision of training and an operational manual
for these facilities; (f) repair of any defects in water management structures constructed under the



7
project; and (g) continued efforts by the DOF to encourage farmers to take up environmentally sound
shrimp culture practices to help minimize the prevalence and impact of shrimp diseases. From other
experience in the region, the impact of white spot shrimp disease has been shown to decline in recent
years in part due to the application of environmentally sound shrimp farming management practices.
DOF and BWDB, per their respective responsibilities, would provide the resources necessary to
accomplish the above noted actions, without which it is likely that the benefits of the investments to date
would not be sustained.
19.    The sustainability of the sub-projects under Other Fisheries component is highly dependent upon
the technical soundness of the schemes, the technical know-how of the groups, the term of lease for the
water areas operated by the groups, and the organization and cohesiveness of and the financial
management of the groups. In cases where a sound footing has been achieved for each of the above,
there is a strong likelihood that the respective sub-project would be sustainable. For others, without
these attributes, the prospects for their continued operation are slim, with some already having ceased
operation. DOF plans to continue providing technical guidance to the ongoing sub-projects as part of
their regular extension duties in the project areas. Since the Third Fisheries Project was conceived as the
first in a series of sector-wide fisheries projects planned for IDA support in Bangladesh (SAR, para 3.06), a
planned follow-on project is expected to continue and/or expand some of the activities under the project.
This is expected to enhance the probability that the project will maintain the achievements already
generated.
E. Bank Performance
20.    The Bank assisted the Government in identifying and preparing the project. One strength of the
Bank's performance lay in considerable staff continuity, both at the resident mission and at headquarters,
during the different phases (identification, preparation, appraisal, and supervision) of the project. The
quality of performance, however, varied at different stages of the project.
21.   Identification is rated satisfactory.  The project was innovative and consistent with the
Government's development strategy/priorities and with the Bank's strategy for the country. It provided an
innovative way of compensating for the negative impacts of past flood control and road projects on the
fisheries sector given that there was little previous world-wide experience in floodplain stock enhancement.
The project also reflected the Government's and Bank's development strategy for the fisheries sector --
increased fish production, including programs designed for subsistence fishing families to assist in
poverty alleviation. Another positive aspect of the project was its flexibility that made it possible to
make adjustments in the course of implementation. Project identification was done by FAO/CP.
22.    Preparation should be rated as deficient. The Bank assisted the Government in designing the
project with respect to technical, financial, economic, and institutional aspects. Quality and quantity of
Bank staff and consultants was satisfactory. Skills mix was appropriate and there was staff continuity. The
project reflected lessons learned from the Bank's experience in the sector, especially the Shrimp Culture
Project. The Bank also carried out a major sector work in the fisheries sector about the same time that the
project was being prepared. The project benefited from preliminary findings of the sector work. However,
there were some significant aspects of the project that could have been prepared better. For example, it
should have been determined during preparation that there were not enough floodplains of the sizes
assumed in the SAR in the project area. This is one of the factors that contributed to cost over-estimates.
Also, there was inadequate consideration of how the area of a floodplain was to be defined -- was it to be a
fully inundated area in an average rainfall year or the area having water depth of more than one meter for a
period of four months? Untested concepts such as stocking open water bodies with fingerlings should have
started at a pilot level. A problem with the project design has been the lack of adequate experience to
justify the proposed stocking procedures and the species mixture given. However, this was overcome by
the project's flexibility which made it possible to modify species mixture used, based on experience and



8
relative performance. Some social impact, participatory, and environmental analysis was done during
project preparation, but the Bank's emphasis on these issues was not as strong as it is now. Under the
shrimp component, the project envisaged that farmers would voluntarily give their land for excavation of
channels. This turned out to be unrealistic. During project implementation, a revised, innovative design --
use of existing natural tidal channels which were blocked by the embankments -- was developed. The
difficulty of cost recovery for stocking and the need for NGO support for the floodplain component were
underestimated. Some stakeholders, especially beneficiaries of the floodplain stocking and shrimp culture,
were not involved from the planning stages. They should have been made aware of planned cost recovery
from the start and the project design should have included group organization for progressive responsibility
for operations of the floodplain component and O&M of shrimp infrastructure.
23.    Appraisal should also be rated as deficient. The SAR provided a clear definition of the project' s
objectives, examined the incentives that would make the project function as planned, considered
environment- and poverty-related factors, established the criteria for monitoring the project's performance
during implementation, and documented the assumptions, methodology, and results of the project's
financial and economic evaluation, and risk analysis. Fisheries institutions were also evaluated. The
insistence of the Bank on intensive monitoring of production allowed a proper evaluation of the cost
effectiveness of what was, in effect, a new technology. The provision for an independent certification
company to monitor delivery of procured fingerlings at the point of arrival, was a major feature in ensuring
a high degree of accountability within the procurement element of the project. Coordination with other
donors was very good. There were, however, some significant aspects of the project that could have been
appraised better. Many of the problems that were inadequately addressed during preparation should have
been uncovered during appraisal, including the over-optimistic estimates of availability of floodplains of the
prescribed minimum size, and the problems of cost recovery without greater efforts at group formation.
While the need to strengthen sectoral capacity was identified and provided for in the project, it seems that
the appraisal of the capacity of responsible agencies to implement the project as designed was not adequate.
The capacity of DOF was not adequately assessed with respect to implementing the Other Fisheries
component of the project. In the end the component had to be limited to pond culture development,
including in some instances polyculture of freshwater prawns and integration with livestock.
24.    Supervision is judged as satisfactoIr. It is a good example of proactive supervision leading to
adjustments in project design, which helped to overcome deficiencies in preparation and appraisal. This
included introduction of an improved design for the shrimp component, adjustments in the floodplains to be
covered and the stocking patterns, introduction of an enhanced role for NGOs, progressive revisions of the
cost recovery arrangements, and reduction in the project size to more realistic levels. Implementation
progress was reported in detail, problems carefully assessed and help given to the Government to resolve
them, and great flexibility shown in finding ways to modify the project concept and design in light of
experience gained in the course of implementation. The Bank and the cofinanciers (ODA and UNDP) have
run well staffed supervision missions, and mission findings and recommendations have had a positive
effect on the progress and direction of the project. The Bank maintained continuity in the staffing of
supervision missions. Composition of the missions in terms of skill mix was also good. The average length
of the missions was three weeks which appears reasonable given the nature of the project. In addition, the
resident mission, which managed the supervision task, maintained close contact with the implementing
agencies between supervision missions. Detailed terms of reference were prepared for each mission.
Performance ratings given in Supervision Form 590 are consistent with the project's outcome. The Bank,
implementing agencies, and cofinanciers successfully worked together in supervising project
implementation. The provision by ODA of a fisheries specialist to all Bank supervision missions was an
excellent example of agency cooperation towards the efficient running of the project. UNDP participated in
some supervision missions and provided support to IDA during the implementation phase of the project. In
addition, the Bank maintained close cooperation with other donors providing support to the sector.



9
F. Borrower Performance
25.    On balance, allowing for the complexity of the project, the Borrower's performance may be judged
as satisfactory. Major agencies of the Borrower involved in the project included the MOEL, DOF, BWDB,
and FRI. The Government demonstrated commitment and support to the project at all stages. Counterpart
funds were released on a timely basis. Delay in appointment of design consultants by BWDB was one of
the causes of delay in implementing the shrimp component. The Borrower and the Bank share the blame
for not involving the beneficiaries from the initial stages and making them aware of their obligations.
26.    The Borrower generally complied with the major credit covenants. However, the covenants on
cost recovery have not been met, due in part to deficiencies in the design of the cost recovery
mechanism. In addition, the Borrower did not divest all the fish seed farms as agreed. By July 1, 1994,
collections for floodplains stocking, based on the leasing system for water bodies, were about 3.8 percent
of stocking costs against a target of 20%. A Government Floodplain Cost Recovery Committee
developed a cost recovery program which required replacing the leasing system by the licensing system
from the 1995 stocking season. Further, NGOs were recruited to motivate beneficiaries to stock and
manage floodplains themselves.  The initial results have been encouraging with estimated 1996
collections of about 30% of the costs (the 7/95 target). Further, to attain real sustainability, NGOs are
assisting beneficiaries to undertake stocking themselves. The initial results are encouraging. However,
the full impact of this arrangement will require NGO support and stocking by the Government until the
beneficiaries can themselves stock the floodplains. It has been agreed that NGO support will continue up
to December 31, 1997. The covenant relating to shrimp culture cost recovery required full recovery of
capital and O&M costs through an export tax on shrimp and direct levy on beneficiaries. IDA,
subsequently, agreed that recovery would be limited to O&M costs through a direct levy on
beneficiaries. The rationale for IDA's agreement was that the covenant, which provides for an export tax
on all shrimp exporters (not just the beneficiaries), creates an anti-export bias and would be contrary to
Bank's current economic advice. Further, the revised approach of full O&M recovery was similar to that
adopted for IDA assisted irrigation projects in Bangladesh. Under the project, O&M charges would not
be due until January 1998. However, based upon experience under irrigation projects the recovery
proposals require further modification. The current plan is to develop a model whereby the beneficiaries
will be responsible for collection of fees and using the fees for handling O&M responsibilities
themselves. The model will be in line with the one being developed under the IDA-assisted Systems
Rehabilitation Project. It has been agreed in principle that the cost recovery covenant will be amended to
include only O&M costs and to reflect the principles of the new model described above. The ICR
mission discussed and agreed with BWDB that the BWDB would send a formal request (through
Economic Relations Division) to the Bank to amend the cost recovery covenant for the shrimp farming
component. The request for amendment has not yet been received by the Bank.
27.   The Government has been committed to intensive monitoring of all fish species in stocked
floodplains in order to allow a detailed evaluation of the program. DOF has successfully taken over
monitoring of existing and new floodplains from the consultants. However, transfer of procurement and
contractual procedures from the MTA consultant to DOF has not been adequately accomplished because
a counterpart officer was not consistently assigned to work with the consultant during the consultant's
engagement.
28.    There was continuity in senior staff assigned to work on the project. However, a shortcoming of
the outcome of the institutional support was the transfer or departure of a small proportion of trained
staff from the project. These staff changes contributed to some loss of consistency and progress with
project implementation.



10
G. Assessment of Outcome
29.    The project's outcome is rated satisfactory in view of achievement of most of its major objectives as
described in Section B above and summarized below, albeit at a smaller scale than had been originally
envisaged. In addition, the re-estimated ERR is 40% for the floodplain component (compared to an average
of over 100% at appraisal) and 20% for the shrimp component (comparable to the estimate at appraisal).
Benefits include:
*   increased incomes for fishing families (even though distribution is not as targeted toward
the rural poor as originally intended);
*   considerable increase in fish production through stocking and better management of
floodplains;
*   increased availability to poor subsistence fisher families of floodplain fisheries, which
provide the main source of protein in their diets;
*   development of shrimp infrastructure program, based on existing canals, instead of land
acquisition;
*   providing assistance to under-privileged groups including women and assisting small land
owners to go into shrimp production themselves rather than lease their land to the rich for
shrimp farming;
*   demonstrating the viability of more environmentally appropriate shrimp production
methods and of the feasibility of shrimp farming by small landowners;
-   support to women groups under other fisheries component;
-   successfully incorporating the private sector in fisheries development program;
*   carrying out successful fisheries research with practical application;
e   empowerment of the beneficiaries through NGO involvement; and
*   strengthening sectoral institutions.
H. Future Operation
30.    Significant organization of beneficiaries has been achieved by DOF and the NGOs, and some cost
recovery has been achieved for the floodplain component.  The increased NGO  intervention and
implementation of New Fisheries Management Policy as a pre-condition for stocking, following the MTR,
were essential elements in this achievement. In the final phase of the project, a series of participatory
workshops, which included all stakeholders, were held to arrive at a mutually agreed master work plan for
sustainable floodplains stocking into the future. This is a 29 step action plan for co-management, including
technical, organizational and licensing procedures. The key element is the fully representative Beel
Management Committees (BMCs) which already exist in the project stocking areas. Fishermen and NGOs
are already included in the stocking and checking procedures, and all decisions are made through the
BMCs. The plan lays out the rules and responsibilities of all parties, including increased contributions by
beneficiaries of the stocking process. It is based on existing developments within the project area. In 1996,
over Tk 2 million was collected in license fees with indications that Tk 3 million would be contributed by
the end of the following season. In addition, over 8 mt of fingerlings have been provided by the licensees



11
themselves. The prospect of beel-side fingerling ponds managed by the beneficiaries to contribute to
stocking is being developed. The NGOs are to be supported for a further year by UNDP. The MOFL has
indicated that it will produce a plan for continued, complementary public sector stocking in order that the
gains achieved can be sustained. The prospects for the project outcomes to be continued and sustained are
good.
31.    There are plans for FRI to continue its inland fisheries research initiated under the project. FRI
staff and operating costs may be covered by the revenue budget. If this is not feasible, FRI should prepare
and submit a proposal for contract research financing from the IDA-assisted Agricultural Research
Management Project which includes support for fisheries research.
32.    DOF and BWDB are planning a number of actions to complete construction of  shrimp
infrastructure and to provide the necessary resources to do it. Revised cost recovery mechanisms are being
put in place (see para 26). In the case of Other Fisheries component, DOF plans to continue providing
technical guidance to the ongoing sub-projects as part of its regular extension duties in the project areas.
I. Key Lessons Learned
33.    Following are five key lessons learned:
(i) Stakeholders (including beneficiaries) should be involved from the identification stage of the project.
(ii) Mechanisms for cost recovery and/or sharing should be agreed with all concerned during project
preparation. The beneficiaries of the floodplain component should have been made aware of cost recovery
from the start. In fact, they should have been involved in developing mechanisms for progressively taking
over O&M responsibilities and designing required cost recovery arrangements.
(iii) NGOs are more effective than public sector agencies in motivation and formation of beneficiary
groups. Involvement of NGOs, particularly local NGOs, for the floodplain component generally proved to
be a very effective way of mobilizing and organizing the beneficiaries into groups to help them take
advantage of increased value of a common property resource.
(iv) Proactive supervision leading to adjustments in project design during implementation can play an
important role in achieving a successful outcome. These adjustments included reduction in project size,
increased roles for NGOs, changes in floodplain stocking patterns, development of a community-based
floodplain management program, which basically evolved in the course of project implementation, and
development of a shrimp infrastructure program based on existing canals, instead of land acquisition.
(v) Untested concepts, such as stocking open water bodies and other fisheries programs, should be tried out
first at a pilot level.



12
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
THIRD FISHERIES PROJECT
(Credit 2146-BD)
Part II - Statistical Tables
Table 1: Summara Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives   Substantial       Partial        Negligible    Not Applicalhk
Macroeconomic Policies         El              EIJ             al              [X]
Sector Policies                E               [X]             El               O
Financial Objectives           E               [X]             El               El
Institutional Development      [X]             E               E                E
Physical Objectives            E               [X]             El               E
Poverty Reduction              al              [X]             El               O
Gender Concerns                [X]             O                E               E
Other Social Objectives        C               [X]                             E
Environmental Objectives       E               [XI             O                E
Public Sector Management       E                               El              [X]
Private Sector Development     [XI             E               E                E
Other (specify)                n               o                E               E
B. Project Sustainability        Likely                 Unlikely                Uncertain
E                      E                        [X]
Highly
C. Bank Performance            Satisfacorv             Satisfactory             Deficient
Identification                 E                      [X]                       E
Preparation Assistance         El                      E                        [X]
Appraisal                      El                      E                       [X]
Supervision                    El                     [X]                       El
Highly
D. Borrower Performance        Satisfactory           Satisfactory              Deficient
Preparation                    E                      [X] I
Implementation                 E                      [X] I
Covenant Compliance                                    El                      [X]
Operation (if applicable)      E                      [X]                       E
Highly                                          High
E. Assessment of Outcome       Satisfactory    Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory   Unsatisfactory
El             [X]               l              E



13
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title           Purpose           Year of Approval  T          Status
Preceding Operations
Karnafuli    Irrigation  Correct adverse effects  1976                Closed  December 31,
Project (C605) had a  on inland fisheries from                        1984
fisheries sub-project  flood control, drainage,
and irrigation projects
through    aquaculture
_  based fishery.
Rural  Development I Rehabilitation   derelict 1976                   Closed December 1981.
Project (C63 1)        ponds, organization of
Thana          fishery
cooperatives,  training
and technical assistance.
Oxbow  Lakes Fishery  Develop underexploited  1979                    Closed June 30, 1986
Project (C890)         oxbow lakes to increase
fish production, improve
fishermen's incomes and
finance  hatchery  and
fingerling     rearing
facilities for six lakes.
Shrimp Culture Project Improve shrimp culture  January 14, 1986       Closed October 31, 1993
(C 1651)               within polders located in
the eastern Cox's Bazar
area.
Following Operations
Fourth Fisheries Project  Increase fish production  Not yet approved  .  Under preparation
in a sustainable manner



14
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle    |         Date Planned          | Date Actual/Latest Estimate
Identification'                         April/May 1985                   April 15, 1988
2                        October/November 1988              November 21, 1988
Preparation
Appraisal                                 April 1989                      October 1989
Negotiations                             October 1989                   April 9-13, 1990
Board Presentation                      December 1989                    May 20, 1990
Signing                                                                   June 8, 1990
Effectiveness                              July 1990                     January 8, 1991
Midterm Review                            Not Planned                   January 15, 1994
Project Completion                    December31, 1996            Dec. 31, 1996; March 31, 1997  |
Loan/Credit Closing                      April 30, 1996           April 30, 1997; July 31, 19974
I Carried out by FAO/CP
2 Carried out by FAO/CP
3 Extended Completion Date for civil works, Category (1)
4Extended Closing Date for civil works, Category (1)



15
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative. Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY91       FY92       FY93       FY94       FY95        FY96        FY97        FY98
Appraisal Estimate              1.86       3.96       9.57       16.16      23.66       31.08      34.56       34.56
(Cumulative)
Actual (Cumulative)             0.57       1.83       2.98       4.78       6.91        8.96        15.32
Actual as % of Estimate        30.65      46.21      31.14      29.58       29.21       28.83      44.33
(Cumulative)
Revised Estimate                0.62       2.02      3.35        5.37       7.87        11.12       12.55      12.60
(Cumulative)
Actual as % of Revised         91.94      90.59      88.96      89.01       87.80       80.58      122.07
Estimate (Cumulative)
Date of Final Disbursement       July 31, 1997
(Expected)



16
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
1.  Key implementation indicators in SAR              Appraisal Target                 Actual
1. FLOODPLAIN FISHERIES
(a) Area Stocked ('000 ha)                           100                         44.9
(b) Cost of Stocking (include.                        67                           421
contingencies) (US$/ha)
(c) Weight Increase (Times)                            10                       6.7 - 10.82
2. COASTAL SHRIMP CULTURE
(a) Construction of Public Infrastructure in
Polders                                                13                           10.43
i) Area covered ('000 ha)                        1,377                          5964l
ii) Cost (including contingencies) (US$/ha)        120                            --
iii) Incremental Yield of Exportable Shrimp
(kg/ha)                                                                                             l
3. OTHER FISHERIES (no.)                               55                            32
4. INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT
(a) Vehicles                                        44                           44
(b) Motorcycles                                    118                          118
(c) Speed Boats                                      4                            4
(d) Computers                                       25                           25
i) Cost recovery on FPL (status)                Complete                       100%
ii) Hatchery divestment (status)                 Complete                       100%
5. RESEARCH STUDIES"
(a) Fish Food Availability (% completed)            100                          95
(b) Fish Disease (% completed)                      100                          90
(c) Fish Gear Selectivity (% completed)             100                          95
11. Modified indicators                          Mid-term Review Target
1. Floodplain Fisheries (Area stocked, '000 ha)        60                          43
2. Shrimp Area Covered ('000 ha)                       10.4                         10.4
1. Estimate, Floodplain area varies from year to year based on hydrological factors.
2. Annual average (excluding 1992 which was a drought year. Some beels shared weight increases as high
as 15 times.
3. Due to project implementation delays, physical target was reduced to 10,400 ha.
4. Low cost design for infrastructure works evolved during implementation phase.
5. Will be available after completion of works and use of facilities.
6. Target and achievement are measured in terms of duration of the studies.
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
I.  Key operating indicators in                Estimated                           Actual
SAR/Presidents Report
Not Applicable



17
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Study              at appraisal/redefined              Status                 Impact of study
Under UNDP assisted STA program
1.   Methodology of Production    Use in monitoring of fish          Completed           Methodology helped to
monitoring, 1992           Production from floodplains                             develop existing monitoring
and could ascertain impact of
__________________________                                                          stocking
2.   Hydrology of 3 floodplains--  Use in the selection of                               Helped to select criteria as
-Halti. BSKB & Chanda,     floodplains and evaluation of                           well as floodplains for
1993 & 1994                stocking program                                        stocking
3.   Lease holder study. 1995    Use in cost recovery                                    Helpful for cost recovery
planning & other related                               study and other related
issues                                                 aspects
4.   Socio-Economic (pre &       To evaluate stocking of                                 Helpful for evaluation of
Post) Study in the selected  floodplains                                           socio-economic status of
floodplains area, 1995                                                             fishers of stocked area (Pre
and Post).
5.   Flood Consumption (Pre &
Post) Study in the stocked
floodplain area, 1995
6.   New floodplain Planning.    To use for floodplain                                   Helpful for selection of
1993, 1994                 selection for stocking                                  floodplains
7.   Organization of Fishermen,   To know institutional status
1994                       of fishers in the project area
8.   Study of Cost Recovery in    To help formulate Govt.                                Used in the preparation of
stocked floodplains, 1993  Policy on Cost recovery in                              Govt. Policy on cost recovery
stocked floodplains                                    in stocked floodplains
9.   Divestment of DOF's Fish    to know surplus production                              Helpful for preparing Govt.
Seed Farms. 1993           of fish seeds and under use                             Policy of divestment of Govt.
of Govt. man                                           Fish Seed Farms
power/resources
10.  Study on Minor Floodplains.  To know status of minor                                Undertook package program
1993                       floodplains of project areas                            based on study findings
II.  Research areas/fields       Identification of research                              Conducted need based
particularly in floodplain  fields and working out their                           research
stocking program, 1992-93    methodology
12.  Role of Women/involvement  To identify areas of women              ..               Helpful for involving women
of women in TFP activities,   involvement in the project                           in different package program
1993                                                                               of other fisheries development
13.  Detailed Planning and       To work out low cost &                                  Helpful for dosing feasible
outline design for Brackish    easily operated and socially                        low cost water infrastructures.
water Shrimp culture       acceptable water
Infrastructures. (6 reports),   infrastructures.
1992-95
14.  Caritas study on land tenure   To know rate of involvement                          Used in evaluation
survey of Brackish water   of land owner/small farmer
shrimp culture project under  in shrimp cultivation (pre &
TFP                        post project period)
15.  Caritas study on socio-     To know changes in the
economic impact of Brackish  socio-economy of
water shrimp culture in the    beneficiaries group
project area
16   Research areas/fields.      Identification f research                               Used research findings for
particularly in floodplain  fields and working out their                           preparing stocking program
stocking program. 1992     methodology



18
17.  Shrimp Culture &             Understand social &                                      Used
Environment in Coastal      technical problems                                        recommendations/suggestions
Region, BIDS, 1993                                                                   in the project activities
Under ODA assisted MTA Program
1.   Nursery operators and        To know fingerling                                       Useful for preparing
fingerling production in the    production status in the area                         procurement plan
I project area, 1992
2.    The 1992 Fingerling         To evaluate procurement                                   Used for future Program
Stocking Program, 1992      plan
3.    Women in Fisheries          For involving Women in                                    Used recommendations for
Projects--Other Fisheries,  Fisheries development                                     involving women's package
1995                                                                                 program
4.   Project Beneficiaries under    To identify/categorize
Third Fisheries Project, 1993   beneficiaries of the project
5.   Creating Community           Awareness about TFP                                      DOF personnel became aware
awareness within the Dept.                                                            of TFP activities
of Fisheries, 1992         1
6.   The monitoring of escaping    Prepare species mix                                      Planning of stocking refined
fingerlings, 1992, 1993                                                               in TFP area



19
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (US$ million)      Actual/latest estimate (US$ million)
Local       Foreign                    Local       Foreign
Item           costs        costs        Total        costs        costs        Total
1. Floodplain    12.2         1.4          13.6         5.5                       5.5
Fisheries
2. Coastal       8.5           4.4         12.9         6.2                        6.2
Shrimp Culture
3. Other          1.9         0.1           2.0         0.1                        0.1
Fisheries                                                                                      l
4. Institutional  7.5         2.3           9.9         8.2           1.1          9.3
Support
5. Research      0.6          0.2           0.8         0.7          0.2           0.9
6. Technical     3.1          3.9           6.9                      8.0           8.0
Assistance
7. Physical       2.8          0.7          3.5
Contingencies             ______l
8. Price          10.2         2.8         13.0
contingencies
TOTAL            46.9         15.8         62.7         20.7         9.3           30.0
Table 8B: Project Financing
|  Appraisal estimate (US$ million)     Actual/latest estimate (US$ million)
Local      Foreign                  Local       Foreign
Source            costs       costs       Total       costs        costs       Total
IDA                   33.5         11.         44.6        14.4          1.3        15.7
ODA                     1.4         2.9         4.3         0.7          3.6         4.3
UNDP                   2.4          1.8         4.2                      4.3         4.3
GOB                    9.6          0.0          9.6        5.7                      5.7
TOTAL                 46.9         15.8         62.7       21.3         8.7        30.0



20
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Assumptions                                  Costs                                    Benefits
(a) Floodplain Stocking Component:       (a) Floodplain Stocking Component:         (a) Floodplain Stocking Component:
The main assumptions are:                 The major costs included in the analysis  The main quantifiable benefit is
are:                                      incremental catch of stocked species.
(i) stocking density; (ii) stocking costs are
actuals until 1996 and the forecast      (i) The cost of fingerlings stocked;
stocking quantity and price are the       (ii) fishermen's cost (consisting of labor
average for the rates for 1995 and 1996:    and equipment),
(iii) fishermen's costs are based on frame    (iii) DOF administration costs; and
survey data on actual gear ownership and    (iv) supervision costs.
participation in fishing. together with
local estimates of gear costs. These were
checked for consistency before using
them in the analysis: (iv) DOF costs are
based on staffing, vehicles and equipment
(such as computers) usage by the project
as reflected in quarterly reports. The costs
are allocated to the stocking directly
according to the number of stocking
points: (v) NGO and other supervision
costs are taken directly from STA and
UNDP support budgets and from the
direct cost of fishermen's contribution to
stocking: and (vi) incremental catch uses
actuals until 1995/96 and the average of
the last two full years data for future
forecasts.
(b) Shrimp Component: The                 (b) Shrimp Component: The major           (b) Shrimp Component: The main
assumptions are:                          costs included in the analysis are:       quantifiable benefit is shrimp output
(i) the area under shrimp will remain    (i) civil works (infrastructure);
constant and there will be no change      (ii) equipment;
between shrimp only and shrimp with      (iii) O&M civil works/equipment;
paddy farming; (ii) inputs will increase as   (iv) on farm investment;
DOF's extension messages are accepted     (v) shrimp juveniles;
by farmers; (iii) yields will increase as a  (vi) fertilizer and feed;
result of the inputs, through improved    (vii) land preparation;
monitoring and control and as the farmers  (viii) labor; and
become experienced in managing water      (ix) lost rice value (where shrimp replaces
flows: (iv) prices of inputs and outputs  rice).
will not change in real term (there had
been a drop in input prices following the
disease problems in early 1996. but it is
assumed that this will be temporary and
that prices will return to a long-term
average within the next season): (v) there
will be no benefit from this component
until 1998 and full benefits will take three
years to be achieved. A 20 year project
life is assumed: (vi) DOF will continue to
provide support to farmers after
completion of the structures: and (vii)
Caritas will continue to support farmers
for two years and any support thereafter
will be self-financing.



21
Table 10: Status of Lpal Covenants
Original           Revised
Covenant        Present      Fulfillment        Fulfillment
Agreement         Section           type         Status           Date               Date                  Description of Covenant                              Comments
Article IV      Section 4.01     1             C                                                    Borrower  shall  furnish  audit  reports.   -
including separate opinions on expenditures
made on the basis of SOE, from Department
of Fisheries (DOF), Fisheries Research
Institute (FRI) and Bangladesh Water
Development Board (BWDB), not later than
nine months after the end of the financial
______ ______ _____ ______ _____ year.
Schedule 4.01    10           C                                                    Borrower shall  initially  stock  Chanda.   Halti was initially  stocked, along  with
(a)                                                                                BSKB and Haiti floodplains                    Chanda and BSKB, but was subsequently
dropped because it was economically not
____________________________________ viable.
Schedule 4.01    10           C                                                    Borrower shall, after completion  of the    For the 1996 stocking program, 41,500 ha of
(b)                                                                                initial stocking, select other floodplains    floodplains (41% of the SAR target and 73%
of the revised target) were stocked.
Schedule 4.02    10           C                                                    Borrower shall ensure that the concerned    oc
(a)                                                                                population in the shrimp polders has agreed
to participate in the carrying out of the
infrastructure works
Schedule 4.02    10           C                                                    Before building  sluices, Borrower shall
(b)                                                                                ensure that relevant shrimp farmers have
agreed to develop the related channels and
l____________                  ____________   _____________   __________________    secondary   em bankments
Schedulc 4.02    10           C                                                    Borrowcr   shall  initially   carry   out
(c)                                                                                infrastructure works in polders 5 and 23,
and thereafter carry out works in additional
polders
Schedule 4.03    10           C                                                    Borrower  shall  select  Other  Fisheries
(a)                                                                                Development activities in accordance with
criteria acceptable to IDA
Schedule 4.03    10           C                                                    Borrower shall ensure that a substantial
(b)                                                                                portion  of the  expenditurcs  for Other
Fisheries projects be used for activities
related to women in lisheries development
Schedule 4.04    I0           C                                                    Borrower shall furnishi to IDA the plans for
(a)                                                                                the construction and rehabilitation of DOF's
training facilities
Schedule 4.04    10           C                                                    Borrower shall furnish to IDA the ainual
(b)                                                                                budget plans for the DOF hcadquarters units,
other than the Project Coordination Ceil



22
Schedule 4.05   10           C                                                   Borrower shall furnish to IDA for approval
(a)                                                                              the plans for the FRI field station
Schedule 4.05   10           C               12/11/1991                          Borrower shall transfer a DOF fish seed
(b)                                                                              farm to FRI
Schedule 4.06   5            C              06/30/1991                           Borrower shall transfer the extension staff
assigned to the implementation of the
Shrimp Culture Project (Credit 1651 -BD) to
the implementation of the Project
Schedule 4.07   5            C                                                   Borrower shall provide adequate office
space to technical assistance staff
Schedule 4.08   5            CD             07/01/1992      02/02/1993           Borrower shall establish an interministerial
(a)                                                                              committee on divestment of public fish seed
farms
Schedule 4.08   5            CD             03/01/1993      08/27/1993           Borrower shall furnish  to IDA, for its   The committee identified eight of fifty farms
(b)                                                                              comments, the recommendations of the   for divestment.
committee
Schedule 4.08   5            C                                                   Borrower shall thereafter, implement, in   Some seed farms have been divested.
(c)                                                                              accordance with a time schedule agreed
with  IDA,  the  recommendations  of
committee
Schedule 4.09   5            C               10/31/1990                          Borrower shall staff the Coordination Cell
(a)                                                                             in DOF in a manner satisfactory to IDA
Schedule 4.09   5            C               10/31/1990                          Borrower shall staff the DOF Divisional
(b)                                                                             Offices in a manner satisfactory to IDA
Schedule 4.10   2            CD             12/31/1990                          Borrower shall enact legislation to ensure   Borrower enacted a law in 1992, and framed
(a)                                                                              full cost recovery (investment and O&M) of   rules in 1991, which IDA  endorsed, that
shrimp culture infrastructure works within a   require recovery of O&M costs. 'I'he rules
20-year period                              are not yet applicable to project investments
but, based upon experience of similar rules in
irrigation cost recovery, are no longer
considered appropriate. It has been agreed,
in principle, that the covenant would be
amended to specify the role DOF staff, and to
involve beneficiaries in collection of fees and
O&M. (In line with the Guidelines for
People's Participation being framed under the
IDA assisted Systems Rehabilitation Project.)
Schedule4.10   2             NYD                                                Borrower shall, thereafter make biennial   --
(b)                                                                             adjustments to the charges
Schedule 4.10   2            NYD            09/30/1993                          Borrower shall review the effectiveness of   See Schedule 4.10(a).
(c)                                                                             the measures and furnish to IDA proposals
for improvements to such measures
Schedule 4.10   2            NYD            06/30/1994                          Borrower  shall  carryout  the  proposed   See Schedule 4.10(a).
(d)                                                                             improvements



23
Schedule 4.1 1   02             CD                                                     Borrower shall furnish to IDA for comments   By July 1, 1994, collections, based on the
(a)                                                                                    a draft policy paper on cost recovery of  leasing system  for water bodies, were about
stocking in floodplains, including measures   3.8 percent. A Government Floodplain Cost
of achieving at least a 20%  recovery  of  Recovery  Committee  developed  a  cost
annual public stocking before 7/1/94 and at  recovery program  which required replacing
least 30% before 7/1/95                        the leasing system  by the licensing system
from the 1995 stocking season. Initial results
have been encouraging with the July 1995
target achieved in 1996. Further NGOs were
recruited to motivate beneficiaries to stock
and manage floodplains themselves. If over
time  beneficiaries  could  be  induced  to
undertake  stocking, cost recovery  would
become a non-issue.
Schedule 4.11    02             CD              06/30/1994                             Borrower shall, by June 30, 1994, carry out  See Schedule 4.11(a)
(b)                                                                                    the policy
Schedule 4.12    05             CD              12/31/1992                             Borrower shall establish an Inter-ministerial                                                 l
Committee for Cost Recovery in Fisheries
(including Shrimp Culture)
Covenant types.                                                                      Present status
[ =   Accounts/audits                 8  =    Indigenous people                   C  = covenant complied with
2 =   Financial pcrfortmance/revenue  9  =    Monitoring, review. and reporting    CD = complied with aHter delay
generation from beneficiaries
3 =   Flow and utilization of project  10 =    Project implementation not covered  CP = complied with partially
funds                                   by categories I -9
4 =   Counterpart funding             I =    Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or  NC = not complied with
other resource allocation
5 =   Management aspects of the        12 =    Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/  NYD = Not yet duc
project or executing agenicy            regulatory/institutional action
6 =   Environmental covenants          13 =    Other
7     Involuntary resettlement



24
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title         I   Describe and comment on lack of compliance
No deviation from applicable Operational Manual Statements observed
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                Revised                 Actual
Stage of
project cycle        Weeks      US$000       Weeks      US$000      Weeks       US$000
Preparation to appraisal  N/A         N/A         N/A        N/A          69.5       125.1
Appraisal                 N/A         N/A         N/A        N/A          43.6        76.8
Negotiations through      N/A         N/A         N/A         N/A           3.5        8.7
Board approval
Supervision               N/A         N/A         N/A        N/A          159.2      267.6
Completion                N/A         N/A         N/A        N/A           16.1       32.1
TOTAL                     N/A         N/A         N/A        N/A         291.9       510.3



25
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
.___________________ .________ .________                   _________         Perform ance   rating
Specialized    Implemen-         Develop-
Month/         Number          Days in        staff skills       tation          ment          Types of
Stage of project cycle           year         of persons         field       represented         status       objectives       problems
Through appraisal
Appraisal through                October 89           6              26         ECN, FNA.
Board approval                                                                   IMS, FPF,             -               -
ENW.
_AQC_
Supervision                        Dec 90             6               10        ECN, FNA.             2                1             LC
DBO,
WID, FRS,
FRM
August 91           4               21            FNA,               2               1           LC, PM
DBO,
WID, FRS
Feb 92            2               21         FNA, FRS              2               1              LC
Nov 92             3              18          FNA, FRS,            2               2            ID, LC
DBO
May 93             6              20          FNA, FRS,            3               3          ID, LC, PP
DBO,
WID,
AQC, ENC
Oct 93             5              9          FNA, FRS,             3               3           PP, LC
WID,
AQC, ENC
Jan 94            4               24         FNA, FRS,             3               3         DB, LC, ID
AQC, ECN
Jan 95            5               15         FNA, FRS,            U                S             LC
AQC,
DBO, ATP
Dec 95             6              51         FNA, FRS,             S               S           DO, LC,
AQC, ATP,                                           SSP
ENC, DBO
Oct 96             3              30         FNA, ENC,             S               S           LC. SSP
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _D B O                        _  _   _  _       _   _   _
Completion                         Nov 96             5              25          FNA, FRS,            =               =
AQC,
Total                                                                            EN    T
Key:
AGR       : AgricUlturalist                                             DB         : Distribution of Benefits
ATP        : Anthropologist                                             DO         : Disease Ouitbreak
AQC        : AqucUlturalist                                             ID         : lImpleinentation Delays (Shrimp Component)
DBO       : DisbIursement Officer                                       LC         : Compliance with Legal Covenants
ECN       : Economist                                                   FP         : Financial Perfonnance
ENW       : Water Engineer                                              PP         : Produiction Perfonnance
ENC       : Civil Engineer                                              PR         : Procurement Progress
FNA       : Financial Analyst                                           PM         : Project Management Performance
FPF       : Floodplain Fisheries Specialist                             SSP         Saistainability of Floodplain Stocking Program
FRM        : Fisheries Monitoring Specialist
FRS       : Fisheries Specialist
IMS       : Institutional Management Specialist
OPN       : Operations Assistant
WID       : Women in Development Specialist
A/ Caried out by FAO/CP
h/ Mission cut-short due to political unrest in the country.



Appendix A
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
THIRD FISHERIES PROJECT
(Credit 2146-BD)
Mission's Aide-Memoire
I.    An IDA  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) mission comprising Benson Ateng,
Imtiazuddin Ahmad, Ronald Zweig, Lars Soeftestad (IDA), and Ian Payne (ODA-funded consultant)
took place during November 24 to December 19, 1996 to discuss the implementation and operation of
the Third Fisheries Project (TFP), which will close on December 31, 1996, with Government of
Bangladesh (GOB) officials, ODA (a co-financier), participating Non-Government Organizations
(NGOs), and beneficiaries. An earlier draft of this Aide Memoire was shared with UNDP, another co-
financier, whose comments have been incorporated in this version.  The mission held detailed
discussions with each of the implementing agencies -- Department of Fisheries (DOF), Fisheries
Research Institute (FRI) and Bangladesh Water Development Board (BWDB) -- on the progress made in
implementing their respective parts of the TFP, and on the need for their subsequent participation in
preparing the GOB's Evaluation of Project Implementation as an appendix to the ICR. The mission also
met a wide range of beneficiaries from floodplain, shrimp, and other fisheries components of the project
during field visits. The mission wishes to record its appreciation of each agency's very helpful
cooperation. A number of reports on the progress of TFP's implementation were made available to the
mission.
2.     This Aide Memoire summarizes the views of the mission, GOB, implementing agencies
including participating NGOs, and co-financiers on project implementation and operation, including
operational plans. Attached to it is a revised IDA TFP Supervision Mission Aide Memoire which was
discussed at a wrap-up meeting chaired by the Ministry of Fisheries and Livestock (MOFL) Secretary on
November 24, 1996. The missions' recommendations are subject to review and endorsement by IDA
management. The mission also provided advice and support to the implementing agencies for preparing
their own contribution to the ICR. This Aide Memoire was discussed at a wrap-up meeting chaired by
Mr. Md. Badre Alam, Joint Secretary of MOFL, on December 19, 1996 and includes the decisions taken
and the views expressed at that meeting. Since the more detailed views of the Bank and GOB will be
contained in their respective sections of the Report, the mission felt that this Aide Memoire could best
facilitate that process by focusing mainly on the following key aspects:
(a) project objectives/scope;
(b) completion status;
(c) Borrower's compliance with DCA covenants;
(d) salient successes/failures of the project;
(e) plans for the project's future operation/sustainability; and
(f) next steps in the Bank's and GOB's ICR preparation.



27                                    Appendix A
A. Project Objectives/Scope
3.    The main objectives of the project are: (a) increasing incomes, particularly of the poor, and fish
production for domestic consumption and export; (b) supporting the fisheries development program in
the West with emphasis on private sector participation; (c) accelerating the expansion of fish production
in the floodplains; and (d) strengthening sectoral institutions. The four major components include:
(a) floodplain fisheries, involving the stocking of floodplains; (b) coastal shrimp culture, making
improvements in public infrastructure on poldered land already under shrimp culture; (c) other fisheries,
including finance packages for a variety of Upazila- and District-level programs; and (d) institutional
support, financing facilities and incremental operational costs of DOF and BWDB related to the above
investments. The project is currently rated satisfactory in terms of both development objectives and
implementation progress.
B. Completion Status
4.    Most project components have been completed as adjusted during the Mid-term Review in
January/February 1994. However, some civil works are yet to be completed in the case of shrimp
infrastructure and construction of the Fisheries Academy and the District Fisheries Office in Nagoan.
The start of the shrimp infrastructure works was delayed by two years. Further recent delays are due to a
decision to stop work to get an independent evaluation of the adequacy of the quality of some of the
completed infrastructure before transfer to the beneficiaries for operation and maintenance. Works to be
completed include the completion and repair of sluice gates, the deepening and widening of some water
supply and drainage canals, and the realignment of some short canal sections, as needed for ample water
flow. BWDB plans to correct any defects identified by the evaluation and complete remaining civil
works within three months. Completion of the Fisheries Academy was delayed because the contractors
had not received timely payments from DOF due to non-approval status of the revised Project Proforma.
DOF and the contractors estimate that the remaining works can be completed by March 31, 1997. The
Ministry of Fisheries and Livestock (MOFL), DOF, and BWDB discussed with the mission the need to
extend the closing date for these components to March 31, 1997. The mission advised the MOFL and the
BWDB each to send a formal request for extension of the DCA category for civil works for these
components through the Economic Relations Division (ERD) to the Bank before the closing date of
December 31, 1996. The mission recommends that the BWDB complete the tasks concerning
amendment of the cost recovery covenant for the shrimp culture component discussed in paragraph 5.
C. Compliance with DCA Covenants
5.    The Borrower generally complied with the DCA's covenants. There is, however, one covenant
concerning floodplain cost recovery, which has been only partially met due to the rate of fee collection
not meeting the specified schedule, and another on shrimp culture cost recovery, which requires
amendment. The mission discussed and agreed with BWDB that the BWDB would send a formal
request (through ERD) to the Bank by December 31, 1996 to amend the cost recovery covenant for the
shrimp farming component, as explained in paragraph 23 of the Attachment.



28                                     Appendix A
D. Salient Successes/Failures
6.     Floodplain Component. The fingerling stocking program could only achieve 72% of the revised
Mid-term Review target of 60,000 ha for major floodplain stocking in part due to a lack of suitable
floodplains exceeding 5,000 ha each as proscribed in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the transfer of
the leasing system to licensing of fishing rights from the Ministry of Land (MOL) to the MOFL, and
difficulties in recruiting competent NGOs in the floodplain areas.  However, the project has
demonstrated the technical, financial, and economic feasibility of floodplain stocking with fingerlings.
A total incremental production of 20,000 mt of stocked fish were produced; and in all cases with
appropriate stocking densities, the non-stocked species' diversity and productivity were found to keep
pace or exceed the baseline condition. The most significant achievement was to show that the ten-fold
increase in stocked species production indicated in the SAR was regularly attained. The achievement of
this target underpins the viability of the procedure and the economic performance; preliminary results
show that the average economic rate of return is nearly 40%.  The continuous evaluation and
modification of the stocked species mixture used proved a significant factor in attaining the sustained
high incremental production.
7.    The SAR objective of successfully incorporating the private sector has been achieved. During
the project, some 2,600 mt of stocked fingerlings were supplied by contractors to the floodplains.
Overall, contractors delivered over 80% of their contractual obligations and showed progressively
improved performance by attaining 95% in 1995. Fingerling quality was assured by DOF inspection
procedures. A high accountability at stocking was achieved through the first 3 years by an international
certification company, which was subsequently replaced with an independent checking system
incorporating fishers and NGOs. However, transfer of procurement and contractual procedures from the
Management Technical Assistance (MTA) consultant to DOF has not been adequately accomplished,
because a counterpart officer was not consistently assigned to work with the consultant during the
consultant's engagement.
8.    The GOB has been committed to intensive monitoring of all fishes in stocked floodplains in
order to allow a detailed evaluation of the program. DOF has successfully taken over monitoring of
existing and new floodplains from the consultants.
9.    Despite a slow start, the research objectives were achieved, and the results were applied by DOF
to project operations. Dissemination of research findings at the fishing community level has been
achieved through extension and production and circulation of simple booklets in the national language.
Beyond the original objectives, FRI has produced a preliminary categorization of floodplains by
production type with modified stocking procedures appropriate to each category, which is an essential
step for any future stocking assessments. The fish hatchery at Shantahar, which was transferred from
DOF to FRI, has been successfully converted into an effective research station for inland fisheries.
10.   The primary objective of the NGO involvement was to assist DOF with organization of the
fishing communities to improve their capacity to understand and participate more fully in the floodplain
stocking program. The NGO intervention itself has had a radical effect in many instances on the ability
of the fishing groups to organize themselves to take advantage of increased benefits and has also
facilitated cost recovery. The transfer of leases from the MOL to the MOFL was an essential precursor
to this, for it allowed the issuance of fishing licenses as proscribed under the New Fisheries Management
Policy. The use of group bank accounts and the willingness of DOF to issue licenses against bank
receipts as demonstrated for some floodplains has increased transparency and provided a future
mechanism for savings to be accumulated for community stocking.



29                                      Appendix A
11.    Concerning social benefits of the floodplain stocking program, results achieved include:
increased awareness of improved inland fisheries management and group organization at the local level.
Initially, there was some inequity in the distribution of benefits with a high percentage not going to the
targeted rural poor; however, with NGO intervention in later years, there has been significant
improvement in the distribution of benefits.
12.     Shrimp Culture Component. About 10,400 ha of shrimp/rice culture farms of the planned
13,000 ha in the SAR were taken up under the project. The shortfall in area developed was due to a late
start as a result of delays in appointment by BWDB of the design consultants and major, innovative re-
design of the component to reduce land acquisition through optimizing the use of existing canals in the
area. The re-design was also more cost effective, simplified infrastructure requirements, and reduced
environmental impacts of polder development by returning the ecological condition closer to that which
existed prior to embankment construction. The available data indicate that for the polders developed
under the project, there has been an overall shift toward small landowners actively taking up shrimp
farming with the overall percentage of leasing to outsiders down from 66% to 47%, with active
involvement of owners up from 34% to 53%. Some landowners also lease to neighboring land owners.
For organization and management of the project areas, the NGO assisted in forming Block and Sluice
Gate Management Committees. Overall, the amount of extension information of improved shrimp
culture and environmental management (harvest of shrimp to allow timely planting of rice; selective
collection of shrimp seed and conservation of other species) provided to the farmers increased as a result
of the NGO's efforts in disseminating information provided by the DOF. Although little has been
achieved to date to show incremental increases in shrimp production due to many of the infrastructure
elements not yet completed, in addition to Bangladesh shrimp farms being adversely affected since early
1996 by a highly virulent white spot shrimp disease, projected incremental benefits with completion of
infrastructure and anticipated reduction of shrimp disease within one year show the ERR still to be at
least 20%.
13.    Other Fisheries Component. The SAR objectives of this pilot component were to initiate 55 sub-
projects, concerning private sector promotion of pond culture, minor floodplain, river, and freshwater
shrimp culture development. These sub-projects were to be formulated with the assistance of Thana
Fisheries Officers toward providing employment opportunities primarily for groups of landless women.
There was also scope for applied research initiatives to be included. Of the 55 sub-project target, 32
were appraised and mostly implemented satisfactorily. The reasons for the shortfall in number are due
to: (a) a late start of the component; (b) the complexities of formulating sustainable sub-projects
oriented toward poverty alleviation among the rural poor; and (c) lack of experience among DOF officers
to formulate acceptable proposals required by the project with an emphasis upon poverty alleviation.
DOF narrowed the scope of the component to pond culture development, including in some instances
polyculture of freshwater prawns and integration with livestock, due to DOF's greater experience with
pond culture techniques. One clear advancement as a result of the component, however, has been the
improvement of and experience gained by the DOF officers to prepare, plan and implement projects with
these objectives through direct interaction with women's groups. The results of the component's
implementation have been mixed.  Some sub-projects worked well with clear ownership by the
beneficiaries, helping to assure sustainability, and others not succeeding as well due to technical and
social problems which can be attributed in part to DOF's lack of required capacity with the social
complexities of such initiatives during the early stage. In addition, as part of DOF's extension program,
financial management training for the beneficiary groups needs to be provided, as part of sub-project
preparation activities to assure that there is advance knowledge and acceptance of how the benefits



30                                     Appendix A
would be distributed. There are examples of the diffusion of improved technologies as demonstrated by
the fish drying project at Chanda now being replicated at Moller Bee].
14.   Institutional Development Component. The substantial management element of this project,
particularly via the ODA funded MTA component, laid emphasis on improved management capacity
within DOF, particularly in the fields of procurement, contract management and intensive monitoring.
An unusual feature was the equal emphasis on regional as well as central capacity. Regional DOF staff
gained confidence in using a computerized stocking management system, and introduction of the system
greatly assisted production monitoring, record keeping, and timely reporting. Similar gains were made
centrally, but overall capacity for coordination and informnation management at all levels still requires
strengthening. Over the duration of the project, there were increasing numbers of women fisheries
officers working on the project. Increasing numbers are operating at field level [Thana Fisheries Officer
(TFO)I.
15.   Technical Assistance (TA) Component. The overall performance of TA provided by the UNDP-
funded Support Technical Assistance (STA) consultancy executed by IDA and the ODA-funded
Management Technical Assistance (MTA) consultants was satisfactory. STA support was valuable in the
areas of production monitoring, fish disease, shrimp farm planning and social activities by NGOs. MTA
support has been valuable in the areas of floodplain stocking management and production monitoring.
Further, MTA has been instrumental in creating innovative enhancement in DOF's technical and
administrative capacity at the local level. In the early stages, there were performance problems with
STA senior management which were rectified by changes in personnel. Evaluation of training by a GOB
committee found the overall performance to be satisfactory. A shortcoming of the outcome was the
transfer or departure of a small proportion of trained staff from the project. These staff changes
contributed to some loss of consistency and progress with project implementation.
E. Future Operation/Sustainability
16.     Floodplain Component. Significant organization of beneficiaries has been undertaken by DOF
and the NGOs, and cost recovery has been initiated. A series of participatory workshops that included all
categories of stakeholders have been held to arrive at a mutually agreed master work plan for sustainable
fingerling stocking under the project. This sequential action plan which involves co-management
includes technical, organizational and licensing procedures. The key element is fully representative Beel
Management Committees which now exist for each floodplain. The plan is in Bangla and is possessed
by stakeholders at all levels. The plan lays out the rules and responsibilities of all parties, including
increased contributions by its beneficiaries to the stocking process.  Originally, DOF produced a
preliminary plan for continued GOB fingerling stocking with progressive annual reduction until it is
phased out in 2002. The difference would be made up by increasing the contributions from beneficiaries.
Accordingly, over 8 mt of fingerlings have been provided to date by the beneficiaries themselves.
However, to assure sustainability, public stocking of the floodplains taken up under the project would be
required until the respective fishing communities have gained the capacity to stock fingerlings through
their own means. Continued NGO support needs to be provided up to December 31, 1997 as discussed
in paragraph 10 of the Attachment. The mission's view is that without NGO support and continued
GOB fingerling stocking (until the beneficiaries themselves have the capacity to do this by themselves)
of the floodplains taken up under the project, there is strong likelihood that required group participation
would not continue, resulting in inequities in the distribution of benefits away from the poor fishing
communities, and the organization and effectiveness of the floodplain program achieved to date would
fail. At the wrap-up meeting, it was agreed that the DOF would formulate by December 27, 1996 a
detailed, time-bound action plan for continued involvement of NGOs and fingerling stocking in the



31                                     Appendix A
floodplains taken up under the project. This plan involves submitting a formal request through ERD to
UNDP to extend the ProDoc to allow NGO involvement to continue through December 31, 1997. To
prepare for the eventuality that an extension on the basis of the ProDoc is not feasible, MOFL will also
immediately begin the preparation of a TAPP for this work to be financed by UNDP. Concurrently,
immediate steps would be required to prepare tender documents for fingerling stocking in July/August
1997.  These steps would take place while a summary evaluation as suggested by ECNEC of the
fingerling stocking program is being conducted and would be completed by January 31, 1997.
17.   FRI will continue research initiated under the project. It was recommended at the wrap-up
meeting that during 1997, FRI will continue its related inland fisheries research, provided their staff and
operating costs can be covered by the revenue budget. If this is not feasible, FRI should prepare and
submit a proposal for contract research financing from the IDA-assisted Agriculture Research
Management Project.
18.     Shrimp Culture Component. A number of specific actions being taken by DOF and BWDB
needs to be completed as part of the ongoing development of the component to assure the component
achieves its objectives and becomes sustainable. The actions include: (a) cancellation of leases of public
canals in the project area; (b) acquisition of some land for the construction of new water supply channels;
(c) revision of the Government Act conceming cost recovery as discussed in paragraph 5; (d) extension
of NGO (CARITAS) support through December 31, 1997 (See paragraph 13 of the Attachment); (e)
formulation of an action plan for turning over the operation and maintenance responsibilities and the
provision of training and an operational manual for these facilities to the beneficiaries; (f) repair of any
defects in water management structures constructed under the project; and (g) continued efforts by the
DOF to encourage farmers to take up environmentally sound shrimp culture practices to help minimize
the prevalence and impact of shrimp diseases. From other experience in the region, the impact of white
spot shrimp disease has been shown to decline in recent years in part due to the application of
environmentally sound shrimp farming management practices. The mission recommended and it was
agreed at the wrap-up meeting that the DOF and BWDB, per their respective responsibilities, would
provide the resources necessary to accomplish the above noted actions, without which it is likely that the
benefits of the investments to date will not be achieved.
19.   Other Fisheries Component. DOF recognizes that the sustainability of these sub-projects is
highly dependent upon the technical soundness of the schemes, the technical know-how of the groups,
the term of lease for the water areas operated by the groups, and the organization and cohesiveness of
and the financial management of the groups. In cases where a sound footing has been achieved for each
of the above, there is a strong likelihood that the respective sub-project would be sustainable. For others,
without these attributes, the prospects for their continued operation are slim, with some already having
ceased operation. DOF plans to continue providing technical guidance to the ongoing sub-projects as
part of their regular extension duties in the project areas.
F. Next Steps in ICR Preparation
20.    The Bank will prepare and submit to GOB and co-financiers a draft ICR within 2-3 months after
the ICR mission for comment. The mission recommends that GOB and co-financiers' comments on the
Bank's draft ICR be sent to the Bank within one month of receiving the report. DOF should be
responsible for coordinating all of GOB's comments. The comments will be incorporated before the ICR
is issued.



32                                    Appendix A
21.   GOB will prepare its own evaluation report on the project which should be submitted to the Bank
within three months from January 1, 1997. A summary is required if the report is longer than 10 pages.
GOB's evaluation report/summary, to be attached unedited to the ICR, should include:
(a) an assessment of the project objectives, design, implementation, and operation experience;
(b) an evaluation of GOB's own performance during the evolution and implementation of the
project, with special emphasis on lessons learned that may be relevant in the future; and
(c) an evaluation of the performance of the Bank and co-financiers during the evolution and
implementation of the project, including the effectiveness of the relationship among the
Borrower, the Bank, and co-financiers, with special emphasis on lessons learned.
The report should also include a plan for the operation phase of the project as well as performance
indicators to be used to monitor operations and development impact.



Attachment
BANGLADESH
THIRD FISHERIES PROJECT. CREDIT 2146-BD
IDA SUPERVISION MISSION- OCTOBER 1996
AIDE-MEMOIRE
Introduction
I .    Messrs. 1. Ahmad, S. A. M. Rafiquzzaman and M. Sayeed (IDA) carried out a supervision of the
project. Mr. Jan Weijenberg, Head, Agriculture and Natural Resources Unit, RMB, participated in field
visits and key meetings with the implementing agencies. As explained in IDA's letter of September 26,
1996 to the Government, this mission focused on actions needed for completion of remaining project
activities and preparatory works for the supervision and Implementation Completion Review (ICR)
missions, which will be conducted from November 24, 1996 to December 19, 1996. The mission wishes
to thank the staff of the Department of Fisheries (DOF), Fisheries Research Institute (FRI), Bangladesh
Water Development Board (BWDB), and Management Technical Assistance (MTA) Consultants for
their cooperation. This aide-memoire records the findings and recommendations of the mission.
Summary
2.    The overall status of the project has considerably improved compared to that reported by the
IDA Mid-term Review Mission (MTR) in early 1994. However, because of initial delays, the physical
progress of the three main project components--- stocking of floodplains, development of shrimp
culture infrastructure, and promotion of Other Fisheries (OF) activities--- remains below the Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR) targets. During the 1996 stocking program, 43,500 ha of floodplains (43% of
the SAR target and 73% of the revised target) have been stocked compared to 24,000 ha in 1994.
Implementation of the shrimp culture component, which was delayed by about two years due to late start
of infrastructure works, has improved. The revised physical target is 10,400 ha, or 80% of the SAR
target. Implementation of the OF component, which was also delayed, started from late 1994. At present
32 OF activities are in operation, or 58% of the SAR target. At the wrap-up meeting, the MOFL/DOF
mentioned that deficiencies in project design was one of the reasons for non achievement of the SAR
targets. The mission informed that the December 1996 ICR mission would analyze the design issue.
3.    The project currently faces two issues: sustainability of the floodplain stocking program (para 8),
and poor construction quality of some of the shrimp sluices constructed under the supervision of BWDB
(para 12). To address the first issue, the mission recommends that the NGO contracts, which are
financed under the IDA-executed and UNDP-funded TA component, be extended by a year to
December 31,1997 to allow them to continue the recently initiated sustainability activities, the
preliminary results of which are encouraging. To address the second issue, at the request of IDA, the
Ministry of Water Resources (MOWR) has constituted an independent committee to examine the poor
quality of sluices and to recommend corrective measures. On December 14, 1996, BWDB informed IDA
that the committee submitted its report on December 4 and that the MOWR would act on it shortly.
Actions Taken Since Last IDA Mission in May 1996
4.     DOF, in collaboration  with MTA, NGOs and beneficiaries, has evaluated the gear
licensing/NGO programs and has prepared a workplan for sustainable fingerling stocking program.



34                                     Appendix A
5.    MOFL and DOF closely monitored the impact of measures, prescribed by DOF, to prevent the
spread of the shrimp disease (para 14).
6.    Consultants, in collaboration with BWDB and  beneficiaries, have prepared a cost recovery
manual. However, the manual needs to be revised (para 15).
Floodplain Stocking Component
7.    Viability of Stocking Program. The stocking program is technically and economically viable.
Overall, fish production continues to increase. The latest fish production data show that stocked fish
harvested increased ten times the weight of fingerlings stocked. According to MTA, the ERR for a
sample of eight stocked floodplains is 38%, ranging from 29% to 122%. It has been agreed that
MTA/DOF will estimate the ERR for all 23 stocked floodplains and the results will be made available
to the ICR mission
8.    The sustainability of the stocking program has yet to be established. Originally, the sustainability
was thought to be guaranteed when Government could recover the costs of stocking through a leasing
system, in 1995 changed to a licensing system following the agreements reached during the 1994 MTR
mission (para 23). Subsequently, it was realized that real sustainability can only be attained once the
beneficiaries are in a position to manage the floodplains and contact for restocking. This approach is
now being piloted with the assistance of NGOs, which, due to procedural delays, were appointed late last
year only. However, despite these delays, a start has been made with the 1996 stocking program in
transferring the management and financing of stocking programs from the Government to the
beneficiaries. First, with the formation of Floodplain Management Committees, there has been far
greater involvement of the local community, including poor fishermen, in terms of release and
conservation of fingerlings. Second, although still less than targeted, more fingerlings were contributed
by the beneficiaries than in any previous year--over 6 mt. in Rajshahi division and 2.3 mt. in Khulna
division. Third, a much more thorough and equitable gear licensing system has been introduced this year
and, although final results will not be available before December 31, 1996, there is optimism that there
will be a significant increase in amounts collected.
9.     The above is only a start and needs to be sustained to ensure that beneficiaries will indeed be
able to take control of floodplain fisheries management. However, DOF have neither the resources nor
the necessary skills to sustain such a program. The mission, thus , strongly urges the Government to
extend the NGO contracts by a year to December 31, 1997. The mission wishes to point out that the
Government would find the experience gained during the extended period helpful in designing a
sustainable stocking program under the proposed IDA and other donor- assisted Fisheries Sector
Investment Project.
10.   Extension of NGO Contract. At a meeting held in the MOFL on October 28, 1996 to review
the UNDP-funded TA component, both UNDP and IDA in principle endorsed such an extension. It was
added that NGOs should start making plans now as to how floodplain fisheries management activities
could be incorporated into their regular programs. Further, NGOs should also aim at gradually
withdrawing their support services so that local communities could eventually manage the floodplains
themselves.  The MOFL and other Government representatives indicated that extension of NGO
activities by a year to December 31, 1997 would be a problem since the project, based on the ADP, will
close on June 30, 1997 and as such will not be able to handle funds beyond that period. IDA clarified
that payments to NGOs would not be a problem since, IDA, as the executing agency for the UNDP TA,
would be able to do so directly, as is now being done. UNDP indicated at the meeting that there is a



35                                     Appendix A
precedent that a TA supported by UNDP continued after closing of the investment part of that project. In
response to a request by MOFL to support the NGO activities under a new project, UNDP indicated that,
besides administrative problems, there would be a discontinuity of the NGO program.
11.   The MOFL decided at the meeting that the current TA activities would close on December 31,
1996, as scheduled, and that the NGOs would be requested to immediately submit a proposal on
sustainability of the stocking program ,as referred to in para 8, for consideration by the Government. The
MOFL, however, did not clarify the source of financing the NGO activities. At a meeting held on
November 5 at DOF, it was agreed that the NGOs would submit their proposals by November 20. The
mission urges MOFL/DOF to review the proposals and to request UNDP for funding the new activities
for a year under the ongoing TA. It was agreed that DOF would submit the proposals to the MOFL by
November 30. DOF has received the proposals and now plans to submit those to the MOFL by December
19.
Shrimp Culture Component
12.   Status of Infrastructure Facilities. The facilities are expected to be fully functional from the
next shrimp season in March 1997. The remaining works are reexcavation of canal sections and
rectification of some of the sluices. The reexcavation works have been hampered ,in some cases ,due to
leasing out of khas (govemment -owned) canal sections to shrimp farmers by the Ministry of Land
(MOL). The mission has been informed by DOF that the MOFL has recently requested the MOL to
cancel such leases. The mission requests MOFL/MOL to expedite the process. Regarding rectification
of sluices, the independent review team, constituted by the MOWR, submitted its report to the MOWR
on December 4, 1996 (para 3).
13.   Extension of Caritas Contract.  The mission recommends that, given the delays in
commencement of infrastructure works, the support initiated by Caritas be continued for another year to
December 31, 1997. This includes formation of Block Committees and Sluice Committees, motivation
of small farmers to go for shrimp farming themselves instead of leasing out their land to outsiders, who
are reported to be the ones mainly responsible for social and environmental problems, and assisting the
beneficiaries in operation and management of structures. The initial results of Caritas' support are
encouraging--Committees have been formed and the number of small farmers involved in shrimp culture
has increased. However, to consolidate and sustain Caritas' work, their contract needs to be extended for
a year. At a meeting held at the MOFL on October 28, 1996, UNDP indicated that it would consider
funding Caritas' work provided the suggestions made by the  1994 GOB/UNDP/IDA  Mid-term
Evaluation Mission to provide support to landless and women's groups in shrimp culture activities are
incorporated in Caritas' extended contract. It was agreed that, by December 15, 1996, DOF would
submit a proposal to MOFL for consideration. This action is pending.
14.    Status of Shrimp Disease. As reported by the IDA May 1996 supervision mission, the shrimp
culture program of the 1996 season (January-July) was hampered due to the outbreak of a shrimp disease
caused by the so called China Virus. DOF and MTA consultants preliminary estimates indicates that the
production loss is 55%, or 1.0 million kgs. of shrimp worth US $ 6.8 million. The mission recommends
that the estimate be updated before the ICR mission. There is no treatment for this virus. Prevention is
the only method. The project has issued posters/leaflets alerting farmers about preventive measures and
has conducted training/awareness programs. As a national response to this problem, the MOFL/DOF has
initiated a series of training programs in the shrimp growing areas of the country.



36                                     Appendix A
15.    Status of Cost Recovery. The shrimp culture cost recovery covenant (Section 10 of the
Development Credit Agreement, DCA), which requires recovery of investment and O&M costs of
shrimp culture civil works from the beneficiaries within a 20-year period, needs to be amended. In 1993,
the Government framed rules, which IDA endorsed, that require recovering of O&M costs only to begin
one year after completion of works and harvest of shrimp. Under the project, the first O&M charges are
expected to be due in May 1997. However for the sustainability of the program, during the IDA May
1996 supervision mission, it was agreed that the BWDB consultants would be requested to develop a
cost recovery model whereby the beneficiaries would be responsible for collection of fees and O&M.
The consultants have submitted a draft, which generally indicates the role of beneficiaries in terms of
O&M. It should also indicate mechanisms for collection of fees by beneficiaries. The mission
recommends that the draft be revised to include the latter, and that, in doing so, the consultants take into
account the cost recovery model piloted in one of the sub-projects (Karnaphuli Irrigation Project) under
the IDA-assisted Systems Rehabilitation Project. It was agreed that BWDB would revise the draft (para
16).
16.    Since the implementation of the new model will take time the mission recommends that (a)
MOWR/BWDB send, through ERD, a request to IDA to amend the cost recovery covenant so that
collections could start from May 1997 based on the Government's 1993 decision, and (b) submit an
action plan showing the various steps needed to initiate collections. The mission would like to
emphasize that the action plan should also cover areas supported under the IDA-assisted Shrimp Culture
Project, which closed in 1993. The Government's decision also applies to this Project, which had a
similar cost recovery covenant. On December 14, 1996, BWDB convened a follow up meeting on cost
recovery. IDA and DOF participated at the meeting. BWDB informed that implementation of the 1993
cost recovery rules (para 15) has not been satisfactory mainly due to three factors: first, BWDB does not
have adequate field staff for assessment and collection, second, the rules do not provide for involvement
of DOF staff, which is needed to assist BWDB on technical matters, and third, the rules do not provide
for consultations with beneficiaries at all stages of construction. BWDB recommended that the rules be
revised to specify the role of DOF staff, and to involve beneficiaries in collection of fees and O&M. By
December 19, 1996 BWDB would submit a proposal to IDA to amend the DCA cost recovery covenant
to include only O&M costs and to allow beneficiaries' participation in collection and O&M.
Other Fisheries(OF) Component
17.    At present 30 of activities, including 16 involving groups of landless women, are in operation.
At present, a committee, comprising representatives of DOF, FRI, and MTA, is evaluating the
performance of the OF activities and its report will be made available to the ICR mission. The mission
visited a landless women's group in Khulna engaged in fresh water shrimp and fish culture. The
beneficiaries informed the mission that their shrimp harvest was unsatisfactory because of widespread
mortality, reportedly caused by a disease. The beneficiaries complained that they had not received any
technical advice from DOF as to how to address the problem. They decided that, in future, they would go
for fish culture only. The mission is concerned at DOF's lack of response to the needs of the
beneficiaries. The mission recommends that, by November 20, 1996, DOF examine the issue and , in
consultation with the beneficiaries, restructure the activity so that beneficiaries can financially sustain it.
At the wrap -up meeting DOF confirmed that action has been taken.



37                                     Appendix A
Divestment of DOF Fish Seed Farms (FSF)
18.   On October 30, 1996, DOF informed IDA that the MOFL had approved the lowest responsive
bids for six out of the eight FSFs which would be divested based on long term lease. At the wrap- up
meeting DOF confirmed that work orders had been issued for the six FSFs. Of the two remaining FSFs,
no tender was received for one, and the rate for the other was rejected. The MOFL has requested DOF to
arrange retender for the remaining two FSFs. The mission requests MOFL/DOF to award the bids and to
arrange retender by November 20, 1996.
DOF Civil Works
19.   The mission visited Savar to review the construction works of the DOF Training Academy. The
works have been planned for completion by December 15, 1996. The mission estimates that substantial
works will be completed by the Credit closing date. The reason for the delay is that the contractors had
not received timely payments from DOF due to non approval status of the revised Project Proforma (PP).
However, this issue has been resolved as the PP has been recently approved. The remaining works will
be completed using Government resources. The mission observed that the quality of concrete works in
the columns and beams, in terms of line, grade, and surface finish, was not satisfactory. On November
12, 1996, DOF informed IDA that they had instructed the contractor to rectify the defects and that,
pending rectification by the contractor and certification by the supervision consultants, no payment
would be made to the contractor. The mission reguests that a status report be submitted to IDA by
November 20, 1996. The MOFL mentioned that, by December 15, 1996, it would submit ( through ERD)
a request to IDA to extend the civil works category of the Credit by three months to complete the
remaining civil works of the Training Academy. Further, a similar request would be made to complete
the remaining shrimp culture civil works (para 12). IDA has received requests from MOFL and MOWR.
A request from ERD is awaited.
Project Accounts and Audits
20.   In collaboration with the implementing agencies, the mission estimates that, by the Credit
closing date, out of the revised Credit amount of US $ 18.2 million equivalent, US $ 15.6 million
equivalent will be utilized. IDA will cancel the unutilized amount after final disbursement of withdrawal
applications received before April 30, 1997 (reference IDA's letter of September 24, 1996).
21.   The FY 96 audit reports will be due for submission to IDA on March 31, 1997. The Directorate
of Audit, Foreign Aided Projects has initiated the audit of project accounts and expects to submit the
draft reports to the implementing agencies for comments by December 31, 1996. The mission
recommends that the implementing agencies submit their comments on the draft reports expeditiously
so that the final reports are submitted to IDA by the due date.
Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
22.   The policy of the Bank is to evaluate completed projects, and it requires borrowers also to do so.
The ICR is prepared by a completion mission, which generally constitutes the final supervision prior to
the closing date of the credit (para 1). The ICR is distributed to the Bank's Board not later than six
months after the closing date. The borrower prepares and makes available to the Bank its own evaluation
report on the project's execution and initial operation, cost and benefits, the Bank's and borrower's
performance of their respective obligations under the credit. A summary of this report (or the full report
if it is ten pages or less) is annexed unedited to the ICR. The borrower also (a) adopts a plan acceptable



38                                     Appendix A
to the Bank for the operational phase of the project and (b) assists the Bank in ICR preparation. The
mission has shared with DOF and MTA the format of the ICR and agreed with them on the types of
reports to be made available to the [CR mission by the implementing agencies (reference MTA's letter of
October 21, 1996).
Status of Legal Covenants
23.    The project is generally in compliance with the legal covenants. There is, however, one
covenant, which has been partially met, and one which will require an amendment. The first covenant
concerns the recovery of public cost of stocking. Schedule 4, Para 10 of the DCA stipulates 30%
recovery of public cost of stocking by July 1, 1995. Collections in the past, based on the leasing system
and without assistance from NGOs, have been minimal --less than 4%. With the introduction of the
community-based licensing system , contributions in kind by beneficiaries ,and the involvement of
NGOs from the 1996 stocking season, collections by December 31, 1996 are expected to be close to 30%
(para 8). The second covenant concerns the recovery of investment and O&M costs of shrimp culture
civil works from the beneficiaries. The covenant will have to be amended to reflect recovery of O&M
costs only ( para 15).
Performance of Technical Assistance (TA)
24.    The overall performance of TA provided by Support Technical Assistance (STA) consultants,
funded under the UNDP component executed by IDA, and by the Management Technical Assistance
consultants, funded by ODA, was satisfactory. STA support was valuable in the areas of production
monitoring, fish disease, shrimp farm planning and social activities by NGOs. MTA support has been
valuable in the areas of floodplain stocking management and production monitoring. Further, MTA has
been instrumental in creating innovative enhancement in DOF capacity at the local level. In the early
stages there were problems with STA senior management which were rectified by changes in personnel.
25.    Evaluation of training by a GOB committee found the overall performance to be satisfactory.
The mission endorses this. A shortcoming of the outcome was the transfer or departure of a small
proportion of trained staff from the project.



Appendix-B
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
THIRD FISHERIES PROJECT
(Credit 2146-BD)
Borrower's Evaluation
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A.   IDA Performance:
1.    Project Objectives: It had a wide range of objective of which main ones are as follows:
(1) Increasing the income particularly of the poor, and producing fish and shrimp for domestic
consumption and export through: (i) improving floodplain fisheries management and promoting
aquaculture, (ii) making improvements in public infrastructure (improved polder embankments,
sluices and foot bridges over water channels) on poldered land already under shrimp culture, (iii)
assistance to under-privileged groups including women and assisting small land owners to go
into shrimp production themselves rather than lease their land to the rich for shrimp farming, and
(iv) carrying out of other fisheries development activities; studies and provision of extension
services at the District and Thana levels for fresh water shrimp production and other fisheries
activities in ponds, lakes rivers and minor floodplains.
(2)   Supporting the fisheries development program in the West (the project area) with
emphasis on private sector participation through involving the private sector in fingerling
production and floodplain stocking.
(3)   Accelerating the expansion of fish production in the floodplains through: (i) stocking of
floodplains with fingerlings, (ii) better fisheries management, and (iii) carrying out research
projects, including ecological assessment of fish food, food, fish disease, fishing gear in
floodplains, and catch effort parameters in coastal fisheries.
(4)   Strengthening sectoral institutions through: (i) logistical support and technical assistance
to the Department of Fisheries (DOF), including on-the-job, in-service, and overseas training in
management and fisheries related areas, and construction and rehabilitation of office and training
facilities and (ii) technical assistance to DOF, Fisheries Research Institute (FRI), and
Bangladesh Water Development Board (BWDB) for carrying out technical and socio-economic,
studies, organizing shrimp farmers and fishers.
2.    Design and Implementation: IDA mission, in consultation with GOB Officials, rightly
identified 3 directly production oriented components-Floodplain Fisheries Development through
fingerling stocking, Development of Coastal Shrimp Culture and Other Fisheries Development
and 3 supporting institutional strengthening components. Project was a very complex one



40                              Appendix B
considering its (i) new and untested component of floodplain fisheries development, (ii) new
approach for undertaking different package programmes of innovative nature / ideas to be
conceived, planned and implemented locally (Thana/District level) involving local destitute
target group and (iii) new concept for using beneficiaries group's own land, instead of acquiring
land by the government and low cost design for coastal shrimp culture infrastructure. There was
no programme for sustaining floodplain stocking programme, in general, except a cost recovery
covenant / provision. An annual target of 100,000 ha floodplains to be stocked with fingerlings
from 3rd year of stocking under the project was unrealistic considering its new and untested field
of interventions and institutional weakness and complexity. Money allocated for other fisheries
development was too high in consideration of its new approach of implementation and lack of
any implementation guideline. Flexibility in project execution was limited and restricted, to
some extent.
2.    Monitoring and Supervision: Monitoring and supervision by the Bank was excellent.
Regular monitoring and effective support and flexible and positive attitude of the Bank, the RMB
in particular, along with the efforts of executing agencies, lead the project to success, although
the project was very complex in nature, realising the flaws of project design and complexity of
implementation the Bank agreed to change some criteria and relaxed some conditions of the
project in some cases. In spite of Bank's efforts, however, the implementation had slowed down
and target of area coverage and amount of money earmarked to be spent could not be achieved
due to some design flaws and rigidity on some issues like cost recovery covenant, defined project
area and likewise. Half yearly supervision by the Bank was helpful to detect and overcome
constraints and shortcomings of implementation. Joint midterm review of the project in
December, 1994 by the Bank, two other Cofinanciers (UNDP & ODA) and the GOB could
provide fruitful guidelines in order to overcome some outstanding problem and to take some
decision emphasising on quality but not quantity of work or achievement of the project such as
cancellation of huge surplus loan money, appointment of NGOs in stocked floodplain area in
order to continue and sustain achievement and result of project activities. Earlier deployments of
NGOs in stocked floodplain areas could help sustain stocking programme by way of transferring
whole management of stocking programme by the target group.
B.    Borrowers Performance: There was no prior arrangement for bringing Govt. owned
water estates (Jalmohals) of floodplains to be stocked under the project. But due to continuous
efforts made by the executing agency and rapid actions taken by the Govt. the project could
achieve substantial progress in expanding stocking programme up to 43,500 in the last year of
the project. The set target of stocking floodplains of 100,000 ha could not be achieved due to
country's complicated and cumbersome procedure for acquiring water estates (Jalmohals) for the
purpose. Because of careful efforts, the project could achieve qualitative change and progress in
terms of per ha incremental fish production, incremental income of fishers and fish intake in
stocked area. Although there was unusual delay in starting the activities under "Other Fisheries
Development" component due to absence of any implementation guideline and procedure the
project could effectively demonstrate some sustainable progress in the form of self sustained
fisheries activities by some downtrodden/destitute groups one half of which is women. Within a
record period of time the Fisheries Training Academy has been constructed and established.
Target fisher community, belonging the lowest strata of our society contributed to and shared in



41                             Appendix B
the stocking cost, which is completely new in fisheries subsector. Although recovery has not
been achieved at desired level but it is a good example in our social context.
C.   Relation between the Bank and the Borrower: Relation between the Bank and the GOB
was excellent and very helpful for project implementation.
D.   Performance of Cofinanciers: Co-operation and assistance of two Cofinanciers - the
UNDP & the ODA (British), was excellent and very helpful in project management, training in
undertaking some useful studies, research monitoring including some other support services.
E.    Key lessons learned: As mentioned in the draft ICR/96 by the World Bank (I).
Additional one lesson - Development Programme for floodplain fisheries should include
measures for both mitigation and compensation, either combined or individual. Mitigation
measures should be given more emphasis and priority.



i



/  8   ,  e9o                                 ~~~~                                  ~~~~~~~~~~9D  91'                       92'
Rji   i  .,   -v                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~B A N G L A D E S H
THIRD FISHERIES PROJECT
PROJECT AREA AND MAJOR FISHERIES RESOURCES
dPbINITIAL PROJECT SITES
Th k.                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAJOR FLOOD PLAINS
-26IZIi COASTAL SHIRIMP CULTURE
PROJECT AREA
MAJOR RIVERS
ROADS
RAILROADS
 DISTRICT CAPITALS
* NATIONAL CAPITAL
DISTRICT ROUNDARtEL
/o-.cd h                 I N   D  I A                                       DIVISION BOUNDARIES
0/   }   ' ) w 4s N ^   X    [_                                                   _.- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIIONAL BOUNDARIES
JSS
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ao    re h                                                                                                523'4<   
,  o- ar ua .,9  - (15ktCA_   
r  . An Atf\dB.,* ..,*.
T               B        S   <                                                           MILES *                                                                MYANMAR
OT*T A                                                                  0,'. 1,0   2,   3,',N50\
PAKISfTANu                                                                                  KLOEER                                                                  . 
_I24
II    INDIA             A4                               ..k                                                                            N D        
MILES~~~~
-23-                                                                                                                                                            21--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 2  D  T R
'SRI LANKA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~    ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~KPA
21'~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5                                                                       1









IMAGING
Report No.:        16682
Type:     ICR



