Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CZ42  ZILiL 4z,
Report No..8392-BD
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BANGLADESH
THIRD FISHERIES PROJECT
MAY 2, 1990
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department I
Asia Region
This document has a resricted distdbdion and may be used by re_iemb ony In the pedfome of
their offiefl dulies. Its contents may not othewise be dieosed w Wodd Ban 



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Taka (Tk)
US $ 1 = Tk 32.27 (March 1990)
Tk   1  = US$ 0.03
GOVERNMENT OF BANGLADESH FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
km  -  kilometer
m   u meter
cm   =  centimeter
g   =  gram
kg  -  kilogram
ton  - metric ton
ha  -  hectare
sq km  =  square kilometer
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADB               Asian Development Bank
ADP               Annual Development Programme of GOB
BFDC              Bangladesh Fisheries Development Corporation
BWDB              Bangladesh Water Development Board
DFO               District Fisheries Officer
DOF               Departtent of Fisheries
ERD               External Resources Division
ERR               Economic Rate of Return
FRI               Fisheries Research Institute
FRR               Financial Rate of Return
FY                Financial Year
GOB               Government of Bangladesh
ICB               International Competitive Bidding
LCB               Local Competitive Bidding
MF                Ministry of Finance
MFL               Ministry of Fisheries and Livestock
MIWDFC            Ministry of Irrigation, Water Development and Flood Control
ML                Ministry of Land
MP                Ministry of Planning
MTA               Technical Assistance for DOF Management
NFMP              New Fisheries Management Policy
OCC               Opportunity Cost of Capital
ODA               Overseas Development Administration (U.K)
PD                Project Director
PLANCOM           Planning Commission
PP                Project Proforma
py                Project Year
SCP               Shrimp Culture Project
STA               Technical Assistance for Technical and Social Support
TA                Technical Assistance
TFP               Third Fisheries Project
UNDP              United Nations Development Programme
WOP               Without Project Situation
WP                With Project Situation



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY
Beel               Permanent water body in floodplain, flooding with river and
rainwater annually.
Baor               Lake formed by an isolated meander of a river.
Carp. Bighead      Zooplankton feeding carp, Aristichthys nobilis.
Carp, Common       Bottom feeding carp, Cyprinus carpio.
Carp, Silver       Phytoplankton feeding carp, Hypophthalmichthys molitrix.
Catla              Indigenous carp, Catla catla, surface/mid-water feeding.
Catfish            Indigenous, predatory fish eg. Aor (mystus aor), Magur
(Clarias batrachus).
Floodplain         Annually flooded, low-lying area associated with rivers.
Fingerlings        Juvenile fish from 2 - 15 cm long.
Hatchery           Fish seed farm for spawning and hatching.
Hatchlings         Larval fish up to about 4 days old.
Hilsa              Indigenous, migrating fish, Hilsa ilisha, constituting the
bulk of river/estuarine catch of Bangladesh.
Jalmahal           Traditionally leased fishing right in Bangladesh.
Mrigal             Indigenous carp, Cirrhinus mrigala, bottom feeding.
Nursery            Pond(s) where hatchlings are grown to fingerlings.
Polders            Embanked low-lying land.
Post Larvae        Young shrimp stage used for stocking in ponds.
Primary prod.      Phytoplankton growth; minute, aquatic,
single celled green plants.
Rohu               indigenous carp, Labeo rohita, bottom/ mid-water feeder.
Shrimp, coastal   Marine shrimp from coastal and brackish-waters; mainly Black
Tiger Shrimp, Penaeus monodon.
Shrimp, fresh-w.  Macrobrachium rosenbergii.
Snakehead          Indigenous, predatory, swamp-dwelling fish, Shol (Channa sp.)
Upazila            An administrative sub-district with an elected council and
chairman with large degree of autonomy; there are 464 in
Bangladesh.
IThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(i)
BANGLADESH
THIRD FISHERIES PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower                The People's Republic of Bangladesh
Amount                  SDR  34.6 million (US$ 44.6 million equivalent)
Terms                   Standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years
Cofinanciers            ODA US$ 4.3 million equivalent; UNDP US$ 4.2 million
Proiect Description    The project is designed to support a sectoral development
process aiming at: (a) increasing incomes, particularly
of the poor, and fish production for domestic consumption
and export, (b) -upporting the fisheries development
program in the west with emphasis on private sector
participation; (c) accelerating the expansion of fish
production in floodplains; and (d) strengthening sectoral
institutions. The project has six components: (a)
Floodplain Fisheries, involving the stocking of 100,000
ha of floodplains; (b) Coastal Shrimp Culture, making
improvements in public infrastructure on 13,000 ha of
poldered land already under shrimp culture; (c) Other
Fisheries, including finance packages for a variety of
Upazila and District level programs; (d) Institutional
Support, financing facilities and incremental operational
costs of DOF and BWDB related to the above investments;
(e) Research related to the project; and (f) Technical
Assistance for project management, financed by ODA, and
for technical and social support, financed by UNDP.
Benefits and Risks      The project will produce 42,000 tons of fish and 1800
tons of exportable shrimp per year, the latter
representing foreign exchange earnings of about Tk 268
million (US$ 8.3 million). Additional benefits of the
project include: (a) the development of managerial
routines for exploiting major floodplains; (b) a
revitalized fisheries administration; (c) improvements in
sectoral policies; (d) further mobilization of the
private fish seed enterprises; (e) services to special
groups; and (f) improvements in income distribution. The
ERR of the project is estimated at 312. Direct
beneficiaries would number 130,000 families. The project
redresses environmental problems created by population
pressure and infrastructure works.



(ii)
The main project risks are (i) delayed or inadequate
implementation which may arise from failures in
management, but provision of substantial technical
assistance and reliance on the private sector reduces
these risks; (ii) lower-than-planned fish retrieval rates
in flood plains as well as disease and seasonal glutting
of fish markets; however, analysis indicates that these
are not likely to reach critical levels; and (iii)
reduced public stocking, if GOB would not be able to
sustain financing and recover the cost of stocking;
intensive monitoring and studies, which will enable the
formulation of a viable cost recovery policy, and
appropriate legal undertakings minimize that risk.
Project Costs                     Local             Foreign            Total
-US$ million - - - - - -
Estimated Costs
Floodplain Fisheries               17.7                 1.9             19.6
Coastal Shrimp Culture             11.9                 6.0             17.9
Other Fisheries                     2.8                 0.2              3.0
Institutional Support                .9                 2.9             12.8
Research                            0.8                 0.2              1.0
Technical Assistance                3.8                 4.6              8.4
Total a/                 46.9                15.8             62.7
Financing Plan
IDA                                33.5                11.1             44.6
GOB                                 9.6                 0.0              9.6
ODA                                 1.4                 2.9              4.3
UNDP                                2.4                 1.8              4.2
Total                     46.9                15.8             62.7
Estimated Credit Disbursements:
FY91    FY92    FY93      FY94     FY95    FY96    FY97
---------------------USX million----------------------
Annual              2.4     2.7      7.2      8.5       9.7     9.6      4.5
Cumulative          2.4     5.1    12.3      20.8      30.5    40.1    44.6
Economic Rate of Return:   31 Z
Map      IBRD 21887
a/ Total project cost net of duties and taxes (US$ 3.9 million) is US$ 58.8
million.



t iii)
BANGLADESH
THIRD FISHERIES PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.     INTRODUCTION                                                                 1
II.    FISHERIES SECTOR
A. Role in Economy.                                                           1
B. Production.                                                               2
C. Demand and Markets.                                                       2
D. Resource Potential and Development Strategy.                              3
E. Institutions .8
F. Regulations  ...........            ..............................    11
G. Development Activities  ..............................    12
H. Bank Group Involvement  ..............................    12
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Rationale  ......                ..............    14
B. Project Area  ........................................    14
C. Project Design . .....................................    15
D. Project Components  .............            .....................    17
E. Detailed Features  ..............            .....................    17
F. Project Cost  ........................................    23
G. Financing  ...........................................                   24
H. Procurement  .........................................    25
I. Disbursement  ........................................    28
IV.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Implementing Agencies ...............................   29
B. Phasing of Processing and Implementation  ....                 ........   32
C. Monitoring and Evaluation  ........              ...................    32
V.      PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRICES
A. Production. .........................................    33
B. Markets  ............................................    33
C. Prices  ............................................                     34
D. Financial Analysis ...................................   34
VI.    BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Benefits,  Beneficiaries and Employment  .....                .........   35
B. Cost Recovery ........................................  36
C. Economic justification ...............................   38
D. Sensitivity and Risk Analysis ........................   39
E. Environmental Impact.  ...............................    40
F. Effects on Women in Fisheries  ..........              .............    41
VII.   AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION                                               41
This report is based on an appraisal mission carried out in October/ November
1989 and consisting of Messrs W. Roider, G. Faruq (IDA), R. Coutts (ODA) and
A.B. Chowdhury, L.R. Munshi, Y. Tang (Consultants). Mr. N. Islam (DOF) also
participated in the mission.



(iv)
ANNEXES 1    Key Data: Fisheries Sector and Project Area
2    Major GOB Fisheries Development Projects
3    Selection Criteria for Activities to be Financed by IDA
4    Terms of References FRI-Research
5    Terms of Referencet Technical Assistance & Training for Project
Management (ODA)
6    Terms of References Technical Assistance & Training for Technical
and Social Support (UNDP)
7    Summary of Project Costs
8    Disbursement Schedule
9    Staffing of Coordination Cell at DOF-HQ and Divisional Offices
10   Implementation Schedule
Overall Project
Critical Path: Floodplain Fisheries
Critical Path: Coastal Shrimp Culture
11   Financial and Economic Prices
Table 1   Brackish Water Shrimp Prices
Table 2   Major Other Prices
12   Financial Model Calculations
Table 1   Major Floodplains
Table 2   Minor Floodplains
Table 3   Shrimp/Rice Inside Polders
Table 6   Shrimp/Rice Outside Polders
Table 7   Shrimp Only Inside Polders
Table 8   Ponds
13   Economic  Calculations
Overall Project
Floodplain Fisheries Component
Coastal Shrimp Culture Component
Other Fisheries Component
14   Key Monitoring Indicators
Selected Documents available in the Project File
Draft Procurement Documents for Fingerlings
Fisheries Resources and Development Strategies
Financial Version of Cost Tables
Economic Version of Cost Tables
Costab Program Listing
Financial and Economic Analysis Tables
Cost Recovery Tables
Costben Program Listing
Chart             Project Organization (Department of Fisheries)
MAP   21887        Project Area and Major Fisheries Resources



BANGLADESH
THIRD FISHERIES PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01         The Government of Bangladesh (GOB) has requested assistance from
IDA in financing the development of fisheries in Vestern Bangladesh. IDA has
financed fisheries development in Bangladesh since the mid-seventies and
increasingly has provided support for aquaculture.  This project incorporates
lessons learnt in previous projects. It focusses on stocking floodplains with
carp, developing infrastructure for coastal shrimp culture, advancing other
fisheries activities, improving fisheries institutions, promoting fisheries
research and providing technical assistance and training. The need for this
assistance was first identified in 1983 when IDA carried out a review of the
fisheries sector in Bangladesh. The review stressed aquaculture techniques for
the country's extensive inland fisheries resources and institutional
strengthening of the fisheries administration (para 2.57).
1.02         In 1988 GOB, IDA and the Asian Development Bank (ADB) agreed that
future IDA lending would focus in future on the western part of the country and
ADB lending on the eastern part. Preparation of this project was undertaken by
FAO/CP, which issued an identification report in July 1988 and a preparation
report in March 1989.
II. THE FISHERIES SECTOR
A. Role in Economy
2.01         With a per capita income of US$ 170, Bangladesh remains one of the
poorest countries of the world and over 702 of its population of 110 million
continues to live in absolute poverty. The fisheries sector is important
because of its contribution to income, employment, nutrition and foreign
exchange earnings. The sector generates 72 of agricultural GDP and 3.5Z of
total GDP (Annex 1). Inland fisheries contribute most to fisheries production
(732 in FY88) followed by artisanal coastal fisheries (262) and industrial
marine fisheries (12). Fisheries employs about 1.5 million full-time
professional fishermen or 5Z of the country's labour force. The number of
full-time fishermen, who ate generally landless, has increased about 32 per year
over the past 15 years. In addition, there are about 11 million part-time
fishermen and women, whose numbers peak in the flood season from June through
October.
2.02          Traditionally fish supplies most of the animal protein in the
Bengali diet, particularly among the low-income groups. As the population has
grown faster than fish production (para 2.03). per capita consumption of fish
has decreased from 11.7 kg in FY72 to 7.5 kg in FY88. Nevertheless, fish
remains an integral part of the traditional diet, providing 80Z of the animal
protein in the basic meal. Export of seafood generated close to US$ 140 million
in FY88, or 112 of the country's total export earnings. Seafood exports have
increased by about 222 a year over the past ten years and seafood now ranks
third among all export comuodities behind jute (incl. jute products) and
leather. Shrimp grown in brackish-water ponds represent about 852 of these
exports. Import of fish is negligible.



B. Production
2.03         Bangladesh is a major producer of inland fish.  Fish production in
Bangladesh declined between FY72 and FY80, from 824,000 tons to 646,000 tons
(Annex 1). The decline was due to over-exploitation of fish resources and the
adverse effect of flood control structures on fish habitat. It occurred
primarily in rivers and floodplains which together provide over 50Z of all fish
landings and over 70Z of the inland fish catch. Production began to pick up
again during the 1980s as a result of increased fishing in coastal artisanal
fisheries and increases in fish and shrimp grown in ponds, and is presently
estimated at 826,000 tons. Most of the fish is consumed domestically, but
export of cultured shrimp has developed quickly.
2.04          Shrimp exports of about 15,000 tons accounts for about 2.5 Z of
the world trade. In FY87, production was estimated to be 73,000 tons of live
weight, head-on shrimp, corresponding to about 40,000 tons of processed de-
headed shrimp. Wild caught fresh-water shrimp amounted for 43,000 tons and
brackish-water or marine shrimp to 30,000 tons, with about half of the latter
produced in ponds.
C. Demand and Markets
2.05         Fresh-water and iced, rather than frozen, fish are preferred by
local consumers. Carps, the focus of this project, command relatively good
prices at about Tk 30/kg landed and around Tk 601kg retail. The domestic demand
is growing fast. Due to population growth the demand for fish will increase to
about 1.1 million tons by the year 2000 and to about 1.4 million tons by the
year 2010.
2.06         Most of the sea fish produced in Bangladesh is consumed in the
eastern part of the country and in the large urban centers. Most inland fish is
consumed where it is produced and only about one fourth is transported over
longer distances to the northern region or the big centers of Dhaka, Chittagong
and Khulna. Fish marketing is almost exclusively in the private sector; it is
competitive and reasonably efficient. Fish is handled fresh most of the time.
For the long-distance trade icing is provided from several thousand ice-making
plants. Problems in fish hygiene are to a large extent linked to lack of
problem awareness among the population. Fish traders are organized and
sometimes reject accept improved fish landing and Llarket facilities provided by
the public sector.
2.07          Shrimp will remain the major export item in the fisheries sector
for the foreseeable future, although there is potential to increase export of
fish and other seafood. Shipments to Japan represented 34X of shrimp exports in
PY88; the USA and Europe purchased almost all fresh-water shrimp and their share
in exports i£ 30Z each.  The werld demand for shrimp is expected to increase at
about 3 - 4! a year, according to a recent World Bank study of the Asia shrimp
industry. World marine shrimp harvest is not expected to increase, but cultured
shrimp is expected to increase at a rate of about 5-7Z per year through 1993.
Parm level prices for shrimp in Bangladesh and elsewhere fell sharply in July
1989 due to abnormally high stocks and cautious buying by Japanese importers.
Although prices are likely to remain depressed, shrimp production in Bangladesh
remains profitable because production costs are low and the country has
comparative advantage in producing shrimp (para 2.17).



D. Resource Potential and Development Strategy
General
2.08         The country and the project area have a vast potential for
increasing fish production, particularly inland fish production from
floodplains, rivers, ponds, lakes and the estuaries. The extent to which the
potential is developed depends largely on the speed with which aquaculture 0
technology will be applied to the country's inland floodplains. The high
potential of the country's inland fisheries resources and the floodplains in
particular, consists of the vast, nutrient-rich water areas, the tropical
climate and the natural fertility of the land. The three major rivers, the
Jamuna, the Ganges and the Meghna, drain large volumes of nutrient-rich run-off
water from their catchment areas. The river water is further enriched with
nutrients from soil and vegetation when spreading across the deltaic plain in
the flood season (June through October). Intensive agriculture aerates and
fertilizes the soil of the plain and generates vegetation for fish to feed on.
Nutrient-rich water, optimal temperature and intensive light radiation combine
to result in a high level of biological productivity and primary production
consisting of aquatic micro-organisms and phytoplankton on which fish can feed.
2.09         It is important that fish stocks are adapted to make best use of
this primary production. A high pr.-portion of species that directly convert it
into fish meat is preferred over predator fish, because with each step in the
food chain 90Z of the caloric value of the preceding level is lost. One hectare
of water of average suitability produces presently about 100 kg of fish during
the 150 days of major annual flooding. Fish food is at its peak during this
period and a fish stock that contains an adequate share of fish species that
feed on plankton, could produce 500 kg/ha of fish. When the water is permanent
it can produce about 800 kg/ha in this way.
Floodplain,>
2.10         The floodplains are low-lying areas which are seasonally flooded by
rivers. In western Bangladesh about 30 X of the land area is flooded in the
rainy season. The term floodplain is used in this report to denote the deeper
floodplains that hold water relatively longer; they are the most attractive for
fisheries development. During the dry season the floodplains are used for
agriculture, mostly paddy cultivation, often using groundwater and surface water
pumping for irrigation. The shallow parts of the floodplains carry deep water
rice even during the flood season. Human settlement is on river levies or
natural and artificial mounds. Rural life is adjusted to the seasons; almost
everybody is a part-time fishermen in the flood season when the agricultural
work load is low. Professional fishermen constitute a small, specialized group;
they fish all year round in the floodplain and the adjacent bigger rivers. Their
catches are high when flood waters recede and fish density rises.
2 11     As indicated in para 2.09 the fisheries potential of the floodplains is
under-utilized and there is the potential to increase production to 500 kg/ha
through appropriate stock management. Actual production is below the potential
because the available fish food is not well utilized by existing fish stocks.
Fi,h stocks are depleted and their species composition is out of balance,
because the natural reproduction of fish is disturbed by over-fishing caused by
human population pressure and poverty, and by expanding water control and road
infrastructure which interfere with the symbiotic exchange between rivers and
floodplains. Many fish species of economic importance migrate with rising and



- 4 -
receding floods between the rivers and the floodplains. Rivers constitute
retreat areas for the period of low water levels. Floodplains are the food-rich
breeding, nursery and growth areas. Floodplain fisheries development is,
therefore, not merely concerned with the increase in fish production from the
floodplain itself but also with the improvement of the catch in rivers.
2.12         Given the continued growth of population, in the foreseeable future
it will not be possible to effectively control over-fishing and reconstitute the
previously balanced system of high natural reproduction. This would require
slowing down and adjusting road construction and flood control facilities and is
likely to conflict with the interests of other sectors.
2.13         As a viable alternative, technologies that utilize more fully the
productive potential of floodplains are now available and are already practiced
in Bangladesh in some lakes (para 2.55) and small floodplains. These
technologies concentrate on artificial stocking of young fish of the carp family
which already exist in the waters of Bangladesh. The composition and densities
of the fish population are improved and conversion of the abundant primary
production is made more efficient. The project described in this report has
been designed to apply this technology on a broader scale and to generate
additional management approaches replicable on a larger scale.
2.14         In the project area, the floodplain areas with the highest
potential are in the Chalan beel area, the Gopalganj depression and the Khulna
depression (Map 21887). These large natural depressions contain about 550,000
ha of water from July to November; located in the flat middle part of the
country, each depression is divided into several major floodplains of
substantial extent. An additional potential of about 50,000 ha is found in the
Teesta River area, the Nawabganj District and other dispersed areas; this
potential is located in areas adjacent to hilly terrain where the faster
movement of floodwater has created smaller and deeper floodplains, that usually
hold water from July to March; the term minor floodplains is used for them.
Altogether these floodplains and associated rivers now produce about 110
kilograms of fish per ha or a total of 66,000 tons of fish. Stocking as
proposed under the project would result in an incremental yield of 300 kglha in
the major floodplains and 700 Kg/ha in the minor flood plains.
2.15         The development of the major floodplains in the large natural
depressions calls for direct public sector intervention, whereas the development
of minor floodplains can be handled by the private sector. As the size of the
floodplains increases, it becomes more difficult for investors to control
fishing and to recover investment in stocking. Initially, it appears desirable
that the public sector limit itself to stocking major floodplains with a minimum
size of 5,000 ha, while refining knowledge about limits of private and public
sector activities in floodplains. This concept has guided the design of the
project.
2.16         A long term strategy for floodplain fisheries development in
Bangladesh should aim to increase the production of high-potential major
floodplains through public stocking and to develop minor floodplains through
private stocking. Applied to western Bangladesh, the project area, such a
strategy would increase annual fish production by about 200,000 tons, valued at
about Tk 4.0 billion (US$ 124 million). The major present constraints to such a
strategy are managerial and financial and these would be addressed under the



project. The technology is available and is beginning to be used by the private
sector to stock minor floodplains.
Coastal Shrimp Culture
2.17         Eighty percent of the national production and 60 X of exports of
shrimp originate in the project area (Annex 1). High profit margins have
allowed rapid expansion of brackish water shrimp culture -- an enterprise in
which Bangladesh enjoys a large comparative advantage. This advantage is based
on a favorable climate assuring cheap natural food for shrimp as long as
production intensity is in tune with it, extensive land areas within the tidal
range of saline water allowing low-cost water exchange and cheap labour. Shrimp
culture alternates in most cases with a rice crop grown during the wet season.
At present, production is of low intensity with yields averaging about 100 kg/ha
of exportable shrimp.
2.18         The present production of shrimp reaches only about 351 of its
potential, for two reasons. First, not all the land suitable for shrimp culture
is used for that purpose. Second, yields on land being used for shrimp culture
are low and do not make full use of the natural productivity of the environment.
Yields are constrained by (a) lack of adequate water supply and drainage; (b)
inadequate management; and (c) problems of access to adequate credit for on-farm
investment and operation costs. Rising cost of shrimp post-larvae may become a
constraint in the future, although hatchery-produced post-larvae should
alleviate supply shortages. The hatchery technology is available in the
country.
2.19         Water supply and drainage problems due to inadequate water
infrastructure are found in poldered and non-poldered land of the shrimp culture
area. Problems are most marked on the 50,000 ha of land currently under shrimp
culture within polders. In the poldered areas the previously dense network of
natural tidal water supply and drainage channels has been interrupted. Shrimp
farmers near the polder embankment achieve adequate water exchange only by
tampering with the peripheral polder embankments, which endangers the flood
protection of others. Farmers closer to the center of the polder cannot improve
water exchange. Additional water control structures are required to provide
adequate water exchange for shrimp culture, while guaranteeing the safety of the
polders and respecting the requirements of agriculture. This type of
improvement has to be provided by the public sector, as it owns and maintains
the polder embankments. The ongoing Shrimp Culture Project (para 2.56) has
tested successfully the feasibility of such improvements in one of the polders
in the project area and replication on a wider scale, incorporating the
experience gained, is possible.
2.20           Non-poldered areas, with some 30,000 ha under shrimp culture and
an intact natural water exchange svstem, are dependent 'n technology adopted by
the individual farmer. The public sector role should be limited to overall water
planning and provision of services such as research, extension and credit.
2.21         Managerial constraints pertain to limited know-how in production
technology and inadequate organization of small farmers. The major shortcomings
in production technology include the management of pond water and stocking, pond
preparation, fertilization, predator control, and post harvest care. Shrimp
farms with relatively higher yields encounter problems of cost and composition
of supplementary feeding and of disease prevention. Small farmers need to be



- 6 -
organized into economically-sized blocks of land. Grouping them into blocks of
70 to 100 ha would allow these farmers to operate shrimp culture on their own,
rather than leasing their land to professional shrimp operators, and would
improve coordination between agricultural and fisheries activities.
2.22         Financing from institutional sources is limited due to the weakness
of the nationalized banks. Credit for the past expansion in shrimp culture was
met essentially from non-institutional sources and this is expected to remain
the main source in tne near future. Financing is needed for investment in
on-farm infrastructure and equipment which increases with intensification of
farming activities; about Tk 6,000 (US$ 185)1per ha is required for this
purpose. Financing of a similar order is required for seasonal operation costs
(para 3.14).
2.23         There is good potential for production increases in the Khulna,
Shatkhira and Bagherhat districts of Western Bangladesh; production can be
increased at costs that will allow Bangladesh to remain competitive on the world
market. About 8,000 tons of live weight, exportable brackish-water shrimp are
produced today on the 80,000 ha of existing shrimp culture in the project area
with an average yield of 100 kgjha. By the year 2000, 37,500 tons -- over four
times the present level -- could be produced. To achieve this, the area under
shrimp culture would have to expand to the 150,000 ha with good potential and
average yields should rise to 250/kg ha, which is feasible.
2.24         The expansion of shrimp production into new areas should not be led
by the public sector. Public support, mainly the construction of public
infrastructure, should occur once shrimp culture has moved into new agricultural
areas or once there is a well-documented popular demand to venture into new
areas. The transition into shrimp culture is difficult for small
farmer-landowners, with a holding size averaging below 1 ha, and for
sharecroppers. The introduction of shrimp culture during the fallow period,
after the rice crop, requires close coordination between agricultural and
fisheries activities and often is associated with a change from subsistence to
market orientation, which is difficult in spite of rising incomes.
2.25         A strategy for shrimp culture development in western Bangladesh
should aim to increase production to about 250 kg/ha by the end of the century.
The public sector should be limited to support for water management, extension
and access to credit. Within polders showing a high benefit:cost ratio, public
water infrastructure should be provided. Outside the polders efforts should be
focussed on providing extension and access to credit (para 3.25).
Other Fisheries Resources
Rivers
2.26         The river and the floodplain environment are complementary (para
2.11). Combined they produce 424,000 tons or 70t of the inland fish catch, with
the balance coming from pond culture (Annex 1). Rivers are intensively fished.
The Department of Fisheries (DOF) attempts to counteract declining production in
rivers by improving resource management and enforcing fisheries regulations
(para 2.49), but it faces difficulties to implement this. The Department has
started to stock rivers on a small scale but cannot monitor results. There is
potential for pen and cage culture activities at the fringes of the rivers which



-7-
should attract private sector interest. The project would provide support to a
few river fisheries initiatives (para 3.29).
Coastal Fisheries
2.27         Coastal or artisanal marine fisheries provide 262 of the country's
fish production and the project area accounts more than half of it. Catch
levels have increased rapidly in recent years and now have exceeded the
sustainable maximum. The increase is attributed to rising fish prices and
increases in fishing efficiency that has come with motorization. There is a
lack of services for fishermen and boats, and the market is dominated by
powerful monopolies or oligopolies. However, knowledge about the aquatic
resources and their exploitation is limited. Some studies on coastal fisheries
are currently being launched with Danish aid and UNDP support. Given these
conditions, the project would provide minor support to coastal fisheries at this
stage (paras 3.29 and 3.36).
Ponds, Minor Floodplains and Lakes
2.28         Ponds have a considerable potential for increased production.  At
present they contribute about 150,000 tons, or 18? of national fish production.
There are about 1.3 million ponds in the country covering an area of 147,000 ha.
The average size of ponds is about 0.1 ha. Some 60? of the ponds -- 91,000
hectares -- are located in the project area, where they produce some 68,000 tons
of fish. The average yield is 750 kg/ha. Yields vary widely, with flooding in
the rainy season and water-holding capacity in the dry season strongly
determining production levels. Ultimately ponds in the project area could
produce around 200,000 tons per year with average yields of more than 2,000
kg/ha.
2.29          Compared to the potential, the present production is low because
of the high risk associated with flooding and drought, and because pond owners
and operators lack technical know-how. Flood and drought risk cannot be
eliminated, but knowledge can be improved through extension services. Existing
technology must be presented in a manner that is adapted to suit the financial
and technical realities of farm and market conditions. Pond production models
should be offered which acknowledge flooding or dry-season risks and provide
profitable new possibilities such as fingerling and fresh-water shrimp
production. The basic pond model of the project includes pond rehabilitation,
double stocking, fertilizing and supplementary feeding and raises fish yields in
selected ponds from 300 kg/ha to about 1620 kg/ha. In ponds which have a
perennial water supply, fresh-water shrimp can be a useful subsidiary crop.
2.30         There are about 50,000 ha of minor floodplains and lakes (baors,
permanent beels) in the project area, generating yields of about 200 kg/ha. The
potential yield with double stocking is about 900 kg/ha, representing an
increment of 35,000 tons. Minor floodplains and lakes differ from ponds in that
they operate at a larger scale and place higher demands on financing, protection
from poaching and organization of fishing. The public sector could help by
providing extension advice, particularly to groups of fishermen and fisherwomen
and rural communities.
2.31         Aquaculture in ponds, lakes and minor floodplains share a common
technological approach, based on stocking and managing a confined body of water.
The development of these aquaculture resources is driven on the supply side by a



large informal private network of private technology and input distributors.
Supported by DOF in the early stages, this network is now expanding rapidly on
its own. The number of private "extension agents' is estimated at more than
6,000, consisting of 300 private hatchery operators, 2,000 nursery operators and
4,000 fingerling traders in the project area. Private hatcheries supply 90-952
of the hatchlings used in nurseries and subsequent production stages, with 60
government hatcheries providing the balance.
2.32         The expansion of private fingerling production for fish culture is
constrained mainly by effective market demand. Other constraints are found in
limited access to finance and to advanced techniques for managing hatcheries and
nurseries. Training support is needed for small traders -- the illiterate and
self-trained conveyors of technical messages to the fish farmers.
2.33         A public sector strategy to support aquaculture development would
have to adapt to these developments in the private sector hatchery and nursery
industry. This will require a change in the DOF's established methods of
disseminating basic aquaculture techniques and producing fish seed in the public
sector. Major efforts should be directed at disseminating more sophisticated
technology to the well-established pond, lake, floodplain, hatchery and nursery
operators (para 4.08). DOF should withdraw from the seed industry and free
funds and personnel presently engaged in fish seed production for technology
dissemination (para 3.34). Public effort of the fisheries administration also
should assist in linking fish farmers with banks and in providing access to
institutional credit through the preparation of bankable financing plans. At
the same time there is a need to reach the many uninformed small pond owners
through simple messages carried by fingerling traders (paras 3.33, 4.08).
E. Institutions
Private sector
2.34         The private sector catches most of the fish and shrimp in
Bangladesh and produces or catches 95? of the fish seed. As indicated above
(para 2.01) about 11 million part-time or subsistence fishermen are active
seasonally and about 1.5 million professional fishermen are active throughout
the year. Most are not organized and fishing cooperatives exist in name only.
Operators of the 1.3 million ponds in the country probably have stronger
allegiance to agriculture than to fisheries and therefore do not manifest
themselves in fisheries groups. Relatively powerful groups engage in trade with
a National Seafood Exporters Association and the several hundred big fish
traders finance and wholesale most of the hilsa and coastal fish. The fish
hatchery and nursery operators and fish seed traders are important in the
promotion of aquaculture, but so far have no strong voice yet.
Public Sector
2.35         The Ministry of Fisheries and Livestock (MFL) is the major public
sector institution in the fisheries sector. For fisheries matters it contains a
Department of Fisheries (DOF), the Fisheries Research Institute (FRI) and a
Bangladesh Fisheries Development Corporation (BFDC). The Upazila administration
contains usually a fisheries office technically guided by DOF. The
administration of the sector comprises about 5,200 persons, including some 1,200
professionals, and in FY90 handled an annual budget of about Tk 840 million (US$
26 million). Compared to the agricultural sector the fisheries administration
is small. It suffers from the deficiencies found also in other public services



- 9 -
such as low salaries, lack of staff accountability and motivation, and poorly
formulated policies and programs. However, problems are recognized, are being
addressed (paras 2.38, 2.53) and performance is improving (para 2.56).
2.36         MFL is responsible for policy, programming, and coordination of
fisheries and livestock activities. It employs about 100 professionals, 50 of
whom work on fisheries under the leadership of a Joint Secretary. The MFL
encounters problems in planning and management; planning and monitoring
facilities are undersized and under-funded. In the past, development priorities
and GOB guidelines on private and public sector roles were not translated into
action programs with realistic targets. Delegation of power for development
activities is insufficient. These problems will be addressed under the project
by creating planning and monitoring cells (paras 3.32, 3.33), technical
assistance (para 3.38), supporting a major part of the administration's
development program with well defined public and private sector roles (paras
3.15) and by implementation mechanisms and conditionality stressing delegation
of authority (para 4.07).
2.37         DOF is charged with implementing the policies and programs of MFL.
Its duties cover the management and conservation of fish resources, development
of aquaculture, operation of hatcheries and nurseries, enforcement of
regulations, training and dissemination of technical knowledge, formulation and
execution of development projects, quality control of exports, and collection of
statistics. DOF operates 14 projects with an annual budget of about Tk 630
million (US 19.5 million) in FY90. It has about 4,600 sanctioned posts, 4,300 of
which are filled. Professionals make up 282 of the staff.
2.38         The major shortcomings of DOF are in planning, project
implementation, design of extension activities, and interagency coordination. A
These problems are based on four underlying conditions: (a) lack of a clear
mandate, (b) structural weaknesses; (c) managerial constraints; and (d)
insufficiently trained staff. A UNDP supported DOF Strengthening Project
resulted from this exercise and is under implementation (para 2.53).
2.39     The absence of a clear mandate for DOF allows it to continue activities
which are no longer required from the public sector. An example of this is the
production of hatchlings. In the past, hatcheries and seed farms were developed
in the public sector to spur aquaculture development. However, in recent years
the private sector has taken on fish seed production and now provides a major
share of the national spawn and hatchling yield at lower cost than the public
sector hatcheries. The articulation of a clear mandate would result in DOF
staff to be shifted from seed production to more important activities such as
providing research, extension and training support to the private sector seed
industry. The project addresses this through conditionality (para 3.34), TA
support (para 3.39) and financing training facilities for DOF staff (para 3.32).
2.40         The major structural problem within DOF is the dichotomy that
exists between the revenue and development activities. This dichotomy leads to
two discrete establishments operating in DOF -- the relatively large, under-
funded and poorly-staffed revenue budget establishment financed by the
government, and the smaller, well-funded and staffed project operations funded
primarily by donors. Interaction between the two establishments is limited. The
development projects report directly to the Director of Fisheries or the
Secretary of HFL. Once a development project is completed, staff is retained
under the revenue budget or placed in other development projects. This leads to



- 10 -
staff proliferation. Other problems include a diffuse and incomplete
organization at headquarters and the lack of simple chain of command between
central and Upazila services. The project addresses the above problems through
its program approach that combines revenue and development budget staff (para
3.07).
2.41         Managerial weaknesses in DOF are linked to the organization's
diffuse structure and weak personnel management. Lack of delegation, monitoring
and evaluation and problems in procurement figure prominently (paras 2.55,
2.56). These problems are addressed under the project (paras 3.32, 3.38, 4.07,
4.18).
2.42         Most of the professional staff of DOF have graduate degrees in one
of the natural sciences. However very few staff are skilled in the area of
production, planning, economics, social science, management, finance and
accounting. The ongoing UNDP funded DOF Strengthening Project (para 2.53; Annex
2) focusses on these issues and the project will support training (para 3.32).
2.43         FRI was created in 1984 as a spin-off operation from the research
functions of DOF and the Bangladesh Fisheries Development Corporation (BFDC).
It has a staff of 250, with a mandate to carry out applied fisheries research.
Its current five-year master plan focuses on pond fish and shrimp culture, which
are of direct relevance to the project. However, areas important for the
fisheries development program in western Bangladesh such as floodplain and
coastal fisheries are not yet covered. FRI has stations in several areas of the
country, but is absent from the northwest despite the importance of fisheries
resources in this region (para 2.14, Map 21887). The project will support FRI
(para 3.36).
2.44         BFDC is designed to operate as a commercial enterprise in fish
processing, production of nets and boats, trawling and operating fish markets.
However, it has been unprofitable and would require substantial reforms in order
to improve its performance. It is expected that the institutional strengthening
of DOF (para 2.53, Annex 2) will help also to clarify the mandate of BFDC and
lead to its reform.
2.45         Over 502 of the staff of the fisheries administration work in the
Upazila fisheries offices (Annex 1). Their main task is to provide fisheries
extension. In most cases, however, they have no clear work programs and lack
the basic material means to fulfill their role. The operational budget is
minimal and means of communication such as bicycles or motorbikes are absent.
Development projects used to bypass them. The work situation of Upazila
fisheries staff is especially frustrating for the young and eager professional
who start their career at Upazila level. The project addresses these problems
by integrating staff of selected Upazilas into project activities and providing
them with meaningful work programs, equipment, finance for operational cost and
training (para 3.33). The project also provides funds that allow particularly
active officers to intensify their development activities beyond the routine
level (para 3.29).
2.46         The MFL maintains technical links with the Ministry of Irrigation,
Water Development and Flood Control (MIWDFC) and the Bangladesh Water
Development Board (BWDB); the Mirnistry of Lands (ML); the Universities; the
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA); and the Ministry of Local Government and Rural
Development and Cooperatives (MLGRDC). MIWDFC oversees the Bangladesh Water
Development Board (BWDB) which will develop the polder infrastructure for the



- 11 -
project's shrimp culture component. ML administers the floodplain waters that
are an important part of the project. Universities, particularly the Bangladesh
Agricultural University, are the sources of professional staff. MOA has common
concerns and clients with MFL, and a closer coordination between the two would
improve the efficiency of services. Links with the MLGRDC exist via its role in
overseeing Upazilas and cooperatives.
2.47         MFL also maintains administrative links with entities relevant to
its mandate. It has strong links with the Ministry of Planning (MP). The
Planning Commission (PLANCOM) clears projects and budget allocations and the
External Resources Division (ERD) coordinates aid inputs. The Ministry of
Finance (MP) provides the recurrent and development budgets and should be
interested in the institutional efficiency, expenditure, and cost recovery
aspects of the project. The Bangladesh Bank (BB) provides refinance and
guidance to the financial sector, which is currently undergoing major reforms.
Non Governmental Organizations (NGOs)
2.48         NGOs are increasingly active in the fisheries sector.  There are
close to 300 in the country -- about 30Z of them funded externally. The largest
ones active in the project area are the Bangladesh Rural Advancement Committee,
Proshika and Caritas. NGOs normally practice a holistic rural and group
development approach which focuses on income generation among the poor and
builds increasingly on the profitability of aquaculture and the availability of
under-utilized bodies of water. NGOs can be employed advantageously in socio-
economic survey and extension work for public sector projects (para 3.39); they
are especially effective in providing disadvantaged groups with assistance in
training and organization, and in facilitating their access to resources and
inputs.
F. Regulations
2.49         All regulations in the fisheries sector are rendered less effective
by problems of enforcement. The two major regulations affecting inland
fisheries are the Protection and Conservation Act of 1950 and the New Fisheries
Management Policy (NFMP) of 1986. The Protection and Conservation Act is
designed to protect fish stocks from over-fishing, but population pressure has
made the Act largely inoperative. The NFMP was introduced in FY87 with the
objective of strengthening equity, conservation of fish resources and cost
recovery. The policy limits access to public water bodies to genuine fishermen,
assuming that these fishermen are deprived of income by entrepreneurs who are
said to fish without regard to the sustainability of production. Transferring
fishing rights to fishermen is expected to lead to voluntary restraint in
fishing effort or to compensation by stocking. The implementation of this
policy now occupies much of the field capacity of DOF and some Upazilas; it is
being monitored with support by the Ford Foundation. Difficulties are being
encountered in limiting licenses to genuine fishermen, collecting fees, and
promoting a sense of collective responsibility among fishermen.
G. Development Activities
National Plans
2.50         National development strategies and programs for the fisheries
sector are formulated in the context of preparing the country's five-year plans.



- 12 -
The Third Five Year Plan (TFYP), 1986 - 1990 foresaw a total of Tk 4 billion
(US$ 140 million) of public expenditure in the fisheries sector. This amounted
to 1.4Z of total plan expenditure.
2.51    Because past plans were over-optimistic, public expenditures have
achieved only about 25Z of their targets. This shortfall reflects the absence
of consistent programs and the poor implementation capacity of the fisheries
administration. It points to the need for region-specific plans for fisheries
that can be updated regularly. Public sector production campaigns have not been
as effective as private sector development.
2.52         Much as previous plans, the Fourth Five-Year Plan (FFmY; 1991-1995)
is expected to emphasize (a) increasing fish production, consumption and
nutrition derived from fish, (b) increasing employment, and (c) increasing
fisheries exports. Better utilization of the floodplain resources through
stocking programs and the intensification of shrimp culture are expected to
figure prominently in the FPYP. Financial allocations to the sector may rise,
as government and donors begin to recognize the development potential of
fisheries, particularly in floodplains. The proposed project will constitute a
major portion of the FFYP's planned fisheries sector expenditures. The plan is
also likely to reflect many of the project design concepts (para 3.06),
particularly on private and public sector roles, as officials responsible for
planning in fisheries participated actively in the project's formulation and
appraisal process. GOB's evolving perceptions of private and public sector
roles in fisheries already result in questions about the need for the government
to operate hatcheries and project agreements aim in the same direction (para
3.34).
Major Development Programs
2.53         Major development efforts relevant to the project include the
Second Aquaculture Development Program financed by ADB, the Shrimp Culture
Project (IDA) (para 2.55), the Beel and Baor Project (IFAD), and the DOF
Institutional Strengthening Project (UNDP). The Second Aquaculture Development
Program and the Institutional Strengthening Project are of particular relevance.
The Second Aquaculture Program focusses on carp and shrimp culture in various
parts of the country and floodplain stocking in eastern Bangladesh. Refinancing
of credit is an important element and the program provides refinance of credit
needed mainly in the shrimp culture component of the project. The Institutional
Strengthening Project will provides inter alia plans for the rehabilitation of
DOF training facilities which will be financed under the project. These and the
other projects are described in Annex 2.
H. Bank Group Involvement
2.54         IDA support began in the mid-1970s with a fisheries sub-project of
the Karnafuli Irrigation Project (Cr. 605-BD). The sub-project incorporated
technical assistance for a carp hatchery and training, and was successfully
completed in 1982. The sub-project focused on the adverse effects on inland
fisheries from flood control, drainage, and irrigation projects and corrected
these through inclusion of aquaculture-based fishery components in the projects.
2.55         The first free-standing IDA fisheries project was the Oxbow Lakes
Fisheries Project (Cr. 890-BD; FY79; US$ 6 million; closed on 6/30/1986). The
project provided financing for hatchery and fingerling rearing facilities for



_ 13 -
six lakes. The Project Performance Audit Report (1989) states that it
successfully demonstrated the application of aquaculture techniques in water
bodies of around 300 ha which increased yields from 150 kglha to about 800 kg/ha
without additional feeding. The experience of that project verifies the basic
concept of floodplain stocking employed under this project. Small-scale
hatcheries, also demonstrated under the Oxbow Lakes Project, were an important
spin off benefit. One weakness of the project was the insufficient delegation
of tasks to the beneficiaries -- tasks involving hatchling and fingerling
supply, stocking. lake management, and fish marketing. The project also
displayed DOF's weakness in project implementation and procurement functions.
The principal lesson learnt was not to entrust government agencies with
commercial fishery operations or, in particular cases, plan from the outset the
transition from public sector to private sector management. These specific
lessons have been incorporated in the project design; project management has
been reinforced by TA; fingerlings are procured from the private sector (para
3.46); agreements aim at the divestment of surplus public hatcheries (para 3.34)
and criteria for the selection of project activities exclude the public sector
from commercial operations (Annex 3).
2.56         The ongoing Shrimp Culture Project (Cr. 1651-BD; FY85; US$ 22
million; closing 12131/1991) aims to improve shrimp culture within polders on
7,000 ha, 5.600 ha of which are located in the eastern Cox's Bazar area, where
shrimp culture during the wet season alternates with salt pans. The other 1400
ha of polder land are located in a polder in the project area and they are part
of a large-scale test for improved shrimp culture in the shrimp/paddy rotation.
The project also includes hatchery development, extension services, credit and a
technical assistance component financed by UNDP and executed by IDA. It
involves an NGO for organizing shrimp farmers. The project has developed
adequate momentum and is progressing satisfactorily. Although the improved
water infrastructure has only been in operation for one shrimp season, the
project concept appears sound; farmers are satisfied and yields have already
increased from 75 to 135 kg/ha in the pilot area. BWDB performed well. DOF
management has been adequate and professional field staff performed well.
Currently identified DOF weaknesses are in procurement, delegation of
responsibility, monitoring and cost recovery. Development of public shrimp
culture land and acquisition of private land for water supply and drainage
channels have caused delays. Hatchery development has proved difficult because
of managerial problems in DOF and limited response from the private sector.
Institutional credit for on-farm development and for hatchery development and
marketing improvement has been very limited. The TA component has proved to be
vital and the NGO has been effective in promoting beneficiary participation in
the project. The lessons learnt from this project have been fully integrated in
the project design (paras 3.06).
2.57         IDA reviewed the fisheries sector in FY83 (para 1.01).  The report
summarizing the review findings drew GOB's attention to inland fisheries
development and the institutional problems of the fisheries administration (para
2.38). In 1985, a report on the DOP's institutional strengthening (para 2.38)
intensified IDA's dialogue with GOB on the fisheries sector. IDA review of the
fisheries sector is at an advanced stage, updating and extending data collected
during an agricultural sector review conducted in FY87. It is due for
completion in FY90 and it stresses the need for accelerated fisheries
development. The preliminary findings of this review have been taken into
account in the project design.



- 14 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Obiectives and Rationale
3.01         The project is designed to support a sectoral development process
aiming at: (a) increasing incomes, particularly of the poor, and fish production
for domestic consumption and export, (b) supporting the fisheries development
program in the west with emphasis on private sector participation; (c)
accelerating the expansion of fish production in floodplains; and (d)
strengthening sectoral institutions.
3.02         IDA involvement in the project is warranted for three reasons.
First, fisheries development is a priority in the GOB's development program and
in IDA's lending strategy because of its high potential for growth and poverty
alleviation. Second, IDA has developed experience and a capability to assist
development in the sector through projects and sector work; the time has come to
accelerate investments on a larger scale, using the experience gained from the
studies and smaller projects. Third, IDA is a major source of funding and plays
an important role in mobilizing donor resources; its interest in the sector is
likely to help reverse a past trend of stagnation and decline.
B. Project Area
Western Bangladesh
3.03         As explained in para 1.02 the western part of the country was
selected as project area in FY88. The physical area covers about 77,000 square
kilometers, or 62Z of the national territory (Annex 1 and Map 21887). It is
home for about 55 million people -- 50? of the national population -- and
produces about 532 of GNP. The major economic activities are crop agriculture
with associated livestock -- providing 552 of national production -- and
fisheries --providing 53? of national production; the area produces about 60Z
of exported shrimp.
3.04         The project area is defined in the north and west by about 900 km
ot border with India, in the east by the Jamuna-Meghna River, and to the south
by the Bay of Bengal. The Jamuna River obstructs communication with the centers
of buying power -- Dhaka and Chittagong. However, communication will improve
with the completion in 1995 of the proposed Jamuna bridge in the northern apart
of the project area and with the ongoing improvement of road and ferry
connections in the southern part. As a result, the market for fisheries
products of the project area can be expected to improve. The southern fringe of
the project area comprises the Sundarbans which are closed to permanent human
habitation because the terrain is still unstable and the area is important as a
nature reserve.
3.05         The project area is divided by the Ganges river into two distinct
regions -- the North and the South. The North is synonymous with the Rajshahi
Division. It covers 352 of the project area and contains 49t of its population.
It is comparatively richer than the south because of its fertile floodplains
which support a high level of agricultural production. The North also contains
the arid Barind Tract -- an area of about 5,700 sq km with a small population
and low incomes. The South consists of the Khulna and part of the Dhaka



- 15 -
Divisions. It comprises 652 of the project area and contains 51? of its
population. Limited groundwater facilities and severe annual flooding allow
less intensive agriculture in the South and poorer living conditions.
Altogether 3 Divisions, 37 Districts and 244 Upazilas occupy the project area,
C. Project Design
3.06         The project has been designed to translate the objectives described
in para 3.01 into components which reflect the sectoral potentials and
constraints in the project area and strategies discussed in Chapter II. The
project is conceived as the first in a series of sector-wide fisheries projects
planned for IDA support in the western part of the country (para 1.02).
3.07         The program approach was chosen because it allowed to respond to
the need to initiate accelerated development, while simultaneously strengthening
the fisheries institutions and making full use of the findings made in studies,
pilot projects and small-scale projects. Such an approach was also considered
the most suitable to maintain a long term perspective, focus the fisheries
administration's development activities (para 2.50), address its core managerial
issues (para 2.38) and introduce flexibility to transfer project resources from
slow activities to faster ones (para 4.12).
3.08         The project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1996 and the
Credit would be closed by December 31, 1996. The project's duration of six
years is one years less than the profile of similar projects in Bangladesh. The
shorter duration was chosen because the government had expressed its preference
for a shorter project period. Its strong commitment to the project, visible in
timely contributions during the preparation stages, raises the expectation that
the project objectives can be achieved in time. This also has been confirmed by
critical path tests for the main components (annex 10). Finally, a follow-up
project could pick-up unaccomplished tasks, as the project is meant to be one in
a series of prospective sectoral projects in the same project area.
3.09         The project has two distinct groups of components.  One addresses
the production objectives and comprises three components, floodplain fisheries,
coastal shrimp culture, and other fisheries. The other group, comprising
institutional support, research, and technical assistance and training, provides
support to the production components by focussing a critical mass of institution
building, social support measures and policy improvements required to support
the accelerated development program.
3.10         The composition of the production components follows the importance
of the various fisheries resources in the project area and their potential for
rapid and sustained production increases. Floodplain fisheries receive special
attention because of their high production potential (para 2.10). Shrimp
culture, a leading foreign exchange earner with potential for expansion (para
2.07), calls for sustained support focussing on infrastructure development (para
2.25). Other fisheries is a residual component grouping mainly the other
resources (para 3.29). The production components allow clear delimitation of
implementation responsibilities; thus the DOF headquarters is the prime
responsible for the floodplain fisheries component, the DOF field services for
the other fisheries component and the BWDB for the shrimp culture component.
3.11         The scale of the production components was determined by the
implementation capacity of the public and private sector entities involved.



- 16 -
The capacity of the private sector to produce and deliver fingerlings for
stocking (para 2.31) was the limiting factor in the floodplain fisheries
component; the idea of the public sector producing fingerlings was abandoned
early because of its weak performance in this area (para 2.39). The capacity of
BWDB to develop infrastructure decided the scale of the shrimp culture
component, and the absorption capacity of the DOF field services down to the
Upazila level determined the size of the other fisheries component.
3.12         The impact areas of the production activities hinge on
considerations of size and safety of returns to project investments. The areas
with the highest resource concentration were chosen in floodplain fisheries
(para 2.14) and their location in three different parts of the project area (Map
21887) provides safeguards against potential local failures in management,
fingerling supply or other unforseen fields. In shrimp culture the areas with
the highest resource concentration and the lowest per unit cost of
infrastructure development have been designated or prescribed by selection
criteria (para 3.26, Annex 3). The same criteria and the mode of attributing
funds also guide activities under the Other Fisheries component towards high and
safe returns (para 3.29).
3.13         The composition of the support components is consistent with the
roles of the various GOB and donor agencies. The institutional support
component provides support to DOF, the Upazila fishery offices and to BWDB; its
internal breakdown allows the agencies to recognize easily the project
contributions which concern them most. The research component is solely for
FRI. The two technical assistance sub-components are determined by the distinct
nature of the contributions from two grant aid donors, with ODA focussing on DOF
management support and UNDP on technical and social support.
3.14         The project does not include credit and market components.
Substantial credit funds have been provided under the Second Aquaculture Project
of ADB for shrimp and fish farmers in the project area (para 2.53, Annex 2) and
these funds have not yet been utilized. Moreover, banks do not lack funds but
need well prepared loan proposals and eligible clients; this is one of the
thrust areas of institutional support to the fisheries administration (para
4.07). Actions to adjust the financial sector of the country, including
agricultural credit, already are being supported by IDA and include inter alia
stopping the use of refinance as an instrument for subsidized credit. Against
this background, a credit refinance component would work against the efforts to
streamline institutional credit. Instead emphasis has been placed on developing
within DOF capacity for better collaboration with the banks. In order to
simplify design, project involvement in fish and shrimp marketing is limited to
extension contacts of DOF with the trade and processors, and monitoring of
seasonal and long term market trends by project management. Moreover, ptivate
sector marketing is fairly efficient (para 2.06).
3.15         Policy improvements are incorporated in the project.  Under the
project long-term roles for the private and public sectors have been translated
i-ito specific task allocations. For example, the project does not finance
public sector production operations (Annex 3) and supports the closure of
existing production operations (para 3.34). Instead the project focuses public
sector activity on extension operations complementing and improving the existing
informal private extension network (para 2.31). The project will help to limit
the size of the fisheries administration by encouraging the use of service
contracts with private firms and by making full use of the underemployed DOF and



- 17 -
Upazila staff under the revenue budget. Cost recovery which is important for
the financial sustainability of floodplain fisheries development, is addressed
through appropriate studies (para 3.39, Annex 6) and agreements (paras 6.14,
6.19, 6.20). The issue of subsidies on shrimp exports was covered during
negotiations (para 5.06).
3.16         The scale of the support components was determined by the appraisal
team and the GOB officers closely associated with it, as being required to
achieve the project objectives, taking into account support available from other
sources. The biggest elements are the support to DOF and the Upazila fisheries
offices and technical assistance and training. The TA component had to be
substantial for several reasons. First, GOB insists that most local consultant
service are financed from grant- rather then GOB or Credit funds; this increases
the size of the technical assistance components; local services account for
about 25 Z of the project's TA cost. Second, technical assistance had to ensure
that the main areas of past DOF weaknesses in management, procurement,
monitoring and delegation of authority to the field, the assistance needs of the
young FRI and of improvements in policies were sufficiently well covered by
foreign and local expertise and training. The floodplain fisheries component
called for particularly strong support in fingerling procurement and monitoring
the effects of stocking. Third, the equity objectives of the project also
increased the scale of technical assistance. Newly created service points
addressing the needs of an increasing number of mostly destitute women active in
fisheries and income distribution aspects in coastal shrimp culture and
floodplains had to be supported by expertise and substantial NGO services.
D.  Prouect cemponents
3.17         The project has six components: (a) Floodplain Fisheries; (b)
Coastal Shrimp Culture; (c) Other Fisheries; (d) Institutional Support; (e)
Research ; and (f) Technical Assistance. Floodplain fisheries involves the
stocking of 29,000 ha of major floodplains in project year two, increasing to
100,000 ha in project year five and six. The coastal shrimp culture involves
improvements in infrastructure for public water control on 13,000 ha of poldered
land already under shrimp culture. Other Fisheries includes 55 finance packages
for Upazila- and District-level programs to develop freshwater fish and shrimp
ponds, minor floodplains, riverine fisheries, and women's involvement in
fisheries. Institutional support encompasses the financing of incremental
facilities and operating costs of DOF and BWDB. Research involves the provision
of funds to FRI to carry out applied research related to the project. Technical
Assistance includes two packages -- one for project management and one for
technical and social support.
E. Detailed Features
Floodplain Fisheries
3.18         The project will support investment in the development of
technology for cost-effective stocking of floodplains. About 20Z of the major
floodplain resources would be stocked with carp species fingerlings. The type
of fingerlings stocked would be silver and bighead (70Z), mrigal, catla, and
rohu (20Z), and common (10Z) carp -- all selected because of fast growth, early
spawning and balanced species composition. Stocking would take place in June,
with the onset of the monsoon and when the natural food supply for fish is
particularly high and the loss of fingerlings due to fishing is lowest. The



- 18 -
fingerlings would be released from boats at different locations in the central,
deeper parts of the plains.
3.19          Releases would be given much local publicity and would be preceded
by special extension campaigns to generate awareness about the negative impact
of catching fingerlings and young fish. The fingerlings would be inspected
before and during stocking. For a few weeks immediately following the release,
guards would be placed around the release areas to prevent any fishing of yet
undispersed fingerlings. The volume and size of fingerlings stocked --
important to reduce loss from predators -- would gradually increase over the
life of the project. In Project Year 2, 20 kg/ha would be stocked; in Project
Year 3, 25 kg/ha and in Project Year 4 and onwards, 30 kg/ha. The weight and
size of fingerlings would increase from 7.4 g, 9.5 cm in Project Year 2 to 11 g,
14 cm in Project Year 4. The progression in size of fingerlings is important to
reduce mortality and will allow suppliers to adapt gradually to thc demand for
larger fingerlings.
3.20         The base cost of stocking would be Tk 45 (US$ 1.40) per kilogram of
the 14 cm size fingerlings or Tk 1,350 (US$ 41.80) per ha as of Project Year 4.
The annual base cost of this component would increase from Tk 43.5 million (US$
1.4 million) in Project Year 2 to Tk 135.0 million (USS 4.2 million) in Project
Years 5 and 6. IDA would initially finance 1OOZ of the cost (para 3.53) in
order to ensure the availability of funds at all times and confer initially an
investment status to the stocking operations and instill supplier confidence in
quick payment.
3.21         Because a timely supply of fingerlings is crucial for the success
of the component, managerial routines for public stocking will be developed.
The quantities of fingerlings required are substantial -- in Project Years 5 and
6 about 3,000 tons of fingerlings will be needed, three to four times the
present fingerling production of the project area. Although the existing
private hatcheries and nurseries are capable of expanding output fast, skilled
management will be needed to effectively organize the supply. To ensure
adequate organization, TA support would be provided to DOF and fingerlings will
be bought from a limited number of firms. After pre-qualification, suppliers
will be selected on the basis of tenders and will arrange for sub-contracting
with the many small nurseries and fingerling producers (para 3.46). Draft
procurement documents have been prepared during appraisal.
3.22         Preparations for stocking would take place in Project Year 1, and
actual stocking would begin in Project Year 2 on 29,000 ha. One floodplain
would be stocked in each Division in the first two years. The floodplains to be
stocked initially have been selected because they are typical of the sarrounding
potential and because they are easily accessible. These floodplains include the
Chanda beel area in the Gopalganj depression (Dhaka Division), the poldered BSKE
plain in the Khulna depression (Khulna Division) and the poldered Halti beel
area in the Chalan depression (Rajshahi Division). Intensive monitoring will be
carried out in each of these floodplains over a period of three years (para
4.20, Annex 6). For each of these areas a monograph depicting the main physical
and economic features has been prepared.
3.23         Stocking of these first areas will provide the technical and
managerial experience required for expansion into adjacent areas. Since the
floodplains selected are typical of the surrounding potential, they will provide



- 19 -
experience with the variety of conditions which are likely to be encountered in
the floodplains.
3.24         In Project Year 4, stocking will be expanded to other floodplains.
Four floodplains are identified for this - the Boro beel (DhakalGopalgaaJ), the
Chenchuri polder (Khulna), the Uthrail and Hilna beels (Rajshahi) - but project
management will be permitted to make its own choice as long as it employs
selection criteria outlined in Annex 3. By Project Year 5, 100,000 ha will be
stocked each year, out of the total major floodplain potential of 550,000 ha in
western Bangladesh. The Dhaka Division will account for 30,000 ha, the Khulna
Division for 30,000 ha, and the Rajshahi Division for 40,000 ha.
Coastal Shrimp Culture
3.25         This project component represents a continuation and expansion of
the ongoing Shrimp Culture Project (para 2.56). Its purpose is to improve the
water exchange infrastructure on pcldered shrimp land to increase shrimp
production and exports. About 13,000 ha of shrimp land have been earmarked for
development. On these, 3,000 ha of detail planning and 7000 ha of general
planning have been completed. The base cost of the component is Tk 417.3
million or US$ 12.9 million. The component has been designed recognizing that
BWDB, the implementing agency for infrastructure, can accommodate a program of
3.000 to 4,000 ha/year without straining its present implementation capacity.
DOF will provide extension for poldered and non-polder areas and TA will support
infrastructure planning and participant organization. Extension activities will
focus on the 13,000 ha in order to optimize returns on the infrastructure
investment. They will complement the activities of ADB's Second Aquaculture
Project, which initially will refinance the on-farm credit. Extension support
would be provided to all brackish-water shrimp areas, whether poldered or not,
and would be financed from the Institutional Support and the TA components.
Production of fresh-water prawns would be supported under the Other Fisheries
Development component.
3.26         Polders have been selected for water infrastructure improvement
taking into account both least cost of infrastructure per hectare of land
cuirently under shrimp culture and production potential. A priority list of
polders has been established using inf.rmation available from the ongoing Shrimp
Culture Project. The list includes, in order of priority: Polders No. 23, 5,
16, 18/19, 31, 32,and 33. Polders 23 and 5 have been selected for early
implementation and detailed planning has been completed. Polder 23 is located
in the area where shrimp culture alternates with paddy cultivation. It has the
largest concentration of shrimp culture (3,700 ha) and the start there should be
easy due to early support from staff working on nearby polder 20 under the
Shrimp Culture Project. Polder 5 is located in an area where shrimp are
cultivated during 9 months of the year and paddy cannot be cultivated any more
in the remaining short period. About 1,000 ha of land have been selected for
improvement as a pilot operation for this type of shrimp culture with
comparatively higher yields.
3.27         During Project Year 1, the following activities would be carried
out in polders 23 and 5 : (a) a baseline social survey; (b) a project
participation agreement for the concerned population (Annex 6); and based on it
(c) the selection of shrimp culture blocks for development. Civil works will
begin in Project Year 2 and be completed in Project Year 3. Detailed planning
for the other polders will begin in Project Year 2 and general planning for



- 20 -
remaining 3,000 hectares will begin in Project Year 3. This planning will be
funded under the TA component. During negotiations agreement was reached with
GOB that the selection of polders for improvement in later years will be made by
project management and be based on the selection criteria in Annex 3.
3.28         BWDB will improve the polder embankments, build sluices and develop
some footbridges needed to cross water channels. DOP will provide extension
with the assistance of local consultants (NGOs) and expatriate experts.
Extension would also be given to improve production of shrimp culture on some
2,000 ha outside of polders. A project cell under the Divisional Deputy
Director for Khulna will provide DOF support, and draw on the manpower available
in the ongoing Shrimp Culture Project and in the Districts and Upazilas. Shrimp
farmers will be responsible for building or improving water distribution and
drainage systems, with organizational assistance from local consultants (NGO)
and engineering assistance from BWDB. The building of sluices by BWDB will be
conditional on the shrimp farmers agreeing to develop the water and drainage
system. It is envisaged that the public sector will have to assist with the
construction of some main channels, where farmers fail to develop an adequate
system. For this intervention a provision of 20Z of total estimated cost of
main water supply and drainage channels has been made. This approach differs
from that previously adopted under the Shrimp Culture Project, where BWDB built
the main channels. It reflects GOB's desire to lower the cost of public
infrastructure and to minimize land acquisition.
Other Fisheries
3.29         The other fisheries component will provide localized support to
private sector development at District and Upazila level. This will include
mainly intensified study and extension services at the local level for (a) ponds
and lakes, (b) minor floodplains, (c) rivers, (d) fresh water shrimp promotion,
.e) assistance to underprivileged groups such as women and (f) other activities
that may appear important during project implementation. For planning purposes,
funds for these services have been grouped into a number of packages to indicate
the variety and dispersed nature of target groups and implementing services
involved. These services may include special studies, surveys, and training,
temporary personnel service for extension and technical advice, field
demonstrations and pilot operations including coverage of operating costs. The
packages should be of particular value to the newly created Women in Fisheries
cells at HQ and Division level (paras 3.32 and 3.33). These cells would promote
the increased participation of women in GOB's fisheries activities in western
Bangladesh. Supported by Technical Assistance (Annex 6) they should be able to
initiate local development activities early in the project. The other fisheries
packages have been grouped under the disbursement category of study and service
contracts. Financing for the Upazilas and DFOs will be allocated by the
divisional heads of DOF on the basis of agreed plans, which the District and
Upazila officers will prepare with guidance from the divisional level. During
negotiations agreement was reached with GOB that only activities which conform
to the selection criteria outlined in Annex 3 would be eligible for project
financing and that a substantial part of the funds available under this
component would be used for activities related to women in fisheries
development.
3.30         A total of 55 Other Fisheries packages have been identified, at a
base cost of Tk 66.0 million (US$ 2.0 million). The cost of the average package
is Tk 1.2 million (US$ 37,150). The actual cost of a package will vary with the



- 21 -
type of problem addressed, the problem's importance and the state of
information. The estimated number of packages for ponds is 17, (Dhaka 3, Khulna
6, Rajshahi 8); minor floodplains, 13 (Dhaka 3, Khulna 4, Rajshahi 6); rivers, 9
(Dhaka 2, Khulna 4, Rajshahi 3); women's development, 8 (Dhaka 2, Khulna 3,
Rajshahi 3); freshwater shrimp 5 (Dhaka 1, Khulna 2, Rajshahi 2);
co,.stal/estuarine fisheries, 3 (Khulna 3). The packages are expected to result
in production increases on about 9,000 ha of minor floodplains and 4,500 ha of
other fisheries resources, mainly ponds.
Institutional Support
3.31         This component will support project implementation and some
institutional improvements for DOF (para 2.37), the Upazilas (para 2.45), and
BWDB (para 2.46), as required to attain sustainable development.   The base cost
of the component is Tk 318.2 million (US$ 9.9 million). The project will
finance incremental costs of vehicles, office and field equipment, office
construction, building rehabilitation, operation and maintenance, and staff.
The project draws primarily on staff already employed on the recurrent and
development budgets. For the latter, only incremental operational costs will be
financed. In order to increase the transparency of disbursement against
incremental staff costs, agreement was reached with GOB that the submission by
DOF, BWDB and FRI of a proiect related staffing plan indicating funding under
the development and the revenue budget will be a condition of disbursement.
3.32     DOF support will be divided between headquarters and the field
services. Headquarter support will fund the Project Coordination Cell;
rehabilitation of training facilities, and equipment and operational costs of
other DOF units involved in the project. The Project Coordination Cell (para
4.06) will consist of 11 professional staff working in 7 sub-cells i.e. project
management, planning, monitoring and evaluation, procurement, administration and
finance, women in fisheries, and training. Detailed plans for rehabilitation of
training facilities will be prepared under the ongoing UNDP/FAO Institutional
Strengthening Project by March 1992. During negotiations agreement was reached
with GOB that the plans for rehabilitation of DO? training facilities and
project related budget plans for the other DOF headquarter units would be
submitted to IDA for approval.
3.33         Strengthening the field level will include incremental costs of 24
Districts and 70 Upazilas which are involved in the project and not funded from
other sources. Each of the three divisions will be allocated professional staff
to cover project management, extension and training, floodplain fisheries and
regulation, credit, women's development, and administration and finance. Khulna
will be strengthened by 23 staff, Rajshahi by 12 and Dhaka by 11. In Khulna 11
staff will concentrate on shrimp culture. During negotiations agreement was
reached with GOB that Khulna Division extension staff from the ongoing Shrimp
Culture Project (para 2.56) will be formally transferred to the project by June
30,1991. The objective of this transfer is to make maximum use of existing
manpower; the transfer should pose no problems, as the main activity of the
Shrimp Culture Project in the project area, i.e. the development of polder 20,
is finished. Staff at the district level will consist of the DFO and an
additional Subject Matter Specialist. To provide better working facilities to
the DFOs who generally use operate out of hired, frequently very inadequate
offices, during negotiations un understanding was reached with GOB that the
construction of up to 15 selected District Fisheries Offices with a an estimated
costs of Tk 21 million (USS 650,000) would also be financed under the project,



- 22 ..
without increasin8 the volume of the Credit. The Upazilas will continue to be
staffed with three junior professionals.
3.34         A major institutional improvement of DOF would be the divestment of
DOF fish seed units which have become redundant because the private sector
produces fish seed more effectively (paras 2.31, 2.39). Such a step would free
scarce financial, staff and managerial resources which the department needs for
accelerated fisheries development. During negotiations agreement was reached
with GOB that it would establish an inter-ministerial committee on divestment of
public fish seed farms, under TOR and membership satisfactory to IDA, by July 1,
1992, furnish the recommendations of the committee to IDA for comment, by March
1. 1993, and thereafter implement the recommendations according to an agreed
time schedule. The inter-ministerial committee will comprise MF, MFL and MP as
the principal members. Supporting studies will be prepared under the STA
component before the committee is created to assist their deliberations (para
3.39, Annex 6). The timing takes into account the implementation capacities of
MFL, DOF and STA.
3.35         Strengthening BWDB will include the purchase of vehicles and boats
and the funding of project related operation and maintenance expenses and
administrative overheads.
Research
3.36         The objective of this component is to provide research support by
the Bangladesh Fisheries Research Institute (FRI) in areas directly related to
project activities. The component does not overlap with the Second Agricultural
Research Project (Cr. 1455 BD). Research will focus on fish food, fish disease
and fishing gear in floodplains and on catch and effort parameters in coastal
fisheries. The base cost of the component will be Tk 26.5 million (USS 0.8
million), which will cover four research projects and an allocation for
unforeseen research and a small field station in Western Bangladesh.   During
negotiations agreement was reached with GOB that the field station plans of FRI
would have to be cleared by IDA. Terms of reference for the research component
figure in Annex 4. Expert support will be provided under the Technical
Assistance Component.
Technical Assistance and Training
3.37         The main objective of the technical assistance and training (TA)
component is to strengthen DOF (para 2.37) while embarking on accelerated
fisheries development activities. The base cost of the component is Tk 224.0
million (US$ 6.9 million). About 45 Z of the cost is for local services.
Because of financial constraints of obtaining grant aid from donors for
technical assistance, the component has been divided into two packages -- one
for management (MTA) and one for technical and social support (STA). Terms of
references for these packages are presented in Annexes 5 and 6.
3.38          The management technical assistance package, to be financed and
administered by ODA, provides for assistance in project management both at DOF
headquarters and at the divisional level. Long-term and short-term expertise
from local and expatriate sources will be provided in project management and
planning, procurement, project monitoring, computer services, training and for
an independent stocking inspection service. Training will be provided
on-the-job, in-service training and overseas in the form of 24 training awards,



- 23 -
mainly in management related areas. About 240 man-months of expatriate
assistance and 162 man-months of local services will be required.
3.39          The support technical assistance package, to be financed by UNDP
and executed by IDA, will provide expertise for technical and socio-economic
studies, services for organizing shrimp farmers and fishermen, technical
advisory services for DOF, FRI and BWDB, and study tours. Studies and services
will be geared to the major project components as well as policy matters
concerning cost recovery in floodplains and divestment of public sector
hatcheries. Monitoring of production in stocked floodplains and NGO services to
shrimp farmers will receive special attention. Study tours will take 100
persons to Asian countries and provide for 100 in-country training tours. Over
130 man-months of expatriate assistance and 4,100 man-months of local consultant
services will be required.
Status of Project Preparation
3.40         Detailed plans have been prepared for the main investment
components, floodplain fisheries and coastal shrimp culture through Project Year
3. For floodplains, the areas to be stocked initially with fingerlings and the
technical and administrative parameters of the stocking program are defined.
Civil works are substantial only in the coastal shrimp culture component; they
are planned to begin in Project Year 2. Civil works for the first 3,000 ha to
be developed in Project Years 2 and 3 have been planned to the detailed design
level.
F. Project Cost
3.41         The cost of the project is Tk 2,323.3 million (US$ 62.7 million),
including physical and price contingencies (Table 3.1).  Duties and taxes
represent Tk 144.2 million (US$ 3.9 million) or 6.22 of project costs and
foreign exchange Tk 578.4 million (US$ 15.8 million) or 25 Z of project costs.
Detailed project costs are presented in Annex 7.
3.42         Cost estimates for the project are updated October 1989 prices.
Cost estimates for civil works under the Coastal Shrimp Culture component are
based on detailed engineering designs. The costs of other components represent
the actual costs of similar items. Physical contingencies account for 7.6 Z of
base costs. The rate for fingerlings, civil works, office and laboratory
equipment, staff and operating costs is 102. No physical contingencies are
applied to transport, equipment, consultants, lump sum allocations and, in
compliance with UNDP rules, the complete Support Technical Assistance component.
Price contingencies based on Bank projections amount to 28.1Z of base costs.
Price contingencies on foreign costs were based on projected foreign inflation
rates of 4.9Z up to FY95, and 4.32 in FY96. Price contingencies on local costs
were based on projected local inflation rates of 1OZ in FY90, 9Z in FY91, 82 in
FY92 and 7Z thereafter. The exchange rates used between FY90 and FY96 are 32.7,
33.9, 35.3, 36,4, 37.2, 38.0 and 38.7 respectively.



- 24 -
Table 3.1 Project Cost Summar
(Million)
Take                            us2                          S Totel
**<<----            ----- *e-v-*---*------          U foreign     ease
Local  Foreign     Total       Local Foreign    Total    Esohse         Costs
...~~~~~~~~~~- - - -    -. -. -  -        .... __ . . _ ._......  ---  - ... __.__ -.... __.......  ...__. ......_  ...
A. FP1OOOPLAIN FISHERIES
1. Publ. Stckting Ohaka Div.     101.8      12.1    120.0          8.4      0.4      3.7         10.0       8.1
2. Pubi Steeking Khulne Div      137.2      16.2    162.4          4.3      0.5      4.7         10.0      10.2
S. Publ. Stock. Rajabohi 01i     148.6      10.6    168.0          4.6      0.5      6.1         10.0      11.1
Sub-Total                          894.2      48.6    438.0         12.2      1.4    18.6          10.0      29.4
9. COASTAL S*RIP CULTUI
1. Poldr 5                       26.8      18.4      39.2         0.8      0.4      1.2         84.1       2.6
2. Pelder 23, Phse 1             41.0      21.1      83.0         1.3      0.7      2.0         33.5       4.2
3. Pold.23Ph.2,Pold.8lPh.1       68.0      43.3    128.3          2.0      1.3      4.0         8.8        8..6
4. Other Poidors (Phase 1)       61.6      32.1      98.9         1.9      1.0      2.9         84.2       6.8
S. Other Poldere (Phase 2)       60.9      32.0      92.9         1.9      1.0      2.9          $4.4      6.2
Sub-lTotl                          276.4     141.9    417.3 J.5               4.4      12.9         84.0      28.0
C. OTHER FSIERtIS OEY.
S. O.Fihertle ODhk.o Div.        12.5       0.7      13.2         0.4      0.0      0.4          8.n        0.9
2. 0.FPiareso Khulae 01D.       25.1        1.3     26.4         0.8      0.0      0.8           5.0       1.6
1. O.Fisharise Rajahabi 0IV      2S.1        1.J     26.4         0.0      0.0       0.6          5.0       1.8
Sub-Total                            627        3.8      0.0          1.9      0.1      2.0          5.0       4.4
0. INSTITJTINOL SUPPORT
1. net.Sup. DOOf-                 71.8      31.8    103.6          2.2      1.0      8.2         80.7       7.0
2. Thet.Sup. DOF-Ohaka Div.       24.6       5.0      30.8         0.0      0.2      0.9         16.6       2.0
3. Inst.Sup. 0Of-Khulna           61.2      16.1      76.3         1.9      O.S      2.4         19.8       5.1
4. Inst.Sup. DOf-Rajahahi        09.1       18.7      87.8         2.1      0.6      2.?         21.3       5.9
S. Inst.Sup. tm                   16.t       8.?      20.2         0.6      0.1      0.6         18.3       1.4
Sub-Total                           243.3      74.9    318.2          7.5      2.                   23.5      21.4
E. RESEARCH (FRI)                    20.4       6.0      26.5         0.6      0.2      0.8         22.8       1.8
F. TECIEICAL ASSIST.a TRAN.
1. TA - Project Ianaemt           86.6       .8    113.4           1.1      2.4      3.5         67.7       7.6
2. TA - Project Support           83.1      4?.4    110.5          2.0      1.6      3.4         42.9       7.4
Sub-Total 9.7    124.3    224.0                                      8.1      3.9      6.9        655.5      1.0
Totel  ASEUN  COSTS                1090.7    894.2   1429.0          44.0     12.2    46.2          20.5    100.0
Phytical Contingeils             90.2      22.9    113.2          2.8      0.7      3.5         20.8        7.6
Price Contingencies             56U.9    181.8    720.2           10.2      2.8    13.0           21.8      26.2
Total PROJECTS COSTS               1744.9    578.4   2328.2          46.9    16.0    62.7           25.1      1358
G. Financing
Table 3.2 Finacins Plan by Category of Disbursement
(US$ Million)
IDA           ODA           UNDP        Oovernmnt        Tots I             Loca 
-~~~~~~~~~--  -- ;;f----i-- ;Un;---;-For.  (Ent I.  Outise
Amount    S    Asount   S    Amount   S    Axount   S    Amount   S      Exch.  Tax.9)  Dut.
A. Land Acquisition           0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0    0.1  100.0    0.1   0.1    0.0    0.1    0.0
B. Civil ornks               14.7  00.0    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0    8.7  20.0   10.4  29.8    0.2   10. 6            1.7
C. Equipent and Vshicla       8.1  77.0    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0    0.9  23.0    4.1   6.6    1.0    1.J    0.9
0. Stff                       2.1  71.6    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0    0.6  28.4    2.9   4.8    0.0    2.9    0.0
E. 06                         $8.9  7C.4    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0    1.8  29.7    6.S          .      1.0    4.0    0.6
F. Fingerlinns                17.1  87.2    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0    2.6  12.6   19.6  31.2    1.9   17.3    0.4
a. S       tedy/Sic Contrat    8.7  100.0    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0    3.7   S.9    0.2    8.3    0.2
iH. In_t TA (ODA)              0.0   0.0    4.S  100.0    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0    4.8   0.0    2.8    1.4    0.1
1. Support TA (UOP)           0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0    4.2  100.0    0.0   0.0    4.2   6.7    1.0    2.8    0.1
Total Disbursemnt             44.0  71.1    4.8   6.6    4.2   8.7    9.7  16.4   62.7  100.0   16.0   43.0    3.9



- 25 -
3.43         The project would be financed as shown in Table 3.2.  IDA and GOB
will finance the Floodplain Fisheries, Coastal Shrimp Culture, Other Fisheries,
Institutional Support and Research components. ODA would finance 100? of the
management component of technical assistance and UNDP 1OOZ of the support
component of technical assistance. The IDA Credit will be channelled by GOB
through its annual development budget to DOF, BWDB, and FRI. DOF would handle
US$ 28.0 million (63Z), BWDB US$ 15.8 million (35Z) and FRI US$ 0.8 million (2Z)
of the Credit. The approval of the Project Proformas for 1PL, covering the DOF,
FRI and TA parts of the project, and for MIWDFC, covering the BWDB part of the
project, is a condition of Credit effectiveness. ODA would administer its own
funds. UNDP funds would be channeled through IDA as the executing agency.
3.44         GOB will provide adequate budget allocations to the project in
accordance with Annex 8.   It is a condition of Credit effectiveness that GOB
would include US$ 2.2 million equivalent in its FY91 Annual Development Program
for the project.
H. Procurement
3.45         The project will require the procurement of fingerlings, civil
works, equipment and vehicles, consultants' services, trainirg, and some land
(table 3.3). Procurement will be handled by DOF, BWDB, FRI, ODA and IDA, as the
executing agency for UNDP. The project Coordination Cell of DOF (paras 3.32,
4.05) will include a procurement unit of two officers, assisted by an expatriate
advisor and a local assistant (para 3.38) provided under MTA. The procurement
unit will prepare procurement that is handled by the Director of Fisheries and
assist him in supervising and advising the Divisional PDs in their respective
procurements.
3.46         The supply and stocking of fingerlings represents a large
procurement category -- Tk 738.1 million (USS 19.6 million) including
contingencies. Procurement procedures for it are guided by three principal
considerations: (a) for manageability, the number of contracts should not exceed
nine; (b) floodplains should be subdivided into lots, and bidders should be pre-
qualified to minimize the risk of non-performance; and (c) the size of the
individual contract should be large enough to remain attractive to major
contractors. Although initial contracts are not likely to be large enough to
attract international contractors, ICB rules are followed during the pre-
qualification stage to allow foreign participation.. Contractors will act as
agents for the purchase, transport and delivery of fingerlings from many local
nurseries. Because the risks and costs of long-distance transport and border
transit of live animals are high, the fingerlings will have to be bred and
raised within Bangladesh. Contractors will be pre-4ualified each year before
tendering for fingerlings.
3.47          Draft pre-qualification and tender documents have been prepared
for the first stocking at the end of Project Year 2. The main features of
fingerling procurement for Project Year 2 are as follows. Three lots between
2,000 and 4,500 ha would be tendered for each of the three floodplains stocked.
A total of nine lots would be tendered, each subject to a separate offer. One
contract could cover a maximum of two lots. At least twelve offers, three more
than the maximum number of contracts possible, should be obtained from bona fide
firms.  Contract values will range from Tk 4 million to Tk 18 million (US$



- 26 -
120,000 to 560,000). The experience of the first stocking may be used to vary
lot and contract sizes for future stockings after consultation with IDA.
Table 3.3 Procurement Method \a
Category             ICB       LCB        Other           NA       Total Cost
------                  US$ million----------------------
Fingerlings             19.6        -                                    19.6
(17.1)     -           _            _          (17.1)
Civil Works              -         18.3        -             -           18.3
-        (14.7)       -            -          (14.7)
Operation & Maintenance _           -         63 \b          -            6.3
(3.9)                      (3.9)
Local Services           -          -         5.8 \c         -            5.8
-        (3.7)                       (3.7)
Expatriate Services      -          -         5.4 \d         -            5.4
Equipment, Vehicles      3.5        0.5       0.3 \e         -            4.3
(2.5)     (0.5)      (0.1)          -           (3.1)
Staff                               -          -             2.9 \f       2.9
(2.1)       (2.1)
Land                      -         -         0.1            -            0.1
TOTAL                23.1      18.8       17.9            2.9        62.7
(19.6)    (15.2)      (7.7)         (2.1)       (44.6)
\a Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Credit.
\b Includes US$0.5 million from UNDP and US$0.3 from ODA.
\c Includes US$1.6 million from UND? and US$0.5 million from ODA.
\d US$3.3 million from ODA and US$2.1 million from UNDP. Includes training costs
of US$0.5 million from UNDP and US$0.4 million from ODA.
\e Includes US$0.2 million from ODA.
\f GOB staff and allowances.
3.48         Firms will be selected by the Director of Fisheries, using IDA
guidelines for the procurement of goods and services under ICB. IDA will review
pre-qualification and tender documents, and advertising procedures before bids
are invited. IDA will also approve bid evaluations before cor-tract award.
Firms will be invited on a broad basis to participate in pre-qualification. The
Director of Fisheries will be responsible for inspecting the quantity and
quality of fingerlings stocked and for providing certification of performance to
IDA so that reimbursement can be made. In order for DOF to have a field check
on stocking reports, a locally-based certification firm will be employed under
the MTA component to prepare independent reports on quantities and species
composition of each lot.
3.49         Civil works procurement will cost Tk 681.7 million (USS 18.3
million). BWDB will construct sluices, footbridges, canals and rehabilitate
embankments for Tk 663.4 million (US$ 17.9 million) under the Coastal Shrimp



- 27 -
Culture component. Under the Institutional Support component DOF will
rehabilitate buildings. BWDB civil works will consist mainly of small sluices.
Whenever possible, BWDB would group its works into lots comprising a polder or
specific development phase. For lots estimated at more than US$ 1 million BWDB
would follow ICB. LCB will, however, be the predominant way of procurement
since (a) international companies will not be interested in bidding for
contracts where individual works are small and dispersed over areas with
difficult communication, and (b) the participatory approach in decision making
about civil works (para 3.28) makes it difficult to prepare lots large enough
for ICB. One new office building in Xhulna and rehabilitation of other offices
will be procured using LCB. Before bids are invited and awarded, IDA will
approve tender documents and bid evaluations for the first contract for each
type of civil works and for any contract exceeding US$ 150,000; IDA would thus
review contracts representing about 502 of the financial volume of civil works.
For all other works, bid evaluation reports and contracts will be furnished to
IDA before reimbursement is sought.
3.50         Consulting services to complete detailed design under the coastal
shrimp culture component will cost Tk 22.3 million (US$ 0.62 million) and will
be procured by BWDB following IDA guidelines for the use of consultants.
Contracts under the financial packages of the Other Fisheries component (para
3.29) amounting to Tk 107.6 million (US$ 2.9 million) will be handled by the
Divisional PDs of DOF. DOF will use GOB procedures acceptable to IDA for the
procurement of local consultants. IDA will review the first five letters of
invitation and all contracts above US$ 50,000 before contract award. UNDP funded
STA and training services will be procured by IDA, as Executing Agency, in
accordance with World Bank guidelines. Consulting and training services
provided under ODA-funded technical assistance will be procured using ODA
procedures.
3.51         Equipment cost will be about Tk 151.1 million (US$ 4.3 million)
covering vehicles; boats and engines; office fittings, furnishings and
equipment; computers, printers, and software. Wherever possible, items would be
procured in bulk following ICB procedures. For procurement under ICB, local
manufacturers will receive a preference in bid evaluation of 15X of the CIF
price or the prevailing customs duty, whichever is lower. Items costing less
than US$ 100,000 per contract, but not exceeding an aggregate amount of US$
500,000, will be procured using LCB. Items costing less than US$ 10,000 per
contract but not exceeding an aggregate amount of US$ 100,000 will be procured
after soliciting prices from at least three independent suppliers in accordance
with procedures acceptable to IDA. Tender documents and advertising procedures
for all ICB procurement will be reviewed by IDA before bids are invited, and bid
evaluations will be approved before contracts are awarded. No equipment will be
procured under the STA component financed by UNDP and executed by IDA. ODA will
apply its own procedures for procuring equipment for the MTA component.
3.52         As currently planned, land acquisition will only be required to
expand the DOF office in Khulna; land costs are estimated at Tk 2.4 million (US$
0.1 million). Land acquisition might be needed as part of the infrastructure
allocation in the coastal shrimp culture (para 3.27). All land acquisition is
exclusively funded by GOB.



- 28 -
I. Disbursement
3.53         Disbursement from the proposed IDA Credit will cover:
(a) 1002 of the expenditures for fingerling procurement through FY94
and 80 thereafter;
(b) OOX of the foreign expenditure for directly imported vehicles and
equipment;
(c) 1002 of the ex-factory price of equipment manufactured within
Bangladesh, or 70? of local expenditures for other items procured
locally;
(d) 100l of service and study contracts;
(e) 802 of the expenditure on civil works for new construction and
rehabilitation including construction material, engineering and
supervision of construction;
(f)  902 of the cost of incremental staff costs, maintenance of civil
works and equipment and other operating costs; through FY92; 70? in
FY93 and PY94; and 602 thereafter.
3.54         Full documentation will be sent to IDA in support of withdrawal
applications for items (a), (b), (c), (d) and te) above. Certified statement of
expenditure will be required to support withdrawal applications for contracts
under (c) costing less than USS 10,000, for civil works under (d) costing less
than US$ 50,000, and for expenditure under (f). The actual supporting
documentation for Statement of Expenditures will be retained by DOF, FRI, and
BWDB at a central location and will be made available for review by IDA
representatives on request.
Proiect Special Account
3.55         Three Special Accounts will be opened in the Bangladesh Bank (BB)
to facilitate disbursement of the Credit. The accounts will be used by DOF, BWDB
and FRI. The authorized allocation for the accounts will be US$ 1.5 million for
DOF, 0.8 million for BWDB, 0.1 million for FRI. The allocation represents four
month's expenditure requirements. The Director of Fisheries will coordinate
special account funding for the three Divisional Deputy Directors with
responsibilities of Project Directors (para 4.07).
Accounts and Audit
3.56         DOF, FRI, and BWDB will maintain complete records of all
expenditures incurred. The accounts of these agencies are reviewed by their own
internal audit staff and audited by the Comptroller and Auditor General of
Bangladesh (GAG). The CAG has a special unit which handles the financial audits
of foreign-financed projects. These audit arrangements are satisfactory to IDA.
The auditor's reports for DOF, FRI, and BWDB will be sent to IDA within nine
months of the close of each fiscal year. Separate opinions as to whether the
Credit funds disbursed against statements of expenditure have been used for the
intended purposes will also be made available by the CAG to IDA within nine
months of the close of the fiscal year.



- 29 -
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Implementing Agencies
4.01         The Ministry of Fisheries and Livestock (MEL) wiil be the lead
ministry for the project. The Department of Fisheries (DOE) will be the main
implementing agency, accompanied by the Fisheries Research Institute (FRI) and
the Bangladesh Water Development Board (BWDB). ODA will execute the Management
TA and IDA the Support TA financed by UNDP.
4.02         MFL will oversee the policy, strategy and institutional development
focus of the project and will coordinate with other GOB agencies at the ministry
level, such as MIWDFC, PLANCOM, ERD, and MF. Coordination committees at central
and at divisional level will improve coordination (para 2.38). The creation of
four proiect coordinating committees, satisfactory to IDA, at the central (one)
and divisional levels (three), is a condition of Credit effectiveness. MEL will
ensure that the approach of other projects under its purview is consistent with
that of the Third fisheries Project. MEL will be responsible for the activities
pertaining to cost recovery (para 0.13) and the divestment of redundant public
fish seed farms (para 3.34).
4.03         The Department of Fisheries (DOF) will be responsible for
overseeing the physical implementation of the project. It will also coordinate
the activities of GOB and donor agencies involved in the implementation of this
and other ongoing projects. Implementation of the project will involve the
complete administrative chain from the Director of Fisheries via Divisional and
District Fisheries Offices down to the Upazila Fisheries Officer ( Project
Organization Chart). However, the pivotal points of project management will be
the Director of Fisheries and his Coordination Cell, and the heads of the three
Divisional Fisheries Offices.
4.04         The Director of Fisheries will have the overall responsibility but
will delegate a large degree of management authority to the PDs. The DF will
retain direct responsibility for project activities which are beyond the
capacity of the PDs, viz. (a) stocking contracts under the floodplain component;
(b) institution-building activities at headquarters; (c) ICB procurement of
equipment and vehicles for headquarters and Divisions; and (d) coordination of
TA inputs allocated to headquarters. The Director will provide regular support
to the Divisional Deputy Directors without infringing on their management
prerogatives. He will coordinate with the headquarters of related agencies,
particularly BWDB, FRI, and private entities.
4.05         Since the Director of Fisheries is currently responsible for 13
development projects, he will be assisted by an Coordination Cell headed by an
officer of the Aiditional Director rank to whom the Director of Fisheries may
delegate part of his overall and project specific responsibilities. The cell
will be responsible for preparing all project related work for the Director of
Fisheries and transmitting it in some cases to subordinate parts of DOF
headquarters and field units. The cell's functions will include management
support, planning, monitoring and evaluation, procurement, administration and
finance, women's development and training. It will employ 11 DOP professionals
and two 2 expatriate and 3 local experts in management, procurement,
monitoring/evaluation and computers, provided under the ODA financed MTA (para
3.38).



- 30 -
4.06          The cell will draw upon existing units at DOF headquarters as much
as possible, particularly upon those dealing with training and extension. It
will cooperate closely with the training and organizational components of the
UNDP/FAO Institutional Strengthening Project. The cell will be considered a
temporary aid for the Director of Fisheries, until the Department of Fisheries
itself can be reorganized and strengthened and its functions taken over by
active DOF line units. The appointment of the head of the Coordination Cell is
a condition of Credit effectiveness. Additionally agreement was reached with
GOB that the cell would be staffed in accord with a plan satisfactory to IDA by
October 31, 1990.
4.07         The Deputy Directors of the DOF Dhaka, Khulna, and Rajshahi
Divisions (or any other officers appointed to head such divisional offices) will
be delegated the financial and administrative powers equal to those of a Project
Director and will be responsible for all implementation activities in their
respective zones of influence. The purpose of this is to combine their existing
administrative function as Division Head under the revenue budget with a high
degree of autonomy in project implementation under the development budget.
Previous projects lacked sufficient field level executive authority (para 2.56).
A Deputy Project Director will be placed in Faridpur to oversee in the field the
project activities in this western part of Dhaka Division and to overcome the
specific communication problems of the Dhaka Division. The Divisional Deputy
Directors will be responsible for detailed project planning, implementing and
monitoring the institutional support and other fisheries development components,
the general extension work, some activities related to the major floodplains,
and for coordinating TA inputs allocated to their Division.   It is a condition
of Credit effectiveness that the Divisional Deputy Directors would be delegated
the financial and administrative powers of a Project Director, and that the
Deputy Project Director of Faridpur is appointed . All Divisional Deputy
Directors will emphasize involving the private sector in extension, preparing
bankable fisheries credit proposals (para 2.33), encouraging women in fisheries
(para 2.01), and making effective use of the other fisheries packages (para
3.29). The Divisional Deputy Directors will be assisted by professiorals
covering the fields of planning/monitoring, extension/training,
floodplainslregulations, credit, women development, administration/finance, and,.
in Khulna, shrimp culture (para 3.33). Agreement was reached with GOB that the
divisional offices will be staffed in accord with a plan satisfactory to IDA,
not later than October 31, 1990.
4.08         District Fisheries Offices will play a key role the project.  Those
lacking subject matter specialists will receive them. They are to provide
expert advice and training to advanced extension clients such as NGOs and
operators of nurseries and hatcheries, fingerling traders (para 2.32) and
Upazila Fisheries Officers (para 2.45). The quality of these specialists is
important and DOF will have to carefully examine candidates and provide adequate
training (para 2.53).
4.09         The Upazila Fisheries Officers will be responsible for programming
and implementation in their areas; they will serve as the main link between the
fisheries administration and the Upazila Councils, fishermen groups, and
operators of ponds and minor floodplains. Their experience will provide ideas
and guidance for utilizing the various local fisheries packages (para 3.29).
These officers will be encouraged to change their focus from public sector
production to extension activities. The funding available to them under the



_ 31 -
Other Fisheries component does not cover public sector production or input
supply activities (Annex 3).
4.10         FRI will be responsible for undertaking project related research
through its contract personnel and for developing a field station in Rajshahi
Division (Annex 4). As DOF would divest fish seed farms with pond and hatchery
facilities also needed in a field research station, a transfer of one DOF seed
farm to FRI seems appropriate. During negotiations agreement was reached with
GOB that a DOF fish seed farm in a suitable location in Raishahi Division would
be transferred to FRI by December 31, 1991.
4.11         BWDB will be responsible for implementing, maintaining, and
operating the civil works under the coastal shrimp culture component (para
3.25). Implementation will take place within the established BWDB management
chain. In the field, the Executive Engineers of Khulna Operation and
Maintenance Division II and of Satkhira Operation and Maintenance Division 2
would be appointed in time as the responsible officers. In each polder under
development, the Executive Engineer will be supported by one Sub-divisional
Engineer and three Section Officers for a period of four years, beginning one
year before construction begins. To avoid the delays experienced during the
Shrimp Culture Project, detailed design for these civil works will be undertaken
under one contract by a BWDB-appointed design consultant for the duration of the
component. The appointment of the Executive Engineers of Khulna Operation and
Maintenance Division II and Shatkhira Operation and Maintenance Division I as
project officers responsible for the execution of the BWDB part of the coastal
shrimp culture component is a condition of Credit effectiveness.
4.12         All GOB agencies operate under the Project Proforma system.
Investment and operational funds for the project will be described in the
Project Proforma in a global manner, under the selection criteria for project
activities in Annex 3. This will allow the implementing agencies more
flexibility and avoid the need to obtain time-consuming PLANCOM approval for
minor revisions.
4.13          ODA will, in consultation with GOB, select a consulting firm to
undertake the Management TA component (para 3.38). MTA staff will be
responsible to the Director of Fisheries and the Divisional Deputy Directors,
but their administration will be coordinated by ODA's Senior Management Advisor
in the Coordination Cell. For overseas training under the project, ODA will
make an allocation within its overall scholarship program administered by the
British Council. To ensure close coordination, ODA will participate in IDA
supervision missions.
4.14         IDA is expected to be the executing agency for the UNDP-financed
Support TA (para 3.39). Since the role of the UNDP component is merely of a
supporting nature and does not cover core management areas of the project, no
conflict of interest will arise between IDA's roles of lender and executing
agency. IDA will contract out the implementation of this component to an
international consulting firm with experience in planning, fisheries, rural
development and Southeast Asian countries. The selected firm will be different
from that employed under the Management Technical Assistance component. The
firm will enter into a cooperation agreement with a domestic consulting firm
experienced in the same areas and with a NGO for the social support activities.
For this purpose IDA will provide a list of acceptable local consultants and
NGOs, in consultation with GOB. The international consulting firm will operate



- 32 -
out of hired premises as Dhaka, but DO? will make an office available in the
Project Coordination Cell at DOF headquarters to ensure continuous contact with
project management. Assurances were obtained that GOB will provide adequate
offices for TA staff. UNDP will be invited to participate in IDA supervision
missions.
4.15          The cofinanciers have Indicated that the effectiveness of their TA
agreements will be conditional on the signing of the IDA Credit. The signing of
TA agreements between GOB and ODA and UNDP will be a condition of Credit
effectiveness.
B. Phasing of Processing and Implementation
4.16         The project is scheduled to become effective on September 1, 1990
and to close on June 30, 1996.
4.17         A detailed implementation plan for the project is presented in
Annex 10.   For the two main activities, floodplain fisheries and coastal shrimp
culture development, a critical path analysis has been made. This analysis
integrates the major contributions from the other project components such as
Research and Technical Assistance. The project will gain the most momentum
during Project Years 2 and 3. as shown in the expenditure plans (Annex 7);
floodplain stocking will dominate the pace.
C. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.18         Monitoring will be handled through (a) the regular, management-
related monitoring, (b) specific monitoring of important aspects of the project
and (c) studies which indirectly assist in monitoring.
4.19         Management-related monitoring will be handled by a monitoring and
evaluation unit set up in the Project Coordination Cell of DOF headquarters
(para 4.05). This unit will consist of two DOE professional staff and a local
expert under the Management Technical Assistance component. A planning and
monitoring unit will be situated at each of the divisional offices, where
information technology will be introduced to facilitate data processing. Each
Divisional Deputy Director will be responsible to ensure that data are
adequately collated, analyzed and stored, and that some of it is transmitted to
DOF headquarters   Project management will have to ensure that monitoring
remains simple and related to its role as a management aid.
4.20         Specific monitoring will be undertaken in order to assess the
impact of stocking on fish production, catch and the distribution of the catch
in the major floodplains (Annex 6). This monitoring will also provide technical
data to use in fine-tuning the rates, size and species composition of stocking.
Specific monitoring will represent a substantial effort; it will be handled
under the Support TA component.
4.21         The studies that provide indirect assistance in monitoring the
project are included in the Research (Annex 4) and the Support TA Components
Annex 6).



- 33 -
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETING & PRICES
A. Production
5.01         The project will result in an increase in the production of fish
and shrimp. At full development, the incremental annual fish production will be
42,000 tons, valued at Tk 845 million (US$ 26 million) at October 1989 prices.
The public stocking of 100,000 ha of major floodplains will yield 30,000 tons
(712), and 9000 ha of minor floodplains developed by the private sector, 6,400
tons (15Z) and the other fisheries -- mainly ponds -- 5,900 tons (14S). These
production increases are based on incremental yield assumptions as follows: 300
kglhhi in the major floodplains (para 2.14), 710 kglha in the minor floodplains
(para 2.30) and 1300 kg/ha from ponds (para 2.29).
5.02          At full development, the incremental annual production of
exportable shrimp will be 1,840 tons with a pond side value of Tk 202.4 million
(USS 6.3 million). The annual yields of exportable shrimp will increase by 120
kg/ha from combination shrimp-paddy areas within polders (12,000 ha), by 200
kg/ha from exclusive shrimp areas within polders (1,000 ha) and by 100
kg/ha!year from areas outside of polders (2,000 ha).
B. Markets
5.03         Adequate demand is expected for the fish to be produced under the
project. The estimated annual incremental production of fish in the project's
final year (FY96) represents about 5? of present annual domestic consumption.
During that period the domestic demand for fish will have grown by 182 due to
population growth alone. Growth in supply of fish from sources outside the
project will not be sufficient to meet this increase in demand. During the
1980s, fish production has increased at a rate equal to population growth, but
the major source of growth -- coastal fisheries -- is considered to have peaked.
Aquaculture in ponds is the second largest source of growth; it is expanding,
but not fast enough to close the gap, as it begins from a small base level. If
supply increases faster than population growth -- a possibility that cannot be
ruled out completely -- fish prices will stabilize or even fall, leading to a
desirable increase in per capita consumption, particularly of lower income
groups. The project can cope with lower fish prices (para 6.22). Fish is
marketed efficiently by the private sector, and existing arrangements will be
adequate to absorb the increases in fish volume, as it builds up gradually and
is spread over a wide area.
5.04         The anticipated incremental shrimp production represents a head-off
weight of about 1,200 tons, which is about 5Z of the present export volume.
This production will be exported on the world market, where Bangladesh is
currently a minor supplier. No problems in marketing this shrimp are
anticipated, as Bangladesh is a low-cost producer (para 2.17). Shrimp marketing
from farm to processor does not pose problems, as there are many processors with
excess packing capacity competing for raw material. Problems of hygiene along
the marketing chain is being addressed mainly through price premiums;
processors grade shrimp at the factory gate for species, size and freshness and
fix their buying price accordingly. DOF extension work would assist farmers to
improve hygiene at the pond side and during transport to the collection points.



- 34 -
C. Prices
5.05         Financial and economic prices of fish, shrimp and major inputs are
detailed in Annex 11. The financial price of fish is assumed to be Tk 20 (US$
0.62)/kg at the floodplain or pond site. This price is lower than the currently
observed landing price of about TK 25 to 30 per kilogram for carp of the same
species to allow for a potential seasonal de.line in price.
5.06         The long-term price projections of exportable shrimp have been
estimated with particular care. The pond-side price of head-on shrimp of the
21-25 per pound count is calculated to be Tk 110 (US$ 3.40) per kilogram. This
price is substantially lower than the prices observed over the last five years
and represents the low level reached during the first months of FY90, when the
market collapsed. Although prices have risen again since then, the long-term
outlook is still uncertain (para 2.07); this low price has therefore been used
in the calculations. Shortly before negotiations and late in FY90, GOB
announced export incentives for FY90 that were to alleviate the financial losses
exporters incurred by the price slump of July 89 (para 2.07). IDA found the
subsidies inappropriate and during negotiations an understanding was reached
with GOB that it will exchange views with IDA on how to respond to difficult
exogenous shrimp market developments, including the treatment of shrimp export
incentives, in future.
5.07         Fingerlings are the major input in floodplain fisheries,
representing 50X of total production costs (Annex 12). The price of fingerlings
after two stocking seasons when the fingerling size would be 14 cm, is assumed
to be Tk 45 (US$ 1.40) per kg at the stocking site. The price includes
transport and is based on currently observed market prices and future
projections.
5.08         Shrimp fry (post-larvae) account for close to 402 of the production
costs in shrimp culture. The price used in the financial calculations is Tk 500
per one thousand post-larvae and is based on observed recent market prices of
about Tk 300 to 400 per thousand plus a margin for increase due to changes in
demand and supply. Shrimp fry can be obtained from natural riverine sources
which are expected to contiraue for some time. However, the price of Tk 500 per
thousand also represents a level at which commercial fry hatcheries could
operate with a comfortable profit margin. Hatchery technology is being
introduced under the ongoing Shrimp Culture Project.
5.09         Unit costs of putblic infrastructure construction follow current
BWDB rates.
D. Financial Analysis
5.10         Financial viability of project components was analyzed using
representative models. The floodplain models indicate that, as benefits are
realized within half a year of stocking, the financial cash flow is positive and
attractive to the participants, even with strict cost recovery (Annex 12, tables
1 and 2). The dominant models in shrimp culture -- shrimp in rotation with
paddy inside polders -- and fish ponds display financial rates of returns on the
beneficiaries capital of about 50 Z without financing and about 902 with
financing (Annex 12, tables 3 and 6).



- 35 -
VI. BENEFITS & JUSTIFICATION
A. Benefits, Beneficiaries & Employment
6.01         The major quantifiable benefits of the project will be the annual
incremental production of about 42,000 tons of fish and 1,840 tons of exportable
head-on shrimp. These benefits will result in increased net incomes to
subsistence and professional fishermen, shrimp farmers, pond owners, women,
nursery and hatchery operators, and their families. The export of shrimp -will
generate annual foreign exchange earnings of close to Tk 267.9 million (USS 8.3
million) or 0.7Z of the country's total FY89 exports at full development.
6.02         Additional benefits of the project include: (a) the development of
managerial routines for exploiting major under-utilized floodplains; (b) a
revitalized and strengthened fisheries administration; (c) improvements in
sectoral policies; (d) further mobilization of the private fish seed
enterprises; (e) increased services to special groups; and (f) improvements in
equity and income distribution.
6.03    Managerial routines will be developed to allow for low-cost production
increases on up to 550,000 ha of under-utilized floodplain resources in western
Bangladesh. This can potentially provide 25Z of national fish production. The
managerial routines could also be applied in eastern Bangladesh.
6.04    The fisheries administration will be strengthened in several ways.
First, its strategic focus will be sharpened and its program made more compact -
- with more immediate and achievable targets. Second, the problems associated
with the lack of integration of the recurrent and development budget will be
resolved. Third, the motivation of field staff will be improved through more
relevant work programs, better working conditions and greater delegation of
authority. Fourth, management capabilities will be strengthened through
improved monitoring services. Fifth, credit will be made more accessible to the
sector through more and better prepared credit dossiers. Sixth, FRI and DOF
initiatives will be integrated into a system of applied research with a common
development goal. Seventh, the resources of ongoing projects will be better
used; the UNDPIFAO Institutional Strengthening Project will receive investment
support from the project and ADB's Second Aquaculture Project will have greater
use for its bank credit funds. Finally, it can be expected that other donors
will in future employ project implementatior. mechanisms and strategies similar
to those under the project, with the effect of a more consistent DOF program.
6.05         Improvement in policies will lead to increases in government
revenues. Project studies and covenants address ways to improve cost recovery
and to divest unprofitable fish seed farms. Other studies will provide a better
understanding of resources, important for future private and public sector
investment planning.
6.06         Private fish seed production will be enhanced by procuring
fingerlings for public stocking and by re-orienting fisheries services including
extension from public to private sector production.
6.07         More attention and services will be provided to certain needy
groups such as women and fingerling traders.



- 36 -
6.08         Equity will be improved through the conveyance of benefits to
fishermen in the floodplains and income transfers from larger to smaller land
owners and operators in shrimp culture.
6.09          Directly more than 130,000 families will benefit -- 67,000 in
major floodplains, 15,000 in shrimp culture, and 47,000 in pond culture or other
fisheries. Indirectly the country as a whole will benefit through improved
nutrition and a better trade balance.
6.10         About 702 of the population living in the area of major floodplains
depend on fisheries for all or part of its income. The density of this
population averages about four per hectare of stocked area; since 100,000 ha
will be stocked, about 400,000 persons or some 67,000 families will benefit from
the major floodplain activities of the project. Of these about 376,000 would be
part-time fishermen, among them many destitute women and children. About 50X of
the incremental production of the floodplains, 15,000 tons, will go to them.
The increase in income to these people, who have negligible catch costs, will be
around Tk 720 (USS 22) per year and per person in cash or in kind; this
represents about 14Z of their current annual incomes of about Tk 5,000 (US$
155). About 24,000 persons would be full-time fishermen; with father and sons
frequently working together, this group may represent about 6,000 families.
Full-time fishermen could increase their annual incomes by Tk 3,750 (US$ 116)
per person after deducting their non-labor catch costs; this would increase
their present incomes by 75Z. Since access to fisheries is not controlled, the
increase in income could very well be diverted into increased employment of
lower-income groups in the sector. Assuming that 302 of the income potential
goes to existing professional fishermen and 70Z goes to newcomers, the project's
floodplain component will create 12,600 new full-time fishermen jobs.
6.11           About 15,000 families owning and operating shrimp culture
enterprises will benefit from the project. This group includes about 90,000
individuals. The annual net incomes would increase by Tk 4,300 (US$ 133) per
family. Direct opportunities for increased employment through shrimp culture
will be limited. However, the investment of profits from shrimp culture in new
home construction and trade indirectly would create many new employment
opportunities.
6.12          The 40,000 or so pond-owning families in the project will increase
their annual net income by Tk 710 (US$ 22) per family, an increase of over 7Z
over their present annual income of about Tk 10,000 (US$ 309). Part-time and
professional fishermen in the 9.000 ha of minor floodplains would benefit as
well; the annual incremental net income of some 36,000 part-time iishermen will
increase by Tk 640 (US$ 20) per person, while that of 2000 professional
fishermen will increase by about Tk 5,100 (US$ 158) per person.
B. Cost Recovery
6.13         Recovery of public sector costs of investments and operations
financed under the shrimp culture and floodplain components would be essential
to ensure sustainability. Below are the cost recovery measures which would be
undertaken and the institutional arrangements which would be made to facilitate
periodical assessments and adjustments.
6.14          For shrimp culture the administratively most effective way to
recover cost would be through a cess on shrimp exports. However, concerns have



- 37 -
been raised regarding the fairness of recovering all the costs in this way,
since presently much of the shrimp production comes from sources which do not
benefit from investments in shrimp culture. Additionally, if the cess is too
high, this could result in production disincentives. Because of such
considerations, the cost recovery covenant under the on-going Shrimp Culture
Project (para 2.56) requires the introduction by December 31, 1990 of an annual
betterment levy of TK 1,500 (US$46) per ha of improved shrimp land or through
equivalent charges for water and a cess of 0.9Z on the FOB value of all shrimp
export. This covenant will be replicated under the project. In addition, since
this is a new recovery instrument, its effectiveness should be assessed after it
had been enforced for a period of three years. Agreement was reached with GOB
that it would:(a) carry out a program designed to recover the full cost of
investment and operation and maintenance of the embankments and regulators
constructed or rehabilitated under the project. To this effect GOB would by
December 31, 1990 enact legislation and take all other measures necessary to set
recovery charges which will ensure full cost recovery within a 20 year period;
it would make such biennial adiustments to the charges as warranted by actual
investment and operation and maintenance costs; and improve its collection
procedures as necessary to ensure full payment of the recovery charges; (b)
review the effectiveness of the measures introduced and submit to IDA proposals
for improvement by September 30, 1993 ; and (c) introduce such improvements by
June 30, 1994.
6.15         For floodplains it should be possible to recover much of the
stocking costs. Three major cost recovery methods are being discussed: (a) the
auctioning of fishing rights; (b) specific taxes at Upazila level; and (c) fees
on fishing licenses. However, it should be taken into account that most of the
beneficiaries are likely to be landless or operators of minuscule farms, who
belong to the poorest segments of the population. As indicated in para 2.01,
during the flood season the number of fishermen increases to 11 million, most of
which fish in the floodplains.
6.16         The revival, in its old or modified form, of the traditional
mechanism of revenue collection in fisheries in Bangladesh, auctioning fishing
rights at district level, has probably the greatest potential for adequate cost
recovery. It still exists for floodplains, rivers and other bigger fishery
resources, but the bid process has become a method of distributing fishing
rights at low rates to low-income and landless groups which include also
professional fishermen. As a result, the revenue recovered at present is far
less than the true auction value of fishing rights. There are also grounds to
believe that the equity impact is rather limited, since often professional
fishermen are used by wealthy individuals for access to the cheap public fishing
rights. Modifications to the auction system would be necessary to improve the
concept through safer income transfer mechanisms minimizing equity distortions
and to improve its administration to allow the bid process to be fully
competitive and reflect the benefits that can be drawn from a particular
fisheries resource.
6.17               The licensing of fishermen and respective license fees have
been introduced under the New Fisheries Management Policy (NPMP) in 1987 (para
2.49). The license system, as practiced is not geared towards aggressive cost
recovery, but is more intended to limit the number of fishermen to avoid over-
fishing. License fees are low and do not reflect the potential benefits to the
license holder.   As indicated (para 2.49) the NFPP is in its trial phase and is



- 38 -
monitored with assistance from Ford Foundation. It is anticipated that this
monitoring will outline ways to improved recovery through licenses.
6.18               The Upazilas could represent another possibility of cost
recovery. It is expected that most of the benefits from stocking the
floodplains will accrue in the surrounding of the stocking location. The
Upazilas may be required to pay the cost of stocking in part or in full. They
could finance the cost from their budget and/or additional taxes. The
willingness of the Upazila to pay will depend on the magnitude of the stocking
benefits. If, as anticipated, the benefits would be substantial and clearly
related to stocking, the Upazilas are likely to be under pressure from their
constituencies to pay, as otherwise DOF could refuse to stock the Upazila's
floodplains.
6.19               In order to formulate a viable cost recovery policy, the
magnitude of benefits from stocking the floodplains and their locations must be
clearly determined. This information is expected to be available after the
results of the first two stocking operations are known, i.e. in January 1994.
During negotiations agreement was reached with GOB that it would (a) submit a
draft policy paper on cost recovery in floodplains to IDA for comment by
September 30, 1993, which defines the means of achieving at least 202 recovery
of annual public stocking costs before July 1, 1995 and 30 Z recovery before
July 1995; and (b) after taking into account IDA comments, implement the agreed
policy by June 30, 1994.
6.20               The above cost recovery steps require backing by adequate
institutional arrangements. The analysis of the cost recovery situation,
indicates the need to have a standing high level committee for cost recovery in
fisheries to analyze the results of studies related to cost recovery (para 3.39,
Annex 6) and formulate cost recovery policies. The Monitoring and Evaluation
Unit at DOF headquarters will serve as the secretariat for the committee.
During negotiations agreement was reached with GOB that an Inter-Ministerial
High Level Committee for Cost Recovery in Fisheries (including Shrimp culture),
with terms of reference and membership satisfactory to IDA, would be established
by December 31, 1992.
C. Economic Justification
6.21         The economic rate of return (ERR) of the project is estimated at 31
2. The project's discounted economic benefits from the incremental production
of fish and shrimp would be Tk 3.88 billion (US$ 120.3 million) at Oct.89
prices.  The project's discounted costs are Tk 2.80 billion (US$ 86.9 millioa).
The project's net present value is Tk 1.08 billion (USS 33.4 million). The
economic rate of return includes all project costs -- the investment and
recurrent costs of the directly productive components such as floodplain
fisheries, coastal shrimp culture and other fisheries, and the cost of the
service components such as institutional support, research and technical
assistance. Economic costs and benefits are net of taxes and transfer elements
and corrected by using a standard conversion factor of 0.8. The overall ERR is
driven by a high rate of return of the floodplain component in which benefits
arise within a short period of time. If calculated without the costs of the
project's service components, the floodplain component's rate of return is over
1002. The rate of return of the shrimp culture component is 202 and of the
other fisheries component 77?. The economic rate of return calculations are
presented in Annex 13.



- 39 -
D. Sensitivity and Risk Analysis
6.22         The sensitivity of the ERR to changes in the parameters and
assumptions made in the economic analysis was analyzed by calculating switching
values for the main variables. The switching values at a discount rate of 12 2
are shown in table 6.1 below. The tests and the risk discussion indicate that
only large and, in their magnitude, unlikely changes could render the project
economically non-viable.
Table 6.1 Sensitivity Analysis
Switching Value
Variable Tested                           (percentage change)
Reduction of all Benefits                       - 28
Increase of all Costs                           + 39
Reduction in Benefits from Floodplains          - 50
Reduction in Benefits from Shrimp Culture       -134
Reduction in Benefits from Other Fisheries    -118
Lag in Benefits (in years)                         3
6.23         The main risks are weak project management, lower than planned
yield or prices for fish from the floodplains and lack of funds for sustained
floodplain stocking. Risks of inefficiencies in DOF management are minimized by
the strong technical assistance component and the transfer of many of the
managerial tasks to the private sector.
6.24          Yield risks in floodplains pertain to lower than planned retrieval
rates of stocked fish and mass disease. The retrieval rate has beer, cautiously
estimated at 122, taking into account natural and human predation of
fingerlings. The latter will be controlled by guarding of stocking sites and
control of fishing gear. The retrieval rate would have to fall to 62 in order
to make the overall ERR decline below 12 2. The risk of project-induced health
risks are minimized by low stocking denst.ies and inspection of fingerling
suppliers. The recent outbreak of a aisease called the Ulcerative Epizootic
Syndrome had only a minor effect on the species of carps which will be stocked
under this project. Although difficult to measure, the effects of a
hypothetical mass disease should not lead to more loss of production than 50Z
over five years of the projects lifetime of 20 years or to more than 102 of
overall production -- an occurrence which would bring the ERR down to about 25Z.
6.25         The major price risk is seasonal glutting of markets due the
concentrated harvesting season for floodplain fish. This has been accounted for
in price assumptions. If such glutting occurs adjustments are expected to be
made in production from other fish sub-sectors such as ponds, where the timing
for harvesting and marketing is more flexible and production costs are higher.
However, given the high rate of population growth and the fact that the
production increases will be gradual, such risk is remote.
6.26         Sustainability of the floodplain stocking operations would be
at risk, if GOB would not be able to give continued financial support and to
recover the cost of stocking; intensive monitoring and studies (para 4.20; Annex
6) enable viable cost recovery policy and appropriate legal undertakings (paras
6.19, 6.20) minimize that risk.



- 40 -
E. Environmental Impact
6.27         The project will help to redress some of the environmental problems
that have been created in recent years and address environmental concerns in
both floodplains fisheries and coastal shrimp culture. The project's
environmental assessment rating is B.
6.28         The areas of environmental concern in floodplain fisheries are the
diversity of fish species and health hazards associated with increased movement
and densities of fish. The balance of the aquatic environment and the fish
population has been severely disturbed by water control measures and over-
fishing. The project contributes to correcting this imbalance through stocking.
The fish species selected for stocking are capable of efficiently utilizing the
abundant natural food sources. Three of the six species used are indigenous to
the area and three were introduced into Bangladesh over two decades ago for pond
culture purposes with no deleterious effect. The silver and bigheud carps.
which represent 70? of the stocked fish, feed on plankton. Since there is more
plankton available than is needed to meet their needs, the two species are not
likely to challenge fish now in the floodplains. The project also provides for
substantial monitoring of production and biological effects, and research that
will lead to a better understanding of the floodplain environment (Annexes 4 and
6).
6.29         The project will reduce health hazards by increasing the trade of
fingerlings from nurseries. The careful control of hatcheries, nurseries and
stocked fish by the inspection system under the project is likely to prevent the
outbreak of disease or help to limit the impact if one does occur. The stocking
densities in floodplains are not likely to be high enough to promote disease.
Although not favorable to the project, the population of predatory fish in the
floodplains is likely to increase in response to the availability of prey.
Furthermore, the escape of stocked fish from the floodplains will enhance the
population of fish in the rivers.
6.30         The potential environmental concerns in shrimp culture could
pertain to effects on agriculture, coastal mangrove forests, and the natural
stock of shrimp. The project will intensify shrimp culture. However, the area
to be developed is, except for a few hundred hectares, already under shrimp
culture. In the shrimp/paddy environment, the effect of intensification will be
positive for agriculture. The improved water management infrastructure will
help to control the intrusion of saline water into non-shrimp agricultural
areas, flush salinity in preparation for rice cultivation, and support
irrigation for paddy. The participatory approach will insure that the interests
of agriculture are balanced with those of shrimp culture. The mangrove land in
the project area is clearly demarcated as Sundarban Forest Reserve. The project
does not encroach on this land but improves shrimp culture in an area where
shrimp culture and paddy cultivation have been practiced for many years. Since
the Sundarbans are a vast protected nursery ground, the development proposed in
the project is not likely to seriously deplete the stock of post-larvae shrimp.
A more important limiting factor in the future is likely to be the increased
pressure on offshore adult shrimp due to commercial trawling.



- 41 -
F. Effects on Women in Fisheries
6.31         The project introduces important innovations in the country's
fisheries administration, with respect to gender issues. The project creates
Women in Fisheries cells at DOF headquarters and divisions (paras 3.32, 3.33),
assists these cells through TA in studies and the formulation of programs (Annex
6) and provides program funding (para 3.29). The task of these cells is also to
assure that extension messages and methodology, and credit are geared to the
needs of women in fisheries, whether they are spouses of professional fishermen,
full- or part-time fisherwomen themselves, pond operators or collectors of fish
and shrimp fry or in other ways linked to fisheries. It is difficult, at this
stage, to quantify effects of the project on women in fisheries, because the
lack of precise data them does not allow the formulation of quantifiable
targets. The project will, however, enable the fisheries administration to
improve its knowledge about women in fisheries and address specific issues.
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01         Agreements have been obtained from GOB that:
(a) Project activities not defined in detail at appraisal and changes
in the project will be subject to agreed criteria (paras 3.27, 3.29
and 3.24);
(b) Plans for DOF training institutes anc headquarter units and project
related budget plans of selected DOF units (para 3.32), and a plan
of FRI's research station (para 3.' ) will be submitted to IDA for
approval;
(c) Staff of the Shrimp Culture Project in Khulna Division will be
transferred to the project (para 3.33);
(d) GOB will form an inter-ministerial committee on divestment of
public hatcheries and implement its recommendations (para 3.34);
(e) The DOF units and posts at headquarters and the divisional level
will be staffed as per paras 4.06 and 4.07;
(f) DOF will transfer one fish seed farm in a suitable and central
location of western Bangladesh to FRI (para 4.10);
(g) DOF will provide adequate office space to Technical Assistance
staff (para 4.14);
(h) GOB will carry out and improve cost recovery for the shrimp culture
component (para 6.14);
(i) GOB will draft a policy paper on cost recovery in floodplains and
implement the policy agreed with IDA (para 6.19);
(j) GOB will establish an inter-ministerial committee for cost recovery
in fisheries (para 6.20).
7.02         The following will be conditions of effectiveness:
(a) Approval of Project Proformas by GOB (para 3.43);
(b) Allocation of US$ 2.2 million for the project in the FY91 ADP (para
3.44).
(c) Creation of one coordinating committee at central level and of
three coordinating committees on divisional levels (para 4.02);
(d) Appointment or designation of the head of the DOF Project
Coordination Cell, the Dy. Project Director Faridpur, the BWDB



- 42 -
Executive Engineers and the delegation of powers of Project
Directors to the Divisional Deputy Directors, as per paras 4.06,
4.07, and 4.11;
(e) Signing of the co-financing agreements between GOB and ODA, and
between GOB and UNDP (para 4.15);
7.03         The submission of a staffing plan (para 3.31) will be a condition
of disbursement.
7.04         With the above conditions and agreements, the proposed project
constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA Credit of SDR 34.6 million (USS 44.6
million equivalent) on standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years. The
Borrower would be the People's Republic of Bangladesh.



- 43 -
, PRO
Key Data PFisherlse Sector
it"               Yer                 it         Bangladesh            Project Ares
Peofiufition             1098849          i llon           118               6S          8O
1979-80         Mi li in           87               40          46
1970-71          11i llion         87               26          TO
Azm                                       000 Oqk-         124                           6t2
90P     Fisheries                        HilIion T.      1S09              6894          5S
Totel II  il liont Ti    480237                                  288628         oS
Fieheries in Total                  2            2.9               2.1
Admini-tration  Divisions                  No                4              2.8       186
DiOtricte                  No                64               S 7i87
Unand  1,                   o               460              244         ES
FrOf lo.1l Inland                        000                 8i 328                      38
Karin*                      O                                   2           45
S/Total f                                t                                  31
Prrt-time   Inland                       000               #26             4068          48
Merino                      000                                             5
ifrot                       am QO22L8                                       So
S/Tota lOQ                                     §                  rs
Tot- I                                   000              1240             890S          49
Ft                                        000  oPtur VFie$lains  0Q°t  182   88          48
Ri verse                   000 t             184               82         45
Sundarans a                000t                6       8                  t10
Beet e                     000 t              46              1L          29
Keptai tlakes              00 4t
S/Totl a                   000t              424              19          45
Culture Fish iPonds                000 t            149               68          4S
faora/*bow I.ke            000 t               1                         t 10O
Shrimp for"                000 t             25                           0O
S/Total                    000 t              8                 9         S1
Total Snland         87/88        000t S            99              280          S1
79/80        000 t            824              288          4S
TO/71        000              729              828          48
Morine        Industrial *                000 t             10                4          40
Artisan  *                 000 t                                          R.
Totat Morine          678          OO t                                           53
79/80        000 t            122                           47
70/71        000 t             95               61          SS
Total 8angladesh            87/88         000 t            826              401          48
79/80O       000 t            648              292          48
70/71        0200t            t324             879          46
Consumption of Fish 8,      71/72         kg/capita        11 7              17         14S
79/80        kg/cap i ta       7.4              10         1SS
87/88        kg/capita         7.8               9         120
Fish Price     Rt          t978         Tk/kg                14              10          71
198O        Tk/kg                29              2            93
1988       T7/kg                 76              68          68
1989        Tk/kg               108              69           66
Hulft l1978              Tk/kg                 8                8         100
19tt0       Tk/ka                16               18         100
1988        T./kg                82              8S          11o
1989        Tk/kg                41              41          100
Ftish/Rive Price iptua 12/
iui/R;ce    1978        ratio                 2.6             2.2        79
19809       ratio                 8.0             8.8         69
Hi tla/Rice   1978       ratio                 1.6             1.8       i1S
1989        ratio                 8.2             8.8       108
Dom, Demand for Fish tt    2000           000 t             115              n.s         n.a
2010          000 t            1400              n.          n.a
Fitnri¢o f eort IQ/
Sh rip                      1979-0        000 t               8               9          60
19087-8       000 t              18               9          60
1988-89       000t 416                            9          87
1970-S0    hil lI on Tk.        470             280          59
1987-88    R;i #on Tk         8610            2160          59
1968-8     N  tl ion Tk        8810            2170          87
Fish and other              1979-80       000 t               3               2          60
1987-88       000 t               9               4          46
1988-89       000 t               9                          58
1979-80     Ill ion Tk          102              6           66
1987-88    htll Ion Tk          980             440          47
1988-89    Million Tk           910             700          77
Total                       1979-80       000 t               8               S          62
1987-ea       000 t              24              1a          84
1968-89       000 t              28              14          56
1979-80    hi l ion Tk          872             848          60
1987-88    Million Tk          4540            2600          57
1988-49    hM I I ion Tk       4720            2870          60



- 44 -
Stem                          I unit        Ibneladesh             Project are-
Sitot Mae
Stf   pr+i                              lb               126               n.c         n.s
- Support                          tl                88                n.e        nne
S/Totl b                                       4 1e.j            n,          0.5
Olvisolns
Otet-ten   ;            tX                S     ~     ~     ~ ~~~~~~~~4  a   24
- Suport                           lb1
Oiotricts
-   tolnt                         o270                               70      2 26
TOTAL S4NOWPOINom2
Vehicles                                    NO .18
Total                           ND lb               1/
Vatcheries                                  lb               108                es          el
Truii;o  Inatltute                         Nl b                                             4
UDj;Is Fiehr Staf
_ ProieaslonlI                    NO                                    40
poort                        Nl                               4I
Total                           lb               S                 a             8
Jalmahala f(ish-ery Rimhtwh                 tb             tOlU1             5.161          St
Irin ' T pture Floodplain.                 000 he          2.00              1.478          62
Rivers f/                 X000 ha          1.0=1               69           69
Sundarban                   000 ha            It0               550         100
Seatl                       @o0 ha            114                40          96
Kaptal lake                 000 ha                              _
Sfotel                      OCO he                            2.a4           60
Culture Fih pos"                    0O0. 'e                             t            fo
mt; IlIlion       1.8               4.6        48
Shrimp Dond                 000 ha             94                94
BAmo/osbow lake             000 ha             6                  6         100
S/Total                     00 he             247               18           72
S/Total Inland                      am he           4.845             2 944          68
Marine Industrial                          000 ha          6.514             3.014          46
Artisana,                           00 ha                                            5
S/Total abrino                                       0 W4                            49
Total Fisheries                            000 ha         14,842             7 940          63
Hatcheres A Fieh Se"d Fara  V
Pri vate                            Mo        I       500              SO 80 
Tota l; cOY I                                                                       62
PMli                                          I tI7            I d         
Public  hatcheriee                   t                  2                1 
Natural eores                                                                       s o6
Fintirlioa Productionw
L r vote nursr                    million             @O.0            426.0         64
lovernmnt nurseries               million                                           Sit
Total                              11 i  ;on                                        i4
Fishing Craft
Non mechan. Intend                        000                 141               49          85
Pori"e                       0so
S/Ttal                       000                 _6
Mechanized   Marine (Industrial)          No l2                                 21          40
Marine (Artisanal)           lb                                                sO
S/Total                      "a                                                49
Total                                     00I              15902             Sa021          a6
Vattill                         "a                 99               48          46
Capacity  /                    000 tfyear         112               60          54
Capacit utilisation              1                 20               20         100
Note : Untls  otherwise stated. the date refer to 1987/58 and rely on bangladesh 'ureau of Statistics. The project area is on east
of the laaunc river of bangloadeh.
j ~ Mission estiante.
Includes 75 prof.eaional and 210 support staff at DOV  Iq under ADP. The vehiles include only those under the revenue
budgt. Under devlepxmet projects theer are 1S jeeps  16 pickup-. 1 car and 31 mtorcycles so for reported.
Sourc COF. Rivers lncludes estuarie  excludine Sunderts.
Pish production includes shrimp capture form inland *nd mrine sources which amounted to 8,O000 t and 16,000 t respectively.
20.000 t and 9.0 t tore from the project ara. With the  pro4uction from culture, the total shrimp production amounted to
70,000 t sith 49 000 t fr, the prjelct *resc
/      Consuption equals production.
ssumsptIons: 2.4S annual growth ot population.
/Source DOF. 196687 report of 8S.
Source OO.
_Asausas 260  orIng d   per year.
Source EPdPr. vilha l 19W6    flur
Source: Oxp rt_ient of  gIculture Karing. The fixh price under "bpnglodesh' is the  hokte wholesale fish morkt price.
Th fish price fior tUe proJect ar  e  th  Rajehhi ton whole sale market price.
1/      The fish opric/ ric  price ratioi-t  result of dividing fish *holeele price/kg by the rice (mdium qunlity) wholessle
pr;ce/kg in rectiv    ret..



- 45 -
Annex 2
Page 1
BANGLADESH
THIRD FISHERIES PROJECT
Major GOB Fisheries Development Programs
1.            Major development programs relevant to TFP the Second Aquaculture
Development Program of ADB and the DOF Institutional Strengthening Project of
UNDP/FAO; they are described below. Others are the Beel and Boars, the
Integrated Fisheries Development and the Parbatipur Projects. The Shrimp
Culture Project has been described in the maintext.
2.            The ADB assisted Second Aguaculture Development Program is a major
fisheries development program in the country and in the TFP project area. The
TFP plans to cover its shrimp and fish culture credit from this source in the
initial years. The ADB project focusses on carp and shrimp culture in ponds,
stocking floodplains in the north eastern part of the country, the development
of public hatcheries and the provision of extension staff and facilities in
selected districts. A credit agreement overing Tk 1,400 M (US 43 M) was signed
in 1987 and became effective in 1988; the project was planned to close in FY92,
but will most likely be extended, as substantial project activity had not yet
started at the time of appraising the TPP. The delay was over issues in
consultant procurement. Activities are now planned to start during the second
half of FY90.
3.            The project includes a 27 Million USS credit component of which
ADB would finance 20 million. A banking plan has been agreed upon in March 1989
and the participating banks are Agrani, Rupali and BKB. The credit would
finance shrimp culture and carp culture. About US $ 20 million or 75Z are
earmarked for medium-term credit for shrimp culture and the rest of 25? for carp
culture. For shrimp culture out of the four selected districts three are within
the TPP project area (Khulna, Shatkira, Bagerhat) and the totality of the shrimp
culture area under TFP is thus covered. Credit for shrimp culture would finanpe
upgrading of ponds, construction of new ponds, hatcheries, nurseries and fry
dealers. The eligibility criteria a wide and allow the full use of the credit
funds by TFP (total medium term credit requirement in shrimp culture of the
order of US$ 4.0).   The ADB project also provides credit for carp and other
acquaculture development in 21 districts of the 37 districts in the project
area. As the participating banks of the ADB project are also active in other
districts and problems of credit are not lack of funds of bank, refinance for
credit for aquaculture under TFP can be expected, subject to good extension and
credit preparation. The medium term credit requirements for other fisheries
under TFP are of the order of US$ 2 million.
4.            The Institutional Strengthening of DO? Project (UNDPIPAO)has a
cost of Tk 93 M (US 2.9M); the project duration is four years; the project
became effective in late FY89. It follows from the 1986 IDAIUNDP DOF
institution study started (para 2.38). It aims at improving management of DOF
through preparing an organisation cum-implementation plan, developing a
training program, supporting pond and fresh-water shrimp culture through
demonstration and staff training and through improving selected public fish seed
farms. The project provides 225 MM of international and 261 MH of national
consultants. Its present closing date is June 1992, but it will most likely
last til April 1993.



- 46 -
Annex 2
Page 2
Fiancial links to the TFP are TFP's allocations for the rehabilitation of
training facilities of DOP, at a level estimated by the project leader. As both
aim in their own and complementary way at institutional improvement of DOF and
as the UNDPJFAO project would reach full swing before the TFP even starts, the
TFP will be able to incorporate many useful proposals into its program.
5.            The Beel and Boar Small Scale Fisheries Proiect is the IFAD
DANIDA/WFP financed successor to the IDA supported Oxbow Lakes Project. It is
active in the districts of Jessore, Jenaidha and Faridpur, all in western
Bangladesh, and covers about 2,200 ha dispersed over some 35 lakes. It will
encourage pond and cage culture on a limited scale. The total project
expenditure is about Tk 310 M (US 9.5M). Project activities have just started
and are programmed to finish in FY95. There will be limited need for TFP
actions in the above districts, as they are covered by this project. There
will, however be a need of coordination between both projects via the Director
of Fisheries, the Project Director of this project and the Divisonal PD Khulna.
6.            The Integrated Fisheries Development Project, financed solely by
GOB, is a country-wide operation aiming to create 60 public mini-hatcheries in
the Upazilas and 7 public regional hatcheries, to stock selected floodplains and
to survey all public water bodies in the country. Fifty percent of the
mini-hatcheries and three regional hatcheries are planned for Western Bangladesh
(Barisal, Bogra, Rangpur).  The project expenditure is estimated at Tk 400 M (US
12.3M). It started in FY88 and its planned completion date is June 90.  So far
the project has progressed slowly.
7.            The Parbatipur Hatchery & Fish Seed Multiplication Project with a
total cost of about Tk.92 M (US 2.8) is supported by ODA. It planned to
develops one major public hatchery in Dinajpur and supports extension activities
in the the districts of Dinajpur, Takurgaon and Panchagarh. It started in FY87.
The project is currently under review by MFL/DOF and ODA.



- 47 -
Annex 3
Page 1
BANGLADESH
THIRD FISHERIES PROJECT
Criteria for the seleccion of activities to be financed under the IDA Credit
Background
1.01          The following criteria apply to all activities to be financed
under the project. In particular they apply to activities to be financed under
the other fisheries component. The aim is to increase flexibility in project
implementation and planning, while ensuring that institutional and sectoral
policies and strategies are adhered to.
Criteria
1.02          An activity eligible for financing under the IDA credit would
(a)   Comprise public sector support to fisheries activities of the private
sector, including NGO's;
(b)   Not increase the number of permanent civil servants;
(c)   Focus on the project area or have a national focus;
(d)   Improve income distribution and promote small scale operations and the
disadvantaged;
(e)   Be environmentally sound and sustainable;
(f)   Be economically and financially viable, i.e have economic rates of
return of not less than 12Z and financial rates of return of not less
than 25Z;
(g)   Not duplicate other fisheries development efforts;
1.03          An explanation of each criterion follows.  The initial letter
refers to the numbering of the criteria in para 1.02.
(a)   Public sector support activities are defined as policy formulation,
planning, infrastructure development, research, training, extension and
regulatory activities in support of private sector activities in
fisheries production, processing and marketing as well as in fisheries
related input production and distribution.
Fisheries is defined as involving inland, estuarine and marine
fisheries, capture as well as culture fisheries where fin fish and shell
fish are produced.
Financial support activities to the private sector would only be through
credit; it would be handled by banks and ,to a limited scale, by NGOs.



- 48 -
Annex 3
Page 2
Support activities with prime impact on other sectors, but with only
indirect and limited impact on fisheries, would be excluded.
Excluded from financing would be commercial public sector production and
distribution of fish and shrimp, of seed and other fisheries inputs, of
commercial output processing and marketing of fish and shrimp by the
public sector. Only activities of a limited scale and number which are
indispensable for research, training and extension, or of nature not
permitting adequate recovery of investment or operation costs by the
private sector, such as in the case of stocking major flood plains,
rivers or marine waters, would be eligible. The finance packages under
the 'Other Fisheries' component would thus not support production in
public ponds or waters or fish seed farms and shrimp hatcheries, unless
they are leased or transferred in some way to the private sector or
NGOs.
Activities promoting the transfer of activities or assets from the
public to the private sector would be eligible for financial support
unless they conflict with other criteria such as (d).
(b)   The intent of the restriction on numbers of civil servants,  is that the
Improvement or expansion of support services would rely largely on the
greater efficiency of existing public services and the use of temporary
employees and consultants (private sector or NGOs).
(c)   Activities outside the focussed project area should be of national
interest and not of prime interest for other parts of the country.
(d)   Support activities would be designed to promote primarily small-scale
producers and the disadvantaged such as the landless and women.
(e) The environmental impact of the activity would be assessed by a
biologist at the Project Director level; in cases of significant
environmental impact ..here would be referral to NFL. Directives on
theconduct of environmental impact studies for sensitive areas will be
provided by IDA separately.
(f)   Economic and financial viability would be checked with the usual tools
of economic rate of return analysis and financial analysis covering
financial sustainability at GOB budget level as well as financial
viability for beneficiaries.



- 49 -                               ANNEX 4
Page 1
BANGLADESH
Third Fisheries Project
Research Component
Terms of Reference
I. INTRODUCTION
The project research component's objective is to receive direct
research support from FRI, to involve the institute in the project area by
engaging it in themes important to the project and to prepare thus for
research needs which are likely to emerge in the follow-up project.
FRI current five year research master plan covers a wide range of
research topics and includes some which are of direct interest for the
project. Current focus is strongly towards pond fish and shrimp culture,
already covering areas which are of direct consequence to the project.
However, areas important for the fisheries development program in Western
Bangladesh such as floodplain fisheries and coastal fisheries are not yet
covered. 'While FRI is present through its stations in other areas of the
country it is absent from the North West (Rajshahi Division) despite the
existence of important fisheries resources and area specific problems there.
The project would assist FRI to establish a field research station
in the Rajshahi Division. As to actual research the project would focus on
three floodplain, and one coastal, fisheries themes. For floodplains
research, it is planned to complement the monitoring exercise under the
Support Technical Assistance (STA) component which aims at providing the
essential yield, socio-economic, hydrological and landuse data. The FRI
research would add information on parametres influencing the production such
as fish food, fish disease and fishing gear. The combined information would
later be utilized in production modelling studies with aim of improving the
understanding of the fish production process in relation to basic
environmental parametres. In coastal fisheries FRI would look at basic catch
and effort parametres of inshore and estuarine fishermen.
Research themes are kept few and methodology simple. This takes
into account that FRI is young and only began to function in 1986. Care has
been taken not to duplicate other ongoing or planned work by the institute and
to avoid influencing the structure of FRI in a way that could be incompatible
with its future plans. Consequently, it is proposed that project research is
conducted only with existing or contracted staff.
II. FISH FOOD IN PLOODPLAINS
Background   Fish production in the stocked floodplains depends on the
conversion of nutrients contained in flood water and soils through a chain of
phytoplankton, zooplankton, bacteria, benthos and macrophytes. An estimation
of the production and conversion of these fish food sources will permit more
effective stocking and prediction of stocking requirements and fish
production. There is practical experience that the waters of floodplains are



- 50 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2
generally rich in food sources and highly productive but there is little
understanding about the biological processes involved. Consequently, planning
for stocking both in terms of priority areas for stocking remains crude and
the stocking densities and species composition empirically determined. There
is a need to create information about the basic environmental parameters
influencing food availability in floodplains and this is conveniently done in
those floodplains which the project proposes to stock.
Oblective To create information on fish food availability in floodplains.
Scope and Timing
The basic parameters to be covered by FRI are seasonal fish food
availability of each initially stocked floodplain in relation to water and
soil characteristics. In each floodplain sampling stations reflecting the
major sub-zones would be selected, regular samples taken and analyzed. In
each floodplain a field team consisting of a biologist and 3 research
assistants would be stationed for a period of three years. They would operate
out of hired premises in the vicinity and this would also house a simple field
laboratory.
For fish food, weekly samples would cover phytoplankton,
zooplankton and benthos for which analysis can be done in the field lab.
Every month during the flood season bacterial abundance would be analysed in
relation to phytoplankton in the Mymensingh lab or another nearby lab with a
high speed centrifuge. A monthly sample of macrophytes would also be analyzed
in the field lab. Monthly sampling of stomach contents of major carps caught
in the floodplains would be carried out and analysis undertaken in the field
lab.
Water would also be sampled weekly at the same stations and
analyzed in the field for turbidity, temperature (top, mid, lower water
column), hardness, pH, anmonialnitrite levels, dissolved oxygen, carbon
dioxide.
Soil from the area of the sample stations would be analyzed prior
to the flooding season. The sample would cover top- and sub-soil and be
accompanied by a description of the natural environment. Analysis would be
made for texture, composition, organic matter content, pH, nitrogen, carbon
dioxide levels and phosphates. Sampling and analysis would be done by a soil
lab hired by FRI.
Under the STA component provision has been made for supporting
advice and reference.   Annual reports would be prepared by FRI and circulated
among the interested parties.
Fieldwork would begin in February 1991 and continue up to February
1994 and would thus cover the flood season preceding first stocking and then
two stocked seasons.
Costs will include FWD vehicle, equipment, reagents, field base
rent, boat hire and operating expenses.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
Inputs
2.5 MY; 1 senior scientist
9.5 MY; 3 biologists
23.0 MY; 9 field assistants
Administration The task would be implemented by FRI.
Outputs     Data on fish food availability that can be used in later
production modelling;
3 annual reports;
FRI involvement in floodplain research.
III. FISH DISEASE IN FLOODPLAINS
Background Little is known about the occurrence of fish disease in
floodplains and its implications for large scale stocking programs. It is
therefore necessary to establish a basic knowledge about the types of disease,
their occurrence and effects on fish in floodplains.
Objective To obtain information on fish disease in floodplains.
Scope and timing The activity would consist of sampling fingerlings stocked
and fish landed throughout the fishing season on a monthly basis and more
intensively if a disease outbreak is reported. Research would start in
October 1990 and end in March 1994. It would be undertaken in the three
floodplains selected for initial stocking. The task would be handled by a
senior fish pathologist operating out the FRI HQ at Mymensingh and would
concentrate on fieldwork and lab. analysis for 7 months/year and writing
during the rest of the year. FRI would report annually and the specialist
would available to project management for advice.
The STA provides for external expert advice and support to this
activity. Costs include a FWD vehicle, equipment, reagents, boat hire and
operating expenses.
Inputs
3.5 MY 1 senior Scientific Officer
3.5 MY 1 lab technician
Administration The task would be implemented by FRI.
Outputs     Information on fish disease in floodplains that can be used in
production modelling and management;
Three Reports.
IV.   FISHING GEAR
Background Successful stocking of floodplains will require measures to limit
predators and to protect early growth stages of stocked fingerlings from
fishing pressure eg. guarding, net mesh size restriction. There is a need to
establish a rational basis for such measures. In particular, gill nets are



- 52 -                              ANNEX 4
Page 4
blamed for the high mortality of small fish; the selectivity by species and
size, of this and other fishing methods, should be tested before partial or
complete banning. Information will be required on alternative methods which
will allow fishing to continue for other species.
Obiective   To understand the impact of fishing gear on fish populations in
floodplains.
Scope and timing The activity would cover the full fishing season of one of
the first stocked floodplains. The approach would be to sample fishermens'
catches for the species composition and size distribution in relation to the
fishing gear employed. Costs would include equipment, travel and operational
expenses and contingencies.
Inputs
0.75 MY; 1 Senior Scientific Officer;
4 MY; 5 Research Assistants for 9 months
Administration The task would be undertaken by FRI.
Outputs     A report on the selectivity of the various fishing gear in
floodplains;
Reduced losses of stocked fish.
V. COASTAL FISHERIES
Background   Coastal fisheries are important but not well known.  This lack of
knowledge hinders development under the Third Fisheries Project. It is
necessary to start collecting information whilst build-up FRI experience in
coastal fisheries. A descriptive overview survey of the fisheries activities
around Dubla Point would serve this purpose together with information gathered
by others (DANIDA, UNDP/Sundarbans; Bay of Bengal Project). The survey would
focus on inshore and estuarine artisanal fisheries and concentrate on the fish
landings and the fishing craft and gear employed.
Scope and timing Two SSOs would be based in Dubla throughout the fishing
season to record landings and numbers of fishing craft, details of fishing
gear and approximate estimates of the composition of the catches. Ground
observation would be supported by some aerial reconnaissance of fishing
activity. This exercise would start in October 1992 and continue for three
fishing seasons to encompass variations. STA would provide advice and support
for study design and implementation. Costs include minor equipment, travel,
operating expenses and contingencies.
Inputs
4 MY; 2 Senior Scientific Officers 8 months each/ year
Administration Implemented by FRI
Output Three reports on the Dubla fisheries.



53 -                                 ANNEX 4
Page 5
VI.  UNFORESEEN RESEARCH
During the implementation of the project additional themes for
research may become important eg. fingerling production and transport, shrimp
broodstock and post larval abundance and fish supply/demand. As of PY4, US$
50,000/year will be allocated for this unforeseen research. FRI would
identify and plan these studies according to priorities in consultation with
project management.
VII. RESEARCH STATION
In PY2 and PY3 The sum of USS 150,000 vill be allocated in each PY2 and
PY3 allocation for development of the research station in the Western
Bangladesh. FRI will be responsible for producing the plans for this
development.



- 54 -
Annex 5
Page 1
BANGLADESH
Third Fisheries Project
ODA Technical Assistance
for Project Management
Terms of Reference
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1            The Third Fisheries Project is a large project with a variety of
objectives and innovative features both technically and administratively. The
Management of the Department of Fisheries (DOF) continues to be weak,
particularly in program and project management, and is in need of support. To
furnish this support, ODA would provide management-orientated technical
assistance (MTA) via an experienced consulting company which would hire
expatriate and local staff.
1.2            The MTA would focus on advising DOF in the implementation and
management of the project according to the schedule and conditions laid down in
the IDA Credit agreement. It would provide management-specific training in
order to ensure a smooth takeover of management duties by DOF at project
termination.
1.3            MTA would be deployed in management at DOF headquarters and
Divisions, at critical decision-making points for the project. A core of long-
term advisors would provide continuity in training and short-term local while
foreign consultants would assist with specific technical and managerial
problems.
1.4           The consulting firm would bp selected by ODA, London, in
consultation with GOB. It would then select and manage its own expatriate and
local manpower. It would also appoint a locally based firm to certify the
delivery of fingerlings and would be responsible for seeing that the local firm
satisfactorily fulfilled its obligations.
1.5           In addition to its responsibilities to the counterpart
organization DOF, the consulting firm would report to ODA. ODA would provide
funds for project vehicles, equipment, operation and maintenance costs, local
staff and local expenditures. ODA would participate in the regular supervision
missions of IDA. Furnished offices would be provided for the firm within DOF
headquarters and at the Divisions.
II.     DOF HEADQUARTERS
2.1   General
The Third Fisheries Project will be implemented by the DOF under the
overall responsibility of the Director of Fisheries, who will have direct
responsibility for executing the floodplain stocking program. The Director of
Fisheries will be assisted in this task by an Coordination Cell containing



- 55 -
Annex 5
Page 2
eleven DOF officers and one senior officer. TA would be provided by 2
expatriate long-term advisers (86 mm) and 3 local long-term advisers (132 mm)
over a period of 5 years. The expatriates would include a senior project
management advisor, who would also serve as the team leader for the executing
consulting firm, and a procurement advisor. Local consultants would include
specialists in monitoring/evaluation, computer services, and procurement. The
team leader would have the flexibility to call upon an allocation of 20 mm of
short-term expatriate consultants and 30 mm of short-term local consultants over
the five-year period of invclvement in the project. Two special areas have
already been identified: (i) training and advising the DOF fingerling supply
inspectors in Project Year 1, and (ii) participating in the project preparation
mission in Project Year 5. Any remaining short-term man-months would be used to
resolve previously unidentified technical oL management problems. The ODA-
appointed consulting group would subcontract a reputable local inspection and
certification firm to provide independent certification of the fingerling supply
under the floodplain component of the project.
2.2      Senior Project Management Advisor
Background All project decisions will be prepared for the Director of Fisheries
at the Project Coordination Cell. The cell would have to maintain permanent
contact and collaboration with other DOF headquarter units -- particularly
training, planning, extension, and administration. The cell has been conceived
to eventually be phased out and integrated into the new DOF headquarters after
it is reinforced through the UNDP/FAO Strengthening Project.
Scope and Timing
The senior project MTA manager would be required to spend 52 man-months of
residential service in Bangladesh over a period of 5 years beginning in
September 1990. The manager would assist and advise the head of the
Coordination Cell and simultaneously head the MTA team. In his or her advisory
capacity to DOF, the manager would advise on all project matters, focussing on
organization and management issues, including policies, planning of strategies,
monitoring and evaluation, management and training of DOF and TA staff,
accounting, and floodplain stocking. As team leader, the manager would
coordinate and represent at the central level other long-term and short-term
consultants within the ODA contract, report on team matters and project progress
to the parent firm. As a side function the manager would advise British Council
on the selection of candidates to receive project-related TC training awards and
assist in coordinating official requests for overseas training.
Profile
The MTA manager should be between 40 and 55 years of age and have considerable
experience at the management or project director level, both in public and
private sector operations; have more than 10 years experience in developing
countries; possess exceptionally good planning, personnel and financial
managerial skills; have the ability to operate under difficult conditions with
diplomacy and tact yet show firmness and resolve on issues critical to project
success.
Experience in and understanding of fisheries and aquaculture development and
their management would be an advantage, but a strong inclination to comprehend,



- 56 -
Annex 5
Page 3
debate and resolve the special technical problems involved is essential. The
ability to clearly define priorities and objectives is also important.
2.3 Procurement
Background   The procurement of goods and services has always been a major
problem in past fisheries projects, and the success of the Third Fisheries
Project will depend on efficient procurement. The large scale procurement of
fingerlings is especially critical because it is a core component of floodplain
fisheries and is a novel undertaking in Bangladesh. It is therefore essential
that good technical advice be readily available for DOF procurement staff.
Procurement advice is especially needed in the early stages of the project when
the first lots of fingerlings and the bulk of the equipment are being procured.
Long-term MTA would be provided by an expatriate procurement advisor and a local
procurement assistant. They would work in the Coordination Cell and assist the
two DOF headquarters staff and the d'visional project directors. Sheat-term MTA
would be provided for two special functions which are associated with successful
procurement: (i) the training and advising of DOF fingerling supply inspectors
and (ii) an independent fingerling supply certification system.
2.3.1   Expatriate Procurement Advisor
Scope and Timing The expatriate procurement advisor would spend a total of 34
man-months of residential service over a three-year span commencing in September
1990, the expected starting month of the project. He or she would advise on all
aspects of DOF project procurement according to World Bank and GOB guidelines.
which training counterpart staff on the job. Items to be procured include carp
fingerlings and stocking services, civil works, consulting services, and
equipment. In addition to advising on procurement, the advisor would also sign
off on tender documents, selection protocols and contracts that have to be
referred to IDA.
Profile   The advisor should be 35-55 years of age and have at least 8 years of
experience in designing and handling major procurement operations in developing
countries; experience in fish culture would be an advantage. He or she should
have: a dynamic approach to problem solving and be able to exercise considerable
resolve in difficult situations; a good grasp of public sector and donor agency
procurement procedures but have the ability to generate ideas and propose ways
to overcome bureaucratic bottlenecks; an ability to communicate decisions firmly
yet tactfully; some linguistic ability, as he would be required to learn some
Bengali; willingness to train and supervise local staff and consultants.
2.3.2 Local Procurement Assistant
Scope and Timin8 The local procurement assistant would be required for a total
of 51 man-months of service over a four-year span commencing in September 1990.
The assistant would report to the Procurement Advisor and assist in all aspects
of project procurement, especially with advice on local practice and conditions.
The assistant would be capable of training, orienting, and supervising others.
He or she would have to travel extensively and maintain communications at the
local level.
Profile The assistant should be 35-55 years of age and have at least 8 years of
experience in procurement for industry and development projects in Bangladesh.



- 57 -
Annex 5
Page 4
Some experience in fish culture would be an advantage. He or she should be
dynamic and have a good grasp of public sector and donor agency procurement
procedures.
2.3.3 Training Specialist for Fingerling Stocking Inspectors
Scope and Timing The local specialist for training fingerling stocking
inspectors would be required for 2 man-months during March and April 1991. He
or she would report to the Procurement Adviser and assist: in designing a DOF
fingerling inspection system for the DOF and training DOF fingerling inspectors.
Training would cover the estimation of quantities, sampling for fingerling size,
species composition, vitality, and freedom from disease. He or she would
concentrate on instilling a rigorous working method and reporting system with
the inspectors. Ultimately this person would report to project management on
the suitability of individual inspectors for the task.
Profile The training specialist should have at least 8 years of experience in
dealing with carp farming in Bangladesh, with both the private and public
sectors. He or she should be familiar with carp hatchery and nursery operations
and very experienced in the transport and distribution of carp fingerlings. He
or she should be assertive, dynamic, thorough and practical in approaching the
task.
2.3.4 Stocking Certification
Scope and Timing A locally based firm would be subcontracted to provide
inspection and certification services for the fingerling quantities delivered
and stocked by contractors in floodplains. The firm would be retained on the
basis of a percentage of the stocking contract, amotinting to about 0.5Z of
fingerling stocking costs. The services would be required for about 2 weeks per
year, between June 15 and July 1, depending on the onset of the flood season,
for 3 years. The purpose of the system is to provide independent certification
of the quantities delivered in order to validate contractors' claims for payment
and to provide a countercheck to DOF's fingerling inspection system during its
formative years. The firm would provide certification and reports to project
management at DOF headquarters; these documents would be made available to IDA
and project evaluation missions on request.
Profile A reputable, internationally-recognized local inspection and
certification firm, such as those employed in export and insurance, would
undertake the task. For ease of administration, the firm would be sub-
contracted by the MTA Consultant, who would advise ODA and IDA on the choice of
appointment.
2.4     Monitoring
Background Monitoring and reporting has been a problem in past fisheries
projects. DOF lacks these skills because project staff have been absorbed in
implementation tasks. Because the Third Fisheries Project emphasizes
monitoring, MTA in the form of a long-term monitoring specialist is required to
systematically introduce the proper working methods and skills. These skills
are already available in Bangladesh but public sector remuneration dissuades
skilled professionals from entering public service. The MTA temporarily
acquires them for DOF through consulting services.



- s8-                               Annex 5
Page 5
2.4.1 Local Monitoring and Evaluation Assistant
Scope and Timing The local monitoring and evaluation assistant would begin work
in October 1990 and continue working for 51 man-months over 5 years. He or she
would be responsible to the Senior Project Management Advisor and would advise
cell in all matters concerning monitoring and reporting. Working in close
cooperation with the computer specialist, the assistant would help to set up
the PC and database system to monitor production and project performance at
headquarters and in the Divisions. He or she would help to establish a system
for monitoring project performance through physical and financial targets,
provide feedback on project monitoring and evaluation procedures to the DOF, and
organize regular in-service training for DOF staff on monitoring, statistical
and computing techniques.
Profile The monitoring and evaluation assistant should be between 30-40 years
of age, have previous experience and proven ability in the monitoring and
evaluation of development projects at the management level, in project planning
and in monitoring small-scale rural operations in developing countries. He/she
should have knowledge of PC computer systems and databases, analysis of data,
basic statistical techniques and report generation, and should be able to
transmit statistical information in a clear manner. He or she should be capable
of training, guiding and supervising staff and be willing to travel extensively
in rural areas.
2.5     Computing
Background DOF is in the process of installing PC-based work station services.
The project will procure and install a number of compatible units. The use of
such equipment is limited at present by a general lack of computer know-how
among DOF staff. Staff will have to be trained and equipment installed and
serviced; this calls for technical back-up.
2.5.1   Local Computer Advisor
Scope and Timing MTA would provide a total of 30 man-months for the services of
a local computer specialist over a five-year span commencing in January 1991.
The specialist would report to the Senior Project Management Advisor and would
assist DOF in installing, making operational and maintaining the PC computer
system for project purposes; training, orienting and supervising project and DOF
personnel in computer use; and advising on appropriate software packages, the
design and installation of the project monitoring database system, and computer
suppliers and service agents.
Profile He/she should be 30-40 years of age; have at least 5 years of experience
in PC computers, word processing, spreadsheet, database, accounting and other
management software; have a dynamic approach and show initiative in problem
solving.
III.    DIVISIONAL DOF OFFICES
Background DOF's Divisional Deputy Directors will directly manage a large
portion of the project's field operations. Currently the divisional offices are
small and lack management manpower and skills. Although manpower will be



- 59 
Annex 5
Page 6
increased, management skills will remain scarce unless MTA support is provided.
Each of the three Divisions will receive one expatriate management advisor.
3.1     Divisional Management Advisors
Scope and Timing Each of the three advisors will be retained for 45 man-months
over a five-year span, commencing in January 1991. The advisors would be
permanently based in Faridpur, Khulna and Rajshahi, where they would provide
core management assistance. They would be the counterparts of the project
directors and assist in planning, organization, management, monitoring, and
reporting of all divisional project activities. They would pay particular
attention to the inspection and certification system for fingerling stocking;
planning and coordinating the protection of stocked areas; planning and
developing an active extension and credit program for fisheries, supporting the
activities of the short-term consultants in the field and proposing candidates
for ODA training.
Profile The advisors should be 35-45 years of age and have at least 8 years of
experience in managing projects in developing countries. Experience in
fisheries, extension and credit would be a considerable advantage. They should
be dynamic and be able to cope with difficult work and living conditions, have a
good grasp of financial management and project accounting procedures; be able to
generate and communicate ideas and set clear priorities, use computers and
train, orientate and supervise staff.
IV.     OVERSEAS TRAINING
Background    The shortage of management skills in the fisheries sector has
already been noted. To achieve the long-term institutional strengthening of DOF,
in-service training activities of the MTA should be supplemented by training
awards outside of the country. These awards would be reserved for those project
staff with the prospect of entering the management stream of DOF and those
already involved in management.
Scope and Timing. A total of 24 training awards would be issued in the form of
technical cooperation scholarships to Britain or approved institutes in other
developing countries. These awards would be given out at a rate of six per year
over a period of four years, beginning in Project Year 2. Most of these awards
are expected to be used for management-orientated training courses of short
duration. The awards would be administered through the British Council in
Dhaka.



Annex 6
- 60 -                              Page  1
BANGLADESH
Third Fisheries Project
Technical Assistance and Training
for Project Support
(UNDP/IDA)
Terms of Reference
I.    INTRODUCTION
1.1          According to COB, technical assistance (TA) is to be used  for
financing the importation of expertise not available in the country and to
provide for services to be procured from foreign and domestic consultants. This
annex describes the technical assistance in Project Support (STA) to be financed
by UNDP and executed by IDA. The component is complementary to the technical
assistance in Project Management (MTA) which is Zinanced and executed by ODA.
Because neither of the likely TA sources could finance all of the technical
assistance required under the Third Fisheries Project (TFP), two distinct
components have been defined to be financed from different sources.
1.2         The STA component concentrates on providing study and planning
support to the project and on field activities with social dimension. The STA
component addresses specific fields of project activity as follows:
(a) Floodplain Fisheries
(b) Coastal Shrimp Culture
(c) Other Fisheries
(d) Research
(e) Sector Policies
(f) Training
1.3         The sub-component is expected to be executed IDA.  IDA, in turn,
would contract out implementation to a reputable international consulting firm
with experience in planning, fisheries and rural development; it should have
experience in south east asian countries where experience in a wide range of
fisheries activities is abundant. The selected firm would be distinct from that
employed under the MTA. An association of the firm with others having
particular expertise would be welcome. At the outset the firm would enter into
a cooperation agreement with a reputable domestic consultant firm with
experience in the same areas and with a reputable NGO for the social support
activities; a list of acceptable local associates and NGOs would be provided by
IDA in consultation with GOB. Selection of the Consultant (international firm)
would hinge strongly on the quality of associates and senior international and
local experts offered. The firm would operate out of hired premises in Dhaka,
but an office would also be made available to it in the project advisory cell at
DOF headquarters to ensure full contact with project management.
1.4         Below follow descriptions and terms of reference for each area and
activity. Background, objectives, scope and timing, inputs, administration and
outputs are given. Specific and detailed terms of reference, particularly those
of individual consultants would be drawn up by the Consultant in consultation
with IDA.
1.5         For planning purpose, the cost per man-month (mm) of international
and local personnel includes all costs associated with the consulting personnel



- 61 -                                Annex 6
Page 2
such as salaries, social costs, firm's overhead, fee or profit, and overseas
allowances, and reimbursable items such as international travel, subsistence,
and other allowances. The estimated cost per mm for a foreign expert is US$
10,500 (Tk 240,000); for a local expert it is Tk 40,000. Other cost items such
as local transport and office costs, including comunuication, editing, and
production of reports (50 copies each) are costed at a pro rata basis per mm.
These costs are estimated at 152 of the mm cost for international consultants,
and at 402 for local consultants. Costs have been estimated in this way to
avoid the usual over-investment in equipment and vehicles, and to give the
consultant maximum flexibility. The cost of other personnel has been estimated
separately, using current local rates. All costs are detailed in the project
file. The susmmary costs given below include price contingencies but exclude
physical contingencies.
II.   FLOODPLAIN FISHERIES
2.1   General
Activities under this heading support the TYP's core floodplain
fisheries component. The activities comprise ti) monitoring the effect of
stocking on fish catches and income distribution (ii) carrying out detail
planning studies, (iii) providing assistance to organize fishermen, and (iv)
improving the exchange of ideas through workshops. The inputs for STA
coordination and management also figure under this heading, because floodplains
attract most of the STA inputs.
2.2 Monitoring of Production
Background The stocking of rivers and floodplains is a recent activity in
Bangladesh. Although production parameters are fairly well understood they have
not yet been verified in the field, and it will be difficult to carry out
continued stocking on a substantial scale without credible evidence of its
impact on production and incomes. An efficient monitoring system is needed to
provide this data. A monitoring system also will provide information required
to modify stocking rates, sizes, species composition, and management measures in '.
order to obtain optimum yields. It will provide information with which to
assess the efficiency of cost recovery mechanisms and the impact on fishing
catches and incomes. In order to be impartial and to concentrate fully on
correct data collection, monitoring of this type should be done by units outside
the agency which is implementing the stocking program. For ease of management,
monitoring must be as simple as possible and must focus on a few essential
elements. These elements include the total catch of fish before and after the
start of stocking activities, the size and composition of species, and a break-
down between part-time and full-time fishermen, and between holders of fishing
rights holders (lessees, licensees). A description also is needed of the
physical characteristics of the respective floodplains in terms of water area
and depth, and land use. These data would complement the data gathered under
the FRI research component.
Objectives To create sufficient data on the effects of floodplain stocking to
permit an evaluation of its financial and economic viability.
Scope and Timing An intensive monitoring system would be installed in each of
the three floodplains selected for initial stocking. These systems would remain
in place for three years, commencing in the year prior to stocking, which would



-62 -                                 Annex 6
Page 3
serve as the baseline year. After the three years extensive monitoring could be
continued by the Fisheries Resources Survey System.
The intensive monitoring system would comprise a core team and a
supplementary team. The core team would collect and summarize data on catches
from a representative sample of fishermen observed and interviewed on a regular
basis. he small supplementary team would conduct additional specific studies,
for example, in selected villages and fish markets inside and outside of the
floodplains.
An initial study lasting 5 months would serve to collect the
information needed to draw up a representative sample of fisherman by type of
gear used and full or part-time activity. At the same time, the study would
collect data on basic social indicators to use in later social impact studies.
The study would be able to use the monographs prepared for project appraisal on
each of the floodplains. The following minimum parameters would be monitored
for each fisherman sampled: daily catch, location of catch (jalmahals, etc.),
catch/effort by type and size of gear, composition of fish species and size
(weight) -- particularly for major carps. Total landings will be inferred by
extrapolation of individual catches within the statistical confidence limits of
the sample.
The data also will permit an assessment of the social impact of
stocking, as the sample will include both full-time and part-time of fishermen.
The core team in each floodplain also would report regularly on
water coverage and depth, land use, rainfall, temperature, and any other obvious
macro-environmental conditions, such as the occurrence of pesticide and
fertilizer use, in relation to estimated catch. To cover this monitoring
element, the Consultant would have to provide geographic expertise. Early on,
the Consultant would establish contacts with BWDB on water-related matters and
with BMS for meteorological data.
The data would have to be promptly analyzed and reported to project
management at DOF headquarters, the Divisional offices, and FRI. A preliminary '.
analysis of the data and a technical report on each floodplain should be made
available to DOF project management within 6 weeks of the end of the particular
floodplain fishing season. The final report on each floodplain should be
presented within 12 weeks of the end of the fishing season. All data should be
stored on computer from the outset to ensure that they are accessible to
potential users. The existing computers in DOF and FRI should be examined to
determine this compatibility for the purpose.
The initial study to set up the sample framework would begin in
November 1990 and would last five months. Intensive monitoring in each of the 3
floodplains would begin in April 1991 and continue through April 1994. The
supplementary team would work over the same period.
InPuts
Cost: US$ 542,600
Manpower requirements:
Initial study (5 months):



-63 -                                Annex 6
Page 4
3 man-months for foreign expertise in social and fisheries survey
work;
5 man-months for a local expert with a similar background;
3 man-months for a local specialist in
geography/surveying/cartography;
15 man-months for field team leaders;
225 man-months for enumerators.
(The teams would work for the full 5 months either in the field or
in trainir.g, since they would form the core of later monitoring
teams).
Core team (3 years):
6 man-months for foreign expertise in social and fisheries survey
work;
36 man-months for local monitoring/coordination expertise;
12 man-months for local specialist in geography;
9 man-months for local computer expertise (3 man-months/year);
216 man-months for local field team leaders;
1,080 man-months for enumerators;
(There would be three teams each with 1 team leader and 5
enumerators to cover 100 fishermen in sample in each floodplain)
Supplementary team (3 years):
18 man-months for local expert in what area? (6 man-months/year)
54 man-months for enumerators (18 mm/year)
Administration    The task would be carried out by the Consultant within the
terms of its contract with IDA.
Outputs     Data to support a socio-economic evaluation of floodplain stocking;
A better managed stocking program under the project;
A Computer-based data system for monitoring of floodplain
production;
A Well documented description of the physical floodplain
environment.
2.3. Planning
Background. The floodplain component of the project is considered a dynamic
process in which public stocking will expand from 30,000 ha in Project Year 2 to
100,000 ha in Project Year 6. The initial floodplains -- Chanda, Halti, and
BSKB beels -- have been surveyed. However, others remain to be selected and
planned. This study will provide support to DOF in surveying and studying areas
for development later in the project.
Obiective   To assist DOF in the selection and detailed planning of floodplain
stocking by surveying and reporting on the physical and socio-
economic characteristics of selected floodplain areas with specific
reference to their suitability for stocking.



- 64 -                               Annex 6
Page S
Scope and Timing The selection of floodplains to be developed would be made on
the basis of information available from existing maps, reports prepared in 1989,
and work done by the FRSS. The planning task would involve: collecting and
counter-checking existing information on hydrology and topography, in the
designated floodplain areas in order to create maps that show the monthly water
areas; analyzing and reporting on the socio-economic characteristics of the
area; collating existing information on the population, activity, and current
catches of fishermen; reporting on special features of the area which might
affect fisheries development, such as agricultural characteristics and
development plans; and presenting the draft and final reports with supporting
maps, charts, and data according to schedule. The study team would work in
close collaboration with project management, and project management would review
the team's detailed terms of reference. The work will involve examining
information available at the Dhaka, Dlistrict, and Upazila levels, and
interviewing fishermen and others in the area. Field level work would not
exceed 4 weeks per floodplain. The study would begin in November 1992 and would
be completed in April 1995. Altogether 5 studies would be prepared in each
study season, running from November to April.
Inputs
Cost: US$ 97,9000
Manpower requirements:
45 man-months for local experts;
Administration   The task would be carried out by the Consultant within the
terms of its contract with IDA.
Outputs      Well planned expansion of public stocking in floodplains;
Detailed planning studies for 15 floodplains.
2.4 Organization of Fishermen
Background The floodplain stocking program under TFP will present greatly
improved opportunities in terms of larger catches and increased income of
fishermen, who are usually the poorest amongst the population. To avail
themselves of these opportunities the fishermen will require assistance and
advice in technical and socio-economic matters. Technical advice would arise
from the work of the UPOs, whilst fishermen organization for social improvement
(share in catch, access to fishing rights, access to credit, access to extension
advice, bargaining power on the fish market, etc.) would have to be done by
specialized NGO services. The major floodplains are big entities covering a
large area and population and it would be unrealistic to expect complete
coverage by NGO services within the project period; it is therefore proposed to
begin working in limited, representative areas as a basis for gaining experience
for future expansion.
Objective   To improve, in a pilot area, the fisherman's share of the benefits
created by floodplain stocking.
Scope and Timing One NGO would be selected by the Consultant. This NGO would
place a small team in one of the three floodplains after the initial survey
results are in from the production monitoring exercise. Waiting for these



-65-                                  Annex 6
Page 6
results will help the NGO to select its relevant areas of operation. The team
will consist of a field supervisor, 5 field social workers, and 25 link workers.
The team will be installed in April 1992 and will work throughout the project
period; it also is assumed that the will continue to work under the follow-up
project. The NGO would operate in the traditional manner, focussing on
organizing, motivating, training, and supporting the fishermen in a variety of
area through revolving fund credit and other means. The NGO's terms of
reference would emphasize fisheries. The NGO would keep field diaries and
prepare biannual reports of its activities and plans. A local sociologist would
visit the NGO twice a year to review its progress.
Inputs
Cost:       USS 149,300
Manpower requirements:
5 man-months for a local sociologist
27 man-months for a coordinator
57 man-months for Field supervisors
255 man-months for Field social workers
1,1275 man-months for Link workers
Administration  The NGO service will be a subcontract of the Consultant's
contract with IDA; the accompanying sociology expertise will be supplied by the
Consultant under its contract with IDA.
Outputs     Improved share of the poor in benefits from floodplain stocking;
Improved participation of fishermen in fisheries management;
Better understanding of fishermen and fisher women for improved
project planning.
2.5 Floodplain Fisheries Workshops
Background   A primary objective of the project is to increase fish production
through the public and private stocking of floodplains. Although the mass
production of fish seed is now well established in Bangladesh, the concept of
annually renewing fish stocks in natural waters is relatively new and its
management has yet to be developed through the project. During the project two
workshops would be arranged at a central location so that public and private
agents involved in floodplain fisheries could meet to discuss the technical and
socio-economic aspects of the activity.
Obiective    To provide a forum for discussion and consensus on all aspects of
floodplain fisheries development in Bangladesh.
Scope and Timing The task would be to plan, orgpnize, and run two workshops on
floodplain stocking and management for uplto 60 local participants in
Bangladesh, in April 1993 and in April 1995; to assist in previewing, selecting,
and editing papers to be presented; and to assist in preparing and publishing
the workshop proceedings. Funds would be provided to organize and run the
conference, for publicity, materials and services, transport, accommodation and
subsistence of delegates, editing and publishing a workshop report, and to bring
in international keynote speakers with experience in floodplains and large scale
stocking. Donor organizations interested in supporting fisheries development
would be invited to send representatives as observers. The papers from the



-66 -                                  Annex 6
Page 7
workshop would be published in a report not later than 6 months after the
meeting. Each workshop would take place over a three-day period.
Inputs
Cost:       US$ 42,000
This includes US$ 20,000 for operating funds for Workshop of
60 participants (travel, subsistence of participants,
materials, hire of equipment, reproduction of papers,
publication of report).
Manpower requirements:
1 man-months for Foreign specialists (keynote speakers)
2 man-months for Local consultant (conference organization
specialist)
Administration   FRI would be responsible for selecting, reserving, and
preparing the venue. A local consultant specializing in conference organization
and public relations would be appointed by the Consultant to assist in
organizing the workshop. Two foreign floodplains specialists appointed by the
Consultant would act as keynote speakers and assist in running the sessions.
Outputs Improving understanding of floodplain stocking and management issues in
Bangladesh and strengthened relationships between public and private
parties in the sector. Two workshop reports documenting the
achievements of the floodplain program.
Recommendations and guidelines for future projects.
2.6   STA Coordination and Management
Background The STA program is large and involves substantial amount of
manpower. To manage this large program the Consultant will have to maintain a
foreign ( team leader) and a local coordinator (assistant) in permanent liaison
with project management and counterpart organizations. They would have to
prepare and supervise the implementation of contracts under the SAT. The
coordinators initially would be full-time in the country; their mm allocation d
tails off towards the end of the project period.
Objective   A strong presence in the country to ensure efficient management of
the STA component.
Input
Cost;    US$ 721,900
Manpower requirement:
51 man-months Foreign Coordinator
51 man-months Local Coordinator
Administration STA-management and coordination would be handled by the
Consultant under the terms of the contract with IDA.



- 67 -                                 Annex 6
Page 8
Output A well coordinated and efficiently run STA component.
III.    COASTAL SHRIMP CULTURE
3.1 General
The development of the coastal shrimp culture is the second most
important component of the project. In western Bangladesh this improvement
represents a continuation and expansion of the activities of the Shrimp Culture
Project (IDA Cr 1651 BD, UNDPIBGD/85/020). Infrastructure development would be
implemented by BWDB and technical extension services would be provided by DOF.
The technical assistance offered would complement ongoing activities with (i)
support for organizing shrimp farmers; (ii) detailed planning studies; and (iii)
technical expertise in shrimp culture technology.
3.2 Organization of Shrimp Farmers
Background:  In the ongoing Shrimp Culture Project, local consultants (NG0s)
have proven indispensable in organizing shrimp farmer groups to support
development and project objectives. In western Bangladesh these organizing
efforts have been limited to one polder (Polder 20, 20/1) covering 1.500 ha with
a planned project completion date of June 1991. The project proposes expanding
infrastructure improvements and extension to another 13,000 ha of poldered
shrimp culture. The development approach chosen differs from the previous one
in that public infrastructure development would be limited to large-scale water
control works, while the shrimp farmers themselves would construct and manage
the water distribution network. This change will call for a greater effort in
organizing shrimp farmers to participate in the project and cooperate among
themselves.
Objective   To improve the use of extension and infrastructure provided by the
public sector, reduce public sector infrastructure investment per
unit of land, and improve income the distribution effects of the
project on 13,000 ha.
Scope and Timing The first task of the local consultant (NGO) would be to take
a social baseline survey of the areas chosen for development and to identify and
organize shrimp farmers and other groups. The NGO then would stimulate and
organize a documented majority vote of the concerned farmers, in favor of
project activities, committing them to the development of water supply and
drainage channels and block boundary dikes of a certain standard within a given
period of time. The next task would be a continuous process of motivating and
training the groups to increase this cohesion, participation in project
activities, interest in shrimp culture, receptivity to extension messages, and
general socio-economic development. Themes of special importance would include
reducing dependency on exploiting forces, coordinating the timing of paddy and
shrimp operations, and transmitting implementation problems and suggestions to
the DOF extension service and BWDB. Activities would begin in Project Year 1
and in each particular area they would be phased one year prior to construction
work; initially the activities would be intensive, and after S years they would
gradually be reduced. The local consultant would work in parallel with the DOF
extension service, but both would coordinate closely at the field and divisional
level. The local consultant (NGO) would submit biannual progress reports to the
Consultant and project management. A back-stopping service, recording
experiences and suggesting improvements, would accompany the NGO activities and
also report biannually.



- 68 -                                Annex 6
Page 9
Inputs
Cost:     US$ 648,800
Manpower requirementss
69 man-months for a senior field coordinator
301 man-months for field supervisors (1 per 5 field social workers)
1,494 man-months for field social workers (1 per 5 link workers)
7,747 man-months for Link workers (1 per block of 100 ha)
Local Back-stopping services:
48 man-months for a senior local consultant
120 man-months for research officers
Administration The service of the local consultant (NGO) will be a subcontract
under the Consultant's contract with IDA; the Consultant would name the local
consultant -- most likely a major NGO well known by IDA. The back-stopping
services would be provided by a reputable local consultant or recognized local
research institute in the field of social science, under subcontract with the
Consultant.
Outputs     The organization of about 13,000 shrimp farmers on 13,000 ha of
shrimp culture in polders;
The effective use of extension and infrastructure from the public
sector;
Reduced public sector infrastructure investment per unit of land;
Improved income distribution effects from the project.
3.3     Detailed Planning Studies
Background General planning for the areas to be served with improved water
infrastructure was carried out on 10,000 ha, before project appraisal. Detailed
planning also has been completed for the first 3,000 ha to be developed in
polders 5 and 23. Still remaining to be completed are general planning for
3,000 ha and detailed planning for 10,000 ha.
Obiective         To carry out general planning studies for 3,000 ha and
detailed planning studies for 10,000 ha, in preparation for
developing shrimp culture infrastructure in these areas.
Scope and Timing General planning includes estimating the water requirements of
shrimp farms, examining the topography and hydrography of the area, preparing
base maps (scale 4' : 1 mile), identifying subareas, and preparing cost
estimates and detailed model engineering plans for the water infrastructure.
The detailed planning includes engineering surveys for the water control
structures including spot checks on topography, installation of gauges, and
preparation of detailed maps for use in engineering (scale 16' : 1 mile); the
preparation of detailed engineering designs for the water control infrastructure
of model farms and outline designs for the water control infrastructure
elsewhere, selected subsoil investigations, and a tentative land acquisition
plan.



-69-                                   Annex 6
Page 10
Administration   The task would be implemented by the local associate of the
Consultant or it would be subcontracted to another local firm. The studies and
surveys would be carried out by reputable local consultants experienced shrimp
culture engineering, who would work on call, at the discretion of project
management.
Inputs
Cost:       US$ 263,000 (based on a per ha rate)
outputs     A technically well-planned development of water infrastructure and a
correspondingly efficient investment program for an incremental
13,000 ha of shrimp culture.
3.4     Shrimp Culture .echnolosy
Background
Although Bangladesh has a local pool of technical experience in
shrimp culture from previous projects, the country can still benefit from the
technological improvements and innovations that have been made in similar
environments in other countries. The extension activities of the project will
require a regular injection of technological support from experienced sources.
Obiective         To provide the private sector and DOF extension agents in the
project area with technical advice to improve the shrimp.
Scope and timinx Within its contract, the Consultant would be able to hire
short-term expertise, preferably from Southeast Asia to restore specific
technical problems that arise during project implementation and disseminate
knowledge on advance in shrimp culture technology from the region. Areas in
which advice may be needed include: disease, hatchery operations, nutrition,
harvesting, and marketing. Advice would be needed as of Project Year 2 and
would be made available through Project Year 6.
Inputs
Cost:       USS 284,200
Manpower requirements:
15 man-months for foreign consultants
25 man-months for local consultants
Administration Project management would request from the Consultant short-term
technical assistance in specific areas, when needed.
Outputs     A technologically progressive program of shrimp culture development.
IV.     OTHER FISHERIES
4.1 General
The project provides for the development of a variety of other
fisheries resources and activities. Resources cover primarily freshwater fish



- 70 -                                Annex 6
Page 11
and shrimp ponds, minor floodplains, rivets, and coastal fisheries. Activities
include the promotion of women in fisheries. The STA activities included under
this heading are: (i) minor floodplain development; (ii) women in fisheries;
and (iii) general technical support.
4.2 Minor floodplain development
Background The major thrust of the project is to support public stocking
programs in major floodplains. However, the stocking of smaller areas such as
minor floodplains would contribute to inland fish production and may well be
within the investment and practical capabilities of private individuals and
groups of fishermen. Studies are needed to define the limits of these
capabilities with respect to the size of floodplain and factors affecting
social organization. The studies would need to suggest socially acceptable ways
of organizing in order to achieve economically sustainable stocking and
harvesting.
Objective          To determine the possibilities for and limits to private
sector development of floodplains and identify promotable
systems for achieving private sector stocking.
Scope and Timing  This study will assemble the positive and negative experiences
of private individuals and groups practicing the stocking of minor floodplains,
analyze them, and attempt to fashion a management approach that is likely to
work best under typical minor floodplain conditions. The initial phase would
involve assembling known cases of stocking of floodplains, beels, and lakes by
the private sector. Depending on the number of cases, some or all of them would
be visited in order to extract a basic set of information related to history,
fisheries, managerial patterns, and problems. This information would be used to
develop typical patterns which later would be refined through more thorough case
studies.
The study would result in proposals for the respective roles of the
public and private sector in floodplain development. The study leaders would
work closely with project management and would draw on the experience available
in the Upazilas. The study would start in November 1992 and be completed in
July 1993.
Inputs
Cost:       USS 106,200
Manpower requirements:
5 man-months for an expatriate rural sociologist;
8 man-months for a local rural sociologist;
5 man-months for a local fisheries expert;
20 man-months for a research assistant.
Administration  The study would be undertaken by the Consultant within the Terms
of its contract with IDA.
Output      A better definition of public and private sector roles in floodplain
development and resulting improvement in the floodplain and other
fisheries component program of the project.



-71 -                                 Annex 6
Page 12
4.3     Women in Fisheries
Background A preliminary study undertaken before project appraisal indicates
that women. particularly poor women, frequently are involved in activities at
the margin of fisheries and, to an increasing degree, directly in fish culture
and fishing operations. Further studies are required to determine the role of
women in fisheries activities and ways of encouraging them to participate in
more fully the sector. For example, their roles would be increased by providing
guidance to the 'women in fisheries* staff deployed under the project in the
Divisions and by applying finance packages provided under the Other Fisheries
project component.
Objective   To carry out a study to develop operational plans for including
women in the fisheries activities of the project.
Scooe and Timing   'Women in fisheries' staff would be deployed right from the
start of the project. The best time to assist them would be after a 12-month
period of familiarization with the task and the project area. At this point
initial action programs or concepts for programs might have evolved. The study
team would intervene and provide conceptual support. The core study team of two
would visit each of the Divisions for about 3 weeks to assimilate existing
plans, programs, and situations while developing plans, in close collaboration
with project staff, for feasible 'women in fisheries' programs. These programs
would be gradually refined through specific case studies and would result in
specific operating plan for each Division for the duration of the project.
Background information on fisheries, extension, credit, and technical issues
would be acquired through frequent contact with relevant project staff.
Inputs
Cost:       US$ 84,000
Manpower requirements:
5 man-months for a foreign expert in programming development
for rural women;
5 man-months for a local expert in programming development women;
18 man-months for research assistants.
Administration The Study would be undertaken by the Consultant within the terms
of its contract with IDA.
Output      Better access for women to services offered by DOF and the project;
An improved implementation program for the "Women in Fisheries"
activities of the project.
4.4     General Technical Support
Background   The component covering Other Fisheries Development activities of
the project represents a wide range of activities which cannot be fully planned.
yet. It therefore is necessary to make a lump sum allocation for general STA
technical support.
Inputs
Cost:       US$ 221,900



72 -                                 Annex 6
Page 13
Manpower requirementst
12 man-months for a foreign consultant;
20 man-months for a local consultant
Administration   The Consultant would carry out these activities on demand from
project management within the terms of the Consultants' contract with IDA.
V. RESEARCH
Background   The project provides financing for FRI to conduct research on
floodplain fisheries and coastal fisheries. Because FRI is a young institution
and has not experience in these areas, STA is required in order to guide
research. Research on floodplain topics should be directed to creating more
balanced stocking programs. FRI research would add to the knowledge developed
from the monitoring activities of the project and identify areas in need of more
scientific investigation. Thus, FRI would concentrate on monitoring the
availability of fish food, the incidence of fish diseases, the selectivity of
fishing gear, the stocking of host species, and the modelling of catches in
floodplains. For coastal fisheries, FRI would produce a catch effort study.
Objective    To guide FRI research programs under the project.
Scope and Timing The timing of the STA inputs will depend on the implementation
of FRI's project research program. Generally, inputs would consist of expert
support for the design of a particular study and for use as a reference source
of methodological y and scientific advice during the execution and write up.
Inputs
Cost:       US$ 289,600
Manpower requirements:
20 man-months for foreign consultants
Administration The specialized manpower would be provided by the Consultant
under terms of its contract with IDA.
Outputs   A well planned and executed project research program of FRI.
VI.     SECTOR POLICIES
6.1 General
This group of activities concentrates on policy and strategy
development at the national level, with particular reference to the project
area. The activities includes (i) a study on cost recovery in floodplains
which will serve as an input to the policy-making process of GOB, which is
covered by a timed covenant under the IDA Credit; (ii) a study on the divestment
of public hatcheries and fish seed farms, which also is covenanted; and (iii)
the preparation of a fisheries master plan, which is to serve as input for the
next five-year planning exercise and set the framework for a follow-up project.



-73 -                                  Annex 6
Page 14
6.2     Cost Recovery in Floodplain.
Background The project proposes to demonstrate the technical and economic
viability of stocking floodplains on a large scale with carp fingerlings in
order to augment the natural production of fish , which has been depleted by
over-exploitation and flood control practices. Because the latter factors
cannot be controlled over the medium term, the exercise aims to sustain fish
production by annual stocking. In the major floodplains, an annual recurring
cost of about Tk 1,350/ha would be incurred by the public sector. The two
existing cost recovery mechanisms are the tendering of fishing rights and the
licensing of professional fishermen. They involve several different government
departments. As currently practiced, neither mechanism is very effective in
reserving a large portion of public sector costs. The fiscal, and equity, and
production must be consolidated and translated into viable activities. A study
of options available to the Government for exercising adequate cost recover- is
needed in order to make the public stocking of floodplains financially
sustainable.
Obiective   To study strategies for improving the Government's cost recovery of
investments in fisheries, particularly in floodplains. The study
would serve as an input to the Government's decision making process
on cost recovery in floodplains, covenanted under the IDA Credit.
Scope and Timing  The study would review the effectiveness of existing cost
recovery mechanisms and propose alternative strategies and costed implementation
programs to achieve clearly defined production, cost recovery, and social
objectives. The review should cover the auctioning of fishing rights and
quotas, licensing of fishermen and gear, taxation of inputs and outputs, the
possibilities of area-specific approaches, and the impact of these measures on
population groups, the GOB's administration and budget, and the economy. The
work would involve reviewing existing documentation, particularly that of the
ongoing New Fisheries Management Policy sponsored by the Ford Foundation, and
field inspecting various measures in practice. It also would involve examining
the administrative and legal factors. The study team would work closely with
the MFL/DOF, ML, MLG&RD, BVDB. Forestry Department, and the Upazilas and closely
liaise with NGOs on social aspects. The study work would begin in January 1993,
when the results of the first stocking become available, and would be completed
within 8 months. The leader of the study team would be avaiLable as a resource
person for the GOB committee on cost recovery covenanted under the IDA Credit
during the 12-month period leading up to the release of a policy statement.
Inputs
Cost:       USS 127,000
Manpower requirements:
6   man-months for an expatriate fisheries economist with
experience in fisheries management. He would work for 5
months on the study and would be available for up to 1 month
for consultations.
8   man-months for local experts in fisheries management and
legalladministrative matters.
Administration    The study would be carried out by the Consultant within the
terms of its contract with IDA.



74 -                                Annex 6
Page 15
Outputs     Strategies for improving cost recovery in fisheries;
Improved GOB policies for cost recovery in fisheries.
6.3.        Public Fish Seed Farms
Background   The release of a policy statement on the divestment of public fish
seed farms is the subject of a timid covenant under the IDA Credit.  There are
103 public hatcheries operated by DOF in the project area; however, only 60 of
them are in service, producing 1.5 tons of hatchlings. There also are 300
private hatcheries in the project area, producing 16.5 tons. Many of the public
hatcheries are redundant, and most run well below capacity. The public
hatcheries incur an annual financial loss estimated at TX 100 million. Some are
non-functional for technical reasons; others operate below design capacity for
administrative reasons. A study is required to assist MPL/DOF prepare a policy
for divesting itself of surplus capacity and avoiding the construction of
additional capacity.
Obiective   To assist GOB with a study proposing a rational program of
alternatives for divesting of plus hatchery capacity.
Scope and Timing The study would and evaluate the physical and financial
performance of public and private fish and shrimp hatcheries. giving Particular
reference to western Bangladesh. Scheduled options would be prepared for
MFL/DOF to divest itself of surplus hatchery capacity and re-orientate its
policy towards private fish and shrimp seed production. The study would involve
reviewing existing documentation at DOP and other levels and incorporating the
experiences of other projects involved in public hatcheries. Proposals should
consider the effects of divestment on administration (particularly DOF),
staffing, extension, GOB revenues, and the economy. The study team would work
in close collaboration with project management, MFL/DOF, and MF. The 6-month
study would begin in January 1992, and the report would be available in July
1992. This timing would allow the study team to observe the hatchery industry
during its seasonal operation period.
The team leader of the study would be available (1 mm) for
consultations with the GOB committee drafting the policy statement over the
following 12-month period.
Inputs
Cost:       US$ 140,600
Manpower requirements:
7  man-months for expatriate consultants; a senior economist
experienced in divestment of public assets and a consultant in
fish farm management;
18  man-months for local consultants in fish farming, the legal
system, public administration, and finance.
Administration The study would be carried out by the Consultant within the
terms of its contract with IDA.
Output      A better division of functions between the public and private
sectors in fish and shrimp seed production;



- 75-                                 Annex 6
Page 16
A study proposing a rational program of alternatives for divesting
of surplus hatchery capacity.
VII.    TRAINING
Background   As a rule, staff at the working level in Government organizations
in Bangladesh have had little exposure to the experience and methods of this
international counterparts, either in this professional specialties or in
management functions. Opportunities for travel and exchange of ideas within the
country also are limited. This relative isolation of government staff limits
their vision and ability to place working situations in proper perspective.
Because study trips and overseas training are at a premium, they can be used
effectively to motivate staff. It therefore is essential that a certain number
of well-prepared study tours be financed under the STA component.
Objective   To improve the professional awareness of 200 key persons involved in
fisheries development in the project area.
Scope and timing   Study tours and training experiencing lasting 4-6 weeks
should be arranged in a variety of countries. The topics addressed should
include shrimp and fish culture, shrimp hatchery development, credit, low cost
aquaculture engineering, and extension. The consultants would have to prepare a
detailed training plan within the first 9 months of the project for approval by
IDA. The plan would be reviewed after 2 years. The experiences most relevant
to Bangladesh generally can be found in South and Southeast Asia, where
fisheries operate in a similar tropical environment. However, tours to
countries outside of the region would not be completely excluded provided a
particular experience could be found then. Local study tours to points of
interest also should be arranged. Those eligible to participate would include
male and female officers of the participating agencies and services, and the
private sector. About 30Z of the tours should be reserved for the private
sector. Care should be taken to exclude individuals who already have
experienced. This type of training and therefore would not be as likely to
share this knowledge with others.
Inputs
Cost:       US$ 466,700
Manpower requirements:
2 man-months for a foreign consultant to prepare and revise
training plan;
4 man-months for a local consultant for the same purpose;
100 Overseas study tours
100 Local training tours.
Administration The program would be handled by the Consultant within its
contract with IDA.
Outputs      100  overseas experiences;
100 local experiences.



Bangladesh
Third Fisheries Projoet
Take
Project Components by Yoar
Base Costs                          Tot l
90/91   91/92  92/93  93/94   94/96  96/96   Take   USS
A. FLOOOPLAIN FISNERS
1. Pubi. Stocking Dhaka Div.     0.0    9.0    0.0   21.6   40.6   40.6  120.6    8.7
2. Pubi. Stockila Khulna Div     0.0   19.6   19.6   82.4   40.5   40.5  152.4    4.7
3. Pubi. Stock. R.J.hchi Div     0.0   15.0   16.0   27.0   54.0   S4.0  165.0    6.1
sub-total                          0.0   43.5   48.6   81.0  186.0  136.0  436.0   13.6
B. COASTAL UIRIMI CULTUE
1. Poldor 5                      1.4   24.5    0.3    0.8    3.0    0.7   19.2    1.2
2. PoWder 28a Phase 1            2.3   39.0   14.9    0.6    5.0    1.2   03.0    2.0
S. Pold.28Ph.2.Pold.SlPh.1       0.0    4.7   60.6   80.9    1.4   10.6  126.3    4.0
4. Other Polders (Phae 1)        0.0    0.0    3.5   80.0   23.1    7.8   98.9    2.9
S. Other Poldor. (Phas 2)        0.0    0.0    0.0    3.5   e0.0   29.4   92.9    2.9
Sub-total                          8.7   61.2  106.3   96.4   92.4   49.3  417.3 - 2.9
C. OTHER FISHERESE DEV.
1. O.Fleborlos Dhaka Div.        0.0    0.0    2.4    4.8    $.6    2.4   13.2    0.4
2. O.Fleberls Khuln, Div.       0.0    4.0    4.8    6.0    4.8    6.0   26.4    0.6
8. O.Flsh rloe Rajehahi Div      0.0    2.4    7.2    7.2    7.2    2.4   26.4    0.8
-_____-_____________  __-_----------------------- ----------------
Sub-total                          0.0    7.2   14.4   18.0   16.6   10.8   66.0    2.0
0. INSTITUIIONAL SUPPORT
1. I at.Sup. DOF-HQ             14.8   10.1   19.6   19.2   20.6   19.7  103.6    8.2
2. Inst.Sup. DOF-Dhaka Div.      6.9    8.8    3.9    4.0    4.1    4.1   30.3    0.9
3. ?net.Sup. DOF-Kbulna         16.7   21.1   11.6    8.6    9.1    9.8   76.3    2.4
4. Inst.Sup. DOF-Rajebahl       14.0   29.4   10.9   11.1   11.2   11.2   37.8    2.7
5. Inst.sup. BIDS                8.0    2.8    5.4    8.2    3.6    2.3   20.2    0.6
Sub-total                         64.0   71.7   51.4   46.2   46.4   48.6  818.2    9.9
E. RESEARCH (FRI)                  4.2    6.8    7.8    2.9    2.6    2.1   26.5    0.8
F. TECHNICAL ASSIST.& TRAIN.
1. TA - Project Managegent      20.1   28.6   20.1   24.4   11.3    0.7  113.4    3.6
2. TA - Projoct Support         12.6   23.6   31.1   20.8   13.4    8.9  110.6    3.4
Sub-total                         32.7   52.6   59.2   45.1   24.7    9.6  224.0    0.0
Total BASELINE COSTS              94.7  250.0  264.6  298.8  318.6  263.4  1498.9   46.2
Physical Contingencies          8.4   16.5   20.8   22.8   27.7   22.5  113.2    3.5
Price Contingenieos            15.6   70.2  110.3  143.0  396.2  186.0  720.2   18.0
Total PROJECT COSTS              118.6  836.6  416.2  4S4.4  641.6  461.9 2323.8   02.7
Taxe*                           18.0   28.8   28.2   26.7   28.7   19.4  144.2    8.9                                                    l
Foreign Exchange               44.1  107.4  128.7  119.8  115.6   62.9  678.4   16.8                                                   rb a-
-  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- b
Values Scolod by 1000000.0 3/7J19S0 16:68                                                                                                   |



Bangladesh
Third Fisheries Project
Taks
Summary Accounts by Year
Base Costs                                   Foreign Exchange
90/91    91/92    92/93    93/94    94/S6    95/96    Total          %   Aount
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Land Acquisition                2.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       2.0        0.0    0.0
S. Civil Work*                     0.1      70.5    11.86     90.2      96.6     60.1    432.0        34.4  148.5
C. Equipmet                       13.1      16.9     11.6      7.5      86       7.6      65.1       45.7   29.6
D. Transport Equipment            206.5     23.2      0.6      0.0       0.0      0.0      50.2       48.6   24.S
E. Study/Srvice Contract.          3.7      11.9     17.9     23.1      17.2     12.4      86.9        6.0    4.3
Total DNVESTMENT COSTS            45.4    122.6    148.6    128.0    122.2       70.1    685.5        32.0  207.0
It. RECURRENT COSTS
F. staft                          32.4      55.9     61.7     61.3      33.2     20.0    264.6        45.0  114.6
4. Fingerliags                     0.0      43.5     43.5     61.0    195.0    136.0    430.0         10.0   43.6
H. Operation and Maintain.        14.1      26.6     30.2     27.1      27.6     27.6    152.4        16.6   28.3
3. Study/Service Contracts         2.6       2.3      2.6      0.4       0.7      0.7       9.6        6.0    0.6
Total RECURRENT COSTS             49.8    12.5    18.0    159.6    106.5    183.3    064.4            21.9  18.1 
_ - --- - ------ - ----------------                        -                      - - ---- - ----------
Total BASELINE COSTS              04.7    250.0    284.  288.8    316.6    258.4   1409.9             26.5  394.2
Physical Continoncies           3.4      16.6     20.3      22.8     27.7     22.6    113.2        20.3   22.9
Price Contingsnolse            16.6      70.2    110.3    143.0    195.2    188.0    720.2         22.4  161.3
_  --    _  --   _    _-  --  --  --- - ----  -- - ----   - -- - -- -- -- - -- - - - - --_------_
Totel PROJECT COSTS              118.6    s83.6    415.2    454.4    541.6    461.9   2823.3          24.9  578.4
Taxes                          18.0      2e.8     28.2      20.7     26.7     19.4    144.2         0.0    0.0
Foretign Exchange              44.1    107.4    128.7    119.6    116.5       62.9    576.4       100.0  567.4
Value* Scaled by 1000000.0 3/7/1090 1658
t -
_4



Bangladesh
Third Fisheries Project
Projects Components by Year
Totlus Including Contingencies                              Totals Including Contingencals
Take                                                         USS
S0/91  91/92  92/93  93/94   94/96  96/96  Tot.a          90/91   91/92  92/93  93/94   94/96  96/96   Tot I
A. FLOODPLAIN FISHERIES
1. Publ. Stocking Dhaka Div.     0.0   32.6   18.3   84.0   89.8   74.7  205.4             0.0    0.4    0.4    0.9        1.0     1.9    6.4
2. PubI. Stocking KhuIas Div     0.0   27.3   29.3   62.2   69.8   74.7  263.3             0.0    0.6      0.8    1.4      1.6     1.9    6.7
3. PubI. Stock. RuJihahi D;v     0.0   21.0   22.6   43.6   93.1    99.6  279.0            0.0    0.8    0.6    1.2    2.4    2.6          7.4
Sub-Total                           0.0   00.9   86.5   130.4  232.7   246.8  788.6            0.0     1.7    1.0    3.6    8.1       6.4    19.6
8. COASTAL SHRIMP CULTURE
1. Polder 5                      1.8   84.1   13.9    0.6    5.1         1.8   60.0        0.1      1.0    0.4    0.0    0.1       0.0     1.0
2. Polder 23, Phas  1            3.0   54.1   22.3       1.0    8.6    2.2   '1.1          0.1      1.5    0.0    0.0    0.2    0.1        2.6
3. Pold.2SPh.2,Pold.3lPh.1       0.0    0.6   120.6   49.5    2.8   19.9  196.8            0.0    0.2       3.3    1.3    0.1      0.6     6.4
4. Other Poldera (Phase 1)       0.0    0.0      6.3   96.1    39.6   13.8  154.4          0.0    0.0    0.1    2.6    1.0    0.4          4.1
5. Othor Polders (Phuse 2)       0.0    0.0    0.0    6.0  102.9   63.9  182.4             0.0    0.0    0.0    0.2    2.7         1.4     4.8
Sub-Total                           4.0   94.7  181.9  162.8  168.4   90.6  663.4             0.1      2.7    4.4    4.1      4.2    2.3    17.9
C. OTHER FISHERIES DEV.                                        .
1. O.Fleherles Chokc Div.        0.0    0.0    3.6       7.7    8.2    4.4   22.0          0.0    0.0    0.1    0.2    0.2    0.1    0.8
2. O.FPiherioe Khulno Div.       0.0    6.7    7.2    9.7    8.8   11.1   43.0             0.0    0.2    0.2    0.a    0.2         0.8      1.2 2
3. O.F1sheries Rajehahi Div      0.0    3.4   10.8   11.6   12.4    4.4   42.7             0.0    0.1    0.8    0.3        9.3     0.1      1.1   co
Sub-Total                           0.0   10.1   21.7   29.0   28.9   19.9  107.6              0.0    0.8    0.6    0.8       0.7    0.5      2.9
0. INSTITUTIONAL S1PPORT
1. Inst.Sup. DOF-4I             17.4   13.4   27.4   20.8   33.1   83.7  168.4             0.5     0.4    0.8    0.8       0.9    0.9    4.2
2. Inst.Sup. DOF-Ohaks D01.      7.8   11.1    5.8    6.4        7.0    7.5   45.0         0.2    0.3    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2          1.2
3. lnst.Sup. DOF-Khulno         20.8   28.8   17.2   14.0   16.6   17.0  112.3             0.0    0.8      0.5    0.4    0.4    0.4    3.1
4. Inst.Sup. DOF-Rojbshahi      17.3   39.2   16.3   17.8   19.2   20.5  130.3              0.5     1.1    0.4    0.6    0.5    0.6        3.6
5. Inst.Sup. BODB                3.6    3.7    7.6    4.0    5.0    4.0   29.1             0.1     0.1     0.2    0.1    0.1       0.1    0.8
Sub-Total                           6.7   95.6   74.2   71.6   80.4   82.6  470.1              1.9    2.7      2.0    1.9    2.1    2.1    12.9
E. RESEARCH (FRI)                   5.2    8.9   11.1    4.6    4.1    3.6   37.4             0.2    0.8    0.a    0.1        0.1    0.1      1.0
F. TECHNICAL ASSIST.& TRAIN.
1. TA - Project Management      23.2   86.6   a8.6   86.9   18.2    1.3  163.8             0.7      1.0    1.1    1.0    0.6    0.0        4.3
2. TA - Project Support         14.6   29.9   42.3   30.2   20.8   14.8  162.8              0.4    0.8      1.2    0.8    0.6    0.4    4.2
Sub-Total                          37.8    0.6   60.5   68.2   89.0   16.1  306.6              1.1     1.9    2.2    1.8    1.0    0.4    8.4
Total PROJECTS COSTS              113.6  838.8  416.2  464.4  641.6  461.9 2323.3              3.4    9.6   11.4   12.2   14.3   11.9   62.7
Values Scaled by 1000000.0 3/7/1990 16:67
ool 
gDl



Ban91ladesh
Third Fisheries Project
Summary Accounts by Year
Totals Including Contingencies                              Totals Including Contingencies
Take                                                         US$
90/91  91/92   92/93  93/94   94/96   96/96   Tot..       9 0/91   91/02   92/93   93/94   94/96   96/98   Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. and Acquisltion                  2.4    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    2.4             0.1    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0         0.0     0.1
B. Civil Works                      0.2   97.2  173.1  166.2  164.8   90.8  861.8              0.0    2.8    4.8    4.2       4.3     2.3   18.4
C. Equipml nt                      16.1   22.7   16.7   10.9   18.4   12.6   91.3             0.6     0.8    0.4    0.8    0.4        0.8     2.6
0. Transport Equipment             80.4   29.1      0.8    0.0    0.0    0.0   60.8            0.9    0.8    0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0      1.7
E. Study/Service Contracts          4.8   18.7   27.0   87.0   29.4    22.8  137.4            0.1    0.6    0.7       1.0    0.8      0.6    8.7
Total DNVESTMENT COSTS             63.8  166.6  216.6  204.1  207.1  126.0  973.2              1.6    4.7     5.9    5.6      5.4    3.3   26.4
1t. RECURRENT COSTS
A. staft                           88.7   72.0   85.7   76.7   64.0   86.6  862.6              1.1    2.0    2.4    2.1       1.4    0.9      9.9
B. Fingerilng                      0.0   60.9   66.6  130.4  282.7  248.8  788.3             0.0      1.7    1.8    8.6    0.1       6.4   19.8
C. Operation and Maintain.         17.8   86.2   48.9   42.6   46.6   50.8  288.8              0.6     1.0     1.2    1.1    1.2    1.8       0.4
0. Study/Service Contract*          8.8    8.0      3.6    0.7    1.2    1.8   13.1            0.1    0.1    0.1    O.O       0.0    0.0      0.4
Total RECURRENT COSTS              59.6  171.0   198.7  260.8  834.4  836.9  1850.1            1.6    4.8     C.6    6.7      0.8    8.7    86.3
Total PROJECT COSTS               118.6   8a6.6   416.2  454.4  541.6  461.9 2823.8            8.4    9.5    11.4   12.2   14.3   11.9   82.7
Value. Scaled by 1000000.0  8/7/1990  16t55
Q1 :S
9> 3
D
x4



Bangladesh
Third Fisherios Project
Sumary Accounts Cost Summary
Taks                           US$                         X Total
----------    ----- - -------- - ----------  I Foreign   Base
Local  Foreign    Total       Local  foreign   Total    Exchange    Costs
1. DIVESTMENT COSTS
A. Lead Aoqulsttlon                 2.0       0.0      2.0         0.1      0.0     0.1          0.0       0.1
U. Clivl Works                    28.5    148.6    452.0           6.8      4.0    18.4         84.4      29.0
C. Eiqulpmu                        86.8      29.8    0S.1          1.1      0.0     2.0         45.7      4.4
O. Transport Equlpnmet             25.7      24.5     50.2         0.8      0.6     1.0         48.6       8.4
E. Study/Servle Contract           61.9       4.8     86.2         2.5      0.1     2.7          5.0       6.6
Total INVESIUENT COSTS            426.4    207.0    685.6          8.5      8.4    19.7         82.6     42.7
It. RCUEN  COS
A. Stoft                          139.9    114.5    254.6          4.8      8.6     7.9         45.0      17.1
D. Flogerlings                    894.2      48.6    4a8.0        12.2      1.4    18.6         10.0      29.4
C. Oporatioo and Maintain.        124.0      28.8    152.4         8.6     0.9      4.7         16.6      10.2
0. Study/Srvlce Contraect           9.1       0.6      9.6         0.8      0.0     0.8          6.0       0.6
Total REC.URRDT COSTS             067.8    167.1    65.4          20.7      6.6    26.5         21.9      67.3
_________  -_ ____-------- -  -                     
Total BASELINE COSTS             1096.7    894.2   1469.9         84.0    12.2    46.2          28.6    100.0
Physlcal ContInsnclso          90.2      22.9    113.2         2.6      0.7     8.6         20.3       7.S
Price Contingencies            665.9    161.8    720.2         10.2      2.6    18.0         21.6      28.2
Total PAOJECTS coSTS             1744.9    576.4   2825.8         4B.9    16.8    62.7          26.1    1856.
Vetl" Seclod by 1000000.0 -  8/7/1990  1S:66



Bangladesh
Third Fisheries Project
Sum_ary Account by Project Component
Taka
Pubi.    Pubi.    PubI.                                    Other    Other  O.Fihor  O.Fisher O.Flsheor
Stocking Stocking  Stock.               Polder  Pold.2VP  Poldora   Polders   ihe          ite        teo
Ohaks   Khulna  Rajehahi                28,   h.2,Pold  (Pha"    (Phase        Ohaka   Khulaa Rajshahi
Div.      Div       Div   Polder 6  Phase 1   .81Ph.1    1)           2)       Div.      Div.       Div
t. INVESTMENT COST8
A. Land Acqulmiti.m                   0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
6. Clvil Works                        0.0       0.0       0.0      88.1      67.6    119.6    86.0         08.6      0.0       0.0       0.0
C. EquIpmnt                           0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
D. Transport Equipment                0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
E. Study/Servxce Contracts            0.0       0.0       0.0       1.4       2.8      4.7       8.6       8.6      18.2      26.4      26.4
Total DNESTMENT'COStS                 0.0       0.0       0.0      87.6      60.9    124.2       02.1      02.1      18.2     26.4      26.4
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Staff                              0.0       0.0       0.0       0.8       0.7       1.1       0.6      0.2       0.0       0.0       0.0
B. Fingerling                       120.6    162.4    186.0         0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0
C. Operation and Maintain.            0.0       0.0       0.0       1.6       2.4       8.0       1.2       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
0. Study/Service Contract.            0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0
____________________--__-------- ---------------------------   ----- -------------.-------  ;.
Total RECURRENT COSTS               120.6    152.4    166.0         1.7       8.1       4.1       1.6       0.6      0.0       0.0       0.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                120.6    162.4    166.0        39.2      68.0    128.8       08.9      92.9     11.2      26.4      28.4
Physical Continmgncle              12.1      1C.2      16.6       3.9       6.8      12.6       9.4       9.8       1.8      2.6       2.0
Prile Contingoncels                72.7      66.6      96.1      18.6      21.8      67.8      61.1      60.2       7.6     18.9      18.6
Total PROJECT COSTS                 206.4    268.8    279.6        68.6      91.1    198.8    154.4    182.4        22.0      43.0      42.7
Taxex                               4.1       5.1       5.6       C.0       7.9      17.4      18.7      14.6       1.1      2.1       2.1
Foreln Echange                     20.2      24.9      27.6      16.7      29.5     86.8       61.9      66.8      1.1       2.1       2.1
Values Scaled by 1000000.0 8/7/1990  16:54



Bang ladesh
Third Fisheries Project
Summary Account by Project Componont
Taka
Inst.Sup Inst.Sup Inst.Sup                      TA -
Proj et   TA -
Inst.Sup DOF-Dhak DOF-Khul DOF-Raja Inst.Sup RESEARCH Manage.  Project
DOF-H1Q  a Div.    na       hahi    . BUDS    (FRI)      nt     Support
I. INVESTMINT COSTS
A. Land Acquisition                 0.0       0.0      2.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
B. Civil Works                     32.6       0.0      4.0      0.0       0.0      6.0       0.0      0.0
C. Equipment                       42.8       2.6      6.4      7.4       0.0      6.4       0.9      0.0
0. Transport Equipment              8.8       6.1     13.8      18.0      8.5      1.6       4.6      0.0
E. Study/ServIce Contracte          0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      4.8      0.0       0.0
Total INYESTIEIT COSTS             78.8       7.7     25.2     26.4       8.6     17.7       6.4      0.0
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Staff                            0.6      10.9     21.0      22.7      0.0      2.6    90.2       88.7
B. Fingerlings                      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
C. Operation and Maintain.         18.0      11.0     29.4     89.6      10.7      0.2       7.6     14.6
0. Study/S.rvic. Contracts          0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       2.8      7.8
Total RECURRENT COSTS              24.8      22.5     61.2     62.8      16.7      6.6    106.0    110.5                                     N
Total BASELINE COSTS              108.6      60.8     76.8     67.6      20.2     26.5    118.4    110.6
Pholcal Contingencies            8.1       2.8      6.7      6.7       0.4      1.0       1.8      0.0
Pric Contngncie                  46.8      12.4     80.2     86.8       8.4      9.9      88.8     42.2
Total PROJECT COSTS               158.4      46.0    112.8    180.8      29.1     87.4    168.6    162.8
Taxe*                            20.7       4.2     11.6      14.4      8.7      4.8       2.2      4.6
Foretgn Exchange                 46.7       7.8     20.6     26.8       5.0      8.0    102.0      64.7
Value Scaled by 1000000.0 8/7/1990 10564
OQ 
X4



- 83 -
AIiX 7
Page 8
Bsngl* desh
Third Fisheries Project
Sumary Account by Projoct Component
Take
Physical         Price
Contingencies    Contingencies
Total       s    Amount      X  Amount
S.  DNESTlT COSTS
A. Land Acquisition                  2.0       0.0      0.0   17.6        0.4
S. Civil Works                     482.0       9.1     89.4   48.7    210.1
C. Equipment                        85.1       8.8      2.2   87.0       24.1
9. Transport Equipment              60.2       0.0      0.0   20.0       10.1
E. Study/Service Contract           86.2       9.4      8.1   50.0       48.1
Total INVESTMiENT COSTS            956.5       7.8     49.6   45.8    267.9
It. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Staff                           264.5       8.0      7.7   89.4    100.8
1. Fingerlintg                     488.0      10.0     48.6   56.0    256.5
C. Operation and Maintain.         152.4       7.7     11.7   47.4       72.2
0. StwdylSrulce Contract             9.6       2.4      0.2   84.8        8.8
Total RECURRENT COSTS               654.4      7.4     6J.4   50.6    482.2
Total ASELAINE COSTS              1469.9       7.6    118.2   46.8    720.2
Physical Contingeneies           118.2
Price Contingeies                720.2       7.5    5".7
Total PROJECT COSTS               2828.8       7.2    106.6   81.0    720.2
Taxms                            144.2       6.4      9.2
Foreign Exchnge                  576.4       6.6      82.6
Value Scaled by 1000000.0 8/7/1990 16t U



- 84 -
ANNEX 8
Bangladesh
Third Fisheries Project
Disbursement by Financier by Semester
(USS million)
IDA          ODA         UNDP      Government      Total
Amount      Amount       Amount       Amount       Amount
Semester
1           2.4          0.3          0.2          0.2          3.1
2            0.0         0.3          0.2          0.2          0.7
3            0.0         0.5          0.4          0.5          1.4
4           2.7          0.5          0.4          0.5          4.1
5            3.3          0.5         0.6          0.7          5.1
6           3.9          0.6          0.6          0.7          5.8
7           3.9          0.5          0.4          0.7          5.5
8            4.6          0.5         0.4          0.8          6.3
9            4.6          0.2         0.3          1.4          6.5
10            5.1          0.2          0.3          1.4          7.0
11            5.1          0.1          0.2          1.3          6.7
12            4.5          0.1          0.2          1.2          6.0
13            4.5          0.0          0.0          0.0          4.5
Total          44.6          4.3          4.2          9.6         62.7



- 85 -
man,~~~                               ~S                                                           nnlnnsx C411aa
eeere ef Fet.t
CO  10 DnWRmYn                                                                                                      Tetntage
DOuty Dieeo
Dv Ot rector                                       _                                          1
mnuuuo~Ln.La  Addtle  0Z re.tor                                     _1                                         1
Am.Oi rector                                        _                                          I
Preeur_nt tiffie r                -                   ~          ~         ~~1  1
Prr""t_t ;-t "X                  ~          ~          ~         ~ ~~~ 1     1
Procur       _       r       .t  O fer                                   _                                         I
Procurement Asistant1
IC3tiU.ifllend gmi11t1  Di rector1I
Uoon's beveleeefit
A_t. Director                                       _                                          1
Adealglatratigg a Fnans.
Officer11
Audit    Account  Officr                                                  1                    1
Joint Olrector/PD                                     1                  -                     I
Floo.olaitn Fishai  Oeputi DirOctor (PD). Fnaldr                           1                  _                     1
Fld tOffer (Peultion)                                 -                   1
F;dh.Officer (Fiod0plain)                                                 2
Field Ameltent                                                            4                    4
R..tonaidn A Tr.ini.,
Aet.0i rector                                         1              '                         1
wom-A  ay,owmntFilo.Officer11
pleh.afficor                                                              1                    1
AoAnistrAtiv  *nd Fin ne
A4en,.tre;    1n;  r                                                                          1 
Accoun* tffier_1                                                                               1
DF toict F;ch.Officer                                3                                         3 S
Fi;d..Extenfin Officer/s                              -                                        3
UPAZDLA OFFICEr  'M Ui sF
agile F;ch.Officor                                10                   -                    10
Aest.Fleh.Offacer                                    10                                       t 10
Field Aseletent                                      10                                       to
Joint DiOrector/PD                                    I o                                      1
Pt ennin. on.torinr.                                                                           1                    1wus
Floadelein Fich.re  A!ei.1tiotne
AeetDir etor                                                              1                    1 
Fie;hereo Off;ier (Reoultion)                        -                                         I 1
F;d&.Officer (Flodplain)                                                  2                    2
Field A..t.                                                              10                   10
bt;eon Aet.                                                               0 
COputy Dire    (OFO)                                                      1                    1
et. D;rector (Eten-irn)                            -2                                        2
I!rt;een Off ie r/F;d .Off icer                      -                    4                    4
Aet.PF;dOffite     (f tenctn)                        -                    4                    4
Feten-ein A TrainAn.
Aeet.D;*rctor                                        1                    -                    1
Aeet.Di rectoer                                                           I 
Fi;d.Offiear (Credit)                                                     I                    1
_   -en    I.ulom.nt
Fida .Offi or (%o(n)                                -                                          1
nttive Officer                                                            1
OXSTRXCT ~     Acont OffI  eUr                                                            I
u riott Fidh.Off;eo                                  8                    -                    S
Fisderioc Estenelen Offeor/S5I                       -                   8
a ile s plh.Officor                                     20                   _                    20
tet. Fi;h.Officer                 2D                                                          20
Fitld Aset.                                                                                   20
8~~                                                   ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~         1 4
DXVXiX OFXCEtRAJSK4KI
Joist Di ectorl ID
Plnnnoit  in *        f I t en~
Fl a 1.a.n Fidoroo   RalsUc
Met Director                                          1                   S                    1
et. Diecor1 
Fi;.Officer                                                                1 le4*1@;n-         2
Flieh.Of icer                                                             1 st1n  _             I
Ehh.Gio          OS$'M       ti O; etor O                                                      1                    1
Amt O;roctor  
rihaccutfficer11
Fldcuat Off   c *                                                         '
FiF h.Officer                              13                                        i 
Fish.Estonion Officer/e                                                   3                   1
OiSFlCT OFFI MUM"i
I"ail- F;  O fic r40                                        -                    40
West a Fish.Offloor                                -04
Amt. Fl;h.Offic.r                                   40                                        40
Field Aet.                                          40
tOTAL tRIUSH                                                            In                   J
MEOW-TM                                                                 an1                  _                     -



BANGLADESH
THIRD FISHERIES PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
Deeft                 * 1V        A  1  K        d                                         |                                 t
-tf, h,of  xx
I===w-'l " aq                111,! ##111 ;101 
fto    Is  I"  ;   M 0IIS11111|1
0hm h*g 1633. P3*Mio
PI,O ,3 ,'i           l  z:::.. .i11z111#    11111
of. ft Pm,i  C"I
* _..  . .                                 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
P. .IN                                                                              .  ...a...   ..
Ppm.Mv op pi,. VW"m
9.O.POtNi -0.4 WftU.:
'. g m400.3
Swetog Con ftt-W
- 3*~~~~ 
304~4 S% 00t
". oftw"  Ite.. 104 m



- 87 -                                                   Annex 10
Page 2
TFP-Floodplain Fisheries: Project Steps tCritical Path)
Project: FLDODPL                                                  12-Oec-19i9
Name            Responsible       Duration        Slack          Start date                 Finish date
Code              Description
SELINSP         DOFIHO            3.00 N1th E      2.49 Nth E    1-Sep-1990                  1-Dec-1990
Selction of Finoerling Supply Inspectors
PFEPPROC        DOF/hTA           3.00 Nth E       0.08 Nth E    l-Sea-1990                  1-Dec-1990
Prepare Procurement Docs for Fingerling Supply
SETuMtION       STA               2.00 Nth E       3.00 11th E    l-Sep-1990                 1-Mov-1990
Set-up Field Staff of FPL Production Monitoring
RESFDI          FRIiSTA          12.00 Ilth E    1(1.0(1 Mth E    I-Oct-1990                  1-Oct-1991
Research on Fishdisease Year
INITSTUD        STA               5.00 Nth E       3.00 Nth E    1-Nov-1990                  2-Apr-1991
Initial Study lChanda,1SK9,Halti)
PROFSUP         DOF/hTA            4.00 11th E     0.08 nth E    l-Dec-1990                   2-Apr-1991
Prequalification of Fingerling Suppliers for PY2
PEzFFI          FRI/STA           12.00 11th E    10.00 N1th E    i-Feb-1991                  1-Feb-1992
Research on Fishfood in Floodplains Year I
TRINSP          DDF,HN             3.00 Nth E    11.48 N1th E   15-Feb-1991                  17-hay-1991
Training of Fingerling Supply Inspectors
TENDSUP         DOF/11TA           4.00 Nth E      0.08 11th E    2-Apr-1991                  2-Aug-1991
Tender for Fingerlings Stocked in PY2
IPIONVI         STA              12.00 N1th E      3.00 N1th E    2-Apr-1991                  1-Apr-1992
Intensive Production Monitoring 1st Year
PREFPPOD        Suppliers          6.40 11th E     0.08 Nth E    2-Aug-1911                  13-Feb-1992
Prepare Fingerling Production for PY2
FEEDBACK        FRI/DOF                            9.02 11th E    I-Oct-1991                  1-Oct-1991
Feedback to Floodplian Planning
PESFD2          FRI/STA           12.00 N1th E    13.02 11th E    I-Oct-1991                  I-Oct-1992
Research on Fishdesease Year 2
FEEDBACK        FRI/DOF                            4.98 N1th F    t-Feb-1992                  1-Feb-1992
Feedb back to Floodplain Planning
RESFF2          FRIISTA           12.00 11th E     8.98 Nth E    1-Feb-1992                   1-Feb-1993
Research an Fishfood year2
INSPSUPL        DOF/IITA          4.00 Nth E       0.60 11th E   13-Feb-1992                 13-Jun-1992
Inspection of Fingerling Supoliers
HATCHING        Suppl1DOF          0.50 N1th E     0.55 N1th E   15-Feb-1992                  1-Har-1992
Hatching for PY2 Stocking



-88-                                                 Annex 10
Page 3
tFF-Floodplain Fisheries: Project StePs (Critical Path)
Project: FLOODPL                                              12-Oec-1989
hame           Responsible      Duration       Slack         Start date                Finish date
Code             Description
NtURSING       Suppi/DOF         3.00 Nth E     0.48 lith E    I-Nar-1992               1-Jun-1992
Nursing of Fingerlings for PY2 Stacking
F15,wflrR6     STA             43.O0 Nth E    18.99 Nth E    I-Aor-1992                 2-JJIl-1997
Fishermen Organization
FONQr2         STA             12.00 N1th E     5.91 1th E    l-Apr-1992                2-Apr-1993
Intensive Production Nonitoring Year 2
rEEDEACN      SA                               3.00 NIth E    I-Apr-1992               1-Apr-1992
Feedback to Floodplain Dev. Planning
STOCKING       SupplIDOF         0.50 1th E     0.52 11th E   15-Jun-1992              30-Jun-1992
Stocking in PY2
PROSUP         DOF/NtA           2.00 11th E    0.05 Nth E   30-Jun-1992               30-Aug-1992
Prequalification of Fingerling Suppliers for PY3
FESFG          FRIUSIA           9.00 Nth E     7.05 N1th E   30-Jun-1992              31-llar-1993
Reseach on Fishing Bear
TEM*SUP        DOF/IHTA          2.50 N1th E    0.05 11th E   30-Aug-1992              14-Nov-1992
Tendering for Fingerling Suppliers for PY3
FEEDBACK       FRIIDOF                         13.02 11th E    I-Oct-1992                1-Oct-1992
Feedback to Floodplain Planning
RESFM3         FRI/STA          12.00 Nth E    13.02 Nth E    l-Oct-1992                 1-Oct-1993
Research on Fishdisease Year 3
flAbEiPI       STA               3.00 NIth E    34.00 nth E    l-Nov-1992               31-Jan-1993
Planning for Further Floodplain -Dev. No I
PREFPROD       Suppliers         3.00 11th E    0.05 Nth I   14-Nov-19"2                14-Feb-1993
Prepare fingerling Production for PY3
FEEDBACK       FRI                              8.98 11th E    l-Feb-1993                1-Feb-1993
Feedback to Floodplain Planning
RESFF3         FRI/STA          12.00 11th E    8.98 nth E    l-Feb-1993                 1-Feb-1994
Research on Fishfood Year 3
H4tCHING       Suppliers         0.50 N1th E    0.49 Nth E   15-Feb-1993                 2-flar-1993
Hatching for PY3 Stacking
NURSING        Suppliers         3.00 N1th E    0.44 Nth E    2-Par-1993                 2-Jun-1993
Nursing of Fingerlings for PY3 Stocking
FFLPSI         DOFIStA           3.00 DvY E     5.91 N1th E    2-Apr-1993                5-Apr-1993
Ist Flood Plain Fisheries Workshop



-89-                                                       Annex 10
Page 4
TFP-Floodplain Fisheries: Project StePs (Critical Path)
F-osect: FLOOtDFL                                                lU-Dec-1989
tiana           Responsible        Duration       Slack          Start date                 Finish date
Code              Description
IPtlOIY;        STA              12.00 11th E      7.00 11th E    2-Apr-1993                 2-Apr-1994
Intensaie Production Nonitoring Year 3
Ai. ITPY4       DOFI1TA           1.00 Nth E       !.91 N1th E    5-Apr-l993                 5-llav 1993
Adapt Stoacing Progras of PY4
cTK, 11r        SUP0D;DUF         O.CQ Nth E       4.5 51th E   15-Jun-1993                 IO-Jun-1993
Stockirg in Pi3
I!;;TFY4        DOF,nTA           N.DO nth E      4. f  n1th E   3Q-Jun-9999 3-Jun-l4
Implement Stodcing Progran PV4
FUDBAJ;         FRI'DOF                           13.02 N1th E    I-Oct-1993                 l-Oct-1993
Feedback to Floodplain Planning
;LiANEJ2        STA               3.0u) 11th E    13.06 Nth E    i-Noi-19i3                 31-Jan-1994
Planning For Further Floodplain Dev. No.2
FEEDtACr        FRIiDOF                            8.98 1th E    l-Feb-1994                   1-Feb-1994
Feedback to Floodplain Planning
EPFHNvI         FRSS              12.QD O1th E    14.89 a1th E    2-Apr-1994                  2-Apr-1995
Extensive Production Monitoring lear I
'EsUiEAU!       STA/DOF                            7.0Q  th E    2-Apr-1994                   2-Apr-19Q4
Feedbick to FoodDlain Dev. Planning
IPPETOY5        DOF;1TA          12.00 nth E    12.04 1th E   3I0-Jun-1994                   1-Jul-1995
loplesent Stockinq Progras Pi5
!L4E£P3        STA               3.LO) Nth E    21.04 Nth E    1-Nov-1994                   31-Jan-1995
Plan for Further Floodplain Dev. No.3
etLWSZ'         DOFiSTA            3.00 Dvs E    14.89 Nth E    2-4pr-1995                    5-Apr-1995
Flcodplain Workshop 2
EF1UN           FRSS              12.0( Nth E    14.89 Nth E    5-Apr-199S                    4-Apr-1996
Extensive Prodcution Monitoring Year 2
Ir1;STPY6       DOFi,TA          12.00 N1th E    1.A4 Nth E    1-Jul-1995                    30-Jun-1996
lIplement Stocking Progras PY6



- 90                                                       Annex 10
Page 5
TFP-Coastal Shriop Culture: Froject Steps ICritical Fathi
Pro3ect: CSHRINPC                                                    12-Dec-198?
ri.zt*           Resoonsible        Duration        Slack           Start date                  Finish date
Ineg               Descriotion
SelPeCen         EXtWP              3.0t) Mit' E     1.o  "th E    l-sep-199t)                    1-Oec-199
Selection tf Design tla,ultants
e:jQoCon         St4                3.(.) Ith E      1.?. n1th E     I-See-trJ0                   1-Dec-1990
Select Social Consultants for Shri? 'ulture
[ftl,,.:        '--XD              C!fA; Mth E       1.?; Ftt E    l-Dec-lqt;q)                   3-Miav-1991
Pet.Desimn o' Bluices. ;elders c and 23. Pnase I
-s F 5.T                            $.fil, nth E     1.02 Ntht  E    l-;e:-lB  0                  3-tlar-1991
Sv:3l Stur.es in Feljers 5 and 27: pnaie I
.. r .    ,  CWiaons                6.(0  1th N      1.0  1Mth N    :-Dec-195U 3-Ju-0991
Outline Design Polder 31
CE F5.23         tOF, BDB           !.Ofu hth E      1.tJ2  Ith E    1-Pav-1991                   2-Jun-1991
SSelect Shrina Plodcs to be Peveloo9d.Pold. 5.23
.AC 11th N       1.05 Mth W    3-3un-199                      1-Oct-191
,.nder for lonstr. of lluices.Folders 5.23
ssr'I-,l,        &,^STACo--         6.6 .0 11th E    f.99 nth E    `-Jun-1991                     3-Dec-1991
Social Survey Polders 23.:!
034 OF           Werb               6.00 11th E    13.01 O1th E    I-Oct-1991                     I-Apr-0992
Outline desi,n colders 31,32,0j;19.3
sl P'',.'  #it,2          {.t.'. Xth E     1.C15 Hitb E    1-4QV-1991                   l-Jun-19,7
Constr. Sluices 1st Year. Folders 5 and 23 
itF.3.31         ,nDOF4wD8!STA      1.00 Nth E       0.99 Nth E    3rDec-1991                     2-Jan-1992
Selection ct Strit,o Plocts,fold..",31
LW5F'-.i1       tttilCons           5.t0 nth E       0.97 N1th E    2-Jan-lq,A.                   2-Jun-1992
Det. Design, Polders '3 and 31
;-  F 3Tti(ops                      6.00 N1th E      3.03 1Mth E    I-Apr-1992                   30-Sep-1992
Social Survey Pold. 31,12,.16I9. 
,,iF ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~S hi,lf "th F               7.17 N,th r    5-111t"-t901                  !-^w-
,ainv Season Stop of Construction
TC3.71           E'tAv 8.". lth E                     *.94 11t. E     2-Jun-192                  2-Oct-1992
Tenser for ronstr..pold. 23.31
5,5 DP DOF:STri;PD                  1.00 Nth E        3.LO, nth E   30-Sep-1992                  31-act-9M2
Selection of Elocts Fold  -1.'.. 16:1:.
tE t'F            PBicons          5.Mis fth E       '.03 M1th E   3l-)t-1iq2                    i-Apr-1993
Detail Desip  ;old. 1,3i..I2i.3



- 91-                                                       Annex 10
Page 6
TFP-Coastat Shriep Culture: Project Steps ICritical Path)
Project: CShRINPC                                               12-Dec-1959
'4ee           Respon,ible       Duration       Slack         Start date                 Finish date
Code             Description
ClP23,31      BPDP               7.00 nth E      1.02 "th E    I-lov-1992                 2-Jun-1993
Construction of Sluices. Ist year, P23.31
C2 F5.23       8ND8              5.00 N1th W     2.08 N1th i    2-Nov-1992                I-Apr-lW3
Constr. of Sluices, 2nd vear, Polder 5,23
TC FP          ENDO              4.00 Nth E      3.03 Nth E    l-Apr-l993                 I-Aug-1993
Tender Construction. Fold. 31.32,18119.3
Rain                             5.00 Nth E      2.09 11th E    3-Jun-1993                2-Nov-1993
Rainy Season Stop of Construction hDrk
C: DP           DP7.00 tOth E                    3.07 11th E    l-Nov-1993                2-Jun-19M
Copstructiop, 1st year. cold. 31,32,18/19,3
C2P23.31       EIDB              5.00 11th v     2.04 11th 1    2-Nov-1993                4-Apr-1994
Construction Sluices, 2nd year, Pold.23.31
Pain                             4.90 11th E     0.12 N1th E    3-Jun-1994               30-Okt-1l4
Rainy season
C2 OF           NDB              7.Q00 Nth E     0.09 N1th E   30-Oct-1994               31-1ay-195
Construction. 2nd year, Pold.31.32,18/19,3
Pain                             5.00 Ilth E     0.09 Nth E    3-Jun-1995                 2-Nov-1995
C3 OF          E11b              6.00 Ilth E                    2-Nov-1995                3-ftay-l"6
Construction, 3rd Year, pold. 31.32,18/19.3



- 92 -
Table 1. Finaneil ..d  coneenic CjgjgWi&                    no.la   mY r Sii  at 91-  Sbrim per lb  Munt eH..d l.ea
Srig                      Oct.8e         980   Ihord. I         Oct.69           93/94 Onward
Financial Prcece
C & P                                 WIkU g    headle.            4.00               7.25               6.80               7.25
Le. Pre!ght. tnilrding                Us/kg    b dl L5                                                  145                 4 5
FOS Bangladesh,                                hadl e..
Exchange Rats                         T2 8.                                           82#J 3. .5                            32.5
F08 Sanuladech                        T/h    hldl es              22                                                        24
L eeo                                 Tbx/g or  ba dle. 
Lm  Trxapert aid Hlliag
betweiin Preeormp and Ship          T/hg    hbdl..                                                                          2
Price at Processing Plant             Tbh      beadl e1.
Lea Proceaing C.tjNsrgin              Tbk      beadle 
Proeorer Buyiag Price                 Tb/hg    beadle.            1I                 AM                  15
Le  Tranport A tbrkctine Cas
from FPnrate to Prceear             Tb/hg    beadle              25                  26                 20                 20
FPragte Pric                           k/e     headle.. sI                            15
Faragte Price 2/                      Ta/hg    bah                                   15 ; 
1/ xport te  ef 1.4 11 en R8 valueto * pected to be introduced in FM91.
Fa cter 0.85 fer cerwv     fro  head-en to leadle..
Table 2.  Financial and Ecn        t I'Peaf          t.nrIm  and Cut.u.t
Lt                          mmj         F       ;icmll                      Econoic
Carp                        Tb/hg                 20                          18
Fingerling                  Tkb/h                 41                          S6
Shrimp Fry                  Tb/lOO               500                         400



-  93 -                                         Annee  12
T*ble 1
THMR FISHMIRX PRPOW
Baaic Modl major Floodpla.ne (Oc cntntt. 196  Tb.)
W.thaut       With Project
Project       (Increnentel)            With Project (rewta)
V.ew Point         Coet/Benefit                 It_a           Year 0      1        2      8-20       1        2      3-30
Laaa/              Cost/he            Laa  fee                     30      7O       7o      1         760       760     138O
Lcenaa holder                         Catching                    220     "60       760       00      80      U1000     110
Supervision                 10       sO       sO       s0       40        40       40
Finance charge              10      25       225      405      23        215      418
TOTAL              270    i1s       1785     265      1935     20n       29S5
sefite/ha         Fiah vwlue         6    t    0     2200     2600      S00      2m          o 91   S a550
Not benef ta/ha                               2t0       am       618      VA       018     1098      898
Prof Fisherman     Cot/he             Ewqipent                    I10      220      260      800      350      370      410
Catch-labour               110      220      260      300       D0    37O         410
TOTAL              220      440      820       lOO      60       740      820
esoefito/ha        Catch Incoae               220      660      760       900      80      10S0     1120
Net benetsta/ha                                 0      220      260       300      220      260      300
Part-tiee          Cost/ha            Catch coat                  110      220      260      300      330      370      410
Fishreen           gunefite/he        Fish value                 M60    2200    2600    3O00         2780     3130      3860
Not bnefit a/ha                               440     19Q0    2340       2700     2420    2700    3140
ald                Coat/he            Stocking                      0     1300     160      15 8I0 l0w         10       1350
A4ei.iatration              60      100      100      1O0       1O0      130      160
TOTAL               SO     160      1600     1480     160       1680     1800
Be dita/ha (lesee feee)                        30      780      7        1350      780     7nO       3
Net benset i t/he                              (20)   (80)    (80)    (100)    (870)    (870)    (120)
Ecosoee,           Coat/ha            Stock ing (GM                 0     1SO3       10     1330    1.500)   1iSO      1350
Catching (Prof. F.)        220      440      820      6o       660       740      020
Catching (Port-tine P.)   110       220      260      300      330      37        410
Supervision                 10       30       30       SO       40        40       40
dininetration (08           s0      100      100      100      1JO       lJ       1SO
TOTA0.             390     2200     2410     2S00    2600    2o0    2770
eseit t/ha         Total catch value         1100    4400      5200    6000    s80         6300     7100
Net benefitta/h                               710     2110     2790      320      26       3500     4330
otee   General - Year 1 (Y1) a the year when stoeking aterts. All coata/benefita are finncial. The finaciel price for fi h is 10 Tb/ke
(WOP) end 2c0k/he (P). Wild fisb is aotly *m_l and (on  riced. The rtoleval rtae of atoebad flab to 126. Las holder - La /l.cen
fee   e  aasuaed to incraa  sith the project to cover a03 atoeking ceta to S01 In Y1 md V2 ad 1008  a of n8. Catch cata are 6 Tk/kg of
fish caught by Prof. fiaheren. The leasn holder. with the help of Prof. fi;heen. eatea SOS of totel catch.
Supervision costa ere  apvctod to riae froe 10 Tk/ha in Y0 to 30 Tb/ha In 1-0. Fine  chare"  r             la*e to hl/Ie   olders. They would
borroe SS of the laoaa/li;onse fea aaunt for a period of 6 agtha at a eanhbly intret  rote of 10 f re away lendera. BeSnfits  e SO0
of total catch. Profeinal fiaherne  - Catch caa are in tha  oderd  of 4 Tb/hg of f*ah c_ugt of dhich 2 Tb  e 'for equipment and 2 Tk for
labour. Coata are eapected to fll 1 *1I VP to 3 Tb/hg of which 1 Tb is for  wqupant (due to better ut;l;-tien) and 2 for Tk/labour.
Senefits (VP) Per  equ1  to catch costs plue a ea-gin of 4 Tb for increased income for tebour. Part-ties fieherman - Catch coee   are 2 Tk/Xg fan,
Part-t. Fe catch  05= of total catch; half (- 25 S of totl catch) is caught in floodplaine nd  half ln the river system. 008 - Stock.ng rate wP
is 20 kg/ha In Y1. 30k g in Y3i fingerling sais increae  frtre 1S0 tmn./kg In 1 t 90/hg in Y3; cast be 3 8/hg im Y1 and
46 Tk in Y3. Floodplalna that w*Il be stocked in later years woid start at a stocing rate of 30 h/ha. Co"t of adoiniatration is eapected
to rise fro  curronely C0 Tk/ha to 1O Tfl/ha due to heavier load of work. Saorffit      t are tha revnue from leaee/1 tcen" fasa. Eeonomy -
8 nsita are equaI  to value of totel cateh. Incremental yieldr/ha ore 220 kg i;n 7. 260 kg In Y2 and 5W  kg in Y3.
ttcs:Teb-1)



-  94  -                                  amo   12
'rable 2
TN180 F1S1IUr , A0                                                2
Baic Model MInor Floodplain. (in constant Oct. 16 Tbn)
Without      With Project
Project      (Incraantal)             With Project (Total)
View Point        Coot/Pamelit                Item           Y.ar 0      1        2      s 80       1       2      3-30
Lomas/            Coot/he            Stock ins                    0    SOOO    $S60       4200    3000    3600    4200
Liense holder                        Leaee/Licon * fee           35      900      00      1620      935     9385   l65
Catchins                  268    2040    2440    2840    2806    2705    3105
Supervision                'O       30       30       30       40       40       40
Financial char"e           10     1170    1880    1t46       lSO      136G    1756
TOTAL             320    7140    8320    104#        7460    66W      1078
anefita/ha        Fish value                 990    a6o       9760   11360    9160   10750   IE6
Not benseitt/ha                              670     1020    1440       924    1690    2110    1594
Prof ,Fihoermn    Coat/ha            Catching                   265    1224    1464    170O    1489    1729         1965
Senefi ta/he      Catch                      440    2040    2440    2840    2480    2880    3280
Not benefita/ha                              178      816      976     1140       91     1151    1315
Part-time         Coat/he            Catching                   175      204      244      184     379      419      489
Fiaheoren           eefite/ha        fila  value                280    2040    2440    2840    220         21S60    8060
Not benofit/ha                                45     1886    2196    2568       l81      2241    2601
coo               Coat/ha            Administration              50      100      100      100     SO      10      150
8enofita/ha       Lsai fee.                   35      g0       9o      1620      9u3     935     l65
Not bncfitat/hs                              (1)      800      800     1520      785     785      1SOS
Economy           Coat/ha            Stocking                     0    3000    3600    4200    8000   3900    4200
catch cat         Prof. Fihe_ean             265    14        1464    1704    1489    1720    1l69
p.rt-t;Me fishermen       175      204      244     284       379      419     459
SuperviVion-laae           10       30       30       30       40       40       40
holder
Administration-00          80      100      100      1OO      1SO     l5      1SO
TOTAL             NO0   455        g8       6318    SOS8    53         6818
8snfita/ha        Total catch value        lO1   10200    12200   14200   11300    10           1800
Net benefita/h.                              60o    8642    6762    7892    6242    7362    8482
NoteS:       Generl  YI _e TabIe 1.
Lease Holder  Stocking rate  Y1 50 kg/he. Y2 60 kg/ha, Y3 70 kg/lh. Fingerling size i 125/ke. fingerling price ia 60 Tk/kg.
In amnec FPL's stacking rat-* er higher than in eajor fPP  (2 atockinge aonth-, better recovery by invontor).
Leae./licone fee  a 201 higher than in Najor floodplains.
Catch cots are 3 Tk.WOP and 5 Tk.WP. Catch cot. are lor cowpred to eajor floodplaina on account of
*"i;r fiehing.
Supervision and financial charge.   me assumptions as In Table 3.
Benefit. : 68  of total catch.
Profeional Fiah.aen   Increee  in their ahare from 3 Tk/kg fi h to 8 Tk/kg fiah caught.
Part-ties Fiaherae   Catch coat are 2 Tk/kg of fish cauht WP. WP benfita are 208 of total catch.
00lt  No comentc.
Economw   Total catch   i  5Y S10 ke/ha. Y2 610 k/ht and V 73.0 kg/ha.



-  95                                                       Anna 12
Table 3
Th160 FISER=5 PpOrj5
Fare Model - Shri.w Culture in Rotation with Paddy in Polde*
V;thout Project                     WIth Project (Incroemntet)                                 With Project (Total)
-------- -       -  -   ---- -  -- - - -  ----- -  ---- - - -  ---- -  --- - -____  - __--   ____  ___._    .¢_    ____-+__ - ----------  _-- - --- - - --- - -- - ---------- -- -- -- ---
Yuer 0      1       2        9        4       5-?    6-20        1       2        3        4       S-7    8-20
Coat Tk/ha
On fora investment                  0      327      351        0        0       0        0      327      931        0        0        0        0
Juveni les                       6000        0    2000    2000       M0    3500    3SX0        6000    60    8000 9800    9800              9500
Forti I; er * Feed                600        0      "00    1200    1700    2400    2400         60o    1I00    180o    2300    3000    2400
OU Civi I Worke/Equipent          5S0        0        0      800      300     300      800      5O       s6       660      860      860      300
Infrastructure chare                0        0        0      000      500    1100    1100         0        0      500      SOO     1100    1100
Land compensation                 1oo        0      1SO      180     1SO       1OD     160      100      250      250      250      250      15O
Labour                           1100        0      100      200      300    S3O       800    1100    1200    1800    1400    1400           300
Land Proparetion                  600        0        0        0        0        0       0      000      S0o      sao      600      SO      SOO
Hi ClIIaneous                     to0        0       50      100      2a0      500     SO0       100     180      200      300      600    S0
Fmnancel charee (inw)               0        0        0      500    1500    3000         0        0        0      M0O    l50      3000        0
Finfncial charge (op)             360        0      S8       496      744      924      924     360      718      85S     1104    1284    1284
TOTAL COSTS                      9320      327    3909    8446    6694    12174    9174    9647   1J9    14760   18214   21494   18494
lensf i to
Shrivp kg/ha                      100        0       S0       60       90      120      120      100     180      160      190      220      220
Price Ti/kg                       110      11o      110      t10      110      110      110     110      110      110      1t0      110      11o
TOTAL B4A1TS                    1100w0       0      300       0      "900    1300    13200   11000   14800   1i600   20900   24200   24200
Net Benefit'
Net benefits Ti/ha               1680    -327    -609       11S2     1006    1026    40Q6      l188     1071    28S2    268        2706    5706
Note: - Paddy b*nefite/coete not accounted for; paddy net c"hfel  is p; oltive.
- Project year asdefined as year of completion of a,vice gate by OM.
- FRR is 95S.
- 1 fare feally hae 1 he of land. 1 shrimp fare i 25 ha.
- Constant October 1989 Tb.
(tce:Tab-S]



- 96 -
Annex 12
Table 4
Th11  FISES P150VJE
Fare tdWl - Shrimp Culture Only inside Polder,
without Project                      With ProJect (Incremental)                                  With Project (Total)
Ysr O       1        2        3        4      8-0      8-20       1        2        3        4      8-07      0-20
Cost Ti/he
an fae investmnt                     0      327     a31         0        0        0        0      82?      a81        0        0        0          0
Juveni les                        9000        0     260D 300          6000              SOD 0    9000    15C00   12000    100        50        15000
FPrti I is tr   Feed              180         0      750     183      2280    2680    2am0    1J50        2100     2680    3600    4200         4200
0MM Civil Workas/Eiuipsen          730        0        0      800      JO       300      800      780      730     1060     1030     1030       1030
Infreotructureo charge               0        0        0      800      b00    1100    1100          0        0      500      50O     1100       1100
Land commenastion                  125        0       63      125      1iO      150      1SO      125      1SO      230      275      275        275
Labour                            1840        0      140      200      420      420      420     1540     l160     1820    1260      1260       1960
Land Preparation                   20D        0        0        0        0        0        0      260      250      280      2S0      250        250
Miecel Inew                        200        0      100      200      400      60O      60O      200      S0      400     S6O       600        Go0
Loe of Paddy                         0        0      600    1J60      1360    1I3O      1360        0      SO      1860     18S0     1350       1350
Financial chaore  (iew.)             0        0        0       00     1500.   M00          0        0        0      500    ISOO      3000          0
Financial chargee (op.)            58o       87      487      66      1122     127      19        567      96?     1195     162      1609       1809
TOTAL COSTS                      13725      364     4941    840    1392    17049    14049    14069    10S6    22175   2717    30774            27774
8enef i te
Shr;i  kg/ha                        60        0       40       90      130      200      200      180      190      240      300      350        350
Price Tk/lg                        110      110      110     t1O       110      1tO      110      110      110      110      110      110        110
TOTAL B8EEFlTS                   165SO        0     4400    9200    16800   22000    22000    15C0    20900   26400    33000   38500           38500
Net Sbnef ito
Not bendi tt Tk/ha               2m        -364     -541     1450    2606      4951     7951    2411    2234    4225    5211         7726      10728
Note: - Constant October 1969 Tk.
- Project year defined s- yfr of clecitio, of *aice gat. by OM.
- FRR of inremetal camlflea. witho*  t financial dcargetI 1885.
- I fare as 25 ha.
(tet :Te-1



- 97 -
Almen 12
Table 5
Far. tddi - UhPiap Culutue In ftatian with Paddy atsid   Peldert
wtSwvt Proee                         With rojet (Incremental)                           VIt, Projet (roul)
Yer 0       1        2        8        4      5-20       1        2        8        4      520
ea"t lb/ha
Oanfr& a v.etamt                     0      240        0        0        0        0      240        0        0        0        0
Juveni too                        60          a     2000    200       350    800        GM00      am      Sos         o      soo
PartS I lier a Fse        O         00        0        0oo   120      10o    2400        s0      10       10    g3*          300
OAK c;vi I War*ejEtw.Spaas         780        a        0      to0      Soo      7        ?078     780      80       185      1480
Iafraatr .o. Chan".                  0        0        0        0        0        0                 0        0        0        0
Lan    pei_                        100        0       so0     10O      120      l20      10       1to      200    20         220
Labour                            10          0      1O       200      300    380       1100    1MO O     185       1400     1400
Land Pr.peratsem,                  N0         0        0        0        0        0       0oo     800      n0       StO       80O
imil tan...                        10t        a       SO      tO1      200      SCO      100      1t0      2500      SCO      0o
Financial chafe"  (im.-)             0        0      S00     1000     1000        0        0       we     1w        10         0
Financial chage" Cap.)             86         0      847      414      741      a"4      865      712      779      1106     1209
TOAL. ClOSTS a4                             240    8947      8114      61    lS14        785    18442    14S0t   184ti   17079
Shrimp kg/h                        in0        0       s0       s0        0      100      120      180      1tO      210       220
Price Tlb/h                        110      1tO      110      1tO      110      110      0tO      110       100      110      110
TOTAL u93cco                     12000        0     8800     660      9O90    10       1        ll lO    1s0o6   t190o    28000
Nat bad i. tl/ha                  2306    -240    -6?        1401      989    2610      26        i0      89       S44    8121
Nets - ASS In conteat OCte_br 1*9 tb.
- 116a to nt .ev ted fo_; _*t be;fIte of padd  cultiatlc.  a  eated tm ha increasingly p"ltive.
- Project roarIla the gearhate. stenalon and aredit pro eorative an farm, level.
-1 shrim form mere a ha ed gremoe 25 ahrt farmer..
Ctc:The R  



- 98 -
Tablo 6
mzB Fzgsi ERo r
Wdel for Pond .ith Rish of Flowding (in twnat Oct.8e  Tblha)
Wthout Prwojet                     With Project (Incremental)                             With Projct (rotal)
.e.a 0    1      2       3       4       S      6-20     1       2       a      4       a      6-20
Cast Tb/ha
Pond  veatmant                   0    ISO        0       0       0       a      0    1V1        0       0       0       0       0
let stocking (MY)                0   2000   2000   3000   4000   4000   A00    2000   200   1000   400o   4000   40o0
2nd stocking (Cat)               0       0    2400   2860   3360   8160   3860          0   2400   2860,  860    160o  3Seo
Pend mint"enan                   0       0   20   2890   2890   2120   2820             0   2120   2120   212    21            20
Ferti IIer & Feed                0    80   40e0   4040   4640   4640   4640    680   4060   4640   48               4140   4640
Sur,.sion                        0    240    1600   2400   3200   3200   tO0    240    1600   2400   3200   S200   320U
Catching                       600    480   2400   2960   3240   3240   8940    1O0          3000   366e  8s40   3840   3640
Lo" of WI Id Fish prodcutlon     0     700   3000   1000   3000   1000  r000    700   300    3000   3000   SO0O    3OOO
Repysant of M-credit             0       0   40O    SCoo   5sO800 50             0      0   4000   5000   50    300             0
Finaenial charga oer. cost       0    403    16s    2038         S 325 226 32 2       408    1e6     26    2125   2325   2325
TOTAL COSTS                    600   6233S 34        228   316   31885  26065  S6    2405   2               3215    24s5  2668
Bean its (Trl/b)
F;oh yield (et at/kg)          so3    240    240    260    320    320    320    840    340    se0    820    620    620
Fish yield (2nd at/ko)           0       0    960   1200  1lS0    1300    1500          0       o90   I200    1300   1300   1300
F;as Price (Td/k#)              10      20      20      20      20      20     20      20      20      20      20      20      20
TOTAL 8EMIS                   lC00   40o0  24000  2960   12400  32400  32400   7800  27000  32600  35400  85400  35400
Hot Benef it's Cm/ha)
Nat benefit                   2400  -1433      542    132       13i   816   6313    967   2042  S32   3216   2915   8715
Nate: - Projet year   is when aatension covers the pond an Oscavation is done. fish pric. so. is loer becaus  of
dom nce r smalil *Ild fi h.
- F- Is M7.
[tco:Teb-4]



Economic Analysis Total Third Flshorios Project (Oct 89 Th)
90    91    92   90    94   9O   9o    97    90 99-09
Economic Cots
Eeon.Cost najor FPL*(TkM)     -  41.6  61.9  102.0  187.4  226.8 225.8  225.0  225.6  225.6
Eeon. Cost. CSC (Th I)      3.1  69.0  102.2 112.0  126.2  102.4  62.8  67.0  94.6  67.0
Leon Cot. Other F. (1kM)      -   10.0  28.8  56.4  S2.0  121.1  123.2 181.0  188.O 183.0
LeoC  CostInetitution (M)   86.6  46.3  86.8  82.5  84.6  82.8  82.8  82.8  82.6  82.0
Eeon Cost Research (TkUi)    2.7   4.5   5.8   2.2   1.9    1.6   0.6   0.5   0.5    0.5
Eeon. Cost TAT (Tkm)       29.6  47.6  58.1  40.6  22.8   8.8   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0
Total Eeon. Coat (TkM)     71.9 211.8  287.6  847.7  483.9 492.0 487.1  479.1 488.7  491.1
Eeoomno Ie onaelt (Tk N)
Leon. Sooef. Floodplain       -      - 102.1  120.6  288.0 400.0  480.0  480.0 400.0  480.0
Eeon. Ebnow. Shrimp           -      -      -  19.0  C8.S  110.7 161.8  197.6 219.0  219.0
£con. Ebnof.Other Fishor.     -    1.0   16.8  46.1  104.7  170.0 204.1  210.0  216.9 216.9
Total Eeon.Besef.             -    1.0 117.4  167.7 446.2  760.7 645.9 894.1 917.9 917.0
ELon. Net Bno Its (Thk)
Total Econ Mt Bnefit*   -71.9 -210.6 -170.2 -160.0  -17.7  268.7  878.6  416.0  429.2  426.6
=~ _m =    = a=_ =                                    =
S/9j1990 8s42
I
NRLTOT    PV at 12.00T = 1078.6
Switching Values  t 12.t                                       0RTOT    PV at 12.001 X 88a2.4
BkRIA     PV P t 12.001 a 2187.8
ApprlisaI    Switchlng     Porcontgo                           BRI8      PV at 12.001 a 799.4
Sta               Volue         Volv          Change                           BRIC       PV at 12.001 a 916.2
--         -.---2-6---6----------------- -  -t 12.00   288.
ORltOT             8662.4       2608.0         -27.63   C.OT    PY at 12.001 a 1120.8
CRlA      PV at 12.00% a 6120.9
CRIS      PV at 12.01 a  681.9
C Rl"tO             28Oa.8       882,4            We.x                           CRlt         a t 12.009 a 020.
>g$'' '   _       9t                                           (l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ctot  WV t 12.OOX  202.9
CUil      PV at 12.001  14.7
Nab, lb6 Prsent VslIe at OCC  12.01% 'LXi0                                          CRlF      Pn at 12.00  * 151.5
internal nta, of Return a 80.90
Coupo" Eq"Ialont Rate of Ratute a 1a.S3
H



Present Value of Not Streme at a Discount Rate of 12.0%
1RlTOT   UW 10o   up 20%   UW s60  DM  10o  DOWN 20  D0W 51
CRITOT   107.8.   1460.9   1866.1   8O01.6    890.4    8o2.1   -882.6
uP l0    798.2   1186.6   1674.7   2739.4    410.0        21.8  -1143.0
UP 201    617.9    9".1   1294.8   2459.1    129.0   -268.0  -1428.8
UP 601   -823.8      06.0    4U.2   1617.9   -711.6  -1099,S  -2264.6
DONN 10   1889.0   1747.2   2185.6   8800.2    970.6    582.6   -582.2
0034 20X   1689.4   2027.8   2415.8   8580.6   1251.1    882.9   -801.8
DOWN 50    2480.5   2018.7   8257.0   4421.7   2092.8   1704.0    5a9.8
R1TOT    LAO1    LAO 2    LAO 3
CR1TOT   1078.0    62.6    291.2    -40.4
UP 101    798.2    892.8       10.9   -820.7
UP 20S    617.9    101.9   -209.6   -001.1
UP 60    -M28.8   -789.2  -1110.0  -1442.8
DOM  lOX   185s.0    948.0    571.0    240.0
DOW 201   1089.4   1228.4    962.0    520.4
DOWN 60X   2480.6   2064.6   108.1   1801.5
LAO 1        -    968.0    591.s    260.0
LAO 2        -         -    689.9    528.8
LAG S        -         -        -    77.7
ne rna l Rates of Returns of Net Strm                                                                                        -
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
8R10    UP 101   UP 20%   UP 501 DOW 101 003W 20  0o0  601
CR1TOt   80.916   86.484   41.708   56.899   24.8n7   18.111         NONE
UP 101   26.447   80.916   56.998   49.676   19.412   12.434         NONE
UP 201   20.469   26.921   30.916   44.206   14.804    0.796         NONE
UP 650    0.796   12.948   10.111   80.915   -1.02b        NONE      NONE
OM3  101   87.070   42.824   48.245   63.098   80.916   24.163  -11.978
DO  20M   44.208   60.20    55.898   71.570   87.818   80.916    1.984
DOWN 50    70.425   88.890   91.032  110.980   os.577    0.265  .80.915
9170TT    LA  1    LA 2    LAG 
CR1TOT   80.915   20.817   14.898   11.602
UP 10%   26.447   16.604   12.108    9.440
UP 201   20.409   18.185    9.584    7.404
UP 501    0.796    8.981    2.778    2.118
DOW 101   87.079   24.426   17.982   14.117
DOW 201   44.206   29.070   21.441   10.987
DOWN 5OX   76.426   4S.768   85.717   29.079
LAO 1        -   80.915   20.817   14.898
LA  2        -         -   80.916   20.317
LAO          -         -        -   30.915



Major Floodplairs: Economic Analysis (Oct.89 Tk) No Inst,RO,TAcostst
_______________--__,___._____--__._________.__________________________
so       91        92        93       94    96-09
_________________________________________._____________________________________ _.____
Area stocked ha
Dhake Division (ha)              -    000.0   6000.0  16000.0  30000.0  30000.0
Khulna Division (ha)             -  18000.0  18000.0  24000.0  80000.0  80000.0
Raijsbhb Division (ha)           -   10000.0  10000.0  20000.0  40000.0  40000.0
Total area stocked (hb)          -  29000.0  29000.0   0000.0  100000.0  10000.0
Area harvested
Dhaka Dlvision (ha)              -         -   6000.0   6000.0  16000.0  80000.0
Khulna Division                  -        -  180Q0.0  18000.0  24000.0  80000.0
Rajahaht Division                -        -  10000.0  10000.0  20000.0  40000.0
Total orea harvested             -         -  2900.0  20000.0  60000.0  100000.0
co"ta
Stocking, C0C  (Ti/ha)           -   1600.0   1600.0   1380.0   1850.0   1860.0
Stocking 008 total (T I)         -      43.5     48.5      81.0    185.0    185.0
Catching Prof .Fl hTk H)         -        -      19.1      22.6      64.0     90.0
Catching Partt.Fe Ti  )          -        -       6.4       7.5      10.0     80.0
Supervision Priv.(Tk H)          -      0.9       0.9       1.8       8.0      8.0
Administr.Coetroc. (Tb H)        -      2.9       2.9       6.0      10.0     10.0
.____ ............_. .....__.._.__ -... _--_ .. .. ... ---.  ----.. ;... -.-- o
Total Ftnan.Cost (Tk W)          -      47.8     72.6    119.0    220.0    266.0
E.Cost Stock.from COSTAB         -     38.5      88.5      71.6    119.4    119.4
Total Icen. coot (Tk N)          -      41.6     81.9    102.0    187.4    226.6
eneftita
Catch (kg/h)                     -         -    220.0    200.0    800.0    800.0
Total Catch (tons)               -        -   689.0   7540.0  19000.0  30000.0
Price  (Tk/ton)            20000.0  20000.0  20000.9  20000.0  20000.0  20000.0
Total finas. BenetdTk M)         -        -    127.6    160.9    360.0    600.0
Total tcon. B8netit(Tk h)        -        -    102.1    120.6    286.0    460.0
Not SeneItst
Econ. Met boe tito (Tk h)        -    -41.5      40.1      16.7    100.6    254.2
8/9/1090 S:82
(1) 8 niCote tncreomntal. In Oct 69 Tb Million; Harvet lagged ono year
oo~
x
w 



Preent Values of Hot Stie.. st a Discount Rate ot 12.06
ORITOT   UP 10   UP 20X   UP 50X  DOWN 10X DOW9 20X DOWN S0
CRITOT   1040.8   1283.6   1480.4   2130.7    830.0    613.8    -37.1
UP 10x    984.7   1161.6   1888.3   2018.8    718.0    601.2   -149.2
UP 20X    822.6   1089.4   1266.2  106.5    606.9    889.1   -281.8
UP SOX    486.8    708.1    919.9   1570.2    289.8          62.8   -697.6
OO1N lOX    1168.9   1876.7   1592.5   2242.8    942.1    726.4          75.0
03W4 20X    1271.0   1487.8   1704.6   2854.9   1064.2    887.6    187.1
POM  506   1607.8   1824.1   2040.9   2691.2   1890.5   1178.8    628.4
BRlTOT    LAO 1     L4A 2    LAO 
CRIToT   1046.8     814.6    607.2    422.0
UP 106    984.7     702.5    495.1    809.9
UP 20X    822.6    690.4    888.0    197.8
UP 56O    406.8    254.1       46.7   -188.4
D09N 106   1168.9    928.7    719.6    684.1
0OMN 20X    1271.0   1088.8    881.4    s4e.2
DOWN 56   1607.8   1876.0   1107.7    9S2.6
LA4 I        -    984.7    727.8    542.1
LAO 2        -         -    884.6    649.4
LAO          -         -         -    745.1
Internal Ret.. of Reur. of Not StreamI
IRITOT   UP 10%   UP 20X   UP 6ox 0034 1OX DON 20X  0OM  BOX
CRITOT   187.657   181.880  lS.048  268.165   118.505   89.109    6.016                         BRITOT    PV *t 12.00   a 2167.8
UP 10X  115.700   187.617  19.170  223.812    98.685   70.961         NO                        CRITOT    PV at 12.00% = 1121.0
UP 206   97.299   117.627   187.517  196.898    78.876   65.a88        NONE                      NRLTOT    PV at 12.OO  = 1046.8
UP 506  65.388    72.488    89.109  187.617    87.4#8   17.868         NONE
O03IO1   198.068  190.818  218.682  29C.781   187.517  110.817   24.678
DOWN 203  196.898   228.605  266.165   846.497   187.286  187.527   44.884
DOWN 506  875.422  423.486  471.599  616.775   827.676   279.916  187.517
R1OT       LAG 1    LAO 2    LAO a
CRITOT  1$7.617    52.610   81.464   22.281
UP 106  115.700   44.9a8   27.027   19.124
UP 206   97.299   38.260   28.02    18.330                                              Switching Value at  12.0%
UP  06N   55.886   21.948   1118.1      9.381
0O03  1O0  168.968   61.224    86.493   26.780                                             Appraisal     Switching    Percentage
0OM3  206  1#.89a    71.429   42.286   29.726                             Strem             Value         Value         Change
DOWN 506  875.422   117.857   67.484   46.681
LAG 1        -   1I7.617   62.610   81.484                              BRlTOT            2167.8        1121.0         -48.x1
LAO 2        -         -  187.517   62.510
LAO 8        -         -         -  187.617                             CRlTOT            1121.0        2167.8          93.40
Not Proesnt Value at OCC   12.01 a 1046.8                          x
Internal Rat. of Roturn a 1S7.6X 
Coupon Equivalent Rat. of Return * 28.81                          .



Coastal Shrimp Cultura.Econoetc Analysls(Oct.89Tk)NoInst.Res,TA Costal
--_--------------------------------------------------------..-- --._.-_
90      91       92       93       94      9S       96       97       99   99-09
Areas In polders In he
Polder 6 (he)                   -  1000.0  1000.0  1000.0  1000.0  1000.0  1000.0  1000.0  1000.0  1000.0
Polder 23, phas. 1 (ha)         -  2000.0  2000.0  2000.0  2000.0  2000.0  2000.0  2000.0  2000.0  2000.0
Poider 23, phase 2 (ha)         -       -  1000.0  1000.0  1000.0  1000.0  1000.0  1000.0  10DO.0  1000.0
Polder 31,phose I (h)                   -  3000.o  8000.0  3000.0  8000.0  3000.o  30o0.o  3000.0  3000.0
Othsro,phaas 1  (hs)                                 3 _  -  8000.0  3000.0  3000.0  3000.0  3000.0  3000.0  3000.0
Other ph.se 2  (ha)             -       -        -        -  3000.0  3000.0   ao00.o  3000.0  8000.0  3000.0
Total Area In polidra (ha)      -  3000.0  7000.0  10000.0  1300.  13000.0  130(0.0  13000.0  13000.0  13000.0
Area utside polders (ha)        -       -        -  2000.0  2000.0  2000.0  2000.0  2000.0  2000.0  2000.0
- -i_  - - -           I -- - -- - -- -- - -- - -- -- - -- -- -- -- - -- -- - -- ............. - - - ..._- - - - - - -_-- - -- -- -- -
Total area (ba)                 -  3000.0  7W00.0  12000.0  16000.0  15000.0  15000.0  15000.0  15000.0 150.0
Prlvate Cost Tk/ha (1)
Poider S                        -        -  2943.0  7812.0  8736.0 10370.0  11070.0 11070.0  11870.0  11870.0
polder 23,phrsel                -       -  2943.0  8359.0  3960.0  8160.0  7160.0  7160.0  7150.0  7160.0
Polder 23,ph 2                  -       -        -  2943.0  6869.0  3960.0  6150.0  7160.0  7150.0  7160.0
Polder p8l,phl                  -       -        -  2493.0  8359.0  3960.0  6150.0  7160.0  7160.0  7160.0
Oth,e. phl                      -       -        -        -  2948.0  8a69.0  3060.0  8160.0  7160.0  7150.0
othern phc. 2                   -       -        -        -        -  2948.0  6369.0  8950.0  6160.0  7160.0
Outside poldera                 -       -        -  2400.0  8100.0  3700.0  8e20.0  7640.0  7640.0  7640.0
Produation kg/ra
Polder 5                                -              40.0    90.0   160.0   200.0   200.0   200.0   200.0
polder 23 phi                   -       -        -    30.0    60.0    90.0   120.0   120.0   120.0   120.0
polder 28 ph2                                             -    30.0    80.0    90.0   120.0   120.0   120.0
poider 31,ph 1                  -       -        -        -    30.0    80.0    90.0   120.0   120.0   120.0
other. phai                             . -      -        -        -    30.0    60.0    90.0   120.0   120.0
othrer phase 2                  -       -        -        -        -    30.0    30.0    90.0   120.0   120.0
Outside pold.                   -       -        -    30.0    60.0    90.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Production In tons
Production In PId.ra            -       -        -   100.0   330.0   760.0  1160.0  1460.0  1840.0  1640.0
Production Outs. Polder         -       -        -    80.0   120.0   180.0   200.0   200.0   200.0   200.0
Total Production                -       -        -   160.0   460.0   930.0  1360.0  1660.0  1840.0  1840.0
Costs 7k h
PrIv co t In Polders TkU        -        -     8.3    80.6    48.9    68.9    91.5    64.9    94.5    97.5
Priv. Cost outs. Pold.TkU       -       -        -      4.8      6.2      7.4    13.2    16.1    16.1    15.1
-- - -- -  -- -- - --    -_- -- - -- - - -- ;- - - - -_-- - - - - -- - -- - -- - -- _- - _-- ----- ----
Total Priv. Fln.cost Tk M       -       -      6.8    85.3    65.1    74.3    94.7    99.9    109.6   112.6
Total Priv. Econ.cost Tkl       -       -      7.1    28.2    44.1    59.4    76.6    80.0    07.6    9c.0
Tot.Publ.Econ.Inv+OAU TkM     8.1    59.9    95.1    83.8    81.1    43.0         7.0      7.0      7.0      7.0
________ -------- -------- -------- --------- -------- -------- -------- --- ---- --------                    >q :1
Total Econ. Cost TkM          3.1    69.9   102.2   112.0   126.2   102.4    82.8    87.0    94.8    97.0                               La
- -- - - -- - -- -- --- - -- -- --- - -- -- --- - -- ----- - -- -- --- - -- -- --- ------   --------  ---------- --  -  -
Benefits in TK M                                                                                                                            w
Total finan.benet (tkM)                          -    17.8    49.5   102.3   149.6   182.6   202.4   202.4
Total econ. benefits  TkU       -        -       -    19.0    53.6   110.7   181.8   197.6   219.0   219.0



Not enefit. Th N
Econ. Net Benef Its Tk M     -8.1   -69.9  -102.2   -93.0   -71.7          0.2    79.1   110.6   124.8   121.9
S2         UU   UfU | aa                      Ca3  ~=##S=== aza     n=:S=a:= __t aa 
3/9/1990 8:35
<1> from farmodela Financial cost les transfer (fin.charges,coot rec.)
(2> From cetab, coastal shrimp culture coponent *con. Volvo
Switching Value at 12.01
ApprIsal     Switching    Percentage
Strem             Value         Val"          Change
-   __ -_____ - -----_---                                         BRITOT    PV at 12.00X = 799.a
CRITOT              799         6881.8         -21.01                        CR1TOT    PV at 12.001 = 631.8
NRLTOT    Pv at 12.001   = 167.6
CalerM             631.6         799.8          21 CX
Net Prent Vale  t OCC  12.01 * 167.5
Internal Rate of Retrn a 20.01
Coupon EquIvalnt Rate of Return * 16.41
II .
0Q 
,,.



Present Values of Net Streams at a Discount Rate of 12.0X
BRITOT   UP 10   UP 20X   UP 06N DOWN 10%  DOWN 20% DOWN 60S
CR1TOT     187.6    247.4    827.4    687.2        87.8       7.0   -282.2
UP 10x    104.8    164.3    264.2    604.0         24.4    -56.6   -296.4
UP 206      41.1    121.1    201.0    440.8    -38.8   -118.7   -368.5
UP  06X   -148.4    -88.5      11.4    261.3   -228.4   -S0o.3   -548.1
DbO" lOX    280.7    810.6    890.0    630.4    150.8          70.8   -189.0
DOWN 20X    298.9    878.s    468.7    698.6    213.9    184.0   -106.8
DOWN 50X    488.4    588.4    643.3    s88.1    403.5    828.6            8.s
SRITOT    LA I    LA 2    LA4 
CR1tOT     107.6     81.9       6.4    -62.9
UP lOX     104.8     18.7    -67.8   -126.1
UP 206      41.1    -44.5   -121.0   -169.3
UP 50X   -148.4   -284.1   -310.6   -878.8
DOWN 10     280.7    146.0      68.6       0.8
DONN 20X    298.9    208.2    181.8        68.6
DOWN  06X    408.4    897.0      21.8    265.0
LAO 1        -    149.6       78.1       4.8
LAO 2        -         -     188.6      66.8
LAO          -         -         -     119.2
Internal Rates of Returns of Not Strseas
8R1TOT   UP 10   UP 206   UP SO  DOWN 1OX DOWN 20X DOWN 06X
CRITOT    19.005   23.281   28.224   84.164    16.485    12.410   -s.485
UP 1ox   16.775 1m.996    22.948   30.724    18.190    9.082  -20.370
UP 206    18.819   17.065   19.095    27.648   10.180    5.842         NONE
UP SOX    5.842    9.380    12.416    19.906      1.689   -4.228       NONE
DOWN 10   28.574   28.861    29.922    38.184    10.095    16.016   -2.029
DOWN 20X   27.848    81.022   84.184   42.728    23.999    19.96        3.201
DOWN 606   45.881   49.290    58.065   88.862   41.112   a8.567    19.996
9R9T1T    UL   I    LA4 2    LAG 8
CRITOT    1.9."    16.206    12.182    10.118
UP OX 1   16.775   12.701    10.186    8.391
UP 20X    18.019   10.890     8.251    8.800
UP SOX    5.U42    4.226      8.26      2.679
DOWN 1OX    23.674   17.971    14.484    12.009
DOWN 20X   27.64s   21.076   18.963   14.128
DOWN 6OX   46.381    84.000   27.236   22.694
LAO 1        -   19.996   1.200   12.162
LAG 2        -         -    19.995   16.200
LAO 8        -         -         -    19.m95



Other Fisheries. Economic Analysi.(Oct.89 Tk)NoInstlt.,Resu.TA costs
90      91       92       98       94      96       96       97   98-09
Areas In ha
Ulnor Flood plain. py3          -        -  1000.0  1000.0  1000.0  1000.0  1000.0  1000.0  1000.0
Minor Flood Plains PY4          -        -       -  2000.0  2000.0  2000.0  2000.0  2000.0  2000.0
Minor Flood Plains PYS          -        -       -        -  8000.0  3000.0  8000.0  8000.0  800.0
Vinor Flood Plains PY-                                             -  8000.0  8000.0  5000.0   8OO0.O
Total Minor Flood Plains        -        -  1000.0  8000.0  8000.0  9000.0  9000.0  9000.0  9000.0
Ponds Pn2                       -   260.0   250.0   260.0   260.0   260.0   260.0   260.0   260.0
Pond. PYsinOCl lOOhn pns        -        -   600.0   600.0   600.0   600.0   800.0   600.0   600.0
Ponds PY4;incl. 200ha pen       -        -       -   1200.0  1200.0  1200.0  1200.0  1200.0  1200.0
Ponds PYS;incl.200 he pen       -        -       -        -  1460.0  1460.0  1460.0  1460.0  1460.0
Ponds PI                        -        -       -        -        -  1000.0  1000.0  1000.0  1000.0
Total Ponds                     -   20.0   960.0  2060.0  8600.0  4600.0  4600.0  4600.0  4500.0
_- - ------ - -- -_- - -- -- -- - -- -- -- _- -- --- - - -_-- - -- -- _- -- -_- -_- -
Total Other Fisherioe           -   260.0  1850.0  5060.0  9500.0  18500.0  185O0.O  18600.0  18600.0
Priv. Fin. Coats Tk/ha
Minor Flood Plain. P18          -        -  46ss.0  5488.0  6818.0  6318.0  8818.0  6831.0  6818.0
Minor Flood Plains PY4          -        -       -  4565.0  5488.0  8818.0  6818.0  6818.0  6818.0
Minor Flood Plains PY5          -        -       -        -  4568.0  6488.0  6818.0  8818.0  8818.0
Minor Flood Plains PYe          -        -       -        -        -  4658.0  5488.0  8a18.0  6818.0
Ponds PY2                       - 19800.0  17800.0  21200.0 287e0.0 28760.0 28780.0  28780.0 28780.0
Ponds PY8                       -        - 19600.0  17600.0 21200.0 28780.0 28780.0  28760.0 28780.0
Ponds PY4                       -        -       - 19600.0  17800.0 21200.0 28780.0 27860.0 28780.0
Ponds PYS                       -        -       -        - 19600.0  17800.0 21200.0 28780.0 28780.0
Ponds PY8                       -        -       -        -        - 19600.0  17800.0 21200.0 2878M.0
Costs
Priv.Fln.Cost FPL TkUl          -        -     4.6    14.8    80.9    48.9    64.2    56.9    58.9
PrIvAFln.Cost Ponds TM          -      4.9    16.2    89.6    68.4    91.0    97.2   104.4   106.9
Tot.Prlv.Fin. Co" Tkb           -      4.9    20.8    54.1    99.3   140.0   151.5   161.2   188.8
Total Priv.Econ.Cost TkM        -      8.9    18.6    48.2    79.4   112.0   121.2   129.0   131.0
Total Publ.Econ cost TkM        -      8.1    12.2    16.2    13.2        9.1     2.0      2.0      2.0                                 0
- -- --  -  -  -- - - - -- - - - -- -- --- - -- -- --- - -- -- --- - -- ---- - -- - -- I- - -- -- ---    b D
Total Economic cost TkM         -    10.0    28.8    58.4    92.6   121.1   123.2   131.0   183.0                                      N m
Benefits                                                                                                                                    W
Production kg/ha
Minor flood pln;ns PY3          -        -   510.0   610.0   710.0   710.0   710.0   710.0   710.0



Minor Flood pltin. PY4         -        -       -   610.0   610.0   710.0   710.0   710.0   710.0
Minor Flood plains PY6         -                         -   510.0   610.0   710.0   710.0   710.0
Minor Flood plains PY6         -        -        -       -        -   610.0   610.0   710.0   710.0
Ponds PY2                      -   240.0  1200.0  1480.0  1620.0  1620.0  1620.0  1620.0  1820.0
Ponds PY8                      -        -   240.0  1200.0  1480.0  1620.0  1620.0  1820.0  1620.0
Ponds PY4                      -        -        -   240.0  12U0.O  1480.0  1620.0  1620.0  1620.0
Ponds PYS                      -        -        -       -   240.0  1200.0  1460.0  1620.0  1620.0
Pondn PY8                      -        -        -       -        -   240.0  1200.0  1480.0  1620.0
Production IMn.FPL* Ton.       -        -   610.0   1830.0  3460.0  6490.0  606O.0  6890.0  6390.0
Prod. Pond tone                -    6o.o   444.0  1876.0  3061.0  5188.0  6667.0  7150.0  7290.0
Totnl prod.   Tone             -    60.0   964.0  a0os.0  8641.0  10623.0  12767.0  13540.0  13660.0
Total Econ. Bens. Tk M         -      1.0    16.3    48.1   104.7   170.0   204.1   211.6   210.9
Eton. Net Bonfits Tk 1         -    -9.1   -13.6   -10.8    12.0    40.9    60.9    66.7    66.9
8/9/1900 8s30
Switebing Value at 12.O6                                                                                                    0
Appraisal    Swittshing    Percontge
Stram             Value        Volvo         Chang
BR4T0              916.1        621.0         -82.15
CR8T0T             821.0        918.1          47.41
Net Proeset Value at OCC  12.0X a 294.2
Inrtern  Rate of Return = 73.43
Coupon Eqivolet Rate of Rtfurn = 20.45
IW
0e



Present Values of Not Streams at a Discount Rate of 12.0%
BR4TOT    UP 10%    UP 20%    UP 60%  DOWN IOX  DOWN 20%  DOWN 60X
CRBTOT     294.2      386.7     477.2     751.7      202.8     111.1    -183.4
UP 10%     232.1      323.8     416.1     689.6      140.6      49.0    -226.6
UP 20X     170.0      261.6     363.0     627.6       78.4     -18.1    -287.8
UP 50x     -16.3       76.2     166.7     441.2    -107.8    -199.4    -473.9
DOWN lOX     858.8      447.8     589.3     818.6      284.7     178.2    -101.8
003W 20X     418.4      609.9     601.4     875.9      826.8     286.8      -39.2
DOWN 5O0     804.6      896.2     787.7    1082.2      518.1     421.6      147.1
BR4TOT     LAO 1     LAG 2      LAG 3
CROTOT     294.2     196.1      108.6      80.4
UP 10%     232.1      184.0      46.5     -81.7
UP 20%     170.0       71.9     -15.6     -93.8
UP 60x     -16.8    -114.4    -201.9    -280.1
DOWN 1OX     366.8      268.2     170.7      92.5
DOWN 201     416.4      820.8     282.8     154.6
DOWN sOX     604.6      506.6     419.0     840.9
LAU   1       -     202.8      176.1      98.9
LAO 2         -          -     284.5     156.3
LAO           -          -         -     209.4
Internal Rat., of Returns of Net Stream.
BR4TOT    UP 10%    UP 20X    UP SOX  DOW 1OX   OWN 20% DOW 05X
CRsTOT    78.480    91.112   10t.754   182.257    65.669    37.184        NONE
UP 10%    57.198    73.430    89.608   187.768    40.691    22.911        NONE
UP 20%    43.403    58.560    78.430   117.689    27.626       8.929      NONE
UP sOX     8.929    24.161    87.184    78.430        NONE      NONE      NONE
DOWN IOX    93.072   112.678   182.870   192.760    78.480    53.662        NONE
DOWN 20%   117.589   189.796   162.257   232.018    96.522    78.430    -6.os0
DOWN SOX   256.284   296.377   338.210   476.151   217.725   180.478    73.430
BR4TOT     LAO 1     LAG 2      LAG 8
CRsTOT    78.430    30.607    18.838    13.485
UP 10%    67.198    24.066    14.775    10.662
UP 20%    48.408    18.182    11.110      7.921
UP 6ox     8.929      8.059     1.807     1.279
DOWN 10%    93.072    38.073    23.402    16.728
DOWN 20X   117.589    48.774    28.825    20.438
DOWN 60X   268.2s4    88.370    51.137    86.069
LAO 1         -    73.430    30.607    18.836
LAO 2         -          -    73.430    30.607
LAO 3-             -               -    73.430
x
oD-



¢~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I I- V- X        V  ,_, ____-  N-   -- W.  
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a  la at be atK
5   ;   i   |  tC i}                  i            etML
1 5 Xt-|85  -, 2fi9}i S }  .EsitWl2  Z -!,35-,'.0  | j!!  i$!  S 5i~~~C 
@ - __ - _ - W  -_____ £'' ---- ° - _ S __ 
:~~~~~~~~~ 0nu.         nnw          S6o@^6               a      cY 
l __ _ X _ 0 S _ _ __ _ _ _ j __ _ _ _ X _ _ _ _ , IL 91



BANGLADESH
THIRD FISHERIES PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANI SATI ON
I*-------------.................... --............ .............
t iDD RQRCULURE EU '50 t........................................ .... 1 .....3
2 1f1S1TR0DS FISHERIES      430.0
3 RRDBCULTURE DEV.          412.5_ 
4 JEBGRtED FISHERIES DEV. 4e2.                         ,                                                                        I
5  II1P CULTURE DEV.        276.6                    ADNIN                                                                  ItC                                                              HI
6      S            f fEED lt 2P8.6 ION   _9__5__
7   X       SEED HVULttPLICRStOH ~     93.5 D|             DY. DIR      D|. DIR          | DY. DIR    |   D|YW. DtR        D|. DIR       ii          | Di. DIR |DR . D
8 r KswHo       A       1t1HR5   E6.6                      F C            FRSS             I.C.   |                                       4l            ILJ
9F 0fNPEC?IOH A OC.          35. -0
ISfl6IRE F SlIE 11516.6
SURVEILLRHCE AOB            6.1 
1 1R D6YO"{H tFISHERIES     9.1 .
V    aibh.ioN                                           I                                                                                                           oWL   I
llg;ID AGIAUL URE           5.5                                                                                                                                         MA IE
FRiPTP5.                                                DY. DIR   |          Y  DI R            Dr. DIR   |Y .D|IRij                                                   Rll 
13pHoSt6tpNL.STREHGTHENING    5.5                       |                       -,",..- |                                            lINIC G     IJS  |I|
.IAA                  _FISSRYCX|                                     FD§RRYC"           |DmLESEX                 HtHERIES TRINN  INS6.t
m                 :~~~4SECTION       2,6
DFO                 DFO                 DFO
_ [-I  umn 0om
......._Lim  or CO_IN?I@
DEUELOPNENT                                                            REVENUE
BUDGET                                                               BUDGET
tiRIECIAL VAV   198S/9G                                               IIIUICI*L YV*R  191/91"
P?RSOIIeU  No 26  Film  1,029                                         P38311. No 1to   rim  2,026
3uT1   TX 698 (OSS 21.2) 1IILI.1                                      BUMl    TX 14  (1S# 4.5) NLtUON
StAYFTUOOM  alto  1WTX 523,M  (USf 16,296)                            St1r1tiE3   I1Ot1O 1:tX 40B,  (M5  1.NS)



4Ws t   X  ,                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~B A N G L A D E S H
THIRD FISHERIES PROJECT
Aj>$,,-,4s, X <Nt   ;v    --                                       PROJECT AREA AND MOR FISHERIES RESOURCES
'; rt Arfk>7L'-'L,Z  )                                                                                     INITIAL PROJECT SITES
-26,                             \[                                                                                COASTAL SHRIMP CULTURE
PROJECT AREA
MAJOR RIVERS
RRI.I8PI.!~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                -    ~~~ROADS
-     RAILROADS
o   DISTRICT CAPITALS
*   NATIONAL CAPITAL
DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
v   t    \    \  .  I N  D  I A             DIVISION BOUNDARIES
)                                         -4 -*    <  . j   tv_  _*_ INrERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
INDIA~           ~~~ 'AKHP                                                                                                               \ GP-
t  ,, ,,f5vzPjP  UAKHAtU   B OLA \;tCm 
_e  8                          V            S          (                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~PATTY  S    o I    #
23*  ,,- /  t                                                                                                                                  -   }> . 
EtIIMfS  **_ *I                                                                                                                           \ o 
-24-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
n    aee    _ R .  .u e                 i                                                                                     N     D   I
D- m nw1 noI.v osl                                                                                                             BAZA
'ALAMA
_d 85-M ' M.
I N   D  I         B                                                                                            Cot. B               N rI
|     2                                                                   KILOMETERS                                                                      ClATK   GET
PARiSTAN.     _     ......    ...    9|1                          AR_UN
m*1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*O.A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 2-
PAKISTAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IOMTR
/ SRI EANRA ~ ~ ~     ~           ~          ~          ~          ~          ~         ~        MANA
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                               PP~~~~~~~~MIL



