Page  1
February 4, 1992
Mr. Enam Ahmed Chaudhury
Secretary
Economic Relations Division
Ministry of Finance
Government of the People's
  Republic of Bangladesh
Room 3, Block 8, Sher-e-Bangla Nagar
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Re:
Credit No. 2146-BD
(Third Fisheries Project)
Amendment of the Development Credit Agreement
Dear Mr. Chaudhury:
We refer to the Development Credit Agreement dated June 8, 1990, between the 
People's Republic of Bangladesh (the Borrower) and the International Development 
Association (the Association) for the Third Fisheries Project. We also refer to your 
letter dated December 12, 1991, requesting amendment of the Development Credit 
Agreement to change the currency of the Special Accounts established pursuant to 
Section 2.02 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement (Special Accounts) from dollars 
to Taka.
We are pleased to inform you that, after due consideration, the Association has 
agreed to the above request. Accordingly, the Development Credit Agreement is hereby 
amended as follows:
Section 2.02 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement is deleted and substituted 
by the following:
"Section 2.02 (b). The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, 
open and maintain in Taka three separate special deposit accounts in a bank 
acceptable to the Association, in the name of the Implementing Agencies on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments 
out 
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement."
Terms and conditions under which the Special Accounts shall be operated pursuant 
to Section 2.02 (b) shall include, inter alia, provisions of the Circular dated 
September 2, 1991 of the Finance Division of the Ministry of Finance entitled 
"Procedure for Operation of Convertible Taka Special Account (CONTASA) of IDA Aided 
Development Projects Under Government Departments/Autonomous/Semi-Autonomous Bodies", 
as may be amended in agreement with the Association.
Proceeds of the Credit converted into Taka for deposit to the Special Accounts 
shall be freely' convertible and may be used to meet eligible expenditures in Taka as 
well as foreign currencies.
Subject to your confirmation as indicated below, this amendment will be 
effective as of the date of this letter.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing by signing and dating the 
enclosed form of confirmation and returning it to us.
Yours sincerely,
Jochen Kraske
Director
Country Department I
Asia Region
CONFIRMED:
Page  2
PEOPLE'S EPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
Authorized Representative
Date:  December 3, 1992
