Document Of
The World Bank
FO OMCIL USE OMY
Repwt NJ. P-36U-SE
REPORT AUiD RECllDTIO
OMM  F  1ME
PlRESIDE£NT 0F THE
INT AIEONL DEVELOPIM ASSOCIATION
TO THE
XECUTI  DIRECRS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 10.2 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
SECOND PARAPUBLIC TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
June 10, 1983
Thi dwumeut ha a resticted dlstbuo mud =my be u.ed by re|dp.t emLy Iu the perfounue of
thIr mEdl dutes Its esutmut my so sdhrwse be dlsXld  io   Wd B_k uthorirtiou. I



CUREKCY IQUITALEITS
Currency Unit:    =   CFA franc (CFAF)
US$1.oo 0              CFAF 355 1/
CFAF 1 million    =  US$2,817
ABBREVIATIONS AfD ACRONYMS
ACC        Agent Co2mptable Central des Etablissements Publics
BOx        Bureau Organisation et Nethodes
CEP        Cextre des Etablissements Publics
CFP        Contr6leur Financier de la Pr6sidence
COF        Coutroleur des Operations F:nancieres
CPSP       Caisse de Pfrequation et de Stabilisation des Prix
CVCCEP     Commission de Verification des Comptes et de Contr6le des
Itablissements Publics
G&SP       Groupe d'Etudes du Secteur Parapublic
FISCAL YER4
Government of Senegal : July 1 - June 30
1/ The CFA Franc (CFAF) is tied to the French Franc (FF) in the ratio of FF 1
to CFAF 50. -The French Franc is currently floating.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC O SENEGAL
SECOND PARAPUBLIC TECHNICAL ASSISTANCA PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:     Republic of Senegal
Amount:       SDR 10.2 million (USS11.0 million equivalent)
Terms:        Standard
Project
Description:  The proposed project is intended to improve the efficiency of
public enterprises in Senegal and help reduce the public sector
deficit by (i) providing technical assistance to key enterprises
for the development and implementation of rehabilitation pro-
grams; (ii) helping selected enterprises to finance audits and
accounting assistance; and (iii) developing and implementing
training programs at local educational institutions geared to
the needs of public enterprise personnel. The project will also
continue an effort begun in the first Parapublic Technical
Assistance Project (Cr. 764-SE) to strengthen the ability of
government's oversight agencies to monitor parapublic sector
performance efficiently and to gaide government policy. The
project provides for: (a) 126 man-months of management con-
sultant services to 12 major enterprises for the preparation of
rehabilitation programs; (b) part of the costs of audits for ten
major enterprises, and accounting assistance and limited review
audits for appro-imately 30 smaller enterprises; (c) nine man-
years of long-term advisors for four government oversight
agencies; (d) five man-months of consultant assistance for an
assessment of training needs, and up to four man-years of
faculty support for the national management training institu-
tion, Ecole Superieure de Gestion des Entreprises; (e) about
18 months of overseas training for Senegalese personnel; (f)
approximately three months of short-term consultant assistance
for development of new auditing and accounting standards for
Senegal; and (g) stud±es relating to the scope, organization and
management of the parapublic sector.
Benefits
and Risks:   The benefits expected from the project include: (i) development
of comprehensive programs for improving the production effi-
ciency and financial performance of key parapublic enterprises;
(ii) in-depth audits and accounting assistance to help improve
financial management in a range of other parapublic enterprises;
(iii) new national legislation setting uniform and interna-
tionally acceptable standards for auditing and accounting;
(iv) improvement in the information available to government
IThis document has a resriced ditrbution and may be usWd by reapients only in the performance of
thr ofica duties. Its contens may ot odhrwise be dbicod without World Bank authorization



- ii -
about parapublic sector performance, and more efficient govern-
ment oversight agencies; and (v) development of practical
training programs by local educational institutions to address
public enterprise needs.
The largest risk of the proposed project will be the failure of
enterprises and of government to assure the desired follow-up
and to implement the rehabilitation programs developed, and the
resulting loss of potentially significant improvements in
operational efficiency. This risk is considered limited,
however, for several reasons. First, work on an initial set of
enterprises has begun (financed under a PPF), and both these
enterprises and government have demonstrated strong interest in
the project. Also, the First Parapublic Project and the 1980
Structural Adjustment Lending operation have allowed for a good
record of cooperation between the Senegalese Government and IDA
on parapublic sector reform. Finally, IDA is planning to
initiate work on a follow-on parapublic project that would
provide financial support to enterprises which demonstrate
progress in implementing their rehabilitation programs.
Estimated Project Costs: The estimated cost of the project, net of taxes and
duties, is as follows:
- (US$ thousands equivalent) -
Local     Foreign     Total
Enterprise Rehabilitation                       566      3,217       3,783
Audits/Accounting Assistance                  1,179      1,649       2,828
Technical Assistance to Government
Control Agencies                            130      1,675       1,805
Training (BON/ESGE)                              50        250         300
Studies                                           -        800         800
BASE COST                                 1,925      7,591       9,516
Contingencies
-  physical (10%)                               192        759         951
-  prices                                       400      1,133       1,533
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                       2,517      9,483      12,000



- iii -
Financing Plan                                ---    (u- CUS million)
Local     Foreign      Total
IDA Credit                                      1.5        9.5         11.0
Government (Public Enterprises)                 1.0          -          1.0
TOTAL                                       2.5        9.5         12.0
Estimated Schedule of
Credit Disbursements:
---- US$ Million
FY84   FY85   FY86   F187   FY88
*                   Annual                      1.7 1/ 2.7    2.9    2.2    1.5
Cumulative                 1.7    4.4    7.3    9.5   1i.0
Economic Return: Not applicable.
Estimated Project Completion Date:  December 1987
Staff Appraisal Report: There is no separate appraisal report.
Naps: IB2D No. 11470R
1/   Includes refinancing of a PPF advance of USS500,000.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL FOR
A SECOND PARAPUBLIC TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
I.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Devel-
opment Credit to the Republic of Senegal in the amount of SDR 10.2 million
(US$11.0 million equivalent) to help finance a Second Parapublic Technical
Assistance Project. The Credit would be on standard IDA terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.       A report entitled 'The Economic Trends and Prospects of Senegal"
(1720a-SE) was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 10, 1980,
followed by a President's Report for a Structural Adjustment Loan/Credit
(P-2869a-SE) dated November 26, 1980, which contained an expanded section
on the economic situation. Since approval of the Structural Adjustment
EUoan/Credit, a series of supervision missions have visited the country to
monitor execution of the program. The following paragraphs reflect the
conclusions of those missions. Country data appear in Annex I-
Economic Structure and Past Developments
3.       Three-quarters of Senegal's territory lies in the Sahel zone, which
suffers from low rainfall and periodic droughts. The mainstays of the tradi-
tional economy are millet cultivation and nomadic cattle-raising for domestic
consumption, and groundaut cultivation for exports. The modern sector of the
economy is ccetentrated in Dakar, the capital, a city of about one million in-
habitants, the economic base of which consists of excellent port facilities,
an important industrial sector, and a small but fast-growing tourism indus-
try. With a populstion of 5.3 million in mid-1981, Senegal's per capita GNP
for 1981 was estimated at US$500.
4.       With Independence, Senegal lost a privileged position as the center
of French West Africa, and subsequently had to adapt to its reduced economic,
administrative, and political circumstances.  Moreover, in the latter part of
the decade, income from groundnuts (the principal export) fell, due to
unfavorable weather and declining export prices. As a result, during the
1960s, the Senegalese economy experienced virtual stagnation as real output
increased at a rate estimated at 2.7 percent per annum, hardly more than the
rate of population growth.
1/   The text of this Section remains substantially unchanged from that
included in the President's Report for the Phosphate Industry Develop-
ment Engineering Project distributed to the Executive Directors on
April 21, 1983.



- 2 -
5.       In the 1970s, Senegal's narrow-based export sector was again hit by
sharp fluctuations, and even with higher rates of both private and public in-
vestment, average annual growth did not rise above the level of the previous
decade. After recovery from earlier droughts, real GDP increased at about 5
percent a year between 1973 and 1977, but declined by 2 percent a year between
1977 and 1981, reflecting the effect of three severe droughts during this
period. A marked recovery from the previous depression occurred in 1982 with
an estimated 10.5 percent real growth in GDP. Results of the 1982/83
agricultural season have been good, leading to an expected 4.5 percent growth
in GDP in 1983.
6.       Large fluctuations in physical production have been aggravated by the
price movements of Senegal's major exports and imports. For example, in 1974,
the terms of trade improved by over 21 percent due to exceptionally high
prices for phosphate rock, Senegal's second export commodity; however, in
1975, export prices for groundnuts declined sharply, followed by a drop in
export prices for phosphates in 1976. Increases in oil and rice prices
brought a further deterioration in the terms of trade, causing a total loss in
income of roughly 6 percent of GDP between 1974 and 1982. This deterioration
in terms of trade, along with the unsatisfactory performance of the economy as
a whole, led the Government to launch an economic and financial stabilization
program in 1980. Thi3 program was extensively discussed with the Bank and the
Fund, and was the basis for an agreement on the purchase of US$243 million
equivalent under the Extended Fund Facility (EFF) approved by the IMF in
August 1980, and a US$60 million Structural Adjustment Loan/Credit (SAL)
approved by the Bank on December 18, 1980. The main objectives of the Govern-
ment's five-year program were to stabilize the econo! z during the first two
years and to achieve an economic growth rate of 4 percent per annum in the
following three years.
Execution of the Structural Adjustment Program
7.       The structural adjustment program had a slow start as a result of the
change -.n Government in early 1981, a record low 1980/81 groundnut crop and
steep increases in the price of imported rice. The new Government reaffirmed
the general objectives of the program, but during its first year in office
chose to focus on the economic and financial crisis caused by the drought.
Some of the measures and policies adopted by the new Government contradicted
the objectives of economic stabilization and structural reform undertaken by
the previous Government, and the agreed calendar for execution of the SAL
program was not fully respected (paras. 9 to 17). In early 1981, the IMF
suspended Senegal's access to the EFF, replacing it later in the year with a
Stand-by Arrangement to help the Government overcome its severe short-term
financial difficulties. Although considerable progress has been made by the
Government since 1981, only the first tranche of the SAL (US$40 million) has
been disbursed. The Bank has withheld release of the SAL second tranche of
about US$16 million, pending the implementation of a renegotiated action
program in the agricultural sector. The Closing Date for the SAL is June 30,
1983.



-3-
Balance of Payments
8.       The new balance of payments policies introduced under the stabiliz-
ation program were based on strict control of overall demand through tax and
consumer price increases, combined with increases in the prices paid for major
export crops and the introduction of special incentives for manufactured
exports (para. 9). However, the targeted reduction in the resource gap could
not be achieved, mainly because of the 1980/81 drought and organizational
problems in the agricultural sector. The fall in groundnut product exports
from a past five-year average of US$220 million to US$94 million in 1980 and
US$34 million in 1981, together with exceptionally high import bills for
petroleum, rice, and oil seeds, increased the resource gap in 19B1 to US$523
million, or about 22 percent of GDP.  In 1980 and 1981, the Government
received exceptional aid from bilateral and multilateral donors, averaging
US$170 million a year. This was, however, insufficient to avoid a further
fall in net foreign assets, from US$78 million in 1980 to a level of negative
US$463 million at the end of 1981. This was subsequently financed by the IMF
for an amount of US$148 million. For 1982, the resource gap is estimated at
18 percent of GDP, and is forecast at about 15% for 1983. The good rainfall
during the 1981/8; growing season permitted a fivefold increase in the 1982
value of groundnut exports, despite exceptionally low world market prices for
vegetable oils. However, the value of imports rose by about 15 percent,
despite the introduction of measures to contain urban demand (para. 11). With
total imports for 1983 still projected at about 45% of GDP (as compared to
around 30% in the early 1970s), further economic adjustment needs to be
achieved in the coming years, mainly through containment of urban consumption
levels, food import substitution and strong promotion of exports.
Producer and Export Incentives
9.       The structural adjustment program laid tbe basis for further
improving the country's trade balance by supporting an export premium system
on certain manufactured goods. The export premium system has already signifi-
cantly increased export and employment levels in the sectors to which it was
applied (para. 31). An extension to 18 other agricultural and industrial
branches, as well as a considerable refinement of the system, will be imple-
mented during the current fiscal year. In February 1982, after a 31 percent
increase in the official consumer price for imported rice, the Government also
introduced a 15 percent general import duty. More frequent price adjustments
for rice will be required to reflect changes in import costs, mainly related
to the realignment of franc zone currencies. Senegal has begun to make
serious efforts to improve its competitive position in industry and services
by limiting wage increases to substantially below those of the urban cost of
living index.
Public Finances
10.      The first budget (1980/81) under the nev financial and economic
policies respected the 15 percent public savings target set under the struc-
tural adjustment orogram. However, the economic depression drastically
reduced tax receipts, particularly on corporate profits and luxury imports.
On the expenditures side, under pressure of growing unemployment among



graduates, the Government did not succeed in restraining civil service growth.
Moreover, the price stabilization fund, CPSP, started to generate vast losses,
mainly on supporting producer prices and input subsidies in the groundnut
subsector. These severe deviations from budget estimates put tremendous
strain on the Treasury, and the Government's inability to pay its bills
threatened the stability of the entire economy. Whereas the Government had
always given priority to payment of its external obligations, in mid-1981 it
asked the Paris Club for a rescheduling of publicly-held foreign debt, and in
October 1981 a rescheduling of US$81 million amortization was agreed upon.
During the same month, the Government also called a donors' conference to
assemble the support needed to finance an exceptionally high proportion of a
reduced program of investment projects and rehabilitation activities.
11.      IA accordance with the IMF Standby Arrangement, subsidies on basic
fcod and petroleum products were removed by increasing Government-controlled
consumer prices by between 25 and 60 percent. Other consumer prices were
affected by increases of 1 to 2 percent in value-added taxes and 4 to 12
percent increases in taxes on various services. Government purchases were
reduced to an absolute minimum and IMF c:edit ceilings were respected.  In
fact, by end-June 1982, all performance criteria established by the IMP had
been met. But despite a reasonably satisfactory fiscal performance, it is
unlikely that by 1985 Government will be able to finance from its net
budgetary savings 25 percent of its public investment program, the target that
the Government set itself in the original structuxral adjustment program. The
main reason for this shortcoming is that debt service will reach 33 percent of
Government receipts in 1982/83 instead of the 15 percent projected in 1979,
owing to an additional 20 percent of previously unregistered debts, debt
service on exceptional aid during the drought years, rescheduled amortization
payments, and debt service on the US$265 million debt of ONCAD (paras. 15-
17). Because of these unfavorable public finance prospects, in November 1982
the Government obtained from the Paris Club another round of debt reschedul-
ing. The Government also agreed with the IMF on the renewal of the Standby
Arrangement based on a program of further tax increases, reduction in the
growth of civil service and other meajures linked with the SAL program.
Inrestment Program
12.      The outlook for the national investmen; program has deteriorated
drastically since establishment of the structural adjustment program in
1980.  While the latter imposed ceilings on the investment program to re-
establish macroeconomic equilibrium, implementation of even the reduced pro-
gram has become problematic. Private investments are stagnating because of
the depressed national economy.  Public investment is suffering from financing
problems because the country is uncreditworthy for commercial loans, domestic
credit is constrained under TMF ceilings and, for the next few years. the
budget will not be able to generate an investable surplus.  A pos..iive
development is the progress made on the new phosphoric acid and fertilizer
complex, based on locally-mined phosphate rock, whose production is intended
largely for export to India and other African states. Since the Government
continues to give priority to projects in productive sectors, the share of
directly productive investments will probably reach 65 percent and thus



surpass the objective of 55 percent set in the structural adjustment program.
The combined investments of the public and the parapublic sector will be in
the vicinity of the agreed ceiling of 10 percent of GDP set for this category.
Parapublic Sector
13.      Reform of the large parapublic sector in Senegal continues to be a
high government priority. Over the last three years the Government has taken
significant steps to reduce the budgetary burden presented by non-viable
enterprises (through the liquidation of 20 companies) and has transferred
ownership of several other companies to the private sector. For the remaining
parapublic enterprises, the Government has increased managerial autonomy by
beginnLag to negotiate "contrats-plan", which set clear objectives for company
operations and spell out the reciprocal obligations of Government and enter-
prise managers.
14.      To date, the Government has signed five contrats-plans, and several
others are well advanced. A major objective of tbh proposed project is to
provide technical assistance to parapublic entcrprises for the develcpment of
rehabilitation programs which can serve as the basis for realistic, viable
contrats-plan and to strengthen the institutional framework for contrat-plan
monitoring. In this way, tae advantages of Government/enterprise contracts
can be extended to an increased number of enterprises and implementation can
be more effectively controlled.
Agricultural Reforms
15.      At the outset of the 1979 economic and financial rehabilitation pro-
gram, problems in the agricultural sector had been vastly underestimated, both
in terms of the siz' of financial deficits generated and the strength of
vested interests supporting existing structures. Liquidation of the Govern-
ment-controlled agricultural marketing organization (ONCAD) set in motion the
slow process of sorting out these deficits and building a national consensus
around new rurganizational formutlae.
16.      The heart of the envisaged agricultural reform was in the cooperative
structure and credit system, where farmer groups at the village level would
collectively maintain their credit rating and undertake certain tasks such as
primary marketing and storage of groundnut seed. A new law for agricultural
*     cooperatives that determines the legal status of these farmer groups has
recently been adopted by the National Assembly but not ye* put into effect.
As for credit, Government has absorbed the farmers' old seed debts considered
irrecoverab._ after the drought years, and announced the creation of a new
agricultural credit organization in wbich a French agricultural credit bank
has been asked to participate. Tests of the new system are beginning in
several areas, including a few districts in the Groundnut Basin. In the
interim, in the absence of agricultural credit for the majority of groundnut
farmers, Government has instituted a system of cash sales for fertilizer and a
levy on the groundnut purchase price to finance seeds.



-6-
17.      By eliminating the large and cumbersome groundnut marketing agency,
ONCAD, the Government took a major policy initiative. This move was comple-
mented by the decision to entrust secondary groundnut marketing to the oil
mills, thus reducing the number of intermediaries in the marketing process.
Over the same period (1980), however, the Government created SONAR, a state
enterprise intended to phase out direct Government involvement in the supply
of agricultural inputs. The progress achieved under the latter reform was
somewhat limited as, although SONAR's functions were reduced, it inherited
more of ONCAD's staff than required to execute these functions efficiently.
But above all, the Government did not change its seed and fertilizer policy,
despite the inability of both the Government and CPSP to bear the heavy costs
involved. The policy includes: (a) a central and costly scheme of seed dis-
tribution to groundnut farmers, and (b) heavy subsidies (80% of full cost of
CFAF 100-129/kg in 1982/83) on fertilizers. Subsidies on seeds accounted for
one-sixth of the US$70 million losses accumulated last year in the State's
price stabilization fund, CPSP. The Government's inability to make the
required down-peyment to the fertilizer factory resulted in a minimal quantity
delivered for the 1982/83 season, and, because of the high subsidies, the
private sector could not enter the market for fertilizers. In September 1982,
however, under the renegotiated SAL action program, the Government committed
itself to change progressively its seed and fertilizer supply policy. Begin-
ning with the 1983/84 season, farmers are being encouraged to keep their own
groundnut seeds. Fertilizers are being sold against cash at an average price
of CFAF 50/kg, as compared to CFAF 25/kg the previous season. The Government
has further committed itself to submit to the Bank, by July 1983, proposals
for progressively reducing this subsidy.
Long-term Prospects
18.      The Government's long-range development strategy continues to be
based on the promotion and diversification of agriculture and export-oriented
activities. The agricultural program calls for development of areas less
susceptible to drought (Casamance and Eastern Senegal), where cash crops other
than groundnuts can be grown. Agricultural research will be oriented more to
farming systems than to individual crops, with the objective of lowering the
costs of yield-raising agricultural techniques and better adapting them to
farmers' constraints. Irrigated cereal production is being developed in the
arid northern part of the country along the Senegal River. Construction has
started on the two large dams planned for the Senegal River by the OMVS, but
the high level of State subsidies required on irrigated rice will require the
Government to pace new irrigation development prudently.
19.      The phosphoric acid project is now well advanced, and the export
premium and realignment of the Franc Zone currencies will, hopefully, attract
more light export industries and tourism once the international economy has
improved. Construction of a ship-repair yard has been completed. However,
these export diversification efforts are unlikely to offset the severely
weakened prospects for groundnuts, still Senegal's main export commodity.
Groundnut oil exports suffer from irregular supplies and from an increased
supply of competing vegetable oils; exports of groundnut cake suffer from the
risk of aflatoxin contamination, which dimini3hes its value as cattle fodder.
As a consequence, in the next few years the share of total exports in GDP is
expected to remain below the levels attained in the early 1970s.



- 7 -
20.      The Government's economic policies and the exceptional foreign aid
granted to Senegal have helped the country pass through the most difficult
years of its economic history, but these efforts have not been enough to bring
the economy back on a path of balanced growth. The over-extended public sec-
tor, as well as heavy domestic arrears and external debt service charges, will
impose serious burdens on the State Treasury and may create a need for further
debt rescheduling. The Treasury will not be able to absorb substantial
additional recurrent cost charges from public investment projects, and for a
few years will need high shares of foreign financing for projects in order to
maintain minimum investment levels. The unfavorable balance of payments
situation calls for a reassessment of Senegal's longer term prospects and the
establishment of a new program of action to achieve the required structural
adjustments. The Bank will focus its country dialogue on these problems and,
in the interim, will considerably reduce the IBRD share in the Bank Group
blend finanacing Senegal receives.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SENEGAL
21.      As of March 31, 1983, the Bank Group has had 51 operations in Senegal
for a total of US$462-7 million including 26 IDA credits, 42 Bank loans, 5
blends of Bank and IDA funds, 5 IFC operations, 2 blends of Bank and IFC
funds, and one blend of Bank, IDA and IFC funds. Most project lending has
been for agriculture, transportation and education. Annex II contains a sum-
mary statement of Bank Group operations to date. Physical execution of pro-
jects is progressing reasonably well, although some operations are affected by
the shortage of counterpart funds due to the continuing public finance diffi-
culties described in Part I of this report. Institutional weaknesses in
several sectors and a lack of qualified local staff for key positions con-
stitute serious obstacles to efficient project implementation.
22.      The Bank's Group strategy for Senegal is to offer financial and tech-
nical assistance in areas where the Government is ready to take necessary
corrective action to: (i) implement investment policies and incentives to
develop and diversify Senegal's production and export base; (ii) increase the
efficiency and savings capacity of the public sector; and (iii) maintain
existing infrastructure. Top priority is given to improving policies in the
agricultural sector where projects can be expected to have a beneficial impact
on economic growth, export earnings, income distribution and rural incomes.
Progress in agriculture, however, is hampered by slow implementation of policy
reforms under the SAL, and unsatisfactory performance by several key Govern-
ment and parapublic agencies.  The Bank Group is also planning to support,
through project lending and technical assistance operations, institutional
reforms that would encourage a stronger role for the private sector, as in the
phosphate and petroleum industries.
23.      In agriculture, project lending will continue to promote productivity
improvements for traditional food and cash crops, together with diversifica-
tion into new crops and new regions. This effort has led IDA to finance an
Agricultural Research Project focussing on agricultural systems improvements,
which should give new impetus to extension services and lead to a more



-8-
integrated approach to rural development in semi-arid areas. The Association
is now in the final stage of preparing a cotton/food crop project for the
raiafed Eastern and Casamance regions, and is also considering support for a
Fourth Irrigation Project that would rehabilitate and expand existing medium-
sized irrigation perimeters. The feasibility of new activities in the Ground-
_it Basin depends on further progress with structural reforms in input distri-
bution, crop marketing and agricultural credit (paras. 15-17).
24.      The Rank Group has also supported diversification of the economy by
lending to the growing industrial sector through the Societe Financiere
Sn&igalaise pour le Developpement de l'Industrie et du Tourisme (SOFISEDIT),
a development finan^e compaay established with Bank assistance in 1974, and
for which a third line of credit was approved in FY81. Also in FY81, the Bank
supported execution of the ICS phosphoric acid/fertilizer complex by financing
the rail infrastructure component. A Phosphate Industrial Development
Engineering project apprcved by the Executive Directors in May 1983 will help
maximize the efficiency of phosphate mining and processing in Senegal, and
assist Senegal in orienting the global development of its phosphate resources.
Currently, Senegal's economy depends greatly on oil imports. After the 1973
and 1979 oil crises, the Government embarked on an active policy of promoting
the discovery of new energy resources and application of new technology. The
Bank support ' this new orientation by approving a Petroleum Exploration
project in February 1983. Diversification is also being pursued through a
tourism infrastructure project which is almost completed. and which includes a
special line of credit to provide long-term financing as a catalyst for
potential private investors.
25.      Bank Group projects have supported economically desirable moderniza-
tion and expanmieu -f the country's infrastructure.  But with the stagnant
economy and heavy infrastructure investments in the past, emphisis is now
being given to better utilization and maintenance of existing facilities.
Thus the Bank is now- preparing a project designed to support tee Government's
policy to preserve the road network through adequate maintenance; similarly, a
project is being prepared to finance facilities required to accommodate
increasing container traffic at the Port of Dakar.
26.       While the Bank Group's overall lending strategy responds to the
importance in Senegal of finansing directly productive projects, it also
recognizes the need for some tssistance to the so-called social sectors.
Project design and preparation have taken due account of the ability of the
Government and users to bear the recurreut' costs involved.  In education,
efforts have been directed to technical and vocational training to support
activities in the productive sectors.  The Bank Group is now finalizing pre-
paration of a Regional Management School Project. A possible Fourth Education
Project would focus on reversing the current downward trends in access to
primary education. A Rural Health project was approved by the Board in
December 1982, and a Water Supply Project in eleven secondary centers has been
appraised and is scheduled to be submitted to the Beard in FY84.
27.      As it became increasingly clear that many of Senegal's economic and
financial problems went beyond the limits of specific subsectors, the Bank



- 9 -
started to shift some of its program toward multi-sectoral technical assis-
tance and structural adjustment lending. A FY78 parapublic sector technical
assistance project and a FY81 Structural Adjustment Loan/Credit are examples
of this changing strategy. The latter aims at supporting the Government's
efforts to control aggregate demand, redirect its public investment p-ogram,
and promote industrial exports and other productive activities through im-
proved price and incentive policies. The local currency counterpart funds of
the SAL are being used for financial rehabilitation of key parapublic enter-
prises which have agreed with the Government on comprehensive "contrats-plan"
spelling out their respective objectives and obligations. The proposed second
parapublic technical assistance project would continue to support the re-
habiliLation of viable public enterprises. The EY81 Technical Assistance
Project for Economic and Financial Planning will strengthen the Government's
capacity to expedite preparation of selected investment projects, to identify
bottlenecks in project execution, and to take remedial action. Additionally,
substantial technical assistance is being provided under the Bank's economic
and sector work program, as well as under engineering loans and credits and
PPF advances for project preparation.
28.      Given the need to focus Senegal's pubLic investment program on high-
priority projects and to finance almost all of this program from external
sources, improved donor coordination assumes increased importance. The Bank
is pursuing its economic dialogue with Senegal in close coordination with the
IMF and with strengthened consultation with bilateral and multilateral
donors. Recognizing the importance of helping Senegal extend its access to
donor assistance, the Bank financed consulting services for preparation of a
donors' conference in October 1981, and has been actively participating in
follow-up discussions on policies and investment priorities in specific
sectors.
29.      The Rank Group's share in total external aid disbursements to Senegal
over 1982 stayed at an average of approximately 18 percent, of which roughly
two-thirds is IDA-financed, largely reflecting disbursements on existing Bank
Group commitments. The Bank Group's share in outstanding disbursed debt was
21 percent in 1981, and may approach 25 percent by 1985. The Bank Group's
share in public debt service is expected to increase from 4.3 percent in 1980
to about 9.5 percent in 1985.
PART !II - THE PARAPUBLIC SECTOR
Background
30.      The parapublic sector in Senegal consists of 68 wholly or majority
Government-owned companies across virtually all sectors, and a portfolio of
minority participations in approximately 120 other enterprises. After
Independence, the Government sought ownership of productive activity for a
number of reasons: to establish national control over important national
resources (groundnut processing and phosphates), infrastructure, and essential
serrices; to promote development in promising areas (tourism, cotton) where



- 10 -
private initiative appeared insufficient; and to attempt to increase manage-
ment and employment opportunities for Senegalese nationals. State-ownership
expanded rapidly during the mid-1970s %hen exceptional revenues from phosphate
and groundnut exports and borrowings on the international money market enabled
Government to acquire majority shares in more than 40 (mainl- foreign-owned)
companies.  In 1981, 68 Government majority companies repres ated an estimated
20% of modern sector GDP, and employed 44,000 workers (approximately 25% of
modern wage employment). Except for public utilities and the rural develop-
ment/agricultural marketing agencies, most of the major public enterprises in
Senegal are mixed companies, with some private participation.
Economic and Financial Performance
31.      Until the late 1970s, the aggregate performance of the sector --
buoyed considerably by high international commodity prices and the strong
performance of phosphate and groundnut oil producers -- was fairly good.  The
50 largest parapublic companies in 1974 were responsible for 77% of total
dividends distributed by the modern sector, paid 72% of all direct taxes, and
generated over half of gross savings for the modern sector.
32.      By the end of the decade, however, declining commodity prices, a
series of poor harves's, and the 3narp deterioration of O0CAD (Senegal's
groundnut marketing monopoly) changed the macroeconomic situation dramatically
and increasingly exposed the weakness of public enterprise performance. Since
1978, aggregate net income for the parapublic sector has been negative, divi-
dends distributed have been negligible, few companies can finance any portion
of their new investments, and parapublic companies have generated only a small
portion (11%) of total government tax receipts. Twenty-nine of the sixty-
eight parapublic companies have experienced operating deficits in each of the
last five years, with aggregate operating losses in FY81 totalling 13 billion
CFA. Direct government subsidies in FY81 were 12.6 billion CFA, equal to 10%
of the government operating budget (excluding debt service), and 20% of the
public sector deficit in that year.
33.      Some of the reasons for poor enterprise performance which recur
throughout the parapublic sector are: unclear or conflicting objectives and
priorities; shortages of managerial and technical personnel, overstaffing, and
poorly deployed staff; investments which were ill-designed or expensively
financed; inadequate cash flow and working capital, due to controlled tariffs
or output prices and poor recovery of client billings; cumbersome government
administrative and financial controls. Despite these problems, almost all of
the public enterprises have been pressed to expand their personnel and opera-
tions; as a result, operational efficiency has continued to decline, main-
tenance of existing plant is often extremely poor, and the financial structure
of many enterprises today is dangerously unstable.
34.      The Government's fiscal deficits over the past several years have
exacerbated the situation; accumulated government arrears have created serious
liquidity problems for the public utilities and other important enterprises
that supply goods and services to the administration. The Government's
limited ability to provide subsidies to unprofitable companies has also meant
that many enterprises' deficits have been financed with commercial bank



- 11 -
overdrafts, government-guaranteed short and medium-term credits, and burgeon-
ing arrears to suppliers. Between 1977 and 1980, for ezample, parapublic
companies' accounts payable to suppliers increased from 81.8 billion CFAF to
106.9 billion CFAF (total turnover in 1980 was 182.7 billion CFAF), commercial
bank overdrafts increased 28%, and working capital among the mixed companies
dropped 72%.
35.      The aggregate net income deficit affords a crude measure of the para-
public sector's current drain on the economy, but it understates the total
level of transfers, quite possibly to a significant extent. Most parapublic
companies are granted important sales and import tax exemptions (on fuels and
capital goods, for example) and their access to government-guaranteed credit
implies some degree of interest subsidy for most companies. Although diffi-
cult to quantify, such transfers to the public enterprises in Senegal are
undoubtedly substantial.
Current Government Strategy
36.      An increasing awareness of the parapublic enterprises' operating
deficits, low tax liabilities, and inability to autofinance needed invest-
ments, has produced a significant shift in Senegalese Government policy
regarding state ownership of productive activity over the past few years.
Since 1980 when public enterprise reform was accepted as one of the major
elements of the SAL Loan/Credit, the Government has been openly committed to
gradual reduction of the parapublic sector through liquidation of non-viable
enterprises and progressive divestiture of enterprises in which it has no
compelling interest. To date, 20 companies are in liquidation (including the
giant agricultural marketing monopoly, ONCAD), four companies have been
transferred to private ownership, and increased private sector participation
is being actively sought for a number of other ventures, notably in tourism
and commerce. As a result of these actions (as well as better growth perfor-
mance by private sector companies), the parapublic sector today accounts for a
significantly lower share of GDP and total wage employment than it did in
1976. The Government's withdrawal from manufacturing activity has been
particularly marked; by 1980, only four of an estimated 300-plus manufacturing
companies in Senegal were state-owned.
37.      For the companies remaining in the parapublic sector, the Government
has adopted a range of measures to increase managerial autonomy and improve
enterprise performance. In 1980, the Government began to establish "contrats-
plan" with major parapublic companies. The contrats-plan (of which five have
been concluded to date) set out performance targets for the enterprises over a
three year period and reciprocal Government commitments (on tariffs, manage-
rial autonomy, and investment support, for example). The major achievements
of the contrats-plan thus far have been in clarifying enterprise-Government
re. tions, pinpointing the sources of enterprise operating deficits, and
helping the enterprises and the Government to rationalize medium-term invest-
ment planning.
38.      However, there have been a number of weaknesses in the process.
First, the enterprises have been responsible for drafting their contrats-plan
with little or no outside assistance or background analysis, and considerable



- 12 -
variation in the technical quality of financial and preduction estimates has
resulted. Second, the initial institutional arrangement on the Government
side -- a single advisor to the Prime Minister to oversee the process -- has
not p -oved sufficient to handle an increasea volume of negotiations, to assure
the technical quality of the plans developed, and to monitor their implementa-
tion. The Government has also made a number of financial commitments without
systematically aggregating and reviewing these in light of Senegal's public
finance constraints, and ensuring that subsidies were budgeted accordingly.
Finally, because financial support for the enterprises under the SAL was dis-
bursed immediately after signature of the contrats-plan, systematic procedures
for monitoreng the performance of both enterprises and the Government over the
contrat-plan period have not been satisfactorily established. However, the
Government remains strongly committed to the contrat-plan process as a vehicle
for public enterprise reform, and has requested Bank Group technical assis-
tance to help extend the accomplishments to date, and to address the limita-
tions described above.
The Bank Group's Role in the Sector
39.      The Bank Group has worked closely with the Government on parapublic
reform since 1976 when a study of the sector was carried out at the Govern-
ment's request, and the first Parapublic Technical Assistance Project
(Cr. 764-SE) was approved by the Board in January 1978. The first project
aimed at developing the Government's information about the sector, and
improving the efficiency of Government agencies responsible for parapublic
oversight through the provision of technical assistance. Under the aegis of
the parajudicial Audit Commission, CVCCEP, the project also launched a program
of audits for several of the largest public enterprises, which helped expand
enterprises' awareness of audits as a management tool and resulted in improved
accounting procedures in a number of companies.
40.      The structure of government control of the parapublic sector in
Senegal, however, as outlined in the Parapublic Reform Law of 1977, remains
exceptionally complicated; six d-ifferent agencies at different levels of the
government have oversight responsibilities which are different in theory, but
which in practice result in considerable duplication.
41.      The Centre des Etablissements Publics (CEP) in the Finance Ministry
administers stringent a priori budget and expenditure control of the 25
"etablissements publics", or non-incorporated state-owned enterprises.  Budget
review is conducted by the Controleur des Operations Financieres (COF); cash
flow is handled by the Agent Comptable Central (ACC); a third office, the
Direction du Traitement Automatique de l'Information (DTAI) is responsible for
data processing for the etablissements publics and the government administra-
tion.
42.      At the level of the Presidency there are two additional agencies --
the Controle Financier de la Presidence (CFP) which has broad responsibilities



- 13 -
for monitoring all 68 government-majority companies, 1/ and the Bureau Orga-
nisation et Methodes (BOM), which provides advice on organization and manage-
ment techniques. Fi2ally, the Audit Commission (CVCCEP) reviews a posteriori
the accounts and performance of parapublic companies.
43.      Under the first ParapubLic Technical Assistance Project, long-term
advisors were placed in each of these agencies (except the CVCCEP), and
approximately 30 controllers were given trai-ning in financial analysis, in the
concepts of management by objective, and in the use of management information
systems. Controllers from the ACC and COF were trained in accounting and
budgeting, and anproximately 40 controllers participated in intensive seminars
on financial management and the use of contrats-plan. Another 20 controllers
received fellowships for three- to six-month training programs abroad.
44.      As a result of this technical assistance and training, financial
information available to Government about the parapublic sector has improved
dramatically; the management information system developed for parapublic
companies was widely applied, and an extensive data bank of consolidated
financial information for the 68 enterprises was developed at the CFP. Con-
trollers' efficiency in administering the a priori controls increased
measurably, and accounting systems within the etablissements publics were
improved to the point where financial statements are produced monthly, finan-
cial information is much more accurate, and annual income statements and
balance sheets are produced within two months of closing, rather than after a
delay of 10-15 months which was the case before the project.
45.       Despite these accomplishments, the impact of the first project was
somewhat limited as it focussed almost exclusively on the government control
agencies, and except for several seminars organized by the BOM for public
enterprise personnel, did not attempt to provide direct assistance to the
enterprises. In the context of the 1980 SAL operation, Government expanded
its efforts to rehabilitate the parapublic sector by initiating the contrat-
plan process discussed earlier (paras. 37-38). Under the first tranche of the
SAL, a total of CFAF 9.37 billion (about $29 million equivalent) was made
available to three enterprises (SAED, SODEFITEX, OHIM/Sites and Services
Project) to help cover government commitments made in their contrats-plan.
The Bank also provided funds under a separate technical assistance project for
economic and financial planning (Cr. 1061-SE) for the recruitment of a high-
level Senegalese advisor to the Prime Minister responsible for overall policy
regarding the parapublic sector and for overseeing the negotiation of
enterprise contrats-plan.
46.      Parapublic sector reform, and close cooperation with the Bank on
technical assistance operations and policy commitments under the SAL, have
been a strong area of government performance. The proposed project will build
upon earlier achievements, but will substantially shift the focus of technical
1/ In addition to the 25 etablissements publics, there are "societes
nationales" (corporations 100% owned by the central government and/or
municipalities), and "societes d'economie mixte" or Joint-stock
companies with direct or indirect government holdings.



- 14 -
assistance to the public enterprises themselves, rather than the government
control agencies which wer- the principal beneficiaries of the first project.
Emphasis will also be placed on the mechanisms for implementing and monitoring
rehabilitation programs.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
47.      The proposed project was identified in May 1982 following a request
from the Government for continued Bank Group assistance with its parapublic
sector reform program. Subsequent prepar-.tion to finance work on a first set
of enterprises wets undertaken with a PPP advance of $500,000 approved in
October 1982, and an appraisal mission visited Senegal in November 1982.
Negotiations were held in Dakar on Hay 20-21, 1983 with a Senegalese
delegation led by Mr. Demba Diop, Director of ?inancing in the Planning
Ministry, and including the heads of all agencies responsible for project
implementation.
Project Objectives and Description
48.      The objective of the proposed project is to support the Senegalese
Governmenc in its efforts to reform the parapublic sector and to strengthen
the contrat-plan process as a vehicle for improving public enterprise perfor-
mance. Thne project will provide technical assistance to the Government to
improve its information and understanding of the aggregate economic and finan-
cial performance of the sector, in order to provide a basis for sound and
realistic policy decisions affecting parapublic enterprises. At the same
time, the project will provide direct assistance to key enterprises for devel-
opment of rehab.litation programs designed to produce significant improvements
in efficiency. The proposed technical assistance will strengthen the contrat-
plei process by enabling the enterprises to set more realistic performance
targets, and enabling the Government to negotiate individual enterprise
contrats-plan with a better sense of overall public finance constraints.
49.      Specifically, the project will:
(a)  provide technical assistance to about 12 key enterprises for the
development of rehabilitation programs lo be financed and implemented
under a subsequent project;
(b)  provide essential technical assistance to the government agencies
responsible for monitoring public enterprise --rformance and
developing government policies toward the scctcr;
(c)  help enterprises to finance audits and accounting assistance, and
pro-;ide technical assistance for the development of new national
legislation setting uniform standards for auditing and accounting;
(d)  support management training programs for enterprise personnel and
government controllers; and



- 15 -
Ce) finance studies relating to the scope, organization and management of
the parapublic sector.
50.      Enterprese Rehabilitation:  The project will assist three to four
major public enterprises per year with the development and initial implemen-
tation of rehabilitation programs, and will support av'its, accounting assis-
tance and training programs aimed at improving management in a number of
smaller enterprises. The rehabilitation programs are envisaged as a pre-
requisite for the development of successful contrats-plan. The rehabilitation
programs, which in every case will be based on a thorough diagnostic study of
the enterprise, will identify steps to be taken to improve enterprise perfor-
mance; the programs will be comprehensive, and will contain detailed recommen-
dations for action. On the basis of these rehabilitation programs, the
enterprises will prepare contrats-plan setting annual performance targets to
be negotiated with the Government. The major differences between the
rehabilitation programs and the contrats-plan are essentially: (i-) the con-
tractual nature of the contrats-plan; (ii) the fact that the contrats-plan set
performance objectives (i.e. quantifiable targets for key aspects of enter-
prise operations) and corresponding commitments of the Governmeat in matters
of policy, organization, and finances; and Ciii) the fact that the contrats-
plan are designed to be reviewed annually by the enterprises and Government,
and then re-negotiated for the following year. Thus, the contrats-plan are
succinct documents setting out mutual obligations of the two parties, and
designed to be easily monitorable. The rehabilitation programs, by contrast,
are internal to the enterprise, cover an indeterminate period, consider all
aspects of enterprise performance, and spell out the means of achieving
performance improvements. The project will finance 126 man-months of con-
sultant services for the development of rehabilitation programs; on the basis
of these programs, the enterprises will work with the consultants to devise
contrats-plans to be negotiated with the Government. An important part of the
proposed approach is that each program will be developed by a team composed of
3-4 technical personnel from the enterprise and one government controller
(from the CFP or BON), under the direction of one highly experienced manage-
ment consultant and additional technical expertise as required (Section 3.06
of draft DCA).
51.      The project will concentrate on companies -- such as the public uti-
lities and transport monopolies -- which are important both because of their
size (output, employment, fixed assets) and their linkage to other sectors. It
is expected that over the course of the project, companies which account for
close to half of total value added by the parapublic sector in Senegal (and
more than 10% of modern sector GDP) will receive rehabilitation assistance.
The companies selected for the first year of the program -- for example SOTRAC
(urban bus company), SONEES (water distribution), SENILEC (power supply) and
OPT (post/telecommnnications) -- r-oduce roughly one-third of total value
added by parapublic companies and account for over 20% of public enterprise
emr'oyment. These are companies that can and should be financially autono-
mous, and even profitable, if tariffs were set to permit adequate cost
recovery and if tha enterprises were well managed. Despite the fact that
combined turnover for SOTRAC, SONEES, SENELRC and OPT exceeded US$130 million
equivalent in FY81 (abc"t 22% of total parapublic sector turnover), the
companies' net income was negative, they paid virtually no taxes, and were a
net drain on public sarings.



- 16 -
52.      Successful implementation of rehabilitation programs for companies
such as these can be expected to have a significant impact on the aggregate
parapublicr sector deficit, which currently equals roughly 15% of Senegal's
overall public sector deficit. Assuming rehabilitation programs which, in
real terms, enabled SOTRAC, SONEES, SENELEC and OPT to contain their operating
costs and increase revenues by 10% over the project period, an additional
US$3-5 million equivalent per year in public sector savings could be gene-
rated, and the net parapublic deficit reduced by as much as 20%. Clearly,
moreover, the costs of consultant service to be furnished by the project to
each company (roughly $300,000) are modest compared to the target companies'
current revenues and potential earnings.
53.      A second major criterion for the selection of enterprises is the
receptiveness of enterprise managers and Government to mounting a rehabilita-
tion effort. Finally, the initial priorities among enterprises which meet
these two criteria will be those for which Bank Group investment projects
might eventually be envisaged, assuming successful implementation of rehabili-
tation programs and improved enterprise capacity to execute and manage new
investments.  In the second year, the companies :sight include OHLM (urban
housing), Dakar-Marine, and SONADIS (wholesale and retail distribution). The
list of enterprises proposed for assistance during the second and third years
of the project will be submitted by the Project Management Unit to IDA for
approval by March 31 of each year (Section 3.05 of draft DCA).
54.      Although the nature of tne rehabilitation programs to be prepared can
be expE'ited to vary depending upon the enterprise, each will consist of a
diagnostic study, detailed recommendations, and a timetable for implementation
of the recommended measures.
55.      The studies will in general review for each company:  (a) production
and maintenance (costs, volume, tariffs or priciLg, technology, markets, and
growth prospects); (b) finances (adequacy of equity base, debt structure, cash
flow, new investment needs and sources of finance); (c) organization (labor
productivity, adequacy of skilled personnel, technical assistance and training
needs, data processing needs, management structure, and incentives); and (d)
institutional environment (relationships with Government, controls, objec-
tives, legal framework). The emphasis will be on producing studies which
clearly identify factors critical for the company's performance, which present
detailed recommendations (ranked in order of importance, feasibility, and time
required to implement), and which establish the major physical and financial
indicators against which the company's progress can subsequently be measured.
On the basis of its analysis, each consultant team will prepare a multi-year
program spelling out measures to be implemented by the enterprise (and the
Government), identifying who in the enterprise is responsible for following
the implementation, and setting benchmarks for the evaluation of enterprise
performance at regular intervals. The consultants will be ecatracted by the
Project Management Unit in consultation with the enterprises, and each team
will be reconstituted every six months to prepare a progress report for
company management.
56.      During the course of preparing the rehabilitation programs, the
enterprise teams may identify operational bottlenecks or other pressing



- 17 -
problems that could be resolved with small immediate expenditures. To enable
the enterprises to quickly implsment some of the consultants' recommendations
and realize possibly significant performance improvements, the project
includes a provision of US$1.5 mill4on to help finance urgently needed spare
parts and other equipment. A list of the most immediate spare parts require-
ments for each enterprise will be prepared by the consultants and submitted to
IDA for approval at the same time as the draft rehaMilitation programs are
submitted (Section 3.06(b) of draft DCA).
57.      On the basis of its rehabilitation plan, each company will develop a
3-5 year contrat-plan, to be negotiated with the Government after review by
IDA (Section 3.06(b) of draft DCA). The contrat-plan will fix annual per-
formance targets for major aspects of enterprise cperaticns (for example
production, maintenance, billing recovery, investment exccution, and labor
productivity), and will determine reciprocal obligations of the Government
(for example, agreement on tariffs, staffing levels, payment of subsidies,
liquidation of arrears). Although only the first (or current) year of the
contrat-plan will contain precise targets, medacm-term objectives will also be
negotiated with Government and defined more broadly in the contrat-plan. The
contrats-plan will be reviewed annually, at which time targets for the follow-
ing year will be negotiated and the medium-term objectives extended.
58.      It is anticipated that IDA would prepare a follow-on parapublic
project to help fta,nce the implementation of enterprise rehabilitation
programs, conditional upon achievement by the enterprises of performance
objectives established in their contrats-plan. In the case of SONEES, it has
been proposed that a special $15 million rehabilitation component be added to
the pending Eleven Centers Water Supply Project to help the company implement
the rehabilitation program and contrat-plan to be developed under the present
Parapublic Technical Assistance Project.
59.      Enterprise Audits and Accounting Assistance:  This project component
is designed to improve auditing and accounting practices in Senegal and to
support tae enterprise rehab litation effort as described above. Under the
aegis of the Audit Commission (CVCCEP), Senegal is currently developing new
national legislation setting stricter accounting standards for all public and
private enterprises. The project will finance technical assistance to the
Association of Professional Accountants in Dakar (L'Ordre des Experts et
Evaluateurs Agrees du Senegal) which has played a major role in building up
the local profession, to help devise new legal standards which assure the
validity of enterprise financial information, and which are realistic for West
Africcm countries. One possibility is a two-tiered system, with annual
external audits conforming to international standards required for all para-
public companies above a certain size, and a type of limited review audit for
all other public and private companies. Draft norms and proposals for the
legislation will be submitted to IDA for comment by December 31, 1954 (Section
3.10 of draft DCA).
60.      A second aspect of the audit component will be accounting assistance
to approximately 25 small and medium-sized companies, for particular tasks
such as asset valuation or the improvement of internal auditing systems. Each
company will bear 25% of the costs. The annual program of 7-10 enterprises to



- 18 -
receive such assistance will be proposed by the Audit Commission by March 31
of each year, and it is envisaged that local accounting firms will be able to
compete successfully for the contracts (Sections 3.08 and 3.09 of draft DCA).
61.      Finally, the project will ,ontinue the cycle of full-scale external
audits for major companies which has been successfully initiated through the
Audit Commission in the first Parapublic Project. For ten enterprises, a
three-year cycle of audits is proposed, which will be monitored by the Audit
Commission to ensure that the enterprises plogressively implement the
auditors' recommendations. The enterprises will be required to pay 25% of the
first audit, and 50% of costs thereafter. The companies selected (SOTRAC,
SONADIS, SODEFITEX, OPT, SENELEC, CPSP, OHLM, SICAP, Dakar-Marine, and BNDS)
reflect both the priorities of the rehabilitation project and the schedule of
the Audit Commission, which is responsible for a posteriori reviews of the
accounts of all parapublic companies (Section 3.07 of draft DCA). Annex IV
shows the planned phasing of the audits.
Technical Assistance and Training
62.      The project will also finance technical advisors for four government
oversight agencies, and help fund management training programs to be offered
by local educational institutions for government controllers and public
enterprise personnel.
6j.      Technical Assistance.  The technical assistance will continue
strengthening the ability of government controller, to monitor the parapublic
sector efficiently, to guide gove-nment policy, and to play a role in
monitoring the execution of enterprise contrats-plan. Despite the progress
made by control agencies as a result of the first Parapublic Project, there
remains a need for further assistance in some specific areas:
(1) to help the CFP, ACC and COF computerize and further develop the data
base established under the first project for monitoring the aggregate
economic and financial performance of the parapablic companies;
(2) to train government controllers (from the ZFP and BOX) in the
preparation and implementation of enterprise rehabilitation plans, by
drawing controllers with relevant technical expertise into the
enterprise rehabilitation teams;
(3) to continue assistance to the ACC in order to upgrade the accounting
and internal auditing capabilities of the etablissements publics;
(4)  to assist the DTAI with a program to decentralize data processing for
several important etablissements publics (including the CSS, COUD and
CPSP), and to help the DTAI develop user m2nuals and organize a
series of seminars for users; and
(5) to assist the BOM with development and supervision of new training
programs to be offered by local educational institutions.



- 19 -
64.      The project will finance one technical advisor each to the ACC, the
CFP, the DTAI, and the BOM, to help achieve the objectives listed above. The
assistance will be structured to emphasize training of Senegalese personnel,
and to reduce the reliance on long-term expatriate assistance. Terms of
reference for all advisors have been designed so that assistance is phased out
during the second year of the project, with a complete transfer of responsi-
bility to Senegalese counterpart staff. All advisors will be recruited under
terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. Government will review with IDA
detailed work programs for all advisors, and will assess each advisor's
performance at six-month intervals.
65.      The project will also continue the successful program for CYCCEP
auditors developed under the first project, with on-the-job training for two
auditors per year provided by a major international audit firm under terms and
conditions acceptable to IDA.
66.      Training.  In addition to the technical assistance described above,
the project provides for the development of case-oriented, practical training
programs geared to the needs of public enterprises, to be offered by Senegal's
new management training institution ESGE (Ecole Superieure de Gestion des
Entreprises). The programs will be designed primarily for middle-level enter-
prise personnel, based on training needs identified through a study tu be per-
formed jointly by the BOM and specialists in public enterprise problems, and
to be submitted to IDA for review by December 31, 1983 (Section 3.12(a) of
draft DCA). On the basis of this study, new training programs will be devel-
oped by BOM and the institutions, and proposals for their implementation will
be submitted to IDA by December 31, 1984 (Secion 3.12(b) of draft DCA). The
project will also provide funds for recruitment of any specialized faculty
necessary to assist ESGE in offering the new programs.
Studies
67.      The project includes a provision of US$800,000 equivalent for con-
sultant studie_. to be administered by the Project Management Unit to help
Government investigate issues related to the organization, management, and
performance of the parapublic sector. The Government will submit draft terms
of reference for all proposed studies to IDA for review, and will furnish all
completed studies to IDA for comment on the conclusions and recommendations
proposed (Section 3.13 of draft DCA).
Project Organization and Management
68.      Except for the cycle of enterprise audits which will be phased over a
five-year period, the project will be implemented (i.e., the rehabilitation
programs and contrats-plan for all twelve enterprises will be developed) over
four years. As discussed earlier, it is envisaged that a separate, subsequent
parapublic project to be prepared will support and monitor implementation of
contrats-plan developed under the present operation.
69.      The Project Management Unit (PMU) will be the contrat-plan unit,
which since 1980 has been responsible for overseeing contrat-plan negotia-
tions, and whose Director heads the inter-agency coordinating committee on



- 20 -
parapublic policy, the Group d'Etudes da Secteur Parapublic (GESP). The
maintenance of a link between PMU and the GESP (which consists of high-level
representatives of the Finance and Planning Ministries, plus all of the
government oversight agencies) is considered important both for building a
consensus in support of parapublic reform, and by ensuring that all interested
parties are involved in the review, approval, and monitoring of enterprise
contrats-plan. Technical ministries also participate in the GESP on an ad hoc
basis, depending upon the enterprise or issue being discussed. The contrat-
plan unit will be strengthened for the purposes of managing this project by
the recruitment of a highly experienced management consultant to help coordi-
nate the project, and consultants will be recruited by the PMU and individual
enterprises to help with the preparation of rehabilitation programs and
contrats-plan.  The contrat-plan unit will also recruit a full-time admin-
istrative assistant/accountant and two full-time secretaries.
70.      As part of the post-election reorganization of the Senegalese admin-
istration, the contrat-plan unit and the GESP have been transferred from the
Prime Minister's Office to the Presidency. This is acceptable to IDA, as
there has been no change in the terms of reference or management personnel of
the units, and the shift should facilitate coordination between these entities
and the CFP and BOM, also located at the Presidency. The Government has
agreed to establish PMU with the powers, organization, and staffing as
described above, and formal establishment of the Unit with appropriate legal
status is a special condition of effectiveness of the proposed Credit.
Government has also agreed that the Director of PFU will a. the same time
serve as President of the GESP, in order to ensure continued close coordi-
nation between these entities. The Project Director will manage Credit funds
so as to expedite processing of withdrawal applications and disbursements, and
appropriate accounting and administrative procedures will be established to
ensure adequate reporting and control of all contracts and disbursements
(Sections 3.11 and 5.01 of draft DCA).
71.      Key responsibilities of PMU will be:  overall coordination and super-
vision of the project; submission to IDA by March 31 of each year the proposed
program of enterprises to receive consultant assistance for the development of
rehabilitation programs during that year; preparation of brief quarterly
progress reports on execution of the project; carrying out, with consultant
assistance, of annual assessments of the degree of attainment of project
objectives; submission of an annual audit of project accounts to IDA; and
preparation of a project completion report within six months of the Closing
Date of the Credit. Major responsibilities of the heads of government control
agencies benefitting from technical assistance under the project will be:
establishment of quarterly budgets and work programs; and selection, super-
vision and svaluation of technical advisors financed under the project.
Project Costs and Financing
72.      The total cost of the project, net of taxes and duties, is estimated
at US$12.0 million equivalent including physical and price contingencies, with
a foreign exchange component of US$9.5 million (about 80 percent). The pro-
posed TDA Credit of SDR 10.2 million (US$11.0 million equivalent) will finance
the entire foreign exchange component, and US$1.5 million (or 60%) of local



- 21 -
costs. The remaining local costs estimated at US$1.0 million will be financed
by individual public enterprises. The cost of consultants, including allowances
and travel, is estimated on average at about US$10,000 per month for advisors,
and US$15,000 per month for short-term consultants. This comparatively high
figure is due to the specialized skills being sought (both management con-
sulting experience and technical expertise in particular sectors), and the
substantial travel costs associated with an approach which involves multiple
short-term missions. It should be noted, however, that this approach, by
relying to a large extent on enterprise teams, necessitates a relatively small
number of consultants, and has therefore enabled overall costs for consulting
services to be kept fairly low. An allowance for physical contingencies of
10% has been made. Price contingencies of 7.5% in 1984, 7.0% in 1985, and
6.0% in 1986-88 have been applied to foreign costs, and of 10% per annum for
local costs.
Procurement and Disbursement
73.      The selection of advisors and consultants will be in accordance with
Bank Group guidelines. All terms of reference, qualifications, conditions of
employment, and contracts for consulting services will be subject to prior
approval of IDA (Section 3.02 of draft DCA). It is expected that most of the
technical assistance will be provided by foreign consultants; however, IDA
supports Government's wish to use qualified local consultants as much as
possible, either independently or in collaboration with foreign firms. The
proposed Credit will finance 100% of consultants' costs, other than for audits
for which the enterprises involved will contribute 25% the first year and 50%
in subsequent years, and for accounting assistance for which 25% of the costs
will be covered by the enterprises. Office equipment and vehicles for the PMU
and government agencies (US$0.4 million equivalent) will be procured locally
according to Government procedures acceptable to IDA. Spare parts and equip-
ment for enterprises receiving rehabilitation assistance (US$1.5 million
equivalent) will not involve contracts of more than US$100,000 at a time, and
will be procured following lo al advertising and bidding procedures acceptable
to IDA and supervised by the 'MU. All equipment, materials and vehicles pro-
cured will be exempt from taxes, and the Credit will finance 100% of related
costs. For contracts under US$10,000, local shopping will be employed
(Schedule 3 of draft DCA).
Project Benefits and Risks
74.      The proposed project is expected to significantly improve under-
standing of the operational and financial problems of 10-12 key public enter-
prises in Senegal, and will produce realistic action programs which when
implemented could substantially increase enterprise efficiency. In the
process, teams within each enterprise will gain experience in productivity
analysis, financial management, strategic planning, and the design and imple-
mentation of rehabilitation programs. The project will also extend Govern-
ment's knowledge of the aggregate financial and economic importance of its
parapublic sector, and will provide a basis for formulation of sound public
finance and sector policies. Government controllers will benefit from train-
ing under the project, and efficiency of the government administration can be



- 22 -
expected to improve, with possible attendant benefits for the enterprises they
oversee. Finally, the project will help strengthen local educational institu-
tions such as the management training school ESGE.
75.      The largest risk of the project will be the failure of enterprises
and Government to implement the rehabilitation programs developed, and the
loss of potentially significant improvements in operational efficiency. This
risk is considered limited, however, given that work with a first set of
enterprises has already begun (financed under a PPF), and both they and the
Government have demonstrated strong interest in the project.  Moreover,
experience acquired after four years of implementation of the first Parapublic
Technical Assistance Project and the negotiation of five contrats-plan in the
context of the SAL, suggests that Government's commitment to improving para-
public sector performance is strong and continuing.
76.      A second risk exists insofar as technical assistance projects in-
herently present problems of recruiting suitable advisors capable of cooperat-
ing with and training local staff, and of identifying motivated national
counterparts.  Here again, however, the experience of the first project is
valuable; exceptionally capable advisors from the first project have been
asked to rerain, the identification of qualified Senegalese counterpart
personnel is well advanced, and terms of reference prepared for the technical
assistance specialists reflect lessons learned from the first project. As
before, IDA will assist the Government in identifying and recruiting qualified
consultants.
Measurable Results of the Proposed Project
77.      At the end of the three-year implementation period, it is expected
that the project will have produced, inter alia, the following: (i) rehabili-
tation programs and contrats-plan for 10-12 key public enterprises; (ii) a
comprehensive computerized data bank ftr monitoring the parapublic sector;
(iii) in-depth audits of ten public enterprises; (iv) new national legislation
setting uniform and internationally acceptable accounting standards; (v)
practical training programs developed by local educational institutions to
address public enterprise needs; and (vi) strengthening of internal financial
management sufficient to justify the gradual reduction of a priori controls
for key etablissements publics.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
78.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Senegal and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Associa-
tion, are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
79.      Special features of the draft Development Credit Agreement are men-
tioned in the text and are listed in Section III of Annex III. Effective
establisbhent of the Project Management Unit, with powers, organization and
staffing  ceceptable to the Association, will be a special condition of Credit
effect_veaess (para. 70).



- 23 -
80.      I am satisfied that the proposeA Development Credit would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMKENDATION
81.      I recommend that the Execative Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
by
Attachment                                    Noeen A. Qureshi
Washington, D. C.
June ;0, 1983



-24 -                                      Annex
-hSIZ 34
-        3aL              DDAT MU
sq. at.)                  SQNM h.                                  _             ms   M
TOM                       NM~~~65 uRcz       NZDIXLZ            uswmu)       im! m
AmxtCMLUSU      109.0             LUG0 /b   1970 /b ZIZK /b  AFRC. SOr Tv  SmA            O wAM"   NZam  ian
GPlt CAITA (ISf)                   210.0      260.0    450.0                1053.2                    .6
56330! CONSUMPTON PIZ CAPITA
.5MS ON COAL UIU           1MX      .1 116.1  U1.4    253.1               610.1                  n3.s
POPULATION AI0 VIZAL S 5A?1SITC
UAZI. NID-tEAX (XUSA)  3071.0             4267.0   561.0
w3*c POoEA20 CEZO  OF TOrAL) 22.6            23.7     25.4                 25.3                  47.3
IOIATO   ROZECUEo.
IOPMLAION XS TM 2WO CXILIO)                          10.1
STATIWIAI PDPU1A0T   OaILIONE)                       34.2
UAL STATIOUAR  POI1MATI  I5 UnCUD                  2135
RPOOUATTOP MENS1TY
PE SQ. 1 .                      15.7       21.7      25.1                56.?                  35.8
ER SQ. UI. AGRICULTUIAL lAND    31.0       60.8      50.6               129.9                 4ze-9
POATION eA STRLITUE (PCE)
0-14 iNs.                       42.7       63.9      44.7                61.0                  44.3
15-64 us.                        54.3       53.2     52.5                 51.1                  52.4
65 In4. AD AOVIE                  3.0        2.9      2.8                  2.8                   3.3
POPULATION GROh RATE (PECNT)
WIUrL                            1.9        3.3      Z.8                  2.8                   Z.5
°13*                            2L4         3.7       3.5                 5.2                    4.6
CRIUIm  RATE IPER THOUSAND)    47.9          4S.5     47.8                 47.2                  41.2
CRUE DEATH RATE (PER IISAND)    26.5   U 3.2           21.3                15.7                  12.2
GROSS ¢MROPTIr   RATE              3.2        3.2       3.2                 3.2                   2.9
AsCPTORSCAN AL (DI NDS)           ..         ..
5SIL Crgm    Or  ..U     ..       --                   .. ..
FO0D AND IR011N
FER CAlPTA c1969-1n-100)       125.0       83.0     86.0                 90.7                 100.1
P7  CPITA SWMLT OF
CALRIE  (tPDC    or
REQUZIENTS)                  109.5       9s8.      96.8/C              93.9                  108.5
PROT(IS CAG    FMR MY)         73.2       16.2      6377                56.5                  n1.9
OF WE=C ANIMAL AND PULSE      22.5       20.8      18.67c              17.0                   13.0
c-Mf (AGES 1-4) pwffmuA      3    61.8       31.8     31.5                23.9                   15.1
REAM
LIFE E     XecrAW? AT RINlI (tEARS)   37.2   40.3     43.2                 51.0                  56.9
IWFAMr NrALrrY RATE (PM
THW1SAD)                        1n. 7      16.4    146.                  116.5                 104.3
ACC5S TO SAFE WATER (PERCtI1 OF
POPULATION)
TO                                           ..      37.0/d                __                  59.1
DM363  ..  ..     6D.D7;i                ..83.1
RUIAL                            ._          __     23. 7.                                     39.J
ACSs TO EEREra DISPOSAL (VtCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..         ..
URBAN                             ..         ..        .. . 
.A                                ..         ..
VOPIUfXOB PER PlYSICIAN        21971.4    16224.3  157C9.&/c            14185.2                4015.5
POPULATIO PER NURSING PERSON    2839.5/a   188.1   1392. 57-             2213.2                1802.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL aID
TOU                            735.0      790.3    900.5/c             1036.4                  61.7
URRA                           391.3/1f    346.5    422.oTh             430.5                 538.3
RURAL                         1812.47f   1311.9   1432.977             367.1 6               203.3
ADIISSIONS PER 1IITAL WD            ..       22.2      29.27e                                    25.5
NOUSIEC
AIE3aCE SIZE OF fOUSEOLD
TOMA                               '         '         '                    ''
AVEISAE NaRIDR OF PER5S    PER ROOK
TOTAL                            1.5/b       ..
mR                                ..         ..
R3ItAL                            ..         ..
ACESS To ELECIRICITI IPECEr
OF 0WELL±80)
maL                                     ..        ..
U.                                                    ..               ..
RURAL                             ''         * 



- 25 -
Annex I
TAM 3L
m.ox - sIw' intcaiu DMT Ym
ICAL                        R M     cus cuzmL,I
_ - urn ISTIUU)-
US? EWBIM         .uX   na                         PO
190 fr    OM7 lb ESTOMU  /b  hFUC  300M OF SANIR   MM AVM=A & NMZum  EAS
-~~~ Iw -     .II
Warlb rbun onasFu 
AUWWZ    TomA.                 27.0       33o       42.0.              0.3                    3.7
WLK                36.0       47.0      51.0               96.1                  10.3
ism=           Ma17.     30.0      34.0               3rn.4                  72.0
U&inaI.  TOt                    3.0        9.0      10.01              15.3                   M.7
WAX.3               4.0       13.0 o     4tJ               19MA                   494
2.0        3.0      6.I                U 3"
VOCATIOEL ZNRL.   a? oS ECO1) 23.1           9.2                          4.7                  10.1
n nUAa                         &3.2/fr    6so       £2./e              33.6                   3.1
U36.(      34.3    2U.@7e               23.                   2.7
ADEUL LIACY I=  (ftRUE            3.611     10.0      10.0lc             35.6                  434
-E CAS £51 TO0sD
IOUMAIaS                        6.5        9.0      9.2                3.9                    17.5
U01E.ATIOU                     40.6       62.      56.                 71.8                  131.3
TV U05IYRS MR
UOPMAfla                         .         0.3      0.4                17.9                  641.1
ENSTAJU C"MILT GZERAL
1K3RST) CZIOUAIIS mm
ZEIIN  1010LuX                    6.5        4.7      4.5                19.1                  31.5
CiM  INUL AWDAY  MI CAPIW    .             - .        0.-7j               C.A                   1.7
LAOR aCE
Odl A 1Z FORi ChnOSIS)    1424.0          1360.3   2311.2
ume (PERl?)                    39.5       39.0     38.4                36.5                   10.
ACRICULTIM CIERCET             36.0       30.0      76.0               36.5                   42A
'305K  (ImacZn)                 5.0        7.0      10.0               177                   z27
TOL                              4634       63.      40.3                37.0                   6.0
3n1u                             56.3        3.7     510.5               4.9                   46.2
MME*21                           36.A       33.7     31.r                27.2                   5.6
3cmxc DEN=  MTO                     1.0        1.1      1.2                 1.3                   1.9
-PO  D!sMUIUTZOu
MwACt  OF 13IV? 1nIEm
oggv vig DQ
ECIVD DY
U3ZST 5 PRre! OF r00531J    36an.  .         ..
---9s  20 zo WI! oF 3X510D0   2.3           ..       .....
Lou= 20 IZUT Of lUOSEIIKS   3..7            ..*.
um= 40 PufZur IoISEaa    9.47r              ..
UIVL CUSS 1E1 CAPTA)
ULM1.'                                      ''        ''               0.0                   229.2
URAL      ~..                       ..     #2.0               200.6                 173.6
-SUZD RELATIVE £1 DEOG
LEL CUS PM CrA )
EaA3N                                              L...  ..  90       523.9                  40.6
L           Al.                  ..         ..        ..              203.6                  235.6
TOVM? DME (LEVL (nclz)
.3*3      ~..                       ..       ..                  ..                  22.1
eat avalal
Rat ~p.cab1a
la  Tb. grop avWtrg., foreach IndIcator awe populatio-w.lgbted  rlth.tic name.. Cuetqe of cmietrla
moq the lndltatora Iend. ow araIlablUty of dsta and La not uLifora.
/b   alama otbazul. noted, data for 1960 refer to  y year betm 1939  i 1961; for 1970. ba.. 19
eA 197n; ad for Mo_t Recen Eatinete, betwee 1978 ad 190.
la  1977; 1 1976; I. 1963; /f 1962;  , 1973; /b 1955; It African populatioe  enly; L  1975;
1k 1L97c4T /1Po
Ihy. 1932



-.-n  _ _   @_d-3-3- _*                                                                               _--q
3-   -       -- s  d3- 3-13- '>   .33-3m *3~ 4-   q n_ -
~~ £03                                             4 a-       10 3-3039131)013033 - -~~~v-  1-`.3mm  3 33.33a
i-rn 3-                                 .3.1901-33133~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"011.3   39-3.3933.1- F- -utp
_P.T.4 A_ T_ aft" -a--*                 S-    _         3_
-  -    13..3s   03-             .33 .....        -n1 3-3
-  P  I_              31 -4 -P -o Ate" P 3 -1 _
T3- £1  -33    333- '3-3103-   33.-vq33  30" r3-3-3
-1 P-1-P   V.-I -qm  -P a- --I I_- )***3.3 .l3                           pw310   -*9.01   ).4103-
" ~~-  s V ~     I  &.-d -;_T_ T-~              -13".1 -  '31~-*  1103-m3n3)33043333
_.-  w _                          -- P_                 Alad1 0*£333
r_j_- rn-   -b      ~     ~     ~     ~     33 3.)333  £3         3330 33¶)313.9*  -o -                 .
3-3303    3- 011- 111M        30)03 3~    - 13-n=.q-   3-            p3 t-A      3 03- - .9-           3  -   3.393 W           3-~
_-3.                            _ 0.3.33_  -3*3-a- -3-A _- -  - W                                           3.300     - J       -- 13.
3.033 _31-5 3-13-03 1_. 1 33903 _£1_0 33) 3. 1330) 3333D0                   n314 '_ _-       W- __   _03331-430 -1all   3         P-F--P
3--d at XI-& p- -.-o w  cc 3-~  1 ....93a -3033                     r_- e     a  -0. (        'A *                  -__
303   P 03    _T_3-  _- T_T-T  '   3    0            133-3.3 -P              - l_d. 3- *33 __   3. _D   _ 3333 3T .33.33-  330 335 y   _
13-33.3 _3390 33339    3-133 Y-331 1-33 T-10) 1          3I33 X*N        _          - M 13    i _    A- 01_  03Ts _ '90   '- -t    -J v-
- .nT _-             _     |_ _33) 133._1  1 £33-I 031AT3 301132            3          - _3-103 3. 1-3- i~    - (~-o.3)-Id  T   _ n" _. 31 _,  -  q_   _
|_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-4 -P  _  _a rS P-.                                            _      _  n.w-   _ -  Tws    gz T4 T - J_
*v  - £3                 0303333    £3- -         -0.3T_ _ - 3-           0.3     0131 i. -     3 -     3 WT-                 . .J3flI
' -   £3-u- &m  1' _ " _i_
1      39 p03o     -9     -"_ _   90  3- M.1 '_l3- 33 T- l                    3T- n 1                            ).-  I._    co J-_
M -M0           1        '..  A   !-  T"' '_-1-            n-3-.-
09-3 30£4-  3-31 -t-   3.-   i-I-J3133*.303  1333
-  3- 393-Ii 313-  1.3.-d 3. .0 1i-                                   TO -     _3)   T--- 9   330-
an-s.r-  n."3       3 -1  -3T--WI          *3-3                1_.' -T.   ? 33 3-n                                 -  -PIT-" P- An.
'-_l 3D0 T3 _- *_               )  t 0-A -__ItAT  T.  T- -1_ 01                                       01               9        *.  '.1'
_ _1-.-   t- 1_3 J. WI----  -a -    3  _ a3  3                31                  -31  _  1-          -nI  -  It -_    T  -31 p v- 3)1b
03  31            3-l *3 IT 1 -         t   _. 33 T         .             03  _-o. OT 3ga03-1T- - 11-                       -5       -P
_.341 1 -T 013_7_V-)F _3  0313 '133   (-03 n.33 3030133.                333 T- {~ 3313 .3334-(£30 3-3*  31033 _.3-3). 
MI3_01 3-1       _T -3             -T    3n3T 0 -D3."03' 3- '333_ t3  3 _ _                                                          -  3-
_3.)33  _P_133   *0301 .n__ .33-1 T T~V ii                                 3- '.*1  *T_ '333-3- 33.3               __T _.1- *1-T- _3)T_Dlt
-9 3 -il 3- 0303 '0301 1*))033- 3-       T    q    03   3-* '333T3-033 33333- 33T T1 333 . *193..- n.3V       .
333333303.-._ 3133333'- 13 1 3.334_ 3333                                     3)14 _T  33  £01.!t *1.TI130 33543 3--  V_0ll3w  3
'1  0 1303 T_3-t3 -  A .                                           -a r  _ 0 _   *   £1_T.  _T
_ _a -   0      l-3 9 _        T  - *    0 v-1T
-n_ BTT_ _~3  _33  4'*  '3303  __>3-T3 '-11  T_3 _31  _I-31 _. 9*
30  =    -0      = d.0             3.33)  .3-              37       p3  .     .3-3    133.11wm) -03- '.33  3I  33i- 3
-  t* -. -. - T33 TT  __                     _ _         _
__-      =    T--- TP          "T AT -T - ---w 
W    03-33-5 3.331 3.         _~ 1333    *-_l3L. 3303                                                      m~.1  T  -        TM
333-  1 31   3- ~~~~~.    0.up..oon .~~~~~ £13.33-h 3313303 0330333-39.4*~                               W    J. 
3-t-i 3-          ALJ -n(333.3-   M"MI 1     33)   - .-rn  3 8             P-- 33-0  1333-%.41339- - (331£  .-c) 
WW~  3--AM            33                                                 -.-    3  a-P 0   _ T   _   -    - 3. _ ~  - TT
^ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                   T  v-  I 6   __    _3 ft      _l                   _ ~     Ant$.
-1 1          -    T_        -              2 -'1 _3    13.               n1s..         _ -1                l     o_-I _     T  _
03.J.m  ..-1393  013313  03.1--     1-.      3 --3-330   n.00-3.          0033  31 1-3-V - (3.1-) 133- '-010-3031   3
1....9 =                                                                    3 T       03 3 0 *-    £3
3-  09  0a-    3 3-      4           _ q _       -     3-_                  3         e lT  1-1 93_
~~-S-a                    V_-    ed  -t_ -n  .>  - Cp---               -t -M _wC_
P  _          _         , =f
(.r _-              .!Z_                                                                                      --"  MT '- n_* Z1_ 6  O1
033- 303 113300 33-=T_liT  *  0,-T  3        3                        93T-- -t .4   (_    _-      T 1       _    _
TM-'-             301- _*: '3                       £T      
-PMd*w          wsw=I -                                                                           :        _ r  r  '  t *- -T (-03- out   T  _ =
J*_M-I, A_ _ - .1-Igtot- 'I                             MT.       A--            01 _       3  *1_ * I- 4 T-
_30 3- 3313 T1 3t-31)13334.0 333y_ 133- 3   30313- . -              '933 33333 3d 03 M9 -A J.  -IY-3 8- -I3-) 0-  93Igl-T "P.-_
(     o3I-      *9  03- T3-'3 W- (         3                                *           _ °1     11-  _1 *             - '03r3-  '1-
IM-4 V.W  _MKM   WntIIg A3M-                                               30.9  3000-0003.  l 3                n-*-3 .   -T1.3 3 *_  _    .
A33.                            _ -_ p _3A T-d  .T.J"                              3      9-1- -       _    3-0 _ T-    3  3- 3
03 3013 T- 0 z3 133--  i_,  3- 'VtT3  T-_333 3     *II3                                                 '      1 -  30I-I 13
'33t-10   .33t -3- *0  130  1003-                         33113310 - .3  3- 03   ~     - 3-1 13103  '3  0T3304JE
btl *l n. TTt_ I-[T q _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~- @ Z < TT.S -P   1- _*t
13_3-)                                                    33                                 1     3-33 34 =.31  -£-- .3              -T---
£3'.~~3303   303.0   13-3301.£ 11. 31 33 "M-                                                                 '003.30310311101AM.3.- -
.3)3  30 3-3-3-0.30331303-13 -M...    -    13   3-3303-1                A3.1.£3319"t    . 1-190"3 £ 03L '    9333e301 m33.1-033-33
-TId                                                                        V--_                                   -W_ *TT. 1     t  "s  
rm.350334.. 33334 3-3  _-                             _                                          -11031  -
£l   13f-Y _ 2  - 3)3-3                                                                         MY I,- -31 3           -
1-       13      *-13T- 11--_ 1°                                                 1    3     £---   01 £1- Jl                 '3-
313333130 1 3030310331- )330  3~   3)3.3.0  3)3 0 13130111111  m .3333EG 'am3 II3 Art '3.3- 9-39   11          333.13
333-  3-3- 'e3    aw3.-m- 3 -33-  PM1 '333.1  -   1-3-33 I3-                       33-rw                         " 
_- T"n-s -2  *1 _ 3P- _ 2                                            2-e 110_3  r-lT-T3-  -    2Y    3D  _- 31
A.,,    9- 1--op- v-  T-  - T-" .  i T-  Fo -1o. 034 h)4 v--3- 3-.f 3- 1303                         3.33       -£1113
330310  3-P1T.  - 33     - '13913 '1-3.  A003.- t.3-- p133- 001.33333£311.  3  33
-2 _ r * *~~~~VP" p-*_ _2_*2
*3 L9 -2 I0W 91                  33    t    31                                                                               -P 13 3-0-3 - 3   _   13 _   1
At 3-0  &W2" - At P-51-  all--6 -    -'33 -                            413w  -  0(3-0  on1-mm  MM  Wm    t 3313 - T25 J03-       de M-_  -
3- rn3-1_3                 Id=t1 -13- '£10 tt 3-              -                   3113       1- -                    -d -  *° T.3-3.1   I3&-
ZT;w;Z_ .= _~  PM    M_ 1--_ St                      w 4
1~133- 333.3  13-  3- W-0  10303-    3   33-                    3-"  -6 I-Ms    M3*4  03.3-w  F-1- - 34   33  031-
3                 -         - 133- 3- '3-  '33)01 ~~~~~-gm33   P--- wwW  M    3-3-1                                        -I.. FF
.             £-T-3  AT T -3 '_1*3-33                   3  3 -                 3- G      P t    - T3_ _-.                               13
r,-__o~~~~~~_____aon  'sw_-^-"_*T~~~~~~~~~~'I  - v--.P
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_ _  _ P- T   _  _0 *-  -_ neTa s  t3-M-O
003w-01_ r1                                         ) _)    03 _  T!_3 *
-13033 3- '3   '13131 - (93   p .lw-3- 3--_ 0W)I_    - -3 00 -3 1_                            _ ,
al-  Mp r   --a    w-      -  "-mm  -            3--3""    3-  '03-03  '-31  £pf 3   --S     ICfzm        _       t
3-3-3-0330- -on                                 _          XW w0 33   to-Ua
__Sm  ff
I3- 3-3)34.03 3333o 3-90 ('.3.  -a  M-*                                  gz _-3I3I-'-.0 P                                              3-   ...0
0103.0  030333 33  33130    33-30  30333-               3- A ()3  000)333             10  3931 
.313313  '3     '3333.31-3'933)-33-3  139-3-3-   03   -30333-0~-3-0.3



Ma rch 1983
Page 4
sfalAL.UCOCOM!C INDICATORS
Popualation. q.864 C6id-1961. thhouanda)
GNP per capitta U 81500 (196I)
AnouDt
(uillio  US$                                                              Annual growth ratee (j) at eo-atant OrIL..
Indieator                 at eurrnut priees)                            Astuol                                           Pgelhinaq                                      Precte4
1seo .                  ...................... ...............        .................. ...................... *..         ............................
1975         1976        1971       1978          1979        1980          1981         1962         1983        1984        1985
NATIONAL ACCOUSSB
Orceo Do  e4tic Product a/                2744                  7.0          7.9          3-5      -.-9            1.1       -7.2          -1.9          IO.5          4.6         3,3         3.7
O rteuD turo       t                   623                  9.2          965          6.9      *21.0          16.6        -9,2          -5.1         22.5          3.2         4.4         4.8
Industry                               689                  5.1          7.5          11.5       7.2           2.3       -14.5          -3.1          9.7          5.0         4.6         4.0
services                               1432                 6.7          7.1         -.6        -4.9           2*3        .6.3          -6is          6.5          1.1          2.6        3.8
Conaumpticn                               238-                  6.5          2.4          .o0        1.8           2.0       -0.8           -1.9          1.)          3.1         2.0         1.4
arue. Innoutunt                           386                 -28.6         38.9        -0.6         .8.          13.6      -34.6           15.1         20.0          5.0       515           6.0
qsports of OM9                            783                  12.0         24.9         28.6     -10-4           24.7      .29.0           .9.3         30.2          5.9         2.0         1.1
Itmprt. of GRPB                           1265                  1.2        21.7          36.2     -11.4           11.5      -21.1            3.1         4.1           2.4       .1.3         0*5
Irons DemstiL  Naviug                    -94.2                -24.1        113.6        -34.0     -73145          69.6           *          23.2            -         7518           -           -
FRICK
CDP Deflator (1979 - 100)                                      82.1         86.0         87.9       93.6           100       1120          I27.0        136.4        149.5       162,0       171.o
zchangse Rlat  (OUBI-        )                                214.3        239.0        241.7     225.6          212.7      211.3          272.0        329.0        31550         -
8Se. of eDP  at Market Prices (1)                             Ave n nu Areul Inereee (R1
(at  ..rreut priece)                                       (at conetant price.)
........... ........................__.............................                      .................................
1970         1975         t980      l9B5              I7-1 975              I J75-9w0          1180191g9
ereee Domeetio Product                                         I           I            100.0      I.                                          *
Agriculture                                                24.0         50.2         22.7       22.0                 3.1                   -.4                51.6
Industry                                                   2515         24.0         21.1       26.4                 3.9                   2.1                3.8
Other                                                      50.1          45.8         12.2      51.6                 1'3                   1.1                2.9
Ccmuuption                                                     89.0         90.0        103-4       8O8O                1.9                   4.0                 1.2
Groas Inveetwent                                               16.0         18.0         14.1       20.0                2.0                  -1.4                10.2
Isporta (ulrt)                                                 27.0         36.0         28.6       28.0                1.3 59                                   1.3
taport. (0117)                                                 32.0         42.0         46.1       36.0                 .2                  80                 2.2
Gros. Domeatic layngs                                          11.3         12.3         -0.4       12.0                5.                     - 
?VlLIO VIRACO    /                                               76                      Me_  n     n8 79         "So           11I1        m2
(in billion OFA franc)
Currnt Revenue                                             7711         91.7         97.1      107.1         134.1         121.1         147.2
Cutrrent Iuunditarze                                       77.2         83.1         94.1      101.4         1I1,8         119.6         11516
surplus ( ) or Deficit (W)                                 -0.t           8.6          3.0       6.1           2.3          '14.1         -8.4
Capital Iupeaditur,                                         14.9        21.6          9.5       12*.           13.2          21.31/        1.4
surpluo (t) or Defteit (-)                                .15.0        -13.0         *6.-       -6.4         .10.9         -3154        .13.8
At mrket prices
Central government oGav   exclude. paraetatele;
*inludes CPA? 8.6 billion for eettlmnt of 5 h plan apesratlon



hAreh 19S
IUMAL -  MnIAL "APN
Populatiola  5,864 (141-1961 ,tbouands)
GUP por oapitas U38500 (1961)
Annual rovwta  r too (1) at costant  Mrafft
.......................................... ......................................... ...............................,,...
Ateuint                              Aotual                                        Preliuinary                            ProJ etimo
Indicator                 (dllto, 5S at                               ...................................            .....................................           ...................l.
oqarhent prie.o)         1975        1976        1977        1978        1979        1980        1981        1982                  1983
1980
VTWNAL 11ADS
..............
Weroheaditeo Sports                               492               21.9         34.6         6.0       ^42.4        42.3       -35.5       -12.8        48.3                  6.1
Prsary                                        317                38.0        37.0         0.5       .44.0         46.4       -33.6       .15.4        70.8                  6.7
PetroWas                                       87                -4.3       -27.3        87.5        70.6         43.3        25.0         4.5        -1.7                 *2.6
Othert                                         Be               .15.6        39.1        19.5       -31.9         11.9       *44.5      .15.6         11.3                  8.9
Merohandise Imports                              999                2.3        258          13.6        .4.7        13.5       -21.5         1.5         4C8                  3.0
loa4                                          210               -23.9        41.5         7.6        -2.3         19.0       -15.3        14.5        -2.5                 10.2
Petroleim                                     275                 4.2         4.4        12.8         13.1        -9.1        21.8        -2.2        17.4                 -5.3
Kaobitery and U1ulpment                       157               .310         12.1        18.4       .29.7          9.1       -38.1        *354         5.3                  4.5
Othore                                        357                13 2        18.1        14.5         -9.2        -5-9       -20.d        -7.1         3.1                  2.3
qPort Prioe !ndeu (1979 * 100)                                         89          96          96          95         100         116          141         142                 153
tIport Prile  Inde.  (1979 * 100)                                     87          109          90          91         100         119         139          153                 164
Term  of trade Index (1979 * 100)                                     102          89         106         104         100          97          103         g3                   93
COul'elotio  of1 Nerqh.41nie Trade 1.)                                          Average AUnnul inrtajoe (111
(at cuarreot prinoe)                                                      (at coutatnt prices)
1973              1930              1963                    1975-1980                                         19960.983
RIporta                                                             100.0              t00.0             100.0                          1.1                                          1.,
Primary                                                           10.5               44.6              72.0                           .3                                           15.5
Petrela'-                                                          7.0               17.7              13.5                        14.5                                              .8
Others                                                            22.5               17.7              14.5                        -1.9
Imports                                                             100.0              100.0             100.0                          6.5                                            3.1
food                                                              23.2               21.0              22.0                         2.3                                            10.0
Petroleou                                                         12.0               27.5              27.8                        18.5                                             2.8
toohioery and 4   uipumnt                                         18.4               15.7              16.2                         5.4                                             2.2
Others                                                            46.4               35.8              34.0                         3.1                                             -.6
Share of Trade with                               shAre ot Trade Vlth                               Share of Sndo wLth
Industrial Countries (C)                          Developing Countetoi  (C)                    Capital Surplus Oil Uxportesa (%)
........................................            .....................................            ....................................... ..... ........       
1970          1975         1980        1961          1970         1975        1980       1981        1970          1975        1960         1981
DIR2¢5SON 0' "1ADE
..................
* port                                                 --           66.4          00.4        47.3          *-          20.0         36.6       36.2         --            -          2.5           2.9
Import. s                                                           67.1          60.6        68.4          --          11.5         18.7       13.8         --          4.1         18.0          12.9



Rer.h 1963.
Annex I
8S!tIAL - BAIAtOI 0 PAlWI&. I"IIWWAL CIPIUL AID DIl
laoe         _ eurrenl prieeo
Populatkon: 5, 64 (si19S1, thougu.ds)
611 pCr aepitol  0500 (191)
LOtual                                 Pftltasr*1                        Pieo eted
Indteata                                            1974        1977       1978         979       19680       1q8 1dX962                   1963* 
tALUSN 0 PATll
|Sparte at Od.                                         S511.7     447.1      401.7       627.2      491.2       43t.2       494.1           522.5
Impactt *t Oood.                                       454.7       772.5      791.7      1034.7      996.6       913.5       649.0           679.7
6ereteee (not)                                         .55.3       .69.6      -17.5       -847       .83.6      -130.3      -134.4           -151.1
Not Transfers                                          106.2       107.5      12O.S       105.3      171.4       153.9       129.6            132.7
Curnet Accunt Silene                                   -92.1       -67.5    -2e7.3       -364.9    -419.8      -457.1       -37e.8           -405.4
Private Ditat Invetsent                                 32.9        36.2       42.6        70.5       65.7        41.46       507             42.8
PabIct KLt Lea&" (let)                                  50.0        45.1      155.1       945.2      122.6       234.7       907.3            60.3
Disbuaeente                                           --        100.5      924.1       229.7      245.5       290.9        338.6           196.9
Repwe4nt                                                         35.4       49.0        76.5      122.9        54.2        131.            i11.6
Otho r Oqpital                                           7.5       -42.b        5.5        49.5       94.5        14.3        -6.4            37.7
Chbna 1. toeX                                           1.7         9.0       4.1       121.7      117.0       164.5        149.2           244.8
lot tonren ameceta Ctedl.  i)                          .43.0       -55.0      171.4      -315.0    -384.0       -463.5      .562.4             ..
5!  Indlude orrort end oaileton
I             Feisur*e t4f  iSdiLeat  ifte"4S  in reservee
IZYDAL CAPITAL A" am                       .179         Md-        1977                    979       .99 198 
Org.. Diabureceetet                                                                           
Conaeeeeloel leene                        50.1       25.1        38.0       54.7         63.5      66.2       187.5       149.6          161.4
SAC                                    11.4        t.6        15.6       12.4         1.5       1,2.5       37.2        44.5          61.3
onc1                                    0.9         2.2        2.2        0.0          6.7       3.7        60.0        96.5          37.6
IA                                     11.6       12.0         7.7        9.7         16.2      12.0        42.0        44.2          te.I
Othbr                                   6.5         0.3       12.3       32.2         22.4      40.0        26          34.4          34.4
ra.-eo.n,eeaeio,a  6e.         "         45.68       60.7        62.2     169.4        159.9      214.3       111.4      145-5          145.0
Oe                                     5.1         3-3        4.9       26.7         40.5      12.9        53.2        42.6          61.6
IUD                                     7.1        4.7        12.9        6.6         11.0      17.9        21.9        29.5          11.6
Other lultilatorsl                      0.0         0.0        0.2        6.6          1.9      I3.6         9.4        25.7           29.9
Morste                                 33.0       5-2.7       42.2      129.5        10646      109.9       27-3        47.3          42.
Debt Outetendhin  end btatured           296.6       51-4       426.3      414.4        797.5     9f7.4      1175.5      1394.6         1597.6
Otffiiel seurces                      164.6       167.5      245.4      349.5        464.4     617.6       675.4      I101.7        1320.6
Prilt o eouroee                       932.0       163.9      182.9      264.9        333.1     339.4       300.1       293.1         9m7.0
tndiabureed Dbbt                         227.9      275.7       401.2      566.4        533.1     474.0       716.0       790.3          924.0
Debt Sent..
Tetal Soerice tasenta!/                   39.4       42.9        564.5      99.5        122.6     140.0       101.0        51.1          122.6
lat. reet                              165         16.2       20.68      30.5         44.1      51.0        43.6,       27.1,         40.0
reuents os it irprte                      '.7         14.                   15.2         13.0      21.         14.6o!       7.0!/        i6s01/
Averae WAturity an lee Loazn. ()             23.1       19.2        11.2       12.-         20.9       6.0         6.0        16.9            -
OMUicMl                                   32.2        25.8       16.1       2t.2         25.5        -    ..                .-
Privetq                                    5.4         6.2        6.2        6.7          6.5        -          -           -
LA loit-Debt OuAtetanding
ot Ind of want lecent
rear (1961)
KtatertJ Streuture of Debt Cutstanding                                             --------------
Principal due within S JrS
Prinoipal duo within 10 years                                                                          5464
Intortot Structure ot Debt Outstanding
Interest due within 5 peer.                                                                             16.6
/ ezoluJine ZIP  epur.hsee.,
Vest Africa tegitn



ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN SENEGAL
A.  Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of March 31, 1983)
Amount, less cancellation
Loan/Credit                                                        (USl Billion)
Number   Year   Borrower      Purpose                      Bank        IDA  Undisbursed
Eight Loans 1/ and seventeen Credits fully disbursed         33.2       110.7
530-SE      1975    Senegal    Education II                              15.0      2.29
633-SE      1976    Senegal    Eastern Senegal Livestock                  4.2      0.16
1405-T-SE   1977    Senegal   Dakar Fishing Port              6.0                  0.66
1412-T-SE   1977    Senegal    Petite Cote Tourism           8.0                   2.50
1413-SE     1977    Senegal    Petite Cote Tourism            5.6                  1.77
775-SE      1978    Senegal    Debi-Lampsar Irrigation                   20.0      3.60
1518-SE     1978    RCFS       Railways III                  11.0                  1.59
1665-SE     1979    Senegal    Second Airport                 7.0                  3.00
S-23-SE     1979    Senegal    Water Supply Eng. & T.A.                   2.5      0.85
90B-SE      1979    Senegal    Education III                             22.0     12.17
991-SE      1980    Senegal    Small Rural Operations                    11.0      8.63
993-SE     1-980    Senegal    Fourth Highway                            28.0     13.24
1810-SE     1980    Senegal    Fourth Highway                10.0                 10.00
S-26-SE     1980    Senegal    Power Eng. and T.A.                        3.3      2.03
1931-SE     1980    Senegal    Structural Adjustment         30.0                 16.65
1061-SE     1981    Senegal    Technical Assistance                       4.40 2/  3.33
1973-SE     1981    SOFISEDIT  Investment Promotion           6.5                  6.03
1136-SE     1981    Senegal    Investment Promotion                       2.27 2/  1.78
2025-SE     1981    SEFICS     Rail Transport                19.3                 19.30
1103-SE     1981    Senegal    Forestry                                   7.87 2/  7.54
1176-SE     1981    Senegal    Agric. Research 3/                        1B.23 2/ 18.23
1310-SE     1982    Senegal    Rural Health 3/                           15.32 2/ 15.32
1323-SE     1982    Senegal    Petroleum Exploration 3/                 _ 9.60 _/  9.60
Total                                  155.80       274.39   160.27
of which has been repaid             15.69        1.85
Total now outstanding                  140.11       272.54
Amount sold                      3.4
of which has been repaid      3.2     0.20        -
Total now held by Bank and IDA 4/      139.91       272.54
Total undisbursed                       61.50        98.77   160.27
1/ A loan of US$3.5 million for agricultural credit (584-SE) made in 1969 was
cancelled on March 25, 1971.
2/ Computed at the March 31, 1983, rate of SDR = 1.07867 US$.
3/ Not yet effective.
4/ Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 31 -                            ANNEX II
Page 2
B.   Statement of IFC Investments (as of March 31, 1983)
Amount (USS Million)
Equity
Fiscal          Obligor         Type of Business         Loan  Investment  Total
1967     Societe Industrielle   Fertilizer Plant         2.45       1.01     3.46
d'Engrais au Senegal
1972)
1973)    BUD Senegal S.A.       Vegetable Export          -         0.84     0.84
)
1976)
1974     SOFISEDIT              Development
Finance Company          -        0.24      0.24
1980     Banque de 1'Habitat    Money and Capital
du Senegal, S.A.       Market                    -        0.47      0.47
1980     Societe Hoteliere
du Barachois, S.A.     Tourism                  3.00       -        3.00
1982     Industrie Chimique
du Senegal             Fertilizer              25.00              25.00
Total Gross Commitments                        30-45      2.56    33.01
Less Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments and Sales                            2.45       1.05     3.50
Total Commitments now held by IFC              28.00      1.51    29.51
Undisbursed Balance                            24.00      0.00    24-00



-32 -                              ANNEX II
Page 3
C.   Projects in Execution 1/
Cr. 530       Second Education Project; US$15.0 Million Credit of February 19,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 22, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The closing date has been postponed to December 31, 1983, to allow
for project completion and full disbursement. The Government has decided,
with the Bank's agreement, to reduce the number of experimental rural youth
education centers. The revised construction program has been completed and
all equipment delivered. The Industrial Training and Upgrading Center and the
science and technology centers are operating satisfactorily. The financial
situation has improved, following the increased value of the US Dollar
vis-i-vis the CFA Franc. Implementation of the decision to build and equip a
maintenance unit for the science centers and to complete the Merchant Maraine
School, which was eliminated in 1979 to allow for rate exchange losses, is now
in progress. The project is efficiently managed.
Cr. 633       Eastern Senegal Livestock Project; US$4.2 Million Credit of
June 17, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: June 29, 1977; Closing
Date: September 30, 1983.
The project is designed to asSist about 30,000 pastoralists in
Eastern Senegal through improved grazing and herd management practices,
development of stock watering facilities and firebreaks, improved animal
health services, livestock credit, and a functional literacy program. About
95% of parallel financing is being provided by the Kuwait Fund and BADEA. The
Credit is fully committed and almost 100% disbursed. Construction of
buildings and wells is completed and most of the goals set at appraisal have
been achieved. The pastoral service established under the project is
successfully carrying out livestock extension services and implementation of
grazing management plans which have been carried out in 10 of the 53 pastoral
units created in the grazing scheme area. The recently-appraised Eastern
Senegal Rural Development Project includes a follow-up livestock component for
the grazing scheme area and will provide new funding for the project by the
end of 1983 in order to consolidate the results. The project's closing date
has been extended from June 30, 1982, to September 30, 1983.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors
regarding the progress of projects in execution, and in particular, to
report any problems which are being encountered and the action being
taken to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



33                                 ANNEX II
Page 4
Ln. 1405-T    Dakar Fishing Port Project; US$6.0 Million Loan of June 7,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: March 20, 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1983.
All the civil works and the bulk of the studies and technical
assistance under the project have satisfactorily completed. The new quays are
in use. A loan balance stemming from favorable exchange rate variations and
satisfactory project execution is being used to finance audits of Dakar
Port. Overall performance of the Port Authority remains satisfactory, but
progress in meeting financial targets has been hampered by excessive central
control, lack of financial autonomy and the high level of receivables.
Ln. 1412-T    Petit Cote Tourism Project; US$8.0 Million and US$5.6
Ln. 1413      Million Loans of June 7, 1977 as amended on May 12, 1980; Date
of Effectiveness: January 23, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1985.
The project includes construction of infrastructure and common faci-
lities for hotel development on the Petite Cote, a major tourist area where
lack of infrastructure has so far limited such development; a program of works
for renovation of Goree Island; and technical assistance and studies for long-
term financing for hotel construction at the site. Construction of infra-
structure works at the Sali site has been satisfactorily completed. The first
wing of the Palm Beach hotel opened in December 19,180, and the second wing is
completed and will open in Fall 1983, bringing the total number of beds to
330. Two other hotels are under construction. A worldwide recession has
dampened prospects for mobilizing private investors for hotel construction
although SAPCO has a number of projects under construction. Port and street
works for the Goree renovation are complete and bids have been awarded for the
renovation works on the Hotel Relais de l'Espadon on Goree island.
Ln. 1518      Third Railway Project; US$11.0 Million Loan of March 17, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: August 10, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The project consists of track rehabilitation and maintenance, supply
of material and equipment, improvement of telecommunications facilities and
track in the Dakar area, supply of spare parts for motive power and rolling
stock, strengthening of training programs and facilities, and studies. The
project is completed except for ballasting works. Track repair work between
Dakar and Thies proceeded satisfactorily for about 12 months. Because neither
the Regie nor the Government were able to provide the local funds needed for
better quality ballast in FY81, track repair work was halted on and off.
Discussions are underway for IDA financing a larger share. The project is
likely to be completed by late 1983, probably with a local cost overrun of
about $2 million but with no overrun on the foreign cost element.



- 34 -                             ANNEX II
Page 5
Cr. 775       Debi Lampsar Irrigation Project; US$20.0 Million Credit of March
17, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: June 30, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
The project provides for development of about 2,810 ha through full
water control irrigation in the Senegal River Delta, and construction of
related facilities; technical assistance to the project authority SAED; con-
sulting services for applied research and studies for future development of
the River Valley.  Works on the IDA-financed Lampsar perimeter (2,070 ha) and
on the Debi perimeter (740 ha), financed by the Kuwait Fund under a parallel
financing arrangement, have been satisfactorily completed. Studies for future
development of the Senegal Valley are well advanced, and will be available in
time to permit appraisal of a proposed Fourth Irrigation projezt. This
appraisal could be scheduled for end-1983, depending on results of discussions
with other donors, planned for May 1983, on how to relieve SAED's structural
deficit.
Ln. 1665      Second Aviation Project; US$7.0 Million Loan of April 18, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: November 15, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The project consists of levelling and strengthening the main runway
and taxiway and improving the taxiway alignment at Dakar airport, together
with the installation of navigation and visual approach aids at Ziguinchor and
Cap Skirring regional airports. Work at Dakar airport was satisfactorily
completed by the end of 1980. Equipment procurement is completed, and con-
tracts for civil works at Ziguinchor and Cap Skirring have been awarded. The
Bank has approved a Government request to use the available balance of the
loan to finance supplementary works selected from the investment plan. This
additional work, which includes rehabilitation of the terminal building and
runway night lighting system, is now underway.
Cr. S-23      Water Supply Engiincering and Technical Assistance Project;
US$2.5 Million Credit of May 23, 1979; Date of Effectiveness:
August 10, 1979; Closing Date: June 29, 1984.
The project provides for economic, financial, and technical studies
to prepare a priority investment project for rehabilitation and extension of
water supply systems in eleven secondary centers, including six regional
capitals; and technical assistance to strengthen the planning and operating
entities in the sector. Feasibility, organizational and financial studies
have been carried out, and detailed engineering designs are well underway.
The proposed investment project was appraised in March 1982.
Cr. 908       Third Education Project; US$22.0 Million Credit of Nay 23, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: August 16, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
The closing date of the EEC Special Action Credit has been extended
to December 31, 383, to allow for the construction of new practice primary
classrooms in the Kolda area. Three of the institutions to be created under
the project, the Management Institute (ESGE), the College of Agriculture



- 35 -                             ANNEX II
Page 6
(INDR), and the Technical Teacher Training College (ENSET) have started work
on, or are about to start work on, their new facilities. Physical implemen-
tation of all components will be completed after an average delay of one
year. Equipment procurement is progressing with only minor delays. The
project continues to be efficiently managed.
Cr. 991       Small Rural Operations Project; US$11.0 million Credit of
April 2, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: September 10, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The project focuses on channelling funds and technical services to
small groups of rural people who will undertake to provide labor, and some
funds, for the development of several types of directly productive activities,
namely: development of small perimeters for irrigated cultivation of rice,
vegetables, and bananas; beekeeping; and fishing.   The project also includes
village water supplies, an allocation for additional directly productive acti-
vities to be identified and prepared during implementation, and provision for
a management structure. After a good take-off, the project is experiencing
coordination problems and implementation delays. In March 1983, a mid-term
review mission proposed corrective measures to stimulate the exectuion of sub-
projects marking time. The encouraging factor is the interest shown by most
farmers and producer groups to participate in project activities.
Cr. 993       Fourth Highway Project; US$10.0 Million Loan and US$28.0
Ln. 1810      million Credit of April 2, 1980;  Date of Effectiveness:
December 9, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
The major objective of the project is to increase Government's
capacity to keep the road system in adequate condition, in particular, to
train technicians and selected staff, to improve road work planning and pro-
gramming capacity, and to rehabilitate and upgrade important road sections.
The project consists of the following components: (a) a three-year training
program for road maintenance staff; (b) a two-and-a-half year technical
assistance program for road maintenance execution; (c) upgrading of the
Government's soils laboratory to strengthen its participation in road main-
tenance activities; (d) design of proper and systematic pavement maintenance
and strengthening programs; (e) streni-thening and rehabilitation of about 200
km of primary paved roads; and (f) construction of the Louga-Dahra road (about
85 km) to two-lane, paved standards, finanred in parallel by the Japanese
Government. Almost all procurement has been satisfactorily completed, and the
physical works, as well as consulting services for studies are well under-
way.  The training component encounte: !d difficulties with budget allocations
and recruitment of trainers in mid-1982, but these problems are being
overcome. Due to the dollar increase? value, additional road sections can be
improved under the program and at a higher envisaged disbursement rate.



-36 -                             ANNEX II
Page 7
Cr. S-26      Power Engineering and Technical Assistance Project; USS3.3
million Credit of June 18, 1980, Date of Effectiveness: August
29, 1980, Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
The major objective of the project is to help Government develop an
overall energy plan and reorganizing the power sector. The reorganization
study has been completed, and legislation for creation of a national power
entity is being finalJzed.  Two technical advisors for general energy and
power sector planning have been provided to the Ministry of Industrial
Development. An overseaF, training program is underway for Senegalese
officials responsible for energy planning. The project also includes audits,
financial and tariff studies, and feasibility studies for a headquarters
building for the new power entity and for the renovation and expansion of
distribution facilities. Project implementation is well underway.
Cr. 1061      Technical Assistance Project for Economic and Financial
Planning; SDR 4.1 million (Us$5.3 million equivalent) Credit of
October 27, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: January 9, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
The project is aimed at supporting and strengthening the Government's
ability to identify, select and prepare, monitor execution of, and carry out
retrospective evaluations of its portfolio of development projects. The pro-
ject also aims at strengthening public debt monitoring, budgeting and fore-
casting capacity, and improving coordination between project needs and public
financing. Long-term consultants have been recruited and now well estab-
lished, and a number of 3tudies have been selected for financing. The project
is being executed satisfactorily, but technical assistance and local training
efforts, as well as management structures, need reinforcing if the project is
to achieve its original objectives. A full review is planned for Nay 1983.
Ln. 1931      Structural Adjustment Loan and Development Credit;
Cr. 1084      US30 million Loan and SDR 22.9 million (US$30 million
equivalent) Credit of January 26, 1981; Date of Effectiveness:
March 30, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
US$40 million equivalent of the Loan/Credit proceeds were released in
1981 to the central bank to help the Senegalese Government finance its medium
term economic stabilization and rehabilitation program.  Specific objectives
concern the quality and the size of the investment program, improved incen-
tives for domestic production, increased efficiern^ in the overextended
parapublic sector and reforms in agricultural policies and institutions.
Counterpart funds are being used principally in the agriculture and transport
secltors to finance implementation of approved 'contrats-plan" (program
contracts) with public enterprises. Six such 'contrats-plan" have been
financed with SAL funds, mostly with positive results on company operations.
The second tranche (about US$16.0 million) is being withheld because of lack
of progress in achieving agreed program objectives in agricultural reforms.
About US$1.0 mill-on equivalent is being used for consultant studies.



- 37 -
ANE  II
Page 8
Cr. 1103      Forestry Project; SDR 7.3 million (US$9.3 million equivalent)
Credit of March 11, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: July 1, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
The project aims at meeting the steadily increasing demand for fuel-
wood and forest products in the urban center of Dakar and in rural areas of
the heavily populated Groundnut Basin, where rapid population growth is
resulting in serious deforestation. Project implementation is now underway.
Ln. 1973      Investment Promotion Project;   US$6.5 million Loan and
Cr. 1136      SDR 2.1 million (US$2.5 million equivalent) Credit of July 17,
1981; Date of Effectiveness: February 11, 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985.
The project aims at promoting productive investments in Senegal by:
(i) reinforcing SOFISEDIT, both financially and institutionally; (:i) pro-
viding loan and equity finance for viable subprojects; (Iii) improving the
efficiency of SONEPI, the local industrial promotion agency; and (iv) stream-
lining the investment approval process. Although project implementation is
still at an early stage, commitments under the line of credit have been
progressing quite satisfactorily.  Little progress has been made, however, in
reversing the deterioration of SOFISEDIT's financial position, since the
company's portfolio continues to be plagued by a high level of arrears. Steps
are being taken by SOPISEDIT's Management to improve administrative and
operational efficiency of the institution and to vigorously pursue collection
of arrears. Assistance of a highly experienced banking consultant has been
sought to determine other actions needed to put the institution on soand
footing and to insure its long-term viability.
Ln. 2025      SEFICS Rail Transport Project;  US$19.3 million Loan of
September 30, '981; Date of Effectiveness: Narch 8, 1983;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The project aims at creating SEFICS, an operating subsidiary of the
parent fertilizer producing company called ICS, for providing and managing
rail transport services needed by ICS. SEPICS will operate the ICS trains on
Senegal railways. main line tracks after paying a track user charge. All
major bids have been received and their aggregate cost is well within
appraisal estimates.
Cr. 1176      Agricultural Research Project;  SDR 17 million (US$19.5 million
equivalent) Credit of March 12, 1982; Not yet effective; Closing
Date: June 30, 1988.
The project aims at reorganizing and decentralizing the national
agricultural research effort by making it more adapted to small farmer
needs. Under the project the Senegalese Agricultural Research Institute
(ISRA) would be reinforced to carry out Ci) 5 production systems research
programs in Senegal's major agro-ecological zones, and (ii) six nationally
coordinated multidisciplinary commodity programs on groundnuts, millet,
sorghum, maize, rice, and cowpeas.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 9
Cr. 1310      Rural Health Project; SDR 14.2 million (US$15.0 million
equLvalent) Credit of February 2, 1983; Not yet effective;
Closing Date: December 31, 1988.
The project consists of construction/renovation and equLpment of nine
helath centers, upgrading the training of helth personnel, improvement of the
supply and utilization of basic drugs, improvement of health education
services, and strengthening the Ministry of Public Health's planning, imple-
mentation and evaluation capability. The Government is currently aiming to
satisfy the conditions of effectiveness which require: a) formally estab-
lishing the Project Management Unit, b) opening an account in a local
commercial bank for the establishment of the IDA-financed special account, and
c) opening an account for the establishment of a local revolving fund for
Government counterpart financing. The accounting consultant's contract has
been finalized, permitting commencement of the Pharmacie Nationale
d'Approvisionnement audit and setting up of project accounts. Overall
progress of project activities is on schedule.
Cr. 1323      Petroleum Exploration Project; SDR 8.9 million (USS9.5 million
equivalent) Credit of March 31, 1983; Not yet effective; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985.
The Credit was approved by the Board of Directors on February 8,
1983, and was signed on March 31, 1983; effectiveness is expected by the end
of April 1983. In the meantime, project implementation is continuing
satisfactorily under financing from a PPF advance. All components are on
schedule, except for the Diam Niadio geophysical program which is likely to be
postponed by about six months due to delays in reaching agreement between the
Government and Elf Aquitaine.



- 39 -
ANNEX III
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
SECOND PARAPUBLIC TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:              May 1982 - November 1982
(b)  Project prepared by:                        Prime Minister's Office,
assisted by IDA staff and
consultants financed uwder
PPF advance
(c)  First IDA mission to consider project:      May 1982
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:    November 1982
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:         May 21, 1983
(f)  Planned date of Credit effectiveness:       August 1983
Section II:  Special Project Implementation Actions by IDA:  None.
Section III: Special Conditions:
During Credit negotiations, Government provided assurances on the
following principal items:
(a) a proposed annual program of 3-4 enterprises to receive consultant
assistance for the development of rehabilitation programs will be
submitted to IDA for approval by March 31 of each year (para. 53);
(b)  for each enterprise receiving rehabilitation assistance under the
project, a draft rehabilitation program will be submitted to IDA
for review and comment within six months of establishment of the
rehabilitation team for that enterprise, and a draft contrat-plan
will be submitted to IDA within one year of establishment of the
team (paras. 50, 54-57);
(c) proposals for 7-10 enterprises to receive accounting assistance
during a given year will be submitted to IDA for approval by
March 31 of that year (paras. 59-61); and
(d) a study assessing training needs for public enterprise personnel
will be submitted to IDA for review and comment by December 31,
1983; and proposals for implementation of appropriate training
programs developed on the basis of study results will be submitted
to IDA by December 31, 1984 (para. 66).
A special condition of Credit Effectiveness will be formal establishment of
the Project Management Unit at the Presidency, with adequate powers,
organization, and staffing acceptable to IDA (para. 70).



SENEGAL - SECOND PARAPUBLIC TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1983         1984    '      1985        1986           1987        1988           1989
I.  Enterprise Rehabilitation                                  I   2  3  4                _    2  3  4  _  2  3  4  _  2  3  4 _    2  3  4  1  2  3  J
First Year Program (SOTRAC, SONEES, OPT, SENELEC)
-  Diqgnostic Studies
-  Elaboration of Rehabilitation lProgram
-  Negotiation of Cont.ats-Plan
-  Implementation (3 yuars)
Second Year Program (Enterprises l, B, C, D)
-  Government proposal of prograa_
-  Diagnostic Studies
-  Elaboration of Rehabilitation prqgram
-  Negotiation of Contrats-Plan
-  Implementation
Third Year PrQgram (Enterprises EF F, C, H)
-  Government proposal of program.
-  Diagnostic Studies                I
-  Elaboration of Rehabilitation IProgram
-  Negotiation of Contrats-Plan
-  Implementation
_ Lw L_  _  _  __ L_ _L  _  _  __ __ __ 



SENEGAL - SECOND PARAPUBLIC TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1983         1984         1985          1986         1987
II.  Audit Cycle (CVCCEP)                               1  2 13  4  1  2  3  4 1   2  3  4 1    2  3 4  1  2  3  4
-  SOTRAC 
-  SODEFITEX
- SONADIS
- OPT
- SENELEC
- CPSP
- OHLM
- SICAP
-  DAKAR-MARINE
- BNDS
III.  Technical Assistance and Trainicig
-  BOM/ESGE Study
-  ESGE Program Development
-  ESGE Implementation
N10



- 42 -
ANNEX IV
Page 3
SECOND PARAPUBLIC TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SUMtARY COST ESTINKTE
(IN US$ '000; 355 CFAF=US$1)
LOCAL    FOREIGU    TOTAL   % OF TOTAL
I.    TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO
ENTERPRISES
Consultant Staff                556      1,677     2,233
Office Equipment                 10         40        50
Enterprise Equipment              -      1,500     1,500
SUBTOTAL                        527      3,217     3,78i       31
II.    AUDIT PROGRAM
Audits/Accounting Assistance 1,119       1,456     2,575
Training (CYCCEP)                60         98       .58
Equipment                         -         65        65
L 'Ordre des Experts              -         30        30
SUBTOTAL                      1,179      1,649     2,828       23
III.   TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO
GOVERNE NT CONTROLLERS
ACC/COF                          40        542       582
DTAI                            30         394       424
CFP                             30         387       417
BOX                             30         352       382
SUBTOTAL                        130      1,675     1,805       15
IV.   TRAINING (BOM/ESGE)
Program Development               -         50        50
Faculty                         50         200       250
SUBTOTAL                         50        250       300        3
V.     STUDIES                           -        800       800         7
TOTAL BASE COST               1,925      7,591     9,516
CONTINGENCIES
- Physical (10%)                192        759       951
- Prices                       400       1,133     1.533       21
TOTAL PROJECT COST           2,517       9,483    12,000      100



A'                                                                                                                                                                IB~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1RD  11470R
/  '                         ~~~~~~~M  A  U  R  I T  A  N  I A                                                        ,6,iF_                      AL ^etRfA
|   SE  NE G  AL                                /                                                                                                                                            AUill'  'fA^"'    )A 
- -- Regonsl bour4:rles                /      O.5N                                                                                                                                      EG      L -,
Nolbnoml capita                   g/\,O z>                                                                              <       *ra^Wrtu|z                                              ;~X )s§ll CKW
0 ~   ~       ~       ~      \ Osipalmla capal                                      ^d         )        /<                         oa5                                           I                  >
IVoltw                                                                                                                                                                                         COAST   O N-2'-4a     
^;Lzs   2   zOxeceml ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ (   oLmourre                               <                  7                                       }~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~StnqAL
At/anf¢      li                               R                    OE   G   I O         N                                                                                 S, 
REO   CF    ouOo Q    "         I,~xr   D    I   0>         U    R   El   E   L          
Co   VERT.                                              mu-Tl     ' 2' gbcks ,--                            
DAKA'Rt          |T.>H  I E   ,         om*                   /                             -(                        '   ^>"                                                                                . .         :
REG 1/6# 1F,   0  FA IS  I N  E     S  A  L O  U  M    <R                                    E G                                                        1         fA    A 
~~~~~~~Pr                                                                    R    E   a/,  IF( C :)   N u    0   F% 
, %W ~~~~~olo
)(  {'     ,  SS"   ';^g                                 t      °9elircrc           \     t_^"se;"84p§>    1.   -    -                                   >>  :';;- ,.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.1
| R   ._   rG    I      0" 0^..             F            C> .A      S' A   M    A tJN   C   E                         /\      AS t                                                       :
W~~ ~ tovnm Ofmnnc L% mdIm                                                   .01                                                                                                  X odd,Ws)  '  ou
fh7n Pe      , N  fth it iss!"", afah                        inchor                                             '       '                   -\      '       >                                eoucS 
bo.CJ-dbri     JUI - On O. m                                                                                                                                       .er                                                        -          i 
' " 'P.            On,-/^@ll  CAP SIOOR                         v@q^ M                                                                                                                        r.I_   _                        f       u 
.a ................ S sGUI : 1SAU1 'U I N E A@  BIS.  g  '



