Fc,
DIT NUMBER 1398 SE
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Parapublic Technical Assistance Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated             V 0       0         , 1983


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1398 SE
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     A   I 02                        , 1983,
between REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL (h reinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said  General   Conditions  Applicable  to  Development  Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General. Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Preparation Advance" means the project pre-
paration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated June 24, 1982 and
October 15, 1982 between the Borrower and the Association.
(b)  "CFP" means the Contr8leur Financier de la Presidence,
an office established within the General Secretariat of the
Presidency of the Republic pursuant to the Borrower's Ordonnance
No. 59-043, dated March 31, 1959, and Decree No. 78-085, dated
February 1, 1978.
(c) "BOM" means Bureau Organisation et Methodes, an office
established within the General Secretariat of the Presidency of
the Borrower pursuant to the Borrower's Decree No. 70-231, dated
February 26, 1970 as modified by Decree No. 82-941, dated
November 22, 1982.
(d)  "COF" means Contr8leur des Operations Financieres, an
office established within the Centre des Etablissements Publics
of the Borrower's Ministry of Finance whose responsibilities are
defined pursuant to Law No. 77-89, dated August 10, 1977 of the
Borrower and Decree No. 78-605, dated June 20, 1978.


﻿-2-
(e) "ACC" means    l'Agent Comptable Centrale, an office
established within the Centre des Etablissements Publics of
the Borrower's Ministry of Finance, whose responsibilities
are defined pursuant to the Borrower's Law No. 77-89, dated
August 10, 1977 and the Borrower's Decree No. 78-605, dated
June 20, 1978.
(f)  "DTAI" means Direction de Traitement Automatique de
l'Information, an office established within the Borrower's
Ministry of Finance, whose responsibilities are defined pursuant
to the Borrower's Decree No. 80-892, dated November 22, 1980.
(g)  "CVCCEP" means Commission de Vrification des Comptes
et de Contr8le des Etablissements Publics, a para-judicial body
related to the Borrower's Supreme Court, whose responsibilities
are defined pursuant to the Borrower's Law No. 77-89, dated
August 10, 1977 and the Borrower's Decree No. 77-902, dated
October 19, 1977.
(h) "GESP" means the Groupe d'Etude du       Secteur Para-
public established pursuant to the Borrower's Arr6t4 Primatorial
No. 5155/PM/SGG/EC, dated May 11, 1976 as modified by Arrete
No. 1450 dated February 21, 1980.
(i) "Project Management Unit" means the unit to be estab-
lished by the Borrower pursuant to the provisions of Section 5.01
of this Agreement.            V
(j) "Parapublic Sector" or "Parapublic Enterprises" means
the Borrower's Etablissements Publics, the Soci&t6s Nationales
and such Soci6t6s d'Economie Mixte.
(k) "Etablissement Public" means any of the Etablissements
Publics referred to in Article 3 of the Borrower's Law No. 77-89,
dated August 10, 1977.
(1) "Socift6 d'Economie Mixte" means the industrial, com-
mercial or artisan corporations in which the Borrower or a poli-
tical subdivision of the Borrower owns directly or indirectly a
portion of the share capital.
(m)  "Socifte Nationale" means an industrial or commercial
corporation established pursuant to the Borrower's Law No. 77-89,
dated August 10, 1977, in the form of stock corporations whose
capital is wholly subscribed by the Borrower or by other politi-
cal subdivisions of the Borrower, if applicable.


﻿-3-
(n)  "Ordre des Experts et Evaluateurs Agre's du S6n6gal"
means the Etablissement Public Professionel established pursuant
to the Borrower's Law No. 8306, dated January 28, 1983.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various curren-
cies equivalent to ten million two hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 10,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the prin-
cipal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges there-
on. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed
by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1988
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from


﻿-4-
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each
year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 15
and September 15 commencing September 15, 1993, and ending
March 15, 2033, each installment to and including the installment
payable on March 15, 2003, to fe one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to
be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the Republic of France is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through the Project Management Unit and through its departments
and agencies referred to in Schedule 2 to this Agreement with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
financial, administrative and accounting practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.


﻿-5-
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
the Project, the Borrower shall employ, or cause the enterprises
referred to or selected pursuant to Sections 3.07 (a) and 3.09 of
this Agreement to employ, consultants, experts, including audi-
tors and accountants, whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation, such consultants to be selected in accordance with prin-
ciples and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b)    The Borrower shall cause all goods and s-rvices
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, and contract documents for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borruwer: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
- (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
at regular intervals all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and,
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.


﻿-6-
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six -months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such-scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of their
respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
Section 3.05. By March 31 of each year during execution of
the Project, the Borrower shall, through the Project Management
Unit, submit to the Association for its approval the Borrower's
proposal for the selection of Parapublic Enterprises for the
purpose of the carrying out of Part A of the Project during such
year.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) select and employ
through the Project Management Unit in consultation with the
enterprises selected pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.05
r-f this Agreement and for the' purpose of carrying out Part A of
the Project, management consultants and other consultants in con-
formity with the provisions of Section 3.02 of this Agreement;
(ii) establish through the Project Management Unit teams for
the preparation of proposals for rehabilitation programs and
contrats-plan; such teams to be composed of suitably qualified
staff in adequate numbers from the enterprises concerned and
staff of CFP or BOM and the activities of such teams to be co-
ordinated in each case by such management consultants; (iii)
cause the enterprises concerned: (A) to ensure that the staff
selected for such teams shall contribute to the work of such
teams on a full-time basis, and (B) to provide such management
consultants with adequate support staff, equipment and appro-
priate offices; and (iv) notify, through the Project Management
Unit, the Association, promptly, of the date of establishment of
such teams.
(b) The Borrower shall, through the Project Management
Unit, furnish to the Association: (i) within six months after


﻿-7-
the establishment of the teams referred to in paragraph (a) (ii)
of this Section, the proposals prepared by said teams for re-
habilitation programs for the Association's review and comment;
such rehabilitation programs to include lists of urgently needed
spare parts and equipment to be provided under Part A.3 of the
Project for the Association's approval; and (ii) within twelve
months after the establishment of the teams referred to in para-
graph (a) (ii) of this Section, the proposals of said teams for
the resulting contrats-plan, for the Association's review and
comment.
(c) By March 31, 1984, the Borrower shall, in consultation
with the Association and enterprises selected pursuant to Section
3.05 of this Agreement, review execution of Part A.1 of the
Project and make recommendations for the further execution of
Part A.1 of the Project.
(d) At the end of the first year of implementation of each
contrat-plan referred to in Part A.2 of the Project and annually
thereafter until completion of the Project, the Borrower shall,
in consultation with the Association and the enterprises con-
cerned, review the performance of the Borrower and the enter-
prises concerned in respect of their respective obligations under
said contrats-plan.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall, for the purpose of
carrying out Part B.1 of the Project, cause, through CVCCEP each
of SOTRAC, SONADIS, SODEFITEX, OPT, SENELEC, CPSP, OHLM, SICAP,
Dakar-Marine, and BNDS (as defined under Part B.1 of the Project)
or such other enterprises as the CVCCEP may propose to the Asso-
ciation from time 'o time and may have been agreed by the Asso-
ciation to select and employ auditors in conformity with the
provisions of Section 3.02 of this Agreement.
(b) The Borrower shall cause said enterprises: (i) to have
their accounts audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied by the auditors employed pursuant
to subparagraph (a) (i) above; (ii) to furnish to the Association
as soon as available: (A) certified copies of their accounts and
financial statements as audited under Part B.1 of the Project,
and (B) the reports of such audits of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested.
(c) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause said enterprises to contribute, as and when


﻿-8-
needed, during the first year of such audits at least 25%, and
during the second and third year at least 50%, of the total cost
of the auditors employed by any such enterprises.
Section 3.08. By March 31 of each year during execution of
the Project, the Borrower shall, through CVCCEP, submit to the
Association for its approval a proposal for the selection of
Parapublic Enterprises for the purpose of carrying out Part B.2
of the Project.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall, for the purpose of carry-
ing out Part B.2 of the Project, cause each of the enterprises
selected pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.08 of this
Agreement: (i) to select and employ accountants in conformity
with the provisions of Section 3.02 of this Agreement; (ii) to
contribute, as and when needed, at least 25% of the total cost of
the accountants employed by any such enterprise pursuant to sub-
paragraph (i) above; and (iii) to furnish to the Association any
financial statements and reports prepared with the assistance of
said accountants.
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower shall, for purposes of the
carrying out of Part B.3 of the Project, select and employ con-
sultants through CVCCEP in consultation with the Ordre des
Experts et des Evaluateurs Agre's du Senegal in conformity with
the provisions of Section 3.02'of this Agreement.
(b) By June 30, 1984, the Borrower shall: (A) cause the
Ordre des Experts et des Evaluateurs Agre's du Senegal to pre-
pare national auditing standards; and (B) submit such standards
through its Ministry of tJustice with the comments of such Mini-
stry to the Association for comment.
(c) By December 31, 1984, the Borrower shall, through
CVCCEP, prepare and submit to the Association for its review pro-
posals for legislation to establish national auditing standards.
Section 3.11. During execution of the Project, the Borrower
shall maintain the Project Management Unit within the Borrower's
Secretariat General de la Presidence adequate powers, organiza-
tion and staffing; such unit to be headed, at all times, by a
suitably qualified Director who shall be President of GESP and
shall report directly to the Secretaire General de la Presidence.


﻿-9-
Section 3.12. (a) By December 31, 1983, the Borrower shall
submit to the Association for comment the recommendations of the
study, carried out under Part C.3 (i) of the Project.
(b) By December 31, 1984, the Borrower shall submit to the
Association for its approval the training program to be carried
out under Part C.3 (ii) of the Project, such training program to
be prepared on the basis of the results of the study carried out
under Part C.3 (i) of the Project.
Section 3.13. (a) The Borrower shall, promptly upon their
preparation, submit to the Association for its approval terms of
reference of all studies to be carried out under Part D of the
Project.
(b) Promptly upon completion of any study carried out under
Part D of the Project, the Borrower shall furnish any such study
to the Association and afford the Association a reasonable
opportunity to comment on its recommendations.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices
the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsi-
ble for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to
in paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any
case not later than four months af Uer the end of each such year,
a certified copy of the report of such audit by such auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have rea-
sonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning said accounts, records and expendi-
tures and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions, namely, that the Project Management Unit has
been effectively established within the Borrower's Secr6tariat
G6n6ral de la Prfsidence with adequate powers, organization and
staffing acceptable to the Association.
Section 5.02. The date   N 00oe V, 11 V3           is hereby
specified for the. purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister responsible for finance of the
Borrower is designated as representacive of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:        I
Ministere de 1'Economie
et des Finances
Rue Charles LaIne
B.P. 4017
Dakar, Sgnegal
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINFINANCES                         512
Dakar, Sen6gal                      TRESOR SG
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿Cable address:                         Telex:
INDEVAS                              440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                     248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
By            L 0%     t
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By/SIO     ".a.-L              op4ic-
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Staff cost and                370,000        100%
equipment for
the Project
Management
Unit and equip-
ment for Part C
of the Project
(2) Equipment for               1,620,000        100%
Part A.3 of
the Project
(3)  (a) Consul-                3,880,000       100%
tants under
Parts A, B.3
and C of the
Project
(b) Consultants              740,000       100%
under Part D
of the Project
(4) Audits under                1,160,000
Part B..1 of
the Project
during:
(a) first year                             75%
of any such
audits


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(b)  second and                            50%
third year
of any such
audits
(5) Accountants                   460,000       75%
under Part B.2
of the Project
(6) Refunding of                  460,000       Amount due under
Project                                     Section 2.02 (b)
Preparation                                 of this Agreement
Advance
(7) Unallocated                 1,510,000
TOTAL                10,200,000
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that the proceeds of
the Credit shall not be disbursed on account of payments for
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of items in any Category decreases or
increases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such Category as required to be consistent with the aforemen-
tioned policy of the Association.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures made prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b) expenditures in respect of Category 2 unless the Asso-
ciation has approved such equipment pursuant to the provisions of
Section 3.06 (b) (i) of this Agreement; and


﻿- 14 -
(c) expenditures in respect of Category 3 (b) unless the
Association has approved the terms of reference of the studies
pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.13 (a) of this Agreement.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, -to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
5.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditure for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Asso-
ciation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following:
Part A:   Rehabilitation of Public Enterprises
1.   Preparation of rehabilitation programs for selected
enterprises of the Parapublic Sector; such programs to
consist of diagnostic studies, detailed recommendations
and a timetable for implementation of recommended
measures.
2.   Preparation of contrats-plan to be entered into between
the Borrower and selected Parapublic Enterprises; said
contrats-plan to specify, inter alia, the performance
objectives of the respective enterprises and the Bor-
rower's financial and other obligations towards such
enterprises.
3.   Provision  of  equipment   for  Parapublic   Enterprises
needed for the implementation of the rehabilitation
programs.
Part B:   Audits of Public Enterprises and Accounting Assistance
1.   Carrying out of 3 consecutive annual audits under the
supervision of CVCCEP of selected Parapublic Enter-
prises, including Sociftf des Transports en Commun du
Cap Vert (SOTRAC), Soci&t& Nationale de Distribution
(SONADIS), Societ6 pour le D6veloppement des Fibres
Textiles (SODEFITEX), Office des Postes et T6lecommu-
nications (OPT), Socifte Nationale de l'Electricitf
(SENELEC), Caisse de P&requation et de Stabilisation
des Prix (CPSP), Office des Habitations A Loyer Mod6r6
(OHLM), Societe Immobiliare du Cap Vert (SICAP), Banque
Nationale de D6veloppement du S6n6gal (BNDS) and
Dakar-Marine.
2.   Improvement of accounting and internal auditing proce-
dures of about 25 enterprises of the Parapublic Sector
under the supervision of CVCCEP in cooperation with CFP
and COF.


﻿- 16 -
3.   Preparation of proposals for legislation for the estab-
lishment of national auditing standards by l'Ordre des
Experts et des Evaluateurs Agrees du Senegal under the
supervision of C1VCCEP.
Part C:   Strengthening o/ Government Control Organizations and
of Management of Parapublic Enterprises
1.   CFP
(i) Training of controllers in techniques of financial
analysis of enterprises.
(ii) Development of a comprehensive computerized data
base for monitoring the economic and financial
performance of Para-Public Enterprises.
(iii) Acquisition of computer equipment.
2.   ACC/COF
(i) Training of controllers in techniques of account-
ing and internal auditing of Etablissements
Publics.
(ii) Development of a comprehensive computerized data
base, in cooper'ation with CFP, for Etablissements
Publics.
(iii) Preparation and implementation of a program for
the strengthening of accounting and financial
management of about five Etablissements Publics A
Caractere Industriel et Commercial.
(iv) Acquisition of office equipment and vehicles.
3.   BOM
(i) Carrying out of a study to assess the training
needs of personnel of Parapublic Enterprises.
(ii) Carrying out of a training program for personnel
of Parapublic Enterprises and government control
organizations in cooperation with specialized
training institutions.


﻿- 17 -
(iii) Acquisition of office equipment.
4.   CVCCEP
(i)  Strengthening of CVCCEP's capacity to supervise
the audit program to be carried out under Part B.1
of the Project.
(ii) On-the-job traininag of auditors of CVCCEP at a
major accounting firm abroad.
(iii) Acquisition of office equipment and vehicles.
5.   DTAI/BOM
(i) Training of personnel of Parapublic Enterprises in
data processing.
(ii) Acquisition of computer equipment and establish-
ment of decentralized data processing systems in
about five Etablissements Publics.
6.   CFP/BOM
On-the-job training of controllers and management
advisers through their participation in the teams to
be established pursuant to Section 3.06 (ii) of this
Agreement.
Part D:
Carrying out of studies on the organization, management
and performance of the Parapublic Sector and on other issues
related to the Borrower's policy regarding the enterprises
of the Parapublic Sector.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1987.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.   Except as provided in paragraph 2 hereof, equipment shall be
procured through competitive bidding following local procurement
procedures acceptable to the Association.
2.   Contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000 or
less may be procured after having obtained quotations from at
least three suppliers.
3.   The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Associa-
tion of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the
Credit Account in respect of any contract financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommenda-
tions for award and such other information as the Association
shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines
that the award of the contract was not consistent with the
provisions of this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the pro-
visions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the         -day of
198 3.
FOR SECRETARY


