Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB3110 
Operation Name 
Fourth Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General public administration sector (50%); Other social services 
(50%) 
Project ID 
P096928 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF BENIN 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
May 8, 2007 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
April 30, 2007 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
June 14, 2007 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Benin is a country with a population of 7.6 million and a per capita income of US$510 in 2005. 
Following 1989 fundamental political change, the country has enjoyed a relative political stability 
and democracy has been greatly strengthened with the last presidential election taking place in 
2006. Real GDP growth rate averaged 5 percent over 2000-03 (compared to 4 percent for Sub-
Saharan Africa) but slowed to 3 percent in 2004 and 2005. However, economic growth recovered to 
4.1 percent in 2006 reflecting a rebound in cotton and services sectors. Nonetheless, poverty 
remains widespread and per capita income is below the Sub-Saharan average.   
The economy remains heavily dependent on the agricultural sector, in particular cotton and transit 
trade with Nigeria, while the informal sector accounts for more than 90 percent of non-agricultural 
employment and close to 70 percent of non-agricultural GDP. The agricultural sector accounts for 
about 35 percent of GDP and provides nearly 70 percent of the country’s workforce while cotton is 
the major primary export commodity with about 65 percent of total exports over 2003-05. Transit 
trade with Nigeria is estimated to represent between 6.5 and 7.5 percent of GDP and explains the 
vulnerability of the economy to trade policy changes in its neighboring and main trade partner. 
Despite the increases in the international prices of oil and in the regional food prices caused by 
draught in neighboring Niger, inflation was broadly contained, averaging 2.7 percent over the 2003-
2006 period. Although inflation remains low, Benin’s competitiveness weakened due to the 
appreciation of the real effective exchange rate and delays in the implementation of key structural 
reforms. 
Since 2003, PRSCs have served the role of supporting the main planks of Benin’s PRSP, addressing 
the Government’s request for donor harmonization around a common set of measures in key reform 
areas, and for increasing the share of budget support in donor assistance.  Similarly, the current 
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS for FY04-07, Report No. 26054-BEN, approved by the Board in 
July 2003) includes a plank for supporting a number of policy reforms using development policy 
lending to provide budget support.  Development policy lending via budget support will continue to 
be featured in the new CAS to be presented in FY08. 
Page  2
PRSCs1, 2 and 3: (i) helped create the basis for private-sector-led economic growth by 
supporting the Government's macroeconomic program and improving the investment 
climate; (ii) supported the GoB’s public expenditure management reform program; and (iii) 
supported the reform of the public resources management and help finance the 
Government's expenditure program in key sectors, focusing on the delivery of basic 
services tailored to the needs of the poor. PRSC2 expanded the coverage to three new 
sectors (agriculture, rural transportation and justice)
.
PRSC 3 maintained a core focus on 
economic growth and governance, supporting service delivery through improved public 
expenditure management, financial decentralization, and expanding results-oriented 
budgeting to new sectors.  PRSC 3 put a new emphasis on private sector development, on 
civil service reforms that helped instill a practice of monitoring and evaluation, including at 
the local level, and also on Justice sector reforms that improved the business climate. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The overall objective of the proposed PRSCs is to support implementation of Benin’s Strategy for 
Growth and Poverty reduction (PRSP II) adopted in April 2007 by the Government.  The first series 
of PRSCs for Benin focused on improving economic growth and governance through reforms in the 
business environment, justice, agriculture and infrastructure, and through public expenditure 
management reforms in key sectors, such as health, education and water. The proposed second 
series will deepen the focus on improving the policy environment for private investment, including 
supporting completion of the reforms in the cotton sector, and infrastructure.  The series will also 
continue to support Government’s measures to pursue progress toward the MDGs by improving 
access to basic services and ensuring greater efficiency of public expenditures on human capital 
formation and to promote better governance through financial management, civil service and justice 
reforms. This will respond to requests from the Benin public for improved quality of public services 
and more transparency in the use of public resources, as well as from donors in need of fiduciary 
standards to facilitate continued budget support. The PRSC 4-6 is complemented by more specific 
investment credit in the areas of competitiveness and growth, energy, rural development, 
environment and forestry. 
3. Preliminary description 
 
The development objectives of the new PRSC series are to support the acceleration of real growth 
and the reduction of the incidence of poverty in Benin through the following three pillars: 
 
(i) improving the policy environment for private investment and infrastructure;  
 
(ii) pursuing progress toward the MDGs by improving access to basic services and 
ensuring greater efficiency of public expenditures on human capital formation; and  
 
(iii) promoting better governance through financial management, civil service and 
justice reforms. 
 
Page  3
The one shift of emphasis most strongly articulated by Government for the revised PRSP is the new 
importance accorded to economic growth and the development of a favorable business 
environment.  This central element requires an increase in competitiveness of the economy, which 
Government has recognized is an inherently multi-sectoral endeavor with a broad set of 
stakeholders.  Planned structural reforms and disengagement from state enterprises have 
implications for the Ministries of Industry and Commerce, Agriculture, Transport, Public Works, 
Energy, and Communications. The Ministry of Education is called on to build human capital more 
efficiently, and to improve vocational training.  Similarly, the Ministry of Development and 
Finance is managing reforms in tax administration, customs, and land tenure. A major finding of 
(ICA/Doing Business) is the strong demand among members of the private sector for improvements 
in governance and in the justice system, particularly for enforcing contracts and land use rights.  
Stakeholders in the business climate include employers, unions, consumers, exporters, and potential 
investors both domestic and foreign. 
In a similar fashion, governance in all its dimensions has become a central cross-cutting reform 
vital to service delivery in every sector, and is in fact the first pillar of the new PRSP.  In particular, 
the system of sectoral program budgets organized into the medium term expenditure framework has 
become the core system for planning, implementing, and monitoring development programs, as 
well as the means for delegating spending authority to the line ministries and to decentralized levels 
of Government.  A series of reforms in internal and external financial controls, as well as in 
procurement, are intended to ensure that the budget is implemented according to what was adopted 
by the National Assembly, and in a transparent manor.  A requirement for regular performance 
reports on results indicators is designed to harness monitoring and evaluation systems to the 
interests of improving efficiency in service delivery.   
Reform programs in civil service and decentralization are designed to provide Government with the 
means to respond to performance reports with innovations that can improve efficiency and staff 
motivation.  Civil service reforms will enable a better match between needed skills and staff, as 
well as allow improvements in wage bill management that can create room for new staff to fill 
current shortages.  The decentralization strategy aims to increase resources for decentralized service 
delivery and for supporting local development plans and decision-making.  Further capacity 
building will target improvements in financial management at the local level and systematizing the 
collection of monitoring data from the local communities.   
The new Government has also made a forceful statement on the importance it accords to raising the 
quality of governance, and reducing corruption in particular.  The Minister of Development and 
Finance has spoken publicly on the corrosive effects corruption can have on fiscal revenues, the 
macro-economic and business environment, economic productivity and investment climate, 
mobilization of foreign financing, and illicit rent seeking, and he has launched the final phases of 
the diagnostic survey on corruption as a basis for formalizing plans for improving governance.  The 
PRSC will take a cross-sectoral approach to raising the standards of governance in all ministries.  
Moreover, reforms in the Justice sector, in addition to benefits for the business climate, will also 
serve the governance agenda. 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
The proposed development policy Credit supports mostly economic governance and sector reforms 
that are not expected to have a significant environmental effect. The potential environmental and 
social effects associated with the proposed PRSC-4 are mainly related to the rural water, rural 
transport, energy, health, and education sectors.  
Page  4
Extensive Environment Assessments and Social Analysis were undertaken during the preparation of 
PRSC1-3 to identify possible positive and negative linkages between the PRSC support and 
environmental and social impacts.  It also took into account the environmental and social analysis 
undertaken for other Bank operations.  While PRSC support is not expected to have any significant 
negative environmental or social impacts, the analyses focused on the environmental and social 
issues facing Benin and the capacity of national and local public sector agencies roles and 
responsibilities to manage them.   
PRSC4 continues to draw on the Environmental Assessment and Social Analysis undertaken for 
PRSC1-3. The Ministry of Environment, Housing and Urban Development adopted a Medium-
Term Strategic Plan in 2002 that highlighted the main environmental objectives in the sector.  The 
Environment Directorate and the Benin Environmental Agency share the responsibility and 
objectives of the Ministry in the areas of environmental management and environmental 
assessment.  This mandate focuses on the country’s major environmental threats.  It evolves around 
the following activities:  a) strengthening and deepening the regulatory framework, b) developing 
environmental compliance and enforcement tools for environmental impact assessment, c) 
protecting coastal resources and controlling coastal erosion, d) controlling urban transport pollution, 
e) increasing access to urban sanitation and drainage services.  To this end, small environmental 
units within key line ministries have been established and trained in identifying and implementing 
measures for mitigating any adverse environmental or social impacts of public investment 
programs. The units are charged with implementing their respective Environmental and Social 
Management Plans, and will continue to oversee their activities. Benin’s environmental compliance 
is supported by the environmental management activities in several investment projects supported 
by the Bank in the sectors of energy, forestry, cotton, or malaria.  The Benin Environmental 
Agency (ABE) has overall responsibility for ensuring that EAs are carried out for all projects in 
accordance with national standards.  
5. Tentative financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
40 
 Total 
40 
 
6. Contact point 
 
Contact:  
Nancy Claire Benjamin 
 
 
William Experton 
Title:    
Sr Country Economist  
 
 
Lead Education Specialist 
Tel: 
 (202) 
473-0189    (202) 
473-5176 
Fax: 
 (202) 
473-8466    (202) 
473-8216 
Email: 
  
nbenjamin@worldbank.org 
  wexperton@worldbank.org 
 
