Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2969 
Operation Name 
Fourth Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General public administration sector (50%);Other social services 
(50%) 
Project ID 
P096928 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF BENIN 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
March 13, 2007 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
March 26, 2007 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
June 14, 2007 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
Benin is a country with a population of 7.6 million and a per capita income of US$510 in 2005. 
Following 1989 fundamental political change, the country has enjoyed a relative political stability and 
democracy has been greatly strengthened with the last presidential election taking place in 2006. Real 
GDP growth rate averaged 5 percent over 2000-03 (compared to 4 percent for Sub-Saharan Africa) but 
slowed to 3 percent in 2004 and 2005. However, economic growth is expected to recover to 4.5 percent 
in 2006 reflecting a rebound in cotton and services sectors. Nonetheless, poverty remains widespread 
and per capita income is below the Sub-Saharan average.   
The economy remains heavily dependent on the agricultural sector, in particular cotton and transit trade 
with Nigeria, while the informal sector accounts for more than 90 percent of non-agricultural 
employment and close to 70 percent of non-agricultural GDP. The agricultural sector accounts for about 
35 percent of GDP and provides nearly 70 percent of the cou
ntry’s workforce while cotton is the major 
primary export commodity with about 65 percent of total exports over 2003-05. Transit trade with 
Nigeria is estimated to represent between 6.5 and 7.5 percent of GDP and explains the vulnerability of 
the economy to trade policy changes in its neighboring and main trade partner. 
Despite the increases in the international prices of oil and in the regional food prices caused by draught 
in neighboring Niger, inflation was broadly contained, averaging 2.7 percent over the 2003-2006 period. 
Although inflation remains low, Benin’s competitiveness weakened due to the appreciation of the real 
effective exchange rate and delays in the implementation of key structural reforms. 
Since 2003, PRSCs have served the role of supporting the main planks of Benin’s PRSP, addressing the 
Government’s request for donor harmonization around a common set of measures in key reform areas, 
and for increasing the share of budget support in donor assistance.  Similarly, the current Country 
Assistance Strategy (CAS for FY04-07, Report No. 26054-BEN, approved by the Board in July 2003) 
includes a plank for supporting a number of policy reforms using development policy lending to provide 
budget support.  Development policy lending via budget support will continue to be featured in the new 
CAS to be presented in FY08. 
Page  2
PRSCs1, 2 and 3: (i) helped create the basis for private-sector-led economic growth by supporting the 
Government's macroeconomic program and improving the investment climate; (ii) supporte
d
the GoB’s 
public expenditure management reform program; and (iii) supported the reform of the public resources 
management and help finance the Government's expenditure program in key sectors, focusing on the 
delivery of basic services tailored to the needs of the poor. PRSC2 expanded the coverage to three new 
sectors (agriculture, rural transportation and justice)
.
PRSC 3 maintained a core focus on economic 
growth and governance, supporting service delivery through improved public expenditure management, 
financial decentralization, and expanding results-oriented budgeting to new sectors.  PRSC 3 put a new 
emphasis on private sector development, on civil service reforms that helped instill a practice of 
monitoring and evaluation, including at the local level, and also on Justice sector reforms that improved 
the business climate. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
The current credit would be the first of a proposed new series of three PRSC operations.  The overall 
objective of the proposed PRSCs is to support implementation of Benin’s PRSP and the attainment of 
PRSP goals, including progress toward reaching the MDGs.  In order to promote the attainment of PRSP 
objectives, PRSC-4 will support the PSD agenda in improving the investment climate and raising the 
competitiveness of productive sectors, complemented by components in infrastructure services and 
justice sector reforms. As in PRSC-3, the new operation will also support policy reforms, strategic 
planning and program budgets in the agriculture, forestry, and transport sectors.  PRSC-4 will continue 
to pursue progress on the MDGs through improvements in basic services including water, health, 
education, and environment. PRSC-4 will also continue to cover budget system reforms as a means of 
reinforcing program budgets, fiduciary standards, and results-oriented management through monitoring 
and evaluation. These reforms will be complemented by components on the cross-cutting themes of civil 
service reform, decentralization, and anti-corruption.  The Team finds that this combination of reforms 
provides a multi-sectoral package well-suited both to promoting implementation of the PRSP and to 
collaboration with other donors, who aid PRSP objectives through a similar package of programs. 
3. Preliminary description 
 
The PRSCs would provide programmatic support for reform agendas in key sectors while allowing a 
multisectoral approach to aiding the Government’s agenda which has been specified in cross-sectoral 
terms: (i) Governance in the service of development; (ii) macroeconomic stability and promotion of a 
business climate favorable to economic growth; (iii) development of economic and social infrastructure; 
(iv) building human capital; and (v) assuring equitable development. 
The one shift of emphasis most strongly articulated by Government for the revised PRSP is the new 
importance accorded to economic growth and the development of a favorable business environment.  
This central element requires an increase in competitiveness of the economy, which Government has 
recognized is an inherently multi-sectoral endeavor with a broad set of stakeholders.  Planned structural 
reforms and disengagement from state enterprises have implications for the Ministries of Industry and 
Commerce, Agriculture, Transport, Public Works, Energy, and Communications. The Ministry of 
Education is called on to build human capital more efficiently, and to improve vocational training.  
Similarly, the Ministry of Development and Finance is managing reforms in tax administration, customs, 
and land tenure. A major finding of (ICA/Doing Business) is the strong demand among members of the 
private sector for improvements in governance and in the justice system, particularly for enforcing 
contracts and land use rights.  Stakeholders in the business climate include employers, unions, 
consumers, exporters, and potential investors both domestic and foreign. 
Page  3
In a similar fashion, governance in all its dimensions has become a central cross-cutting reform vital to 
service delivery in every sector, and is in fact the first pillar of the new PRSP.  In particular, the system 
of sectoral program budgets organized into the medium term expenditure framework has become the 
core system for planning, implementing, and monitoring development programs, as well as the means 
for delegating spending authority to the line ministries and to decentralized levels of Government.  A 
series of reforms in internal and external financial controls, as well as in procurement, are intended to 
ensure that the budget is implemented according to what was adopted by the National Assembly, and in 
a
transparent manor.  A requirement for regular performance reports on results indicators is designed to 
harness monitoring and evaluation systems to the interests of improving efficiency in service delivery.   
Reform programs in civil service and decentralization are designed to provide Government with the 
means to respond to performance reports with innovations that can improve efficiency and staff 
motivation.  Civil service reforms will enable a better match between needed skills and staff, as well as 
allow improvements in wage bill management that can create room for new staff to fill current 
shortages.  The decentralization strategy aims to increase resources for decentralized service delivery 
and for supporting local development plans and decision-making.  Further capacity building will target 
improvements in financial management at the local level and systematizing the collection of monitoring 
data from the local communities.   
The new Government has also made a forceful statement on the importance it accords to raising the 
quality of governance, and reducing corruption in particular.  The Minister of Development and Finance 
has spoken publicly on the corrosive effects corruption can have on fiscal revenues, the macro-economic 
and business environment, economic productivity and investment climate, mobilization of foreign 
financing, and illicit rent seeking, and he has launched the final phases of the diagnostic survey on 
corruption as a basis for formalizing plans for improving governance.  The PRSC will take a cross-
sectoral approach to raising the standards of governance in all ministries.  Moreover, reforms in the 
Justice sector, in addition to benefits for the business climate, will also serve the governance agenda. 
4. Environment Aspects 
The proposed development policy Credit supports mostly economic governance and sectoral reforms 
that are unlikely to have any additional significant environmental effects. The potential environmental 
and social effects associated with the proposed PRSC-4 are mainly related to the rural water, rural 
transport, and health and education sectors, and the cotton sector reforms.  
This operation is governed by Operational Policy (OP) 8.60, 
Development Policy Lending
,
and therefore 
is not subject to OP 4.01, 
Environmental Assessment
.
However, PRSC1-3 were governed by 
Operational Directives 8.60, 
Adjustment Lending Policy
,
deemed a sector adjustment operation, subject 
to OP 4.01, and classified category B for purposes of environmental assessment.   As such, extensive 
Environment Assessment and Social Analysis were undertaken during the preparation of PRSC1-3 to 
identify possible positive and negative linkages between the PRSC support and environmental and social 
impacts, including examining the Bank's safeguards definition of social impacts in regard to involuntary 
resettlement, indigenous peoples, and cultural property.  It also took into account the environmental and 
social analysis undertaken for other Bank operations.  While PRSC support is not expected to have any 
significant negative environmental or social impacts, the analysis focused on the environmental and 
social issues facing Benin and the capacity of national and local public sector agencies roles and 
responsibilities to manage them.   
 
PRSC4 continues to draw on the Environmental Assessment and Social Analysis undertaken for 
PRSC1-3. The PRSC program includes a component to improve environment management.  These 
Page  4
reforms have provided for training of environment sector and line ministry staff in identifying and 
implementing measures for mitigating any residual adverse environmental or social impacts of public 
investment programs.  The Environment Agency of the Ministry of Environment and Natural Protection 
has helped to create environmental impact assessment (EIA) cells in several line ministries, charged 
with implementing their respective Environmental and Social Management Plans, and will continue to 
oversee their activities. Benin’s environmental compliance is supported by the environmental 
management activities in several sectoral investment projects supported by the Bank. 
 
PRSC-4-6 will support Benin in meeting key challenges ahead by strengthening: (i) institutional and 
technical capacities of the Ministry of environment and nature protection regarding budget execution  
and monitoring and evaluation; (ii) ABE ability to best monitor and evaluate sector programs; In 
addition, PRSC4-6 will:  develop the means to reduce air pollution significantly, by: (i) strengthening 
capacities; (ii) design and execution of a detailed action plan for air pollution reduction; (iii) supporting 
the activities of the unit in charge of tracking air pollution reduction.  PRSC4-6 will resume the 
implementation of the reform agenda for the forestry sub-sector. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
45 
 Total 
45 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact:  
Nancy Claire Benjamin 
 
 
William Experton 
Title:    
Sr Country Economist  
 
 
Lead Education Specialist 
Tel: 
 (202) 
473-0189    (202) 
473-5176 
Fax: 
 (202) 
473-8466    (202) 
473-8216 
Email: 
  
nbenjamin@worldbank.org 
  wexperton@worldbank.org 
 
