Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6529
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HAITI
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 770-HA)
December 17, 1986
Education Division
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washngton, D C. 20433
USA.
O4tKe of Drectt Gmertal
Op.iat mn FvalSu Mw,
December 17, 1986
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
i
SUBJECT:  Project Completion Report:  Haiti - Second Education Project
(CreAit 770-HA)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report: Haiti - Second Education Project (Credit 770-
HA)" prepared by the Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office. Under
the modified system for project performance auditing further evaluation of
this project by the Operations Evaluation Department has not been made.
Attaclhment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OMCIAL UE ONLY
GLOSSARY
CARE       -   Cooperative for American Relief to Everyone
CEP        -   Primary Education Certificate
CIDA       -   Canadian International Development Agency
CONADEP    -   National Council for Development and Planning
CPFP       -   Pilot Center for Technical Training
DARNDR     -   Department (Ministry) of Agriculture, Natural
Resources, and Rural Development
DEN        -   Department (Ministry) of Natioual Education
FAO        -   Food and Agriculture Orgari.zation
FAVM       -   Faculty of Agriculture and Veterinary Medicine
IDB        -   InterAmerican Development Bank
ILO        -   International Labor Organization
INFP       -   National Institute for Vocational/
Technical Training
IPN        -   National Pedagogical Institute
MARNDR     -   Ministry of Agriculture
MEN        -   Ministry of National Education
ONAAC      -   National Office for Literacy and Community
Action
PIU        -   Project Implementation Unit
UNDP       -   United Nations Development Programme
UNESCO CP  -   United Nationis Educational, Scientific, and
Cultural Organization Cooperative Program
UNICEF     -   United Nations International Children's
Emergency Fund
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HAITI - SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 770-HA)
TABLE OF CONIENTS
Page No.
Preface                                      e                        i
Project Data                         ........................, ,   ii
Evaluation Summary                          ........... ,,vi
I.  PROJECT GENERATION. .. . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . .  .*              1
Socioeconomic Development and Human Resources .... .......    I
Project Conception and Justification          ....................    2
Project Description ..........       .......  .     . .....    2
Changes in the Project          .................................    4
II. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ......................... .                   5
Implementation Overview . ...... ... 99............. 000 *@@    5
Project Management Organization          ........................    8
Designs ............................                             8
Civil  Works .......        9..............................    9
Furniture and Equipment ....        .............................    9
Technical Assistance, Training and Studies ..............        9
Compliance with Covenants ....,         ................,.....   10
IDA Performance        ........................................   10
III. PROJECI COST AND FINANCE ...... ***9oo**o**o9 ..........   1i
IV. OPERATIONAL OUTCOMES OF THE PROJECT ...........................o  13
Educational Reform ....................... . .       0.....   13
V. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED   ........... ... ....,.   17
Conclusion              b****X**o         e                17
Le s sons **                          0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 * 6 0 6 0 0 0 0 o*  0 0 17



Table of Contents (Continued)                                         Page No.
ANNEXES
1.  Estimated and Actual Student Places .....      ....................  21
2.  Cost of Estimated and Actual Student Places...........4.......       22
3. Implementation and Disbursement Schedule; Original Estimate
and Actual *vvv*e*v*v**@@*vvvX**23
4.  Compliance with Credit Conditions ...........................        24
5.  Primary School Areas and Costs *.............................        27
6.  Educational Setting *X@e*r**¢**¢****sX**30
7. A Note on the Haitian Educational Reform and Project
Implementation ................... .                               31
8   Educational Radio  ................... .                             33
9. Curriculum Development and the Production and Distribution
of Instructional Materials (Textbooks) ,        ..................  36
10. Indicators of effective Use of Project Financed Educational
Inputs                              ..,38
Table 1: Use of Project II Classes - Reform and Traditional.        39
Table 2: Percentage of Pupils of Project Schools by the
Type of Program (Reform and Traditional)    ........      40
Table 3: Indicators of School Use      ..........................   41
Table 4: Teachers in Project II Schools by Region and
Level of Qualification         ..........................  42
Table 5: Grade 1 Reform Textbooks Available in Project II
Schools Visited ............. .                          43
Table 6: Grade 2 Reform Textbooks Available in Project II
Schools Visited .....       ........................     44
Table 7: Grade 3 Reform Textbooks Available in Project II
Schools Visited . ,. .. . .......      * .....,*e        45
11.  Comparison of Objectives, Means and Outcome at Completion...        46
12.  Agricultural and Community Development Training ............0       48
13.  Vocational Training ... . . ..... o..e.... ..... *,                 52
ATTACHMENTS:   Comments from the Borrower
I. Comments received from the PIU ,.............................        63
II. Comments received from the Ministry of National Education ...        67



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HAITI - SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 770-HA)
PREFACE
1.        The project completion report (PCR) for the Second Education
Project in Haiti kCr. 770>-HA) with a credit in the amount of US$10.0 million
:ompares the objectives defined at appraisal with actual achievements, and
analyses the project outcomes and the issues concerning project implementa-
tion. The Credit Agreement was signed March 17, 1978; the original closing
date was December 31, 1983 but was delayed until December 31, 1984 and the
final disbursement was made July 30, 1985.
2.        The completion report was prepared by the Latin America and the
Caribbean Regional Office following a mission to Haiti (March 4-16, 1985) 1/
and is based on:
(a) a draft project completion report prepared by an independent
commission for the the Project Implementation Unit and titled:
*Lapport Evaluation, Deuxieme Projet Education - Version Prelimi-
naire (Document de travail)", dated March 1985.
(b) IDA's files related to the project, including the Board Resolution
dpted February 3, 1978, credit agreement and the appraisal report
No. 1813-HA (dated February 8, 1978); and
(c) the findings of the mission.
3.        IDA acknowledges the assistance of the borrower in the preparation
of the PCR, particularly of the Commission which prepared the draft PCR,
4.        In accordance with the revised procedures for project performance
auditing, this project completion report was read by the Operations Evalua-
tion Department (OED), but the project was not audited by OED staff. The
draft PCR was sent to the Borrower for comments in September 1986. Comments
from the Borrower were incorporated into the text of the PCR as necessary an
reproduced in their entirety as Attachments I and II.
1/ The completion mission (March 4-16, 1985) comprised Mr. J. St. Germain
(Architect, LCPED) and Mr. R. Sack (Educator - consultant). In addition,
from May 8-18, 1985 Ms. J. de Regt (Sociologist/Educator) and from June
30-July 6, 1985, Mr. Syrimis (Vocational Educator - consultant) visited
Haiti.



- ii -
HAlTI
SEflOND EDTUCATION PROJECT (Credit 770-HA)
Project Completion Report
Project Data
Borrower: Republic of Haiti
Fiscal year: OLtober 1 - September 30
A.   The Credit                         Appraisal Estimate       Actual
Total Project Cost (US$ million)           12.67             13.34 a/
Credit Amount (US$ million)                10.0              10.0
Amount Expected to be Cancelled
(US$ million)                             0.0                0.0
Overrun (%)                                                    5%
Date of Completion of Physical              04/82             11/84
Component
Proportion Completed by
Original Completion Date (%)              100                  73
B.         Estimated and Actual Annual Cumulative Disbursements
(In US$ Million)
FISCAL YEAR
1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
Estimated   0.08   0.90   3.30   6.20   8.80  10.00  10.00   10.00
Actual       0.00   0.00   0.40   1.20   3.20   7.30   9.20   10.00
Act/Est.U(%)  0      0       12     19      36     73      92      100
a/ This includes about US$0.66 million financing for project schools
initiated under the First Project.



- iii -
C.   Currency
Name of Currency: Gourde (G)
Appraisal Year : US$1 - 5 Gourdes
Completion Year :  US$1   5 Gourdes
D.   "bhronology
Plan         Revisions          Actual
First Mention in File                                          04/09/76
Government Application                                         06/  /77
Negotiations (Start)         01/16/78             -            01/16/78
Board Approval               02/21/78             -            02/21/78
Credit Agreement Date        03/17/78             -            03/17/78
Effective Date               07/25/78             -            07/25/78
Closing Date                 12/31/83         12/31/84         12/31/84
E.   Mission Data
Month  No.of a/  No.of        Staff  Report
Type of Mission                 Year   Days       People      Weeks  Date
Identification                  11/76    13          4         7.2   12/14/76
Reconnaissance                  02/77    19          4        11     03/28/77
Reconnaissance                  04/77    20          1         3     04/05/77
04/18/77
Preparation-Assist.             05/77    19          7        24     06/12/77
Appraisal                       07/77    18          8        20.6   02/08/78
a/ Actual work in field.



- iv -
No. of b/
Month/   No.of a/  People and    Staff- Report
Year     Days       ComEoition   weeks  Date
Supervision
1                   03/78       5.0         2 BD        1.5   03/17/78
2                   05/78       3.0         1 A         0.5   06/23/78
3                   10/78       2.0         1 A         0.3   12/29/78
4                   03/79       4.0         2 AB        1.0   04/18/79
5                   06/79       5,0         3 ABE       2.0   07/10/79
6                   10/79       4.0         2 AB        1.0   1 /26/79
7                   12/79       4.0         2 AB        1.0   02/11/80
8                   05/80       5.0         2 AB c/    2.0   07/03/80
9                   04/81       2.5         1 A         0.3   05/07/81
10                   06/81      100         1 E         1.5   07/17/81
11                   09/81      10.0         2 AB        3      10/20/81
12                   12/81       2.0         1 C         0.3   01/26/82
13                   03/82       4.0         2 AB        1.0   04/16/82
14                   10/82       4.0         2 B         1.0   11/18/82
15                   05/83       3.0 (Av.)  3 ABC        1.3   06/10/83
16                   10/83       2s0 (Av.)  2 AB         0.7   11/10/83
17                   12/83       6.5 (Av.)  2 AB         2.0   01/11/84
18                   06/84       7.0         1 A         1.0   06/15/84
19                   091/84      3.5 (Av.)  2 AB         1.0   10/23/84
Total     22.4
a/  Actual work on Credit 770-HA as reported on 590 Forms.
b/  A * Architect; B - General Educator; C - Technical Educator;
D - Agricultural Educator; E - Mass Media Specialist.
c/  General Educator for last five years is also agriculturist.



v
F.   Allocation of Credit Proceeds
(US$ Thousand)
Amended      Final
Original       04/13/82      Status
1. Civil Works and
Professional Fees           3,000           4,200    4,^ 44.04
2. Furniture and
Equiprient                  2,250           2,500    2,091.94
3. Specialist Services,
Studies, Salaries of
Project Unit, Educational
Materials and Teacher
Training and Fellowships   2,750            3,100    3,664.02
Revolving Fund                                         0.00
4. Unallocated                 2,000             200         0.00
10,000         10,000   10,000.00



- vi -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HAITI
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 770-HA)
EVALUATION SUMMAPY
Introduction
This project was prepared by the Government with IDA assistance.
Appraisal took place in July 1977, and the Board approved the project on
February 21, 1978. The Credit of US$10 million became effective on July 25,
1978 and was closed on December 31, 1986, after one extension of twelve
months of the original Closing Date. The original total cost estimate of
US$12.67 million was exceeded by about US$0.7 million, the difference being
due to the financing of project schools initiated under the First Project.
Objectives and Project Content
The project intended (i) to improve the access to, and relevance
and internal efficiency of, basic education, and (ii) to expand the supply
and improve the training of skilled and semi-skilled workers and of agricul-
tural and rural development agents.
To achieve these objectives, the project provided for
(i)  construction, furnishing and equipping of 31 rural and 10 urban
primary schools, one primary teacher training college, one radio
production facility, two secondary vocational schools and one voca-
tional training center, and one agricultural training school;
(ii)  funds for in-service teacher training and the introduction of a
learning materials production program; and
(iii)  supporting technical assistance, staff training and studies
(paras. 1.08-1.09).
Implementation Experience
Initially project implementation was impeded by a sbortage of
counterpart funds, insufficient staffing of the PIU, a chanige of the Minister
of Education and the PIU Director, and delays in the First Education Project
which it was decided to complete first. Once these difiiculties were over-
come, though, the project advanced as foreseen at appraisal ;*hich coupares
favorably to other education projects in the Region (para. 2.01).



- vii -
However, it became necessary to subject the project to several
mod'ffications.  They included;  deletion of the primary teacher training
college, one secondarv vocational school, printing and supply of textbooks,
and the studies. The reasons for these changes and compensatory measures are
summarized in Table 1.1 (after para. 2.02).
Results
By and large, the project achieved its first objective, support of
basic education, although the elimination of the textbook component and dif-
ficulties with the educational radio program (para. 4.05) may have diluted
its impact. The second objective (strengthening of manpower training), even
though pursued on a reduced scale (Annex 13, para. 2.4) was not fully
attained and is unlikely to be realized in the foreseeable future (Annex 13,
para. 2.16).
Sustainability
The conclusions as to the project's sustainability are similarly
divided: in the area of basic education, the project played a catalytic role
in the adoption of a nationwide education reform. Strong Government support
and continued Bank Group assistance through several successive projects
permitted the firm establishment of the relevant components (although the
difficulties and complexities inherent in the educational radio program
should not be underestimated) (paras. 4.05 and 5.01).
The second cluster of investments in vocational training, however,
face an uncertain future:   one training center had already ceased to func-
tion, for lack of funds to cover recurrent expenditure, at the time of the
completion mission (Annex 13, para. 2.15), and the absence of effective
contacts with industry and other future employers deprived the training
centers of a possible source of non-Government support (Annex 13, paras. 2.15
-2.17).
Findings and Lessons
Major lessons emerging from this project are:
- the importance of close Government/Bank group cooperation during
project formulation and preparation (para. 1.04); and
- the necessity of h4.ving a simple and robust project design with
sufficient flexibility to respond to changing educational or
economic circumstances (paras. 2.14 and 4.01).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HAITI SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (CREDIT 770-HA)
I, PROJECT GENERATION
Socioeconomic Development and Human Resources
1.01      The period of project generation (1976-78) was characterized by
strong growth in the manufacturing and construction sector and virtual stag-
nation in the agricultural sector. The government's Five-Year Plan for
1976-81 reflected this situation by giving first priority to agriculture and
second priority to the establishment of a decentralized infrastructure around
regional growth poles.
1.02      The implications of this for human resource policies were:
la)  providing the rural school age population with functional education
and basic skills;
(b) motivating and training the rural adult population to adopt
innovative agricultural practices;
(c) training agricultural development personnel; and
(d) training technicians in sufficient numbers to meet the projected
needs for 1985 (11,500 skilled workers and 3,900 professionals per
year whereas the output in 1978 was only 175 graduates annually
from public technician training institutions); ana,
(e) expanding the number of service sector workers at all skill levels.
1.03      When the project was appraised the following key issues and
problems were identified:
(a) For primary education:
- curricula and syllabi were irrelevant to Haitian economic and
social conditions, inappropriate to the learning capacities of
the children and encouraged rote learning and student passivity;
- untrained teachers made up 75% of the teaching force; and
- textbooks were unsuited to the Haitian environment since most
were writte-. abroad and introduced concepts and illustrations
often alie.. to the Haitian child.
(b) For urban vocational and technical education:
- the existing 7 vocational schools (with an enrollment of 1,500)
had an irrelevant curriculum, underpaid and unqualified teachers,
no modern equipment, poor physical plants, an excessive number of
students per workshop, a shortage of funds for operating expenses
and little or no contact with industry. Despite this situation
there were twice as many applicants as available places.



-2-
(c) For agricultural education:
- the one existing school, paradoxically located in the suburbs of
Port-au-Prince, lacked trained personnel, appropriate equipment
and an adequate experimental farm;
- there was very limited capacity for training of rural community
development agents.
Project Conception and Justification
1.04      While the First Education Project was prepared by UNESCO CP
missions, the Second Project was prepared by the Government with IDA assist-
ance. This approach, although lengthy, contributed to strengthening local
institutional capacity and gave local staff a sense of responsibility and
initiative, which acted to secure their commitment to implementing the pro-
posed project. Bearing in mind the ongoing activities of other bilateral and
international agencies, IDA's strategy focussed on developing primary educa-
tion and associated teacher training, paying particular attention to issues
of school administration, curricula, language of instruction and educational
finance.
1.05      It should be noted that this project--most particularly those acti-
vities related to primary education--was conceived as part of a long-term IDA
commitment to the development of primary education.!/ Although some activi-
ties of this natuze were financed under the First Project, the Second Project
represented the first concerted effort to improve the quality and effective-
ness of primary education. This effort has been continued under the Third
and Fourth Education projects and is likely to continue until the entire
ten-year basic cycle program has been established.
Project Description
1.06      The project had two general objectives:
(i)  correcting inequalities of access, Improving the relevance and
increasing the internal efficiency of primary education, and
(ii)  expanding the supply and improving the productivity of skilled and
semi-skilled workers in Port-au-Prince and Cap Haitien and of
agricultural extension and rural community development agents and
rural farm leaders for the North and Artibonite.
1.07      The project content at Appraisal and the oubsequent revisions are
described below and in Table 1.1.
1.08      Measures to meet the first objective concerning primary education,
included financing for:
1/ At the time of Appraisal, the project encompassed only primary educa-
tion. The reform then introduced the concept of basic education (seven
primary grades and three lower secondary). The impact of this redefini-
tion on the project, however, was minimal because the experimentation
with new programs financed by the project was limited to the first cycle
(grades 1-4).



- 3 -
(i)  the construction, furnishing and equipping of 31 rural primary
schools and 10 urban primary schools. It was foreseen that about
one half of the rural schools would operate on a double-shift basis
and that all the schools would be used for nonformal educational
and training activities (educational radio broadcasting, functional
literacy, artisan training, etc.) after regular school hours. Boys
and girls were expected to benefit equally from the expanded
primary education opportunities;
(ii) the construction, furnishing and equipping of one new rural teacher
training college;
(iii)  for education radio, the construction, furnishing and equipping of
5 production studios and space for 48 program production
personnel, the provision of a radio education library, the purchase
of radios and batteries for schools use and two vehicles to
distribute and service the radios;
(iv) stipends and study tours for a Consultative Committee and
Curriculum Unit whose task was to review and coordinate the
substantive aspects of the educational changes being introduced
into the system;
(v) in-service teacher training programs designed to assist the
implementation of the new curricula and syllabi;
(vi) the initiation of a national program to provide appropriate
teaching/learning materials to primary school teachers and
children. Specifically, the project was to finance the writing and
testing of educational materials for grades 1-4 and the printing
and distribution on a national basis of materials for grades 1-2;
(vii) the following studies:
- an evaluation of the effectiveness of teacher training, radio
education and book distribution implemented under the project;
- a study on the appropriate respective roles of the Creole and
French languages in primary education;
- a study to determine ways of further reducing primary school
construction costs through possible use of on-site building
materials, fuller community participation and/or less costly
school design; and,
- studies to measure the transmission capacities of the Radio
Nationale.
(viii) technical assistance in the following areas:
- curriculum development and teacher training experts in the areas
of primary school curricula, teacher training, radio education,
educational materials production, and health and nutrition
education (5 expert-years);



- 4 -
- evaluation, writing, testing, production and distribution of
educational materials (3 expert-years);
- educational radio experts for the activities of program
preparation and production and the management of related
activities (5 1/2 expert-years);
- educational administration (2 expert-years); and
- fellowships for visits to neighboring countries to study
innovations and for training of radio personnel (7 staff years).
1.09      In order to meet the second objective concerning vocational,
technical and agricultural education, the project was to finance the
following items:
(i) the renovation of an existing secondary vocational school in Cap
Haitien, and the construction, furnishing and equipping of a new
secondary vocational school and a new vocational training center in
Port-au-Prince. The training center was to improve the
productivity of those engaged in export-oriented assembly and
manufacturing activities;
(ii) the construction, furnishing and equipping of a new agricultural
training school located in the Northern Region; and
(iii) technical assistance in the following areas:
- curriculum development for the project schools and in school
management and administration (3 expert-years);
- the establishment of equipment lists for project vocational
schools (1/4 expert-years); and
- fellowships for directors of project institutions to study
school administration (2 years).
Changes in the Project
1.10      The major revisions to the project are as follows:
(i) the elimination of all studies;
(ii) altering three existing radio studios in lieu of buildinig five new
ones, deletion of the rural teacher training oollege, deletion of
the vocational training school in Cap-Haiti.-n;
(iii) elimination of the printing and distributi,,ii of textbooks; and
(iv) relocation of the agricultural training school. from the Northern
to the Central Region.
Details of the changes to the Credit Agreement are described in Table 1-1.



II. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Implementation Overview
2.01      The project required 6.5 years (1978-1984) to complete instead of
the 5.5 years (1978-1983) originally planned. Although this implementation
schedule was unrealistic when set against the background of other LAC
education projects, the project was implemented at the rate foreseen at
appraisal after the initial two years delay. Project implementation was
initially delayed about two years by three factors: (i) lack of local funds
as a result ef the sharp oil price increase in 1979 and the resultant
recession, (ii) delays in adding qualified personnel to the PIU, and (iii)
changes of administration in the Ministry of Education and the PIU
directorship. The new Minister of Education decided that local funds would
be insufficient to carry out the two projects simultaneously as agreed at
appraisal, and that a new method o0 civil works procurement should be tried
in the First Project and then replicated in the Second Prcject.
2.02      The progress of educational reform resulted in some changes to the
content of the second project. The agricultural and vocational education
components were particularly affected by changing policies, although there is
also evidence that the level of preparation of these two component3 was
inadequate. The complexity of implementing an educational radio program was
also underrate6. Despite the compromising of some project objectives, the
project attained the greatest part of its quantitative objectives in terms of
improving access to and quality of basic education. It was particularly
catalytic in bringing about the nationwide education reform which is aimed at
improving quality and efficiency, and building up the institution (IPN) which
is responsible for the experimentation and implementation of the reform. All
construction was carried out as anticipated, except for the Teacher Training
school at Mirebalais and the Vocational Training center at Cap Haitien which
was transferred to the Fourth Project.



- 6 -
Table 1.1: CHANGES IN THE PROJECT
Date of
Amendment
to Credit       Description of
Agreement          Change                 Reason for change                 Results
June 1980  i) Elimination of              i)Government had        i)  Funds saved were
languages study              moved rapidly to the   used for training  and
use of creole,          fellowships for staff
at the PIU.
ii) In lieu of building       ii) Save funds, and
five radio studios,reno-    two others no longer
vate three existing ones.   deemed necessary.
May 1982   i) Elimination of the          i) The government de-  i) Project 3 provided
printing and distribution   cided that books           for free supply and
of textbooks for grades       would no longer be      distribution of text-
1-2.                         distributed free as    books to 25% of
the cost was too high  students (most needy)
to sustain after        for classroom use.
project conclusion.
ii) Deletion of the rural   ii) Underutilization   ii) Under projects 3
teacher training college    of existing teacher    and 4 measures are
(para. 1.08 ii)               training colleges       being taken under the
and the expected        new teacher charter to
increase  in teacher   make the profession
supply when colleges   more attractive.  This
of first project        will require full use
become operational.    of existing facilities.
iii) New construction of    iii)  Updated esti-    iii) See also change
secondary vocational          mates of costs for       (i) under date of
school in Cap Haitien         very extensive remo-   December 1984.
(Para 1.09).                  deling of existing
building turned out
to be the same as for
a new institution.
iv) Increase of IDA finan-  iv) Recalculated
cing for Category I from    costs based on the
64% to 75%.                   revised project.
v) Addition of financing    v) Preparation of         v) enabled project III
all salaries as well as       Project III.            to start without delay.
the cost of additional
staff needed for prepara-
tion of Third project.
vi) Change of bidding pro-  vi) This was required  vi) As noted in High-
cedures for primary           to be able to build    light, this procedure
schools to allow for con-   schools in the rural   enabled all 31 rural
struction by small local    areas.                    primary schools to be
contractors under negoti-                             built on time.
ated contracts.



- 7 -
vii) Finance additional       vii) These staff        vii) Vehicles enabled
staff for IPN as well as    worked with teacher    school visitations by
vehicles.                     training colleges        the inspectors.
and an experimental
teacher training pro-
gram by radio.
viii) Finance of addi-        viii) Nationwide
tional in-service teacher   introductLon of the
training plus training of   new curriu2ulum for
support staff (schools        grade 1 in October
directors, inspectors,        1982.
Ministry and IPN staff).
March       Special Fund credit agree-  To permit more rapid
1983       ment for a revolving fund.  disbursements.
October    Change to the Special          To promote economy
1984       Fund agreement.               and efficiency in
the procurement of
goods and services.
January    Change  of the closing
1984       date to December 31, 1984.
December   i) Dele ion of the             i) Under the educa-
1984       secondary vocational          tional Reform the
school in Cap Haitien.       vocational training
system was to be
changed drastically,
and IDA preferred to
wait for results of
experimentation in
the center in
Carrefour before in-
vesting in the center
in Cap Haitien. ii)
Lack of counterpart
funds.
ii) Change the secondary    ii) In line with
vocational school in Port-  reform in vocational
au-Prince to Polyvalent       education               ii) To provide experi-
training center,                                      mentation to give
information for a
change to the vocation-
al training curriculum.



-8-
Project Management Organization
2.03      The responsibility f3r the project implementation was vested in the
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) which had been created in 1976 to implement
the First Project. The PIU consisted of an Engineer (director) and an
Educator (assistant director), three educators, a coordinator, an accountant
and an assistant, and a purchasing agent. Two additional educators were
added at the start of the Second Project. The technical committee composed
of representatives of four architectural firms that had been set up for the
First Project, was maintained and reinforced by a consultant for
construction. The practice of allowing local contractors to construct
project facilities under the supervision of the PIU proved to be an
improvement over the system used in the First Project which was all contract
award by tender. The PIU, which was organizationally under the Minister of
Education, was in close physical proximity to the Ministry of Education.
There was frequent contact between the PIU and those responsible i.n the
Ministry, which facilitated implementation.
2.04      Generally speaking, the performance of the PIU was good in view of
the complexity of the project, and the coordination required with many
different institutions. There are two exceptions, which were under its own
control and which have been addressed in the follow on projects. One was the
keeping of financial records. For instance, no records were kept for the
individual schools, either for construction materials, or the furniture
installed.2/ Therefore, the costs by school in the annexes are only
approximations. Awareness of this problem led IDA to insist upon a new
accounting procedure for future projects. The other problem concerned was
lack of site supervision by a competent external architect. Design details,
such as extremely heavy steel entrance doors which have cracked supporting
walls and concrete block wall grills which darken classrooms, could have been
improved with good supervision. While some design defects can be repaired
easily, others will require rebuilding. Again, at the insistence of IDA an
independent supervision firm has been hired for Project III.
Designs
2.05      For the primary schools, standarized floor and site plans were
drawn by consultant architects and were followed uniformly without regard to
local terrain. This resulted in expensive foundations which were ill adapted
to local conditions. This problem could have been avoided if site plans had
been individually reviewed and modified prior to construction. The standard
drawings were modified for the primary schools in cities, where reinforced
concrete flat roofs were installed to permit the addition of another floor in
the future. The designs for the radio facility, vocational training center,
secondary vocational school and the agricultural training school were
prepared by consultant architects and the costs are reasonable.
2/ In its comments, the PIU states that all relevant information is
contained in its financial records, and that individual files for each
project school have now been established (see Attachment I, p. 63).



-9-
Civil Works
2.06      The PIU purchased and delivered the building materials to all the
rural primary school sites, where three contractors were to construct the
project institutions using local labor. The secondary vocational training
school and the Radio Education Building were built through force account
under the supervision of an engineer from the school building unit of the
Ministry of Public Works and the architect of the project, and the construc-
tion is fair. The agricultural school and the vocational training center
were bid locally and constructed by local builders and in both cases the
construction is well done.3/ However, while site work at the vocational
training center is close to being finished, site work at the agricultural
school had been left in a very rough state.4/ IDA completion mission recom-
mended that the contractor be recalled to complete the work prior to paying
the retainer, but due to the recent civil disturbances, no government action
has yet been taken.
Furniture and Equipment
2.07      Furniture for the primary schools was built by the secondary
vocational schools at Jeremie and Cayes, which successfully furnished all the
classrooms and offices with good solid furniture.5/
2.08      Furniture for the other institutions was procured  by local
shopping and all furniture has been installed.
2.09      The procurement of equipment was somewhat problematic, although all
equipment has been received and installation is lacking only at the Radio
Education Building. Two ICB advertisements for agricultural school equipment
failed to yield any bidders, so the equipment was eventually procured through
a purchasing agent under ICB. The equipment for the vocational schools was
procured two years prior to installation, and storage proved to be a problem
as thefts occurred. The cost of equipping the radio studio exceeded the
estimate by about 80%, and the equipment funds originally destined for the
vocational schools was reallocated to make up the deficit.
Technical Assistance, Training and Studies
2.10      Technical assistance was provided as agreed, with 96% of the
estimated costs at appraisal disbursed at the time of completion. This
technical assistance was well executed and has played a particularly
important role in the work of the National Pedagogical Institute (IPN), the
3/  The PIU specifies that the Radio Education Building was constructed by a
contractor and supervised by the PIU and a consulting architect, and the
Vocational Training Center through force account under the supervision of
the PIU (see Attachment I, pp. 63-64).
4/  The PIU considers this school fully completed as of February 1985 (see
Attachment I, p. 64).
5/  The PIU elaborates that in addition, part of the furniture was
manufactured by a firm in Port-au-Prince and part imported from the
Dominican Republic (see Attachment I, p. 63).



- 10 -
National Institute for Vocational/Technical Training (INFP) and the agricul-
tural school. The technical assistance contracts were executed by UNESCO and
ILO to the satisfaction of the PIU and IDA. As envisioned at anpraisal, the
pToject benefitted from a high degree of complementarity with UNDP-financed
*echnical assistance (executed by UNESCO and ILO) in the areas of: educa-
tional radio; in-service teacher training; curriculum development; vocational
training; and, educational planning. The French technical assistance (to the
IPN) significantly assisted the implementation of the primary education
component.
2.11      The in-service teacher training component was satisfactorily
executed and was 82% disbursed at the time of completion (Para. 4.09). The
curriculum committee fuictioned as a broadly based consultative group but
stopped functioning in 1985 at the direction of the Minister prior to expend-
ing all its resources. The curriculum expert is working now under a Unesco
financed technical assistance project (Para. 4.11),
2.12      No studies were carried out for a variety of reasons (Table 1.1).
The language study was deleted when the Government moved rapidly to the use
of creole; the study on building systems became unnecessary because of the
urgency to build and the methods which were found; the study on effectiveness
of teacher training and free book distribution was not undertaken; because
free book distribution after project completion was not sustainable; and the
study to measure the transmission capacity of Radio Nationale was not done
because of delays in installing radio equipment.
Compliance with Covenants
2.13      Except for the implemencation of the tracer system, all covenants
were complied with. Annex 4 gives the details of compliance with covenants.
IDA Performance
2.14      IDA's performance is mixed in this project.  While the primary
education component seems well-prepared, the vocational and agricultural
component faced subsequent lack of definition of clear educational policies
which influenced the adequate implementation of these components. During
implementation, IDA proved to be flexible and responsive to the evolution of
the education reform, which it supported thoroughly. IDA's subsequent in-
dc-th sector work in the vocational/technical field, for which the base
studies were financed under this project, provided the analysis needed, and
the project components were adapted accordingly. Follow-up to the problems
encountered with the construction component and the accounting system could
have been more rigorous, and continued follow up will be necessary to ensure
proper implementation of the agricultural component. The larger need for
agricultural training should also be addressed with proper sector work.
Finally, the continuity of staff, one person fron, preparation througn comple-
tion, and another since 1980, has facilitated the responsiveness to evolving
educational policies, and has contributed greatly to the increasingly
important and effective policy dialogue with polieymakers at higher levels,
but more importantly with staff responsible for implementation among which
there has been r'elatively little staff turnover either for the last five
years,



- 11 -
III. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
3.01      The total project cost at completion was US$13,338,300, which
includes US$664,800 to complete construction of schools initiated under the
First Project. This additional cost was assumed by the Borrower. Therefore,
the actual overrun for the Second Project was only US$12,000. Details of the
costs are in Annex 5 and summarized in Table 3.1. Civil works exceeded the
planned share by 18.3% also because of the reason mentioned above. Project
administration exceeded its planned share by 228.2%. The increase was due in
part to the increase in personnel of the project unit and in their salaries
for the extended time of the project. Part of this cost was paid by the
Ministry of Education. It also seems that the costs of supervision and force
account were underestimated.
3.02      Another cause of cost overruns was the underestimation of the price
increases in local costs, which were estimated at about 2% per year less than
the actual inflation which occurred during the life of the project. The
estimates for foreign costs were very close to actual inflation, but
provision for inflation was made in the project through FY1984 only (original
elosing date December 31, 1983). Since a large proportion of total project
expenditures (27% in 1984 and 1985) was incurred after that year, this delay
accounts for still another cause of the overruns.
3.03      As hereinbefore noted, there were no disburseiients in the first two
years, but following this and as can be seen Li Annex 3, disbursements
increased at a rate greater than estimated in the appraisal, so that by FY84
92% of the loan had been disbursed, and the balance was disbursed in FY85.



- 12 -
Table 3.1: ORIGINAL AND ACTUAL COSTS
(USs Thousand)
Total with
Contingencies         Difference
Categories          Appraisal   Actual         in %         Remarks/Reason
Civil Works          6,466.6   7,648.1      +  18.3         Completion of
(Incl.Prof.Fees)                                            first project
and higher than
estimated civil
work costs
Furniture              602.2      593.3     -   1.5         Manufacturing
by Vocational
Training School
Equipment            1,720.9   1,533.8      -  10.9         Deletion of
vocational school
Curriculum             163.4       58.8     -  64.0         Activities
Committee                                                   continued under
Unesco financed
project (para. 4.10)
Inservice              902.8      773.8     -  14.3         Although number of
Training                                                    trainees increased,
costs were lower
than anticipated.
The reasons for this
are unclear, but it
would seem that unit
costs per trainee
were reduced.
Textbooks              901.5      669.9     -  25.1         Printing and
distribution of
textbooks deleted.
Costs were charged
to parents by
private firms
(Table 1-1).
Studies                296.6       0        - 100.0         See para. 2.12
Technical            1,273.1   1,227.8      -   3.6
Assistance (Pri.Ed.)
Technical              111.7       91.9     -  17.7         Deletion of one
Assistance (Voc.Ed.)                                        school
Project Admin.         227.7      747.2     + 228.2         See para 3.01
(PIU)
12,666.5  13,344.6      +   5.4



- 13 -
IV. OPERATIONAL OUTCOMES 6/
Educational Ref orm
4.01      The educational reform currently being implemented had its
substantive roots in this project, although it was not officlal policy at the
time of Appraisal. The operational work that gave rise to the reform
(initiated officially about two years after the Credit Agreement was signed)
consisted largely of activities financed under the project (curriculum
development, textbook production and (listribution, teacher training,
evaluation and pedagogical support systems such as educational radio).
Indeed, major project modifications can be attributed to the evolving
definition of the refor.n and its thrust (see Annex 7 and table 1.1). When
Creole was officially declared the language of instruction for the early
grades in October 1979, the need for a study that would be an input into suchi
a decision was eliminated.  On the other hand, project financing of inservice
training and pedagogical support systems was extended to include related
activities not foreseen at Appraisal.
4.02      The Project was based on a concept of a primary school that would
play multiple roles in the community. The Government reform program has
retained some but not all of the roles, as follows. The school is organized
as a part of an eventual nuclear system using a more relevant curriculum; the
reform has incorporated appropriate health nutrition and population concepts,
and aims at achievement levels that can be reached by 80% of the students.
It has not, however, included accelerated primary equivalency for overaged
children.
4.03      Once the reform became official policy, an understanding was
reached that the project schools would be required to use the reform
curricula and methods. as well as be staffed with qualified teachers as
called for in the Appraisal Report. This was done to accelerate the
experimentation and evaluation of the new curricula and instructional methods
in favorable conditions (good buildings and qualified teachers) and in order
to encourage positive attitudes toward the reform among the general public,
the teaching profession and the relevant decision makers. At the time of
project completion, 43% of the classes in the project schools were using the
reform programs, and 70% of these were first and second grades, moving toward
100% for reform instruction in first and second grades next year.
The rate of implementation of the reform in the project schools is about the
same as in non-project public schools, but is much more advanced than in
private schools. The quality of reform implementation in project schools is
better than in other public schools, however. This can be attributed to the
role of the PIU in supervising the operations of the project schools,
including provision of qualified staff and proper support services.
4.04      Project schools were relatively well staffed and supplied with
teaching and learning materials (see Table 5, 6 and 7 in Annex 10), although
there were significant regional variations, Nationally, 91% of the classes
6/ See Annex 11 for comparison of objectives and attainment of outcome by
component.



- 14 -
in the project schools lhad teachers, out of which 65% had received inservice
training. Thirty nine percent of the teachers in these schools were fully
qualified.  Although this cormpared favorably witlh the 25% qualified teachers
at Appraisal it did not quite meet the Appraisal goal of 50% fully
qualified.  There was an aveTage student-teacher ratio of 52:1 in these
schools, compared to a student-teacher ratio of 70:1 at Appraisal. Over 70%
of the students in grades 1 and 2 had the reqtuired books, whereas for grade 3
it varied depending on the subject, which, in any event, compared favorably
with the situation at Appraisal, where textbook were virtually non-existent.
However, there was little evidence that the schools were being used to house
youth and adult non-formal learn1ing activities after school hours. Moreover,
the only project schools operating an a double-shift basis are those in
Port-au-Prince, because of the great reticence of parents to let children go
to school in the afternoon, anid the lack of qualified instructors for a
second shift.
4.05      The educational radio component was included as a cost effective
way of improving the quality of in-service teacher training and classroom
instruction. Implementation of this component presented a large variety of
problems, to such an extent that its effectiveness at the time of completion
was completely undermined. (Annex 8). This component benefitted from
extensive expert services over the period of 1979-83, including participation
of an IDA consultant in several supervision missions from 1979-81 and
UNDP/tJNESCO experts from 1978-84. However, because of political
interference, implementation did not always follow the advice of the IDA
consultant, for example, concerning the construction of the building, which
he advised against. Furthermore, the consultants' advice was mainly
concerned with matters of production and organization, with relatively little
emphasis given to the myriad implementation issues outlined in Annex 8. The
specific problems ranged from poor management of the educational radio system
and lack of teacher motivation all the way to the lack of batteries for the
radios in rural areas.
4.06      The curriculum de.elopment and educational materials components
were implemented satisfactorily. They disbursed only 68% of the estimates
because free book distribution was eliminated. (See Annex 9). Because of
problems, hesitation and uncertainties inherent in the initial stages of the
reform, there were serious delays in the development of the different
curricula and, therefore, in the writing of the manuscripts.   The printing
of the teaching and learning materials was done at a reasonable cost by the
largest publishing firm in Haiti which had access to the necessary raw
materials at bulk rates and a well developed distribution network.
4.07      Field support staff lacked working vehicles and thus were unable to
report on the state of implementation of the reform in their district.
Because of lack of information concerning which classes were participating
and where they were located, effective book distribution (which, in any
event, was to encompass only those classes carrying out the reform) was
hampered. Incomplete findings from two surveys do indicate that well over
50% of the children in the reform classes have books. It remains to be
determined, however, if this is a sufficient number to raise the learning



- 15 -
outcomes of the entire class (see Annex 9)./  The decision to eliminate
the free distribution of textbooks beyond thie experimentatlon phase was re-
lated to problems inherent in the verification of the implementation of such
a system and the sustain oility of the measure after project completion. As
a result, it was agreed that books would be charged to parents by the pub-
lishing firm and a limited number of subsidized books would be made available
to children of poor families, which has been the case under the subsequent
projects (Annex 9).
4.08      Although suffering from a lack of definition and organization
attendant upon the evolution of the educational reform, the in-service
teacher training programs were satisfactorily executed by IPN (Annex 7).
Nevertheless, sone teachers followed the same course twice and many trained
teachers were not assigned to reform classes AnMother problem encountered
was the lack of a clearly defined strategy of certification and promotion
related to these programs. A systematic evaluation of these programs has not
been performed, although recent attempts have been made to modify them based
on previous experiences. This evaluation will be carried out under the
Fourth Education Project (Credit 1592-HA). 7The following table reflects the
satisfactory execution of the in-service training.
Table 4.1: IN SERVICE TRAINING
T Y P E S                      In Service Training
Appraisal              Actual
Teachers                                 2600)       )
) 6100 )        7600
Book utilization                         3500)       )
Inspectors and Pedog. Advisers             80                   93
Normal School Teachers                    400                  285
School Principals                           -                 1134
4.09      The evaluation of the curricular material proceeded satisfactorily
and has begun to play its intended role.°/ Initial objectives could not be
met because of limited logistical capacities available to field agents
(pedagogical advisors and inspectors) and had to be lowered. However, an
evaluation unit was created under this project and is now beginning to
function.
7/ A complete evaluation study by IPN published in April 1986 shows that
over 80% of the children in reform classes had bought the textbooks, over
90% had received the textbooks in the experimental grades, and that over
95% of the teachers had received the teachers' guides in 1984/85 by the
end of the year. The study also shows that the majority of the children
attain literacy by the end of grade 4 in Creole, the major objective of
the reform. Classrooms with adequate books and classroom supplies,
trained teachers, good pedagogical supervision and reasonable discipline
by controliing absenteeism show consistently better results.
8/ R. Sack, "Lessons from an Evaluation and Monitoring System for the
Haitien Educational Reform". World Bank, EDT5 August 1985.



- 16 -
4.10      The curriculum committee functioned as a 1 ,adly based consultative
group composed of recognized members of the public aiid private educational
establishment in the capital. Without real authority, its deliberations
still had the function of bringing its members into direct and continual con-
tact with the planning and progress of the reform, and allowed the committee
to be identified with the reform's development. The committee stopped func-
tioning in early 1985 as a result of a decision taken by the Minister of
Educatlon. However, the curriculum expert from the project is now working
with "Education for Development," a UNDP/UNESCO project in IPN working on
curricula. 91
4.11      One of the salient outcomes of this project is the strengthened
capacity of the education system, specifically IPN. It was called upon to
play an expanding role as the institution responsible for designing, experi-
menting and implementing a nationwide education reform rather than an insti-
tution responsible for carrying out some studies and teacher training courses
for a limited number of project schools. Project financing enabled IPN to
increase its original tasks (curriculum testing, inservice training) and it
was also instrumental in helping IPN organize new activities (and units) such
as evaluation and monitoring, and pedagogical support. The organization of
last function benefitted from the experience of the PIU which had a multidis-
ciplinary supervision team for the project schools.
4.12      Evaluation of vocational education and training has not been done
since the project school and training center have not yet had adequate opera-
tional experience. Moreover, curricula of vocational schools will be changed
under the educational reform (Annex 13). The Carrefour vocational training
facility will provide an excellent locale for experimenting with the new ap-
proach to technical and vocational education. This new approach (Polyvalent
Training Center) provides a greater variety of courses, at different levels
and of varying lengths of time, and differs markedly from the existing ap-
proach which emphasized uniform curricula of three years for all students at
the post primary level. However, it must be pointed out that establishment
of a systematic dialogue between industry and the training agency is as
important as provision of a training facility. This was not explicitly dealt
with at Appraisal, although industry was represented at INFP Board.
4.13      The agricultural school in Hinche does not yet exist organization-
ally, its programs have not yet been experimented with and there is uncer-
taincy about the feasibility of operating the school at full capacity. This
uncertainty has been created by the recent decisions of the Faculty of
Agriculture and Veterenary MLedicine (FAVM) which adm-inisters the school:
FAVM has abolished the premise of using Hinche as the only center for train-
ing middle level technicians and is in the process of creating f"ive such
centers. It is also proposing to raise the level of entry to 13 years--end
of secondary education--the same level at which the University admits
students. This will create two levels of agricultural professionals for
which Haiti has no need. IDA should continue to discuss with th-,e government
the future operations of the school (Annex 12)o
9/ In a letter, reproduced in English translatlon as Attachment II, (see p.
67) the Minister of National Education agrees wlth the tenor of the PCR
but feels that it does not do justice to the role of the curriculum
committee.



- 17 -
4.14      The FY86 recurrent budget for the Ministry of Education represents
a 4.8% nominal increase over actual FY85 expenditures, which was a decrease
in real terms. Salaries are increased 4% overall and by 5% for primary
education, including both teachers and support staff. Based on the norms of
the past few years, the PIU prepared a budget for the three ongoing projects
which required a monthly budget of 72,000 G, which would also cover 99% of
needed additional teachers. The approved budget of the Ministry of Education
is providing only 51,665 G monthly, or about 72% of what is needed.10/ The
project unit has requested additional funding from the Director of Education,
but if funds are not forthcoming, project schools will have reduced quality
and some may be closed. Funds for the operation of the Polyvalent Training
Center in Carrefour and the Agricultural Center in iinche have not been
included in the current budget.
V. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
Conclusions
5.01      The first objective of the project, "Correcting irregularities of
access, improving the relevance and increasing the internal efficiency of
basic education," has generally been met with the construction of all rural
and urban schools and the training of teachers. In fact, the project played
a crucial, catalytic role in the adoption of a nationwide education reform,
aimed at improving the quality, relevance and efficiency of basic education.
The lack of results from educational radio means that some increased
efficiency and quality was probably sacrificed.
5.02      The second objective, "expanding the supply and improving the pro-
ductivity of skilled and semi-skilled workers in Port-au-Prince and Cap
Haitien and of agricultural extension and rural community development agents
and rural farm leaders for the North and Artibonite," has not been fully
attained and does not have the prospect for achieving all goals. The insti-
tution for Cap Haitien was deleted, and, though built and equipped, the
centers at Port-au-Prince and Hinche have only recently opened. The voca-
tional training center trained and upgraded vocational school graduates
during 1983/84, but it never operated as planned. Moreover, owing to the low
priority the Government has attached to this type of training, the center has
now ceased to function for lack of adequate recurrent funding (Annex 13,
para. 2.15). The lack of clear and consistent agricultural training policies
throughout project implementation has also undermined the effectiveness of
the component. Specifically, the government seems to have a preference for
financing new investments in this subsector rather than first meeting the
recurrent expenditures of existing operations.
Lessons
5.03      Lessons were learned in several areas by IDA and the Government of
Haiti in the implementation of Credit 770-HA.
10/ According to the Borrower, this amount has subsequently been reduced to
46500 G/month (see Attachment 1, p. 64).



- 18 -
5.04      Construction
(a) Compared to bringing in urban contractors to remote areas, the
system of buying all construction material (in this instance by the
PIU) and delivering them to remote areas for local labor to cons-
truct the building is a good method to use for remote construction
(para. 2.02).
(b) To carry out the above method frequent and good supervision of
construction is needed. This is being done under Credit 1305-HA
(para. 2.05).
(c) Standard master plans designed for flat sites should be adapted to
the topography of the site of each building with careful
consideration of access and drainage (para. 2.05).
(d) Careful financial records, verified by outside consultants,
should be kept for each project component. This is being done
under Credit 1305-HA (para. 2.04).
5.05      Furniture.  With proper supervision simple furntiture can be
usefully produced by vocational and technical schools.   Such arrangements
have provided students with production-related practice and the schools with
revenue earning projects. The total costs were also less than those of the
commercial suppliers (para. 2.07).
5.06      Compliance with Covenants.  Though the great majority of covenants
were complied with, the number of them -- eleven, some with three or four
subrequirements -- are much too numerous, and some were impossible to
enforce. Those covenants that cannot be usefully checked for compliance upon
completion of a project (such as tracer systems) should not be included
(Annex 4).
5.07      Technical Assistance.  Project technical assistance, when it is
coordinated with known existing programs, can be effective and magnified to a
great degree. This type of joint technical assistance with other
international and foreign organizations is being continued in the new
projects (para. 2.10).
5.08      Educational Programs.
(a) Projects that finance a large number of small school buildings,
educational software components, and especially those financing
educational reforms, should consider the following: at the
conception of the project one needs to take into account the
complexities inherent in such undertakings.  This includes an
understanding of the political and social factors involved as well
as the technical factors, all of which introduce uncertainties,
and some of which can be studied by prior extensive sector work.
Given the nature of educational reform and software components,
latitude must be granted for uncertainties in the project design
(para. 4.01). IDA ha:3, however, maintained a flexible position
regarding the Government proposals r r changing the content of the
Project as the education reform programs evolve (table 1.1).



- 19 -
(b) This is one of the first project in the region that included radio
education and a lesson is learned that radio educational components
require extra care on the logistic aspects of both appraisal and
supervisior,. Successful implementation of an educational radio
component requires a high degree of planning and coordination of
many activities and planned uses which must be finely tuned one to
each other. The conception and supervision of the educational
radio component in this project did not look closely enough at
detailed aspects of implementation (para 5.04 and Annex 8).
(c) Inservice Teacher Training Program could have been more effective
if they were designed under a clear policy regarding certification,
compensation and promotion (para 4.08)
(d) Establishment of an effective mechanism to ensure a systematic
dialogue between the training agency and industry is as essential
as the provision of facilities (para 4.12).



I
I:
x,



- 21 -
ANNEX 1
HAITI
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (Cr. 770-HA)
Project Comipletion Report-
Estimated and Actual Student Places
Student Places                    Diff.
Estimated        Actual                 (X)
Schools
Primary
Rural (28)               9,000          8,700               -  3%
Urban (10)               32,000        _380                 + 27%
Total        12,000         12,500               +  4%
Secondary Vocational            260             260
School
Agricultural Training            175            175
School



- 22 -
ANNEX 2
HAITI
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (Cr. 770-HA)
Project Completion Report
Cost of
Estimated and Actual Student Places
(US$)
Schools                          Cost/ M2                     Diff.
Estimated        Actual             M)
Primary
Rural (28)               $77            $120-160       +  56-108
Urban (10)               $97            $200-240       + 106-147
Agricultural Training         190              310                + 63
School
Secondary Vocational          190              270                + 42
School
Radio Education Bldg.         250               290               + 16



IIAITI
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (Cr. 770-HIA)
IProject Completion Report
Implementation and Disbursement Schedule; Original Estimate and Actual
(US$ million)
l976      19379     t980    1t981    t5 9  IL    1 93 S 3     VDA       19 8'I
. .TE-  _~L~CTIOf-.4     -           1T    l2Ii4   1 ' 3 4  1434 iI |5 
f,gT i  Sr E-  E   C- 1 L4 _- _-'       i            ;                               .0 
-   - ~      ~     1-
C. ULAPL9ICALU M.V4teK
q  Lcct,} lol rlos   _                                     I, .                _ ~~~~~~~~~I  l      !
,,E&     tco4                   __.__   _  NI Nn
_UC.AAt4Egt&LS  .   .O.C.  .. t                                  .
O0 fZ ItttJ ,,L5c reDL' B                ---t
,6 C  ezr  <  - -   - r ~- - i L    _) (Z w 0 p tiL



- 24                                          ANNEX  4
HAITI                                         page  1 of 3
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (Cr. 770-HAl
Project Completion Report
Compliance vith Credit Conditions
Conditions              Conditions with
Met                  Action Pending
(a) Action would be                                 X
initiated to
transfer rural
primary education
and teacher training
to the DEN by
October 1, 1978
(para. 27).
(b) (1) Project primary                             X                  (i) Available but
schools would be                                                  little used.
available after                                                   (ii) Average class
school hours for                                                  size 52.
adult training; (ii)
average primary
class sizes would
not exceed 50
students; and (iti)
beginning with the
fourth year of
operation, 501 of
project schookl
teachers would be
qualified and the
balance would
receive in-service
training (para. 39);
(c) (i) The rural                                                     This item has been
primary teacher                                                   deleted.
training college
would utilize a
curriculum common to
all teacher training
colleges (ii)
graduates of this
college would be
allowed to work in
both urban and rural
primary schools
(para. 40)
(d) The Radio education                          X               Transferred  to IPN
group currently
working for the DARN                         X
would be tranaferred
to Radio Nationale
by October 1, 1978
and (ii) by October
1, 1981 a miniomum
of 10 hours of
broadcast time per
week would be
utilized for primary
school and teacher
training programs
(par&. 42);
(e)  (i) INP? would be                        (i) X
responaible for                         (ii) X
curriculum                            (Lit) X
development and
teacher training for
project secondary
vocational schools;
(ii) employment in
these two schools
would be offered to
graduates of the
INFP training
courses; (iii)



-25-                                             ANNEX 4
page 2 of 3
Subjects                         Conditions              Coranditions with
Met                Action Pending
conditions of
service adequate to
retain qualified
teachers and
adequate funds for
operating budgets
would be provided to
these schools on
their opening; and
(iv) a tracer system                                       (iv)  Tracer system not
to monitor the                                                   yet defined.
employment
conditions of recent
graduates would be
implemented (para.
42);
(f)  By October 1, 1978                            X
INFP's
administrative
council would
prepare a plan for
operation of the
vocational training
center by INFP
(para.42);
(g)  (i) By April 1, 1979                      (i) X
an administrative
council for the
agricultural
training school
would be
established,
including
representatives of
ONAAC and the
DARNDR; (ii) the                         (ii) X
DARNDR and ONAMC
would jointly
appoint the school
director and
sub-director; and                                          (iii) Tracer system not
(iii) a tracer                                                   yet defined.
system to monitor
the employment
conditions of recent
graduates would be
implemented (para.
43);
x
(h)  The membership and
terms of reference
of the Curriculum
Unit would be
acceptable to the
Association (para.
44);
(i)  The Government and                                         Educational reform
the Asaociation                                            plans and programs were
would review                                               reviewed and discussed by
educational reform
plans and programs,
annually, overall
policies, and the



- 26-                                              ANNEX 4
page 3 of 3
Subjects                          Conditions              Conmditions with
Met                 Action Pending
availability of                                                   educators during
funds for carrying                                                missions.  IDA kept
them out with                                                     informed on
particular emphasis                                               developments through
on need for                                                       QPR.
increases in educati                                              Teachers' salaries
and sufficient                                                    increased since
educational                                                       Oct. 1979.  In
materials necessary                                               October 1984 a
for improved                                                      Teacher Charter was
quality; in                                                       proclaimed.
In addition, the
Government would
provide suggicient
funds to meet
recurrent costs and,
byu October 1, 1979,
it would introduce
new conditions of
teacher service
satisfactory to the
Association (paras.
35, 40, 50);
(j)  Government would                                X
desposit US$200,000
equivalent in the
project
implementation fund
(condition of
effectiveness,
para. 51); and
(k)  No disbursements                                                 (i)  In addition to
would be made for:                                                     French, Creole
(i) large scale                                                       has been
printing of                                                            officially
textbooks until                                                       adopted as
completion of                                                          language of
studies on the                                                         instruction.
language of
instruction and the
adoption of a
national policy
theron (pars. 46);
(ii)  the radio                                X
component (excluding
professional
services) until
arrangements are
made to increase the
transmission
capacity of the
National Radio
(para. 41); and
(iii)  in-service                                                 Salaries have been
training beyond                                                   increased.  Accepted
Oct. 1, 1979 unless                                               a sufficient
new conditions of                                                 compliance with
teacher service                                                   conditions
shall have been
adopted (para. 45).
(1) Audit report                                                  Report for 1983-84
will be provided                                                  being prepared
annually by February
1.



HAITI                                          ANNEX 5
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (Credit 770-HA)                          Page I of 3
Project Completion Report
F I RSir PtlASE                    Primary School Areas and Costs -/
CtOMsP l El' lI(1N    AREA  USABLE   ESTIMfATED      ACTUAL             COST
b/        L          HU I LT     ARFA        COST          CWST            DIFFERENCE
SCIiOOI. NAME             CON I'RACToR-        DATE                          .                               -
m_            m2       1 OOC $      1 000 $    +1_  1000$
Horne St. Georges          A. Dorelien       Avril 82    677,8         630,5         80,4          83,9       +       3,5
St. Louis du Sud           A. Dorelien       Aout 82      934,6        776,2        101,6         101,7       +       0,1
Solon                      A. Dorelien       Aout 82      67S,4        627,2         80,4          80,6       +       0,2
Dumarsais Estime           A. Riboul         Oct. 84      768,2        714,4        110,4         117,6       t       7,2
Hichel Lazarre             A. Riboul         Oct. 84      769,8        714,4        110,4         117,6       +       7,2
La Jiatte                  J. Lavaud         Juil. 82    680,3         632,7         81,6          82,1       +       0,5
Beryadelle                 J. Lavaud         Juil. 82    690,4         642,0         81,5          83,0       +       1.5
Desormeaux                 J. Lavaud         Juil. 82    679,4         631,8         81,6          82,6        +      1,0
Marie Kerotte              J. Lavaqd          Juil. 82    679,2         631,6        81,5          62,2        +      0,7
Marfrane                   J. Lavaud          Juil. 82    838,7         780,0         78,0         90,3        +     12,3
Ravine Blancihe            J. Lavaud          Juil. 82   680,9         633,2         81,5          81,7        +      0,2
Numero 2                   J. Lavaud          Juil. 82   527,9.        490,9         62,4          62,8        +      0,4
Roseau                     J. Lavaud          Juil. 82   525,6         488,8         62.4          62,5        +      0,1
Sutbtotal                                                               1,093.7      1,128.6               34.9
a/ See Notes at end of table.



HAITI                                       ANNEX 5
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (Credit 770-HA)                     Page 2 of 3
Project Completion Report
SECOND PIIASE                           Primary School Areas and Costs al
b/   CO1tPLETIONl   AREA        "7SABLE     ESTItIATED    ACTUAI            cosTr
SCHOOl. NAHIE          CONTRACTOR -         DATE        BU I 'l     AREA         COST         COST           I) iFFERENCF
m2          M         1 000 )   I 000                I 000 S
Savanette Cabral         J. Lavaud         Sept. 83      681,7       634,0         77,4         88,2        +     10,8
Thomonde                 J. Lavaud         Sept:. 83     515,6       679,5         58,7i        69,6        +      10,9
Maissade                 J. Lavaud         Sept. 83      524,3       487,6         65,9         75.6        +      9,7
Savane 1ialeine          J. Lavaud         Sept. 83      413,4        384,5        47,3         53,9        +       6, 
Iiinch8                  J. Lavaud         Sept. 83      526.5       489,6         79,0         79.0                 -
Bassin Zim               J. Lavaud         Sept. 83      576,2        535,9        65,9         75,3        +      9.4
Plirebalais              A. Dorelien       Sept. 83      426,1       489,3         65,9         79,0        +      13,1
Los Pinios               A. Darelien       Sept. 83      676,7        629,4        77,4         88,2        +      10.8
Croix Fer                A. Dorlien       Sept. 83      675,9        628,6        77,4         88,3        +      10,9
Crete Brulee             A. Dorelien       Sept.; 3      565,9        526,1        65,9         75,3        +       9,4
Harche Cana              A. Dorelien       Sept. 83      523,7        487,0        58,7         79,0        .+    20,3
Villa Bonheur            A. Dorelien       Sept. 83      525,4        488,6        58,7         77,0        +       8,3
Jean-Claude Duvalier    J. Lavaud          Oct. 83    1366,0         127o.4        155.1       272,4        +    117.3
Radio-Educative          R. Maxius         Dec.  83      618,4           .        312,4        355,3        +     42,9
Centre de Form. Rapide  Vilmenay           Nov.  82      575,4                     97,3        103,0        +       5,7
CenLre Prof. Carrefour  Daniel/Lavaud    Nov. 84    4266,3                        804,3       1138.4        +    334,1
Ec. Hoy. Devpt. Ilinche  INGASSA           Dec. 83    2787,0                      743,k        821,7        +      78,3
Stittota 1                                ... 2910.7                                      3619.2       +    708.5
al/3ee Notes at end of table.



I-LAITI
SECONI) EIEM1CATION PROTRrT (Credit 770-HA)                 ANNEX 5
Project Completion Report                          Fiag_eaof 3
TtIlRD PHASE                                        loo Ara Se
AREA      USABLE       ESTIMATED    ACTUAL              COS1
COMI'LETION    BUIIT       AREA          COST        COST            DIFFERENCE
SCHOI. NA'IE           CONTRACTOR b/   C      TET        B          AREA          COST
_   DATE    m                       I 100 $     1 000 $    +   I ___  I_OQO
Vaudreuil                L. Etienne        Avril 84       493,9       459,3        79,0          79,0                _
Gde Riviere du Word      L. Etienne        Juin  83       528,3        491.3       79.0          79,0 
Dondon                   L. Etienne        Juin  83       519,3        482,9       66,9          66,9                -
St. Raphael              L. Etienne        Juin  83       876,3        814,9      136,1         155.1      +        19,1
Capotille                L. Etienne        Fev.  83       689,2-       641.0       87,5          87,5                _
Dumas                    L. Etienne        Fev.  83       676,9        629,5       87,5          87,5                _
Merande                  L. Etienne        Fev.  83       673,9        626,7       87,5          87,5                _
Bayaha                   L. Etienne        Fev.  83       673,6        626,5       87,5          87,5        .
Niel                     L. Etienne        Fev.  83       676,1        628,8       87,5          87,5                _
Bigot                    L. Etienne        Juin  83       533,0       -495,7       79,0          79,0
St. Michel de l'Att.    L. Etienne         Aout  83       515,5        479,4       79,0          82,8      +         3,8
L'Attalaye               L. Etienne        Fev.  83       678,3        630,8       87,5          87,5              _
Subtotal                                                                  1 1,044.0     1,066.8              22.8
TOTAL             |                  ____:______                        -  5,048.4       5,814.6       .      766,2
b/ Name shown Is contractor, or engineer in charge of the force account.
Notes 1. The actual individual costs are approximate.  Costs of fees, transport and some materials purchased
by project unit as well as those of completing the First Project schools were allocated to each school
after completion.
2. Fotographic surveys were carried out by the same engineer for all schools except for the buildings
in Port-au-Prince.
3. Soil studies were carried out for all schools.
4. Supervision of construction was carried by the PIU for Education Radio Building. They were
assisted by the Ministry of Education.



- 30 -
AINNEX 6
Educational Setting
The educational systen, at the time of the appraisal report could be
characterized by high degrees of inefficiencies and imbalances as well as a
lack of relevance to economic and social development. Only 13% of the
entrants completed primary school, and in all other levels less than 50% of
an entering class completed their course of study. Furthermore, the
historical division of primary education into two separate systems (rural and
urban) contributed to rural-urban inequities and d'iplication of common
services. Enrollments in rural primary education were equivalent to 41% of
the school-age population compared to 176% 1/ in urban areas. Only 27% of
the rural children completed primary education compared to 52% in the urban
aras. At the time enrollment of girls lagged behind that of boys even though
there was no indication by parents of a preference for educating boys. Low
and unequal enrollment rates were more pronounced in rural areas than cities
reflecting the lack of sufficient places, the dispersed locations of existing
facilities, the cost of education to parents, 2/ poor health and nutrition
of children and demand for child labor in the fields and the caring for
siblings.  The latter was particularly true in rural communities where women
traders are often away from home for extended periods and must leave their
eldest daughter in charge of the household. Nearly all secondary schools
were urban. The scattered rural vocational, agricultural and primary teacher
training schools were small, uneconomical and underutilized.
Expenditures on education were among the lowest in the world with
public expenditures amounting to 1% of GDP and private expenditures an
additional 0.6%. In 1976, 13% of government budgetary expenditures went to
education. The high student teacher ratios and very low salaries kept unit
costs in primary education to $15. However, because of the low internal
efficiency of primary education, annual costs per graduate were $115.
Because of this situation, the Government had initiated a number of
key steps towards improving the system. These included completion of an
education development plan as part of the National Five-Year Economic Plan
(1976-81) and completion of a new unified teacher training school curriculum,
both of which fulfilled obligations set forth in the Credit Agreement of the
First IDA Education Project (Credit 618-HA, signed;February 27, 1976).
Furthermore, a decision had been taken to merge rural and urban primary
education and teacher training into one integrated system. These actions
provided hope that within the foreseeable future major progress would be made
towards improving the Haitian education system and making it more relevant to
social and economic development needs. Nonetheless numerous crucial problems
remained to be dealt with, especially those related to primary school
relevance and efficiency, vocational and agricultural education, and
educational finance.
1/   This figure is above 100% because of enrollment of children beyond the
age range of "school age" population and that of rural children.
2/   Cost to parent for primary student is eetimated at US$20.0 equivalent
for year 82/83, This is less than 10% of national per capita income and
perhaps 20% of the rural per capita income. The cost of uniform and
shoes is not included.



- 31 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 2
A Note on the Haitian Educational Reform and Project Implementation
1.        An educational reform is an enterprise that is organizationally
complex, and politically and socially complicated. It often contravenes
established patterns, habits, expectations for all concerned. Therefore, the
early years of such an enterprise may be difficult to plan, administer and
implement.
2.        The Haitian reform was just such a case.  Formally promulgated
about two years after the SAR  and incorporating most of the project goals
its initial years were marked by:
(a) confusion and disagreement over its real objectives (especially the
role of Creole) fueled by a perceived lack of flexibility in the
ministerial statement;
(b) uncertainty concerning the meaning of the policy underlying the
reform when could be attributed to unconvincing explanations put
forward in the plethora of public debate and discussion;
(c) a ministerial change that appeared to signal a low priority for the
reform;
(d) institutional arrangements within the MEN that appeared to split
the education system into two groups (proreform forces at the
project financed IPN and anti reform or neutral forces at the MEN);
(e) a lack of clear role definitions for the IPN and its "conseillers
pedagogique" on the one hand, and the Primary School Department and
its inspectors on the other;
(f)  myriad logistical and organizational prollems in the various
aspects of reform implementation;
(g) an evolving operational definition of the reform which engendered
changes in implementation schedules and arrangements.
3.        Despite these complications real progress was made in the
implementation of the reform, although it was slower than "planned" and was
not always linear. However, because of the inability of national authorities
to guarantee reform implementaion by decree progress depends on its gradual
acceptance by all concerned (parents, teachers, educational authurities, and
the social, economic and political elites) as well as the efficacity of its
pedagogical support system.
4.        In-this context it is instructive to observe the case of one
"department" where the reform is about 100% effective (Grande Anse). This is
because of the active role played by the pedagogical support system
(inspections and conseillers pedagogique) and the influence of the most
prestigious Catholic schools which adopted the reform relatively early.
Observations in other parts of the country have reinforced the notion that
these two factors are of particular importance for successful implementation
of the reform.



- 32 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 2
S.        The material basis for implementation of the reform was provided by
Project II which basically financed its initial years (even though such was
not the explicit objective as stated in the appraisal report). The major
Institutional vehicle for this financing was the National Pedagogical
Institute (IPN) which was constructed by French financed and benefitted (and
still does) from significant French technical assistance. All of project
financed, educational activities (with the exception of school construction)
were housed at the IPN. The IPN's role in the overall pedagogical support
system put into operation for .he reform can best be understood from the
following diagram.
Information
about
Implementation;
Evaluation                   Training  Supervision
Results                         and  Support
L   _  -I    Field Support Staff
(Conseillers Pedagogique)
Implementation
Needs
Training and
Support
Training                                    ooiietr
Supervision and Support                 D
Teach Tr aiigSho
Pedagogical Results and Problems
6.        This is a system which flows:  from top to bottom for technical
support and supervision, training, and direction; from bottom to top for
feedback on results and evolving needs. Any weak link (such as lack of
access for whateve. reason at whatever level) will compromise the
effectiveness of the whole. For it to work it needs: competence, resources,
stability, routine, leadership and proper planning that incorporates the
inherent dncertainties.
7e        The problems encountered in Project II implementation should be
vieared in this light. It is also important to take into account the
continuing nature of IDA committment to the reform, which is continuing under
successive projects.



- 33 -                              ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 3
Educational Radio
1.        The failure of this component suggests that implementational
problems may be inherent in an educational radio component because successful
implementation depends on satisfying a large number of conditions. If any
one of these conditions (which are individual activities and therefore
subobjectives) is not satisfied, the whole enterprise is aeriously
compromised, and yields no results. These conditions fall into four
categories, each of which represents a stage in the implementation process:
transmission, production, transmission, reception and utilization.
2.        The following outline shows the concrete activities that are part
of each stage. The success of each activity is a necessary condition for the
success of an educational radio project.
A.   Production
(a)   Analyze pedagogical needs and objectives.
(b)   Translate these objectives into the specific operations
required to meet each need.
(c)   Obtain the necessary equipment and materials (studios,
recording devices, tapes, etc.)
(d)   Train production personnel properly.
(e)   Produce programs in sufficient quantity.
B.   Transmission
(a)   Ensure enough transmission points (stations, antennae) to
cover all relevant areas (schools) at the same time.
(b)   Establish effective administrative arrangements with these
stations (payment supply of programs to be aired; agreements
concerning timing).
C.   Receion
(a)   Ascertain that functioning radios (this implies a steady
supply of batteries) will be present in the listening posts
(e.g., schools).
(b)   Knowledge of time of programs by all concerned.
(c)   nroper weather conditions at time of airing.
(d)   Physical presence of the target population (students,
teachers).



- 34 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 3
D.   Utilization
(a)   For students:  all (i.e., over the whole transmission area)
must be pedagogically ready to listen to each program at the
same time; individual classes that are behind others (teacher
absence, slow learning progress, etc.) might not be at the
point assumed by the program.
(b)   For teachers:  they, must all know how to use the program
which assumes either some training and/or the presence of
pedagogical support system conceived for the purpose of
exploiting the programs.
3.        We see that successful implementation of educational radio requires
a high degree of coordination of various activities which must be finely
tuned to one and another if the investment is to pay off. Lack of success of
the educational radio component in the Haiti project can be largely
attributed to extremely poor management. In order for this component to have
been effective, all of the sub-objectives would have to have been properly
implemeited and at all times.
4.        In other words, the successful implementation of educational radio
presents a case where there is little margin for error in a system where the
potential (and, irdeed, the prospects) for the accumulation of error is
great. This is a good example of a case where the conception of a project
components needs a thorough analysis of the complexities of implementation.
Indeed, such an analysis could be seen as an analysis of the probable risks
associated with each step of the implementation process. Parallel to this it
would be necessary to estimate the margin of allowable error in order for the
educational radio to achieve its objectives. It must be remembered that the
implementation of educational radio is subject to a strong tunnel effect:
the output is clearly identifiable and comes from a very visable source, but
this can happen only if the myriad activities that contribute to this output
(learning or training results) are all properly executed and well coordinated
among themselves.
5.        What we have here is a crae of conditional probability, where the
probability of successful overall implementation (i.e., intended utilization)
is a function of the product of the successful implementation of the
individual activities outlined above.   This may be represented by:
I = f(a, b, c, ...),
where I is the probability of overall implementation and a, b, c, .., that of
the individual activities.  In this situation, the breakdown of any one
activity impacts the whole system. Such a case presents serious
implementation issues that should be thoroughly analyzed and evaluated at the
time of appraisal. Otherwise there is the risk, as happened in this project,
that the intended results are not achieved even though many of the
individual activities were properly executed. It is ironic and noteworthy
that the activities that were well executed were the most costly
production-related activities.



- 35 -
ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 3
6.        Some of the specific problems encountered in Haiti were (based on a
survey by the PIU):
-    extremely poor management (for several years) of the educational
radio system; anfi the inability of the Minister of Education to
remedy this;
-    an attrition rate for radios of 18% over a four year period, a
larger number of radios need repair;
-    lack of batteries either because they were not available locally or
because the school directors were not willing to pay for them or
because the educational radio department did not distribute them;
-    transmission problems in one region (Grande Anse) due to powerful
stations on other islands that create static;
-    lack of follow-up activities and an e.Ifective support system by
regional inspectors (who lack vehicles) and the educational radio
department;
-    non-payment to local stations which transmitted the programs
causing them to halt transmission;
-    lack of teacher motivation;
-    programs aimed at teachers were often at times when teacher had
other activities (and this should be understood in the context of
their low salaries); and
-    individual classes that are behind (for whatever reasons:  teachers
absence, s.ow learning, etc). have no use for a program designed to
support a learning activity that the class has yet to undertake.
7,        These problems could be overcome by effective monitoring and
supervision activities which would effectively coordinate implementation.
This would mean an effective field presence and efficient supervision of the
reception and utilization stages by the established pedagogical support
system (IPN)



- 36 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 2
Curriculum DeveloEment and the Production and Distribution
of Instructional Materials (Textbooks)
1.        The general objective of this project component was to support the
initiation of a national program to provide appropriate teaching and learning
materials to primary school teachers and pupils. At appraisal, it was
understood that given the nature and size of the task of overall curriculum
revision (language of instruction; experimentation, testing and evaluation)
full implementation of a national textbook program would require up to a
decade. Furthermore, it was understood that this project was part of a long-
term IDA committment to the development of a relevant and efficient Haitian
educational system. Specifically, this component was to finance the writing
and testing of educational materials for grades 1-4, the printing and
distribution on a national basis (to reform classes) of materials for grades
1-2, and the costs of administering the program. It was estimated that up to
800,000 books would be distributed during the project implementation period.
2.        In May 1983 (during the Project III appraisal process) it was
decided that there would be no free distribution of textbooks beyond the
experimentation phase. This was agreed to upon the insistence of the
minister (of that time) who presented a very strong case for the
administrative difficulties and complexities involved in implementing a free
textbook distribution scheme. A loan system was rejected for the samie
reasons. Namely, it was feared that it would be next to impossible to
establish adequate administrative controls that would guarantee the
effectiveness of a textbook distribution system either on free or loan,
basis.  Also the Minister feared that distribution of fr e books wouid create
a situation in which people would not appreciate the value of books. In
addition, it was felt that the government would not be able to sustain a
program of free book distribution after project completion.
3.        The decision to sell the textbooks led to the question of price and
to decisions concerning the potentially conflicting considerations of lowY
price and high quality and/or textbook size. There appears to be a tendc-,-cy
among the curriculum developers to expand textbook size (and numbers
required, especially for the higher grades) and quality (es-icially for
photographs and illustrations).  Tne Haitian government forn-raly agreed (tn a
side letter to the Credit Agreement for Project III) thiat  -,.t of books for
any one grade would not exceed $6.  At present, the estftat'c1 cost (to the
students) of a set of books are, for:
Grade 1 = $2.80
Grade 2 = $3.50
Grade 3 = $5.45
Grade 4= $6.80
Grade 5 = $7.50
Grade 6 - $7.50
Grade 7 = $7.50
4.        A contract for printing and distribution of to(k& 4.jS negotiated,
with the country's largest printer on a risk, capital vEntu.e basis. This
was the only firm which could undertake such a risk and that had access to
such a broad distribution network.  A study performed by a s oject consultant



- 37 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 2
in July 1984 (financed under Project IV PPF) concluded that the size of this
firm enabled it to buy supplies (paper, ink, etc.) at much lower prices than
its competition and that its unit production costs were often more than 50%
less than those of its competitors. This report also concluded that this
publishing firm could produce the books at a much lower cost than if they
were published by the ministry,
5.        The most serious distribution problems have come from uncertainties
in the number of students who would be enrolled in reform classes and where
these classes would be located. In one year, for example, there was no
information on the reform schools until January. In other words, the
distribution process and the financial risks of the publishing firm are both
seriously affected by the logistics of reform implementation and supervision
(e.g., the ability of the conseillers pedagogiques and inspectors to visit
all the schools in their districts; decisions by school directors to adopt
the reform programs; effective communications between the IPN, the
conseillers pedagogiques/inspectors and school directors).
6.        Tables 5, 6, and 7  of Annex 10 show that, for the Pro.ject II
schools (March 1985) over 70% of the pupils had books in Grades 1 and 2
whereas for Grade 3 it varied from 48% to 71% depending on the subject
matter. An incomplete survey (February 1985) by the PIU of 177 schools with
reform classes found that the "number of pupils using a book" is (in
percentage terms), for:
Grade 1 - 55%
Grade 2 - 63%
Grade 3 - 59%
Grade 4 - 86%
Grade 5 - 58%
Grade 6 - 50%
7.        These observations and comments indicate that the major problem for
the implementation of this component was a lack of planning and
coordination. However, it must be reuembered that the activities financed
under Project II happened in the first-years of the Haitian educational
reform (see Annex 6).   The lack of planning was, perhaps, a normal situation
that should have been antlcipated. After all, there was no effective way of
planning a gi-en number of reform classes since the ministry had little real
authority to entforce schoc.). directors to adopt the reform curricula (even for
publl,h school.-O   Coordin;4tion could have been better if the conseillers
pedagogiques and the inspectors in the field hed been better equipped to do
their respectii;  jobs (vehicles, supplies, agreement between them).



- 38 -
ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 8
HAITI
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (Cr. 770-HA)
Project Completion Report
Indicators of Effective Use of Project Financed Educational Inputs
Table 1: Use of Project II Classes - Reform and Traditional
Table 2:  Percentage of Pupils of Project Schools by Type of Program
(Reform and Traditional)
Table 3:  Indicators of School Use
Table 4:  Teachers in Project II Schools by Region and Level of
Qualification
Table 5:  Grade 1 Reform Textbooks Available in Project II Schools Visited
Table 6:  Grade 2 Reforzm Textbooks Available in Project II Schools Visited
Table 7:  Grade 3 Reform Textbooks Available in Project II Schools Visited



- 39 -
ANNEX 10
Page 2 cf 8
Table 1:  tSE tF PRSJECT II CLASSES - REFOIM AND  lTTIONAL
Port-Au-Prince
(Double Session)    Centre   Grani-Anse    Sx       tbrd-Est   tbrd    Artibonite         Haiti
Number cf CLasses           12K2-24            57          55         40        24         21         18            239
Traditional Classes         11+9=20            36          22         20        14         14         11            137
(83%)            (63%)      (40%.)      (50%)    (5a)       (47%)      (61%)         (57X)
Reform Cmses                 2x2-4             21          33         20        10         7           7            102
(17%)           (37%)       (6OM)       (5M)    (4Z)        (237%)     (2%)          (431%)
Grade 1                    x2-2             11           9          4         4         5           4             39
Grade2                    bc2=2              6          11          6         4         2           3             34
Grade 3                                      3           9          5         2                                   19
Grade 4                                      1           3          4                                             8
Grade 5                                                  1          1                                             2
Sotwe: EN
a/ Nutber of clmses is scmtims greater than the sumn
of traditional ardl refotm classes because of recently
contracted clmses not yet put into use.



- 40 -
ANNEX 10
Page 3 of 8
Table 2:  1gRMAfE (F PUPIIS OF PMIR11= SCOOLS BY IYPE CF P1EiM
(REFOR4 AND TRAPrrOINL)
Port-*i-Prince    Centre   Grand-Ae    Sud   Nord-Est   Nord   Artibonite          Total
Total Nuk4er of
Pupils                  1,083           3,092     2,567       1,911    1,450     1,0C8     1,293        12,404
Pupils in Reform
Classes                   182           1,030      1,780      1,018     544       341        464         5,359
(17%)           (33%)     (69%)      (53%)    (:3%)    (34%)       (36%)         (43%)
Pupils in Traditional
Classes                   901           2,062       787        893      906       667        829         7,045
(83%)          (67%)      (31%)      (47%)   (62%)      (66f)      (64%)         (57%)
Suroe: DEN



- 41 -
AMEX 10
Paw 4 of 8
Table 3: INDICA2ThS OF SGOL USE
Port-Ai-Prince    Centre   Grand-An8e    Sud   Nord-Est   Nbrd    Artibonite        Haiti
Student/Teacher
Ratio                      45              56        48         48       63        48         68            52
Average Nwdber of
Student per
Classroan                   45              51        48         48       60        34         54            48
Coefficiet of
Teadher dxesence
(Teacher. per
Cl;sroan)                    1           0.92           1          1    0.96      0.70       0.79          0.91
Source: LEN



Table 4: Teachers in Project II Schools by Region and
Level of Qualification
POaT-     ,                                                                      -.
au          CE.tTfE      GJIAND-ANSE   SUD          UORD-iST    NORD        ARTIoDR       HAITI
PRINCE
Nimber of
Classes           24*          60            54           40          24            30          24         256
Number of
Teachers          24           55            54           40          23            2I          I9         236
Normal School    13   54%   7       Mf      2I   39%   13   33%    5   22%    II   52%    ?    37%    77   33%
Graduates
HIolder of         /          5    9%       I    2%      5   I3%    2   .9%                    2   II%    15   6%
C.A.P.
Received
lnservice         9   38%    39   71%       43   80%    32   80%:  II   48%    7    33%   12   63%    153  65%
lIra ining
Without           4  17%    8   15%        5    9%       4    10%   10 43%        6    29%   6    32%    43  18%
Commissioned                                                         .u >4
24  1ON    54  98%      53  98%    37    93%   17   74%    17 8I%   13    68%   215   91%                o o
Paid by the
School                                        /                5%     6   26%      4   I9%   6    32%    19    8%
Undeclared          /             /                                                  /         /           2    1%
Source; DN___.___. .
Source; I)EN



- 43 -
ANNEX 10
Page 6 of 8
Table 5:  GRADE 1 REFORMI TEXTBOOKS AVAILABLE IN PROJECT II SCHOOLS VISITED
Number of Pupils Using
Zone                   Number_of Pupils           Kaye egzesis a/  Pol ak Anita b/
Cap-Haitien                         391                       210               244
Cayes                               271                       264               264
Hinche                              591                       540               514
Jeremie                             397                       257               295
St. Marc - Gonaives                 231                        57                62
Total                              1881                      1328              1379
Percentages                                                 70.6%             73.3%
Source: DEN
a/ Excersise Book.
bi First Grade Reader.



~ 44 -                       ANNEX I0
Page 7 of 8
Table 6 : GRADE 2 REFORM TEXTBOOKS AVAILABLE IN PROJECT II SCHOOLS VISITED
Textbook Name
Exercices                   Konprann a/
Zone                Number of Pupils        Eveil       Mathematics   sa now 1i
Cap-Haitien                      159                 86             73         108
Cayes                            360                344            344         289
Hinche                           302                203            207          180
Jeremie                          569                333           418          416
St. Marc - Gonaives              100                 62            65           65
Total                           1490               1028           1107        1058
Percentages                                         69%           74%          71%
Sowurce: DEN
a/ Reader



- 45 -
ANNEX  10
Page 8 of 8
Table 7:  GRADE 3 REFORM TEXTBOOKS AVAILABLE IN PROJECr II SCHOOLS VISITED
Textbook Name
Number of                L.E.K.  L.E.K. Gram
Zone                 Pupils       Francais   egesis  Lekti  Kreyol.  Math  Eveil
Cap-Haitien                  25              10         2      20       10       8      1
Cayes                       253            181        197     217      217     217   156
Hinche                       116            69         74       93      70       72    45
Jeremie                     251             138       136      127     157      159   110
Total                        645           398        409     457      454     456   312
Percentages                               61.7%      63.4%   70.9%   70.4%    70.7% 48.4%
Source: DEN



- 46 -
ANNEX 11
page  1 of  2
HAITI
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (CR. 770-HA)
Project Completion Report
Comparison of Objectives, Means and Outcomes at Completion
Means for Attaining
Policy Objectives at             Objectives                        Outcome at
Appraisal                         (i.e., Project Item)             Completion
I) Correcting                    a) Construction,
inequalities of                  furnishing and
access, improving                equipping of:
the relevance and
increasing the                   i) 28 Rural Basic           Comleted. but stat.dard
internal efficiency              Schooi (with staff           floor plan and site plan
of basic education               housing);                    created difficulties at
most sites.
ii) 10 Urban Primary
Schools;
iii) Agricultural           Completed
Training School
iv) 1 Primary               Deleted from
Teacher Training and        project.
I Vocational
Training Center
v) Radio Education          Completed on a modified
Production                  basis: Construction was
Facilities                  scaled down and number of
studios reduced from 5 to
b) Support for (within         3.
Primary Education):
i) Curriculum               Completed (with delays)
Development;
ii) in service              Extended to include more
teacher training;           teacher plus support
staff. In all, the amount
of training provided
exceeded objectives at
appraisal.
iii) the                    Completed to cover all
preparation,                reform classes (which
production and              were fewer than
distribution of             foreseen), with some
educational                 modifications.
materials;
iv) evaluation and          No studies carried out
studies;                    (para. 2.12)
c) Related technical
assistance;
i) 15-1/2 man-years         Completed with close
of specialist               coordination with UNDP
services;                   funding.
ii) 7 man-years of          Completed.
fellowships.



- 47 -                     ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 2
II)  Expanding the supply         a) Construction,
and improving the               furnishing and
productivity of:                equipping of:
i) skilled and                  i) 2 Secondary                  Deletion of one and
semi-skilled workers            Vocational Schools              change of status for
in Port-au-Prince               (with staff housing)            the other which is
and Cap Haitien; and                                            completed with long
delays and not
operational at
project closing.
ii) 1 Vocational                Completed - not
Training Center                 operational at
ii) Agricultural                                                project closing.
extension and rural
community                    b) 1-1/4 man years of              Completed
development agents              technical assistance
and rural farm
leaders for the              c) Construction,                   Completed with long
North and                       furnishing and                  delays and not
Artibonite.                     equipping of 1                  operational at
agricultural                    project closing.
Training School
(with staff housing)
d) 2 man-years of                  Completed on a
technical                       delayed basis
assistance.



- 48 -
ANNEX 12
Page I of 4
HAITI
Second Education Project (Cr. 770-HA)
Project Completion Report
Agricultural and Community Development Training
The project's objective was to expand the supply of agricultural
extension agents and rural development agents, as well as to train rural farm
leaders in the North and Artibonite areas. The project would finance the
construction of one agricultural training school, in the North Region, two
staffyears of technical assistance and a study tour for the school director.
Administratively, the school would depend on the Ministry of Agriculture
(MARNDR), but a council with representatives of all the organizations
involved would set school policies. Construction of the school was to begin
in July 1979, and the school was expected to be operational by February
1982. A student tracer system would be put in place.
2.        The school would graduate 50 extension agents and 25 community
development agents per year, providing them with two years of training
(grades 10 and 11). The first year would be the same for both types of
students; during the second year they would specialize. In addition, 25
places would be available for short term training courses for farmers and
other organizations.
Project Implementation
3.        Because the Development Plan for the Center Region was given
emphasis, and a research station and farm was available which would benefit
from UNDP/FAO technical assistance, it was decided to change the location
from the North to the Center Region and locate the school in Hinche.  The
UNDP/FAO technical assistance contract, however, was never signeed, and the
farm buildings were not made available to the rc.hool either. Due to the slow
release of counterpart funds, construction of the school. only started in
January 1983, it was finished in February 1985. Eiiraitiire and C-qoipment,
after two unsuccessful international calls for bids, wa-t purchased through a
procurement agent based on three international price quiutations and was
completely installed by November, 1985,: !Ie long delay;- have ctaled
sigrificant Cost overruns.  The start of o..eration oi0 the school was in
Febnuary 1986.  The school was basical1.y constructed as foreseen ft
appraisal; however, the farm buildings were not iucluued in the construction
contract.  Special arraLigements have beeln made with  c-vRADR's civt
engineering department to prepare the irrigation s4ystem and to bu'.ld the
stalble.  Credit 1257-HA will finance the additional costs of the necond part
of Vtie irrigation system whicl: was not included in the contract uader Cr.
770--iA. The other minor bi;ildi:igs will be constructed hv1 the sturdents. The
scht:.ol fanm is 50 hec, of which 22 hec w..:ld be irrig3vd.



- 49 -                      ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 4
4.        The duration of the courses has been increased from 2 to 3 years
for the agricultural technicians. The first year would be a common year for
both the technicians and the community development workers. The entry level
has been increased to completion of 10 years of basic education, to fit
within the new educational structure which foresees 10 years of basic
education. The community development agents would have 2 years of training,
also after ten years of basic education. The school is expected to start in
1985 with 20 agricultural technicians, 25 community development agents and 75
community development agents and fatmers in short term courses. The excess
capacity will be used by 40 students of the second yeur of the agro-forestry
school (Cr.1257-HA). In addition, the school has the capacity to train
annually about 200 semi-skilled and skilled workers in the vocational
training section under INFPo
5.        The school is under MARNDR, but more specifically under the Faculty
of Agriculture and Veterinary Medicine (FAVM). However, the decree which
describes FAVM's structure and in which its responsibility for lower and
middle level agricultural sector training is mentioned is still in draft. At
the moment, therefore, the school does not legally exist, and its council has
not yet been organized. ONAAC, the other organizational partner in the the
school, is keen on establishing such a council. Draft documents describing
the council and its attributes exist.
6.        The director was appointed in 1980 (Dec.), made a half a year study
tour from Jan.'81 June'81 and started working on the development of the
curricula, etc. since that time. Since December 1982, a Unesco recruited
expert has assisted with this task as well as the organization of the school,
and the school farm. A core of other instructors was recruited in 1984 and
trained in the new curricula in May-June 1984 in two training sessions. At
present, the school has 5 full time employees, the director and 3
instructors, and 1 gardener.l/
7.        Recurrent Costs.  The recurrent costs expected at appraisal
amounted to about $133,900 or $765 per student place. The recurrent costs
predicted for full operation are now at US$283,040 or $1,617 per student
place. The difference, more than double the costs originally foreseen, is
due mainly to:
(a) the delays in the start of school operation. For instance, the
cost per day per student was US$1 at time of appraisal; US$5 now;
(b)  salaries being paid to staff are higher than foreseen at appraisal
to ensure that qualified staff is willing to live in Hinche. The
appraisal mjlssion mentions the lovw salaries as a risk, however, it
did not increase them;
(c) more staff will be hired than foreseen at appraisal; the farm is 50
instead of 10 hec.; the core of full-time teachers is larger offset
by a smaller number of part-time teachers who are unavailable in
Hinche, and the curriculum was expanded from 2 to 3 years; and
1/  According to information prcviced by the PIU, present staffing includes one
Director, one Dir-ector of Studies, one Farm Manager, seven permanent teachers
and 13 support sLaff (see Attachment I, pp. 64-65).



- 50 -
ANNEX 12
Page 3 of 4
(d) the farm is not yet operational. It is expected to yield a profit
irn three years to cover at least 50% of the student costs.
Future
8.        Impact of the School.  Although during project implementation some
efforts have taken place to increase the supply of agricultural technician
and community development agents, the needs are still very large and the
school Is bound to make a positive impact. fhe objective at appraisal was to
reach ratios of 1 technician for each 600 families, 1 agronomist per 5
technicians, and 1 communitv development agent for each "section rurale" in
about 20 to 25 years through: supply of 40 agronomists/year, 100
technicians/year, 25 community development agents/year and in-service
training of 25 existing community development agents in order to promote 5
deputy inspectors per year. At present, there are some 176 middle level
technicians compared to 116, and some 145 community development agents
compared to 66 at appraisal. The middle level school in Damien continued to
operate and graduate about 30 technicians/year and ONAAC hired some 85
community development agents, trained them in short courses. However, with
Hinche graduates alone it would still take the twenty years assumed at
appraisal to reach the objectives set.
9.        Middle-Level Technician Training Policy.  Although FAVM does not
have a written, and agreed on policy for middle level technicians training,
in practice it has decided to abolish the idea of using Hinche as the only
national center for this level of training. It is in the process of creating
a network of 5 middle level schools, two existing (Damien for veterinary
technicians, Hinche for rural development and agro-forestry), and two already
with donors (Artibonite with CIDA, and Don-don with French financing) and one
in Limbe (where the Swiss Government financing and FAO technical assistance
will be in place unti  thp en   f 1985).  These centers are supposed to train
farmers in the region and train about 10 to 20 technicians per year, also
with a regional specialization. The new implicit policy raises several
problems:
(a)  employment of graduates: MARNDR is not in the position to be able
to hire all graduates; the absorption capacity in the private
sector is unknown but could be limited in the near future as
technicians at this level first have to establish a demand for
themselves;
(h) availability of operational funds: MARNDR is also not in a
position to increase its contributicn to the operation of such
schoo.s. The operational budget for FY85 was largely insufficient
and is being met through informal transfers from other FAVM budget
lines. Other donors commit themselves to finance such costs for
five years; Hinche agro-forestry section will in part he supported
under Cr. 1257-'dA, but both Hinche and Damien already have
problems; Cr. 1257-HA will establish a comnercial tree nursery at
the irrigated land to offset part of the operational costs for
Hinche.
(c)  underutilization of the facilities constructed at Hinche, and
further investment in other centers. Hinche will probably be
utilized because ONAAC plans to use it for several inservice
training courses, INFP can use it for .ocational courseq, and the



- 51 -
ANNEX 12
Page 4 of 4
agro-forestry school now operating at Damien and Foret de Pin will
probably move there. However, it could be ensured of full
utilization if the first year, the common curriculum for all
middle-level technicians, were given at Hinche, and the
specialization in the other regional centers. This alternative,
supported by MARNDR, is not yet accepted by FAVM.
10.       Another troubling aspect of FAVM's lack of policy is that it now
proposes to raise the level of recruitment to 13 years, i.e., the end of
secondary school. The University recruits at the same level and it would
create two levels of agricultural professionals as commonly found in Latin
America, the agricultural engineer and the agronomist (ingeniero agronomo and
perito agronomo). It is unlikely that Haiti needs this level of
technicians. Certainly, these decisions should not be made without allowing
Hinche to carry out the experimentation of the full cycle cf its curriculum.
Institution Building Aspects
11.       In spite of these troubling aspects, it must be noted that the
development of preliminary curriculum for Hinche has been the catalyst for a
number of institutional development aspects:
(a) FAVM has developed an integrated agricultural training framework,
e.g., lower, middle and higher level training all under one
institution;
(b) elements of a national policy for middle level agricultural
training have been formulated and adopted by FAVM;
(c) the curriculum, which was developed from the bottom up with
agro-technicians and discussed in workshops, etc., is now being
analyzed and adapted to serve as the model for the "Haitian"
curriculum for middle level agricultural technicians in order to
present this to other donors as the national program;
(d) other NGO's in the region who had been invited to discuss the
curriculum and program in a special workshop. Some have already
started to carry out some of the programs EMH wants to carry out
namely irrigation and community development. Although this may
lead to some friction and adaptations may have to be made to EMH's
program, it should be considered that an institution building
objective is being met this way;
(e) with other NGO (notably a goat rearing program) as well as with the
field structure of iIARNDR an exchange of information/staff and
teachers has been established.
Conclusion
12.       The construction of the school in Hincne is setting a process in
motion which is probably beneficial to the Haitian economy. Since the school
itself does not yet exist organizationally, its programs have not yet been
experimented with and there is uncertainty about the feasibility of operating
the school at fntll capacity, lDA should continue to monitor the operations of
the school closelyc



- 52 -                           ANNEX 13
Page 1 of I1I
HAITI
SECGND EDUCATION PROJECT (Cr. 770-HA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
VOCATIONAL TRAINING
I.   Background
The Education System at Appraisal
1.1       At appraisal the formal education system comprised four levels of
education as follows: pre-primary (one year), primary (six years in urban
and seven years in rural areas), secondary (seven years, divided into three-
year and four-year sections) and higher (three to seven years). At the
primary level, the rural system included an official 'enfantine" or pre-
school year but only 24% of rural children completed this year
successfully. '/
1.2        Administration of education was divided between the Ministry of
National Education (DEN), responsible for most of the system, and the
Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural Development (DARNDR)
responsible for rural primary education and associated teacher training,
rural vocational and technical training and some rural non-formal training.
The National Literacy and Community Development Office (ONNAC), the National
Institute of Vocational Training (INFP), the National Pedagogical Institute
(IPN), and the Faculty of Arts and Sciences of the national University,
although officially were under DEN, had their own budgets and considerable
autonomy. In addition, the Ministry of Health was responsible for medical,
dental and nurses training.
1.3       Technical and Vocational education within the formal system was
administered at the time of appraisal by the Vocational Education Division of
DEN; it started at the post-primary level with first level (premier degre)
vocational schools offering mainly 4-year courses leading to skilled worker
certificate in a number of industrial trades, including electriciEy,
carpentry, mechanics and construction. There were seven first level
Vocational schools enrolling some 1,500 students. At the uppter secondary
level there were three second level (deuxieme degre) schools, all in Port au
Prince offering three year courses leading to an industrial techrn cian
certificate.   Two of these schools, quasi autoacmcei-. were s!taL.ished
recently with French (CPFP) 2/ and Canadian (Canadi  -,qaitiaii) tevhnical
assistance.  The third (J.B.  Damien) wa3 administc.7-  directly - DEN.
Total enrollments in the three second level schools -. .re aboui: 2C_-.
1/   At present primary education is consolidated !1rn.er the Mini-;uy of
Education and a reform has been launched aim"-g at restructz;ing the
whole eaucation system and adapting the p:ogramaes to the Hfc3'ien
reality.
2/   Centre pilote de formation professionnelle.



- 53 -
ANNEX 13
Page 2 of II
1.4       The INFP, an autonomous agency officially under DEN administration,
was established in 1975 with French and ILO assistance.   It was in charge of
study and research of the entire vocational training system, of coordination
of all vocational training and of ensuring the active participation of
industry in vocational training. At appraisal, the INFP and CPFP were
financed by a 1% payroll tax on industry.
Issues in Vocational and Technical Education
1.5        The appraisal report summarizes the key issues concerning the
first level vocational schools as follows: "These schools have an irrelevant
curriculum, underpaid and unqualified teachers, no workshop equipment, a poor
physical plant, an excessive number of students per workshop, a shortage of
funds for operating expenses and little or no contact with industry." For
the upper secondary level schools, the appraisal observes that the two
foreign aided schools produce technicians of an acceptable quality and in
sufficient numbers to meet future needs while the third school has very low
quality instruction and limited output.
Appraisal Proposals
1.6       According to the appraisal report, the Government was proposing at
that time a major structural and curriculum reform of secondary vocational
education to enable it to train appropriately industrial skilled workers and
technicians. The reform envisaged that the 4-year curriculum be reduced to 3
years at the post-primary level with the first year emphasizing strengthening
of general knowledge followed by gradual specialization. All teachers would
be trained in courses of up to two years in length.
17        To initiate this program the government proposed remodelling and
re-equipping of the vocational school in Cap-Haitien and establishment of a
new vocational school in Port au Prince.   The INFP would be responsible for
curriculum reform and industrial teacher training for these institutions. In
addition, the Government proposed to construct three small workshops on the
grounds of the INFP and under its administration for the implementation of
in-service training of factory workers in the Port au Prince area.
The Sub-Sector Memorandum on Technical and Vocational Education
1.8       A sub-sector study of technical and vocat -nal education was
initiated by the Unesco/Worll )lank Cooperative programme with a mission in
July 1982 and the first draft of the relevant report (EFI-3) was issued in
Decui;.cr 1982.  The sub-sector Ftudy confirmed that the issues identified at
appri.<a~l were persi;ting (thu 2nd project was not completed as yet) but
eirph-si& id the finav,aial and afficiency aspects and observed that the
structu-;e of the system was th.e key issue.  A summary of the study's
observei ions follows.                                 I
1.9       The principal issues most of them interrelated, pertain to
structutal problems, coordination and atandardization of programmes, quality
of Lrairing, adaptation to manprwer requirements and financial practices.



- 54 -                         ANNEX 13
Page 3 of 11
Combined, they result in a low efficiency and low quality system which does
not respond to labour market requirements and is relatively costly.
1.10      Structural issues result mainly from the 4 + 3 year post-primary
vocational education structure and the content of the training programmes.
First degree vocational schools start immediately after primary education.
According to the sub-sector study, it is premature for children to decide at
that state on a definite vocational career. In addition, the lengthy
programmes overloaded with unrelated disciplines, do not allow for the
flexibility necessary to respond to short-term manpower requirements and are
the main cause of the observed high drop-out rates at this level. At the
second level vocational schools, the inconsistency of the progammes with
regard to their length (2-4 years), content and level, influences adversely
their proper planning and implementation. Although completion of the 3rd
secondary grade is considered as an adequate requirement for enrolling in the
second level vocational schools, preference is given to those with higher
qualifications including baccalaureat. This raises considerable the overall
cost per trained worker and provides opportunities for further advancement to
those who have already benefitted to a large extent from the system.
1l11      With regard to quality of training and adaptation to manpower
requirements, the study observes that with the exception of the two foreign-
aided second level schools, the quality of training is poor mainly because of
inadequate and obsolete equipment, overcrowding in workshops, irrelevant
curricula, non-qualified and under-paid instructors and lack of instructional
materials. In quantitative terms, the output of the vocational training
system falls short by far of meeting the skilled manpower requirements; its
low efficiency accentuates the shortage problems and its inflexibility makes
it difficult to respond to short-term manpower requirements which for the
Haitian uncertain labour market is of vital importance. Finally, the
practically complete divorce between the vocational training system and the
industrial set-up is another factor which influences adversely the relevance
of training.
1.12       Commenting on the financial aspects, the sub-sector study report
observes that the vocational training recurrent unit costs are, in relative
terms, high amounting to some gourdes 2,600 per trainee per year as against
gourdes 355 for general secondary schools.   The cost per graduate is
exceedingly high (around gourdes 14,000) because of the long training
programmes, particularly in the first level schools, and the high drop-out
rates.  The fact that most of the entrants to the sqcond level schools are
"overqualified" poses additional unnecessary c ns'traunts on the already
scarce resources.
Vocational Education in the 4th Education Project
1.13       The 4th education project is composed of two major parts, one
dealing with basic education, the other with vocational education. The
latter aims at an eventual major restructuring of the technical and
vocational edocation system along the lines proposed in the sub-sector
memorandum mentioned in the preceding paragraphs etarting with the



ANNEX 13
Page 4 of 11
experimental introduction of the "polyvalent training centres" (CPF) 3/ and
satellite training centers (CS) 4/ both intended to replace the present
first 2.evel vocational schools.
1.14       The CPFs are conceived as intensive training centres within the
"Basic School" structure, offering "regular" and adult training courses in a
variety of trades. The regular courses are of a modular type and include:
one year of basic polyvalent training; one year of specialization; and one
year of further specialization and/or upgrading for further studies within
the educational system.   There is an "exit" to the labour market at the end
of each year of training. The programmes lead to a semi-skilled (1st and 2nd
year) or skilled (3rd year) worker certificate.5/   The "adult" courses are
opened to youth and adults of all educational levels and are adapted to the
needs of the community. The CSs are insticutions similar to the CPFs
offering only the first two years and established mainly in rural areas.
They depend on the CPFs in the same area in terms of overall administration,
supervision and teaching assistance.
1.15      At the upper secondary level the project proposes replacement of
the second level vocational schools by the Technical Training Centres
(CFT) 6/ through homogenization and streamlining of the training programmes;
they offer a year of polyvalent training following by a second year of
specialization and a third year of further specialization leading to a
technician certificate, or upgrading for further studies. At the same time
and outside the scope of the 4th education project, the Government is
experimenting with the introduction of a technical baccalaureat programme
along the lines proposed in the subsector memorandum.
1.16      Part of the reorientation process which started with the 4th
education project is the streamlining of the administration of technical and
vocational education through abolishing the Directorate of Vocational
Education and concentrating at the INFP all functions concerning technical
and vocational education.
II. Vocational Education in the 2nd Education Project
Project Components                                    t
2.1       The part of the 2nd education project concerning vocational
education had a much more limited scope than that envisaged in the 4th
project attempting to remedy the identified shortcomings mainly through the
provision of adequate facilities and an instructor training programmeo
Specifically, the 2nd education project included: (i) construction, furniture
and equipment for two vocational schools (one in Port-au-Prince, the other in
3/   Centres polyvalent de formation.
4/   Centres satellites.
5/   Entrants must have at least a complete primary education background.
6/   Centres de formation technique



-~ 56ANNEX 13
Page 5 of 11
Cap-Haltien) and a Vocational Training Centre at the INFP premises;
(ii) training by INFP of 46 staff workers of the two schools in courses
ranging from 5 to 24 months; and (iii) technical assistance in the form of
expert services (1 man/year for implementation of the new curricula and 1/4
man/year to develop equipment lists) and fellowships (2 man/years for the
directors of project vocational and agricultural schools).
2.2        The two vocational schools were to use a new curriculum based on a
3-year post-primary course to prepare craftsmen rather than the present
excessively long 4-year course. Entering students would be expected to have
completed primary education and be at least 15 years olds. The INFP were to
be responsible for developing the new curriculum and for training all 46
staff workers of the schools.
2.3       The Vocational Training Centre at the INFP premises had as
objective to improve the productivity of workers in assembly and other
manufacturing industries. Courses were to be provided for about 800 workers
per year on a released time basis for an average period of two weeks per
training group. Local industries would be expected to pay for the costs of
the course and to provide specialized equipment from their own shops when
necessary.
PROJECT OUTCOMES
Physical Facilities Implementation Schedule
2.4        Delays in the construction of the vocational schools combined with
rising costs led to the cancellation of the Cap-Haitien school while the
Port au Prince school (at Carrefour) has no fixed date to start functioning.
The Vocational Training Centre at INFP (CNPP 7/) was inaugurated in January
1983 with two years delay and started functioning sc4n thereafter (para.
2.15).
The Training Component
2.5       Within the framework of the Project, the INFP trained a total of 36
teaching staff for the two vocational schools, namelv 4 chief instructors (18
months), 4 technical drawing teachers (24 months), and 28 workshop
Instructors (12 months). Eight general education teachers included in the
project for training by the INFP were not trained.   The training programmes
ended as planned by the end of 1981. The project financed stipends for the
trainees and the expendable materials.   The delays in the construction of
the schools created the problem of finding ways to use trained staff until
the schools were ready for operation. Also, the trainees demanded that their
stipends continued to be paid until they were officially appointed to their
posts. As a result, some 50% abandoned the scheme and found jobs in the
private sector.   For those who remained, the training course was extended
for another year during which they were mainly used for the preparation of
the revised training programmes and for teaching in the vocational training
centre (CMPP) and in adult courses. More staff abandoned after the end of
the extended training, raising the total waste to 23 (including 2 who died
and 3 who failed) out of 36. Table A below shows the overall results.
7/   Centre de formation rapide, re-named to Centre model de perfectionnement
professionnelle (CNPP).



- 57 -
ANNEX 13
Page 6 of 11
Table A: RESULTS OF THE TRAINING PROGRAMMES
Number    Abandoned      Absorbed in            Work in
Trained    Service    Other Institutions  Project Schools
Chief Instructors       4           2              2
Drawing Teachers        4           3              -                    1 a/
Instruetors            28         18 b/            2                    8
Total              36         23               4                    9 c/
a/ As chief instructor.
b/ 2 died, 3 failed.
c/ 4 in Carrefour with raised salaries (chief instructors US$400/month);
instructors US$250/month) and 4 in the existing vocational school in
Cap-Haitien without promotion (US$100/month).
2.6        The new instructors appointed at Carrefour (16 in addition to the
4 specifically trained at INFP) had a 3 month crash course at INFP in
October-December 1984 and receive also US$250/month as against US$100 for
instructors in other public first level vocational schools.
Technical Assistance
2.7       The expert services envisaged in the appraisal (12 man/months
curriculum implementation and 3 man/months equipment lists) were provided by
ILO experts who were at place within the framework of the UNDP/ILO project
with the INFP.   Under special arrangemrents between UNDP, ILO and the Bank,
the project financed a total of 30 man/months (12 curriculum development and
18 equipment and training) of expert services as against 15 man/month
foreseen, at a total cost of US$172.500 during the 1980-821 period. The
fellowships for the directors of the two vocational schools (paragraph 17)
were implemented as foreseen; both had a 3-month study visit in France and a
6-month (part-time) training course in administration at INAGHEI. One of the
trained directors is working today as director of the Carrefour Centre with
raised salary (US$500/month plus US$250 for part-time teaching) while the
second works at present in the axisting Cap-Haitien school without promotion.
Recurrent Expenditure and Unit Costs
2.8        The Carrefour school when scheduled to open as a Polyvalent
Training Centre will have a total of some 250 trairees in regular (15) and
special (100) courses.   The recurrent budget for the first year of
functioning has been calculated at US$119,000 or US$480 per trainee, which,
in real terms, is practically equal to that foreseen at appraisal (US$325 per
trainee at 1977 values plus 50% overall inflation rate - US$490 per trainee),
despite the fact that higher amounts are allocated for teaching materials,
maintenance and other non-personnel expenses (US$183 per trainee as against



- 58 -
ANNEX 13
Page 7 of 11
44 foreseen in the appraisal). This is due mainly to the proposed intensive
use of the facilities and the staff of the Centre. Teaching staff salaries
have been raised as of January 1985 practically as foreseen at appraisal.
Assuming that the average length of the regular courses is two years and
allowing a 10% wastage, the estimated cost per graduate from these courses
becomes some US$900.
Agreements and Covenants
2.9       Some of the agreements reached at negotiations could not be
fulfilled because of the delay in opening the schools. Table B below shows
the present situation.
Table B: FULFILLMENT OF AGREEMENTS REACHED
(i)     INFP would be re£ponsible for curriculum       Fulfilled
development and teacher training for
project secondary vocational schools.
(ii)     Employment in these two schools would be       Fulfilled for those
offered to graduates of the INFP training    who remained in the
courses.                                       public service.
(iii)     Conditions of service adequate to retain       Higher salaries
qualified teachers would be provided for       offered to those
the project schools.                           appointed in
Carrefour. General
improved status under
study.
(iv)     Adequate funds for operating budgets would   Fulfilled for
be provided for the project.                   Carrefour for 1985/86.
(v)     A tracer system to monitor the employment    Non applicable as yet.
conditions of recent graduates would be
implemented.
(vi)     The Vocational Training Centre (CMPP) at       Fulfilled*
INFP would be established as an official
service of the INFP by October 1, 1979.
OBSERVATIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
Overall Impact of the Project
2.10      It is of course too early to draw valid conclusions on the impact
of the Project on the technical and vocational education subsystem of the
country as the only school constructed under the project has not started
functioning as yet. At any rate, the results of this project can be only
assessed in conjunction with those of the 4th education project which has



- 59 -                          ANNEX 13
Page 8 of 11
modified radically the approach adopted in the 2nd project in accordance with
the proposals of the subsector study on technical and vocational education
(paras. 1.8-1.12).
2.11      Long delays in construction caused considerable problems such as
higher investment costs, which were the main reason for eliminating the
Cap-Haitien school, and the vast wastage in the instructor training programme
(para. 2.5). In retrospect, however, the fact that in the meantime the
technical. and vocational education sub-system was thoroughly studied and the
approach changed can be considered as a positive development stemming out
from the long delays.
2.12       The contribution of the 2nd project to the development of
technical and vocational education so far is not essential; it pertains to
the requisition of appropriate facilities for the Carrefour Centre and the
ClMPP, the result of the training component and technical assistance and the
increased salaries of the workshop instructors. Brief comments follow.
The Carrefour Facilities
2.13      Acquisition of the Carrefour facilities is certainly a positive
contribution provided such facilities are used effectively. Slight
modifications in the original infrastructure and in the lay out of equipment
provided the conditions necessary for the conversion of the Carrefour
facilities from a 1st level vocational school to a polyvalent training
centre. Although it is not possible to envisage what the impact of the
project would have been had the Carrefour school been implemented as planned,
it is unlikely that it would have changed much in the field of vocational
training. Experience all over the world shows that as long as vocational
training at the post-primary level forms an integral part of the formal
system it cannot be effective even with adequate facilities (paras.
1.8-1.12). Furthermore, the condition stated in the appraisal that entrants
to the 1st level vocational schools must be at least 15 years old (para. 1.8)
although the schools are parallel to the lower level general secondary school
implies, under normal conditions, a 3-year gap in the education system
between primary and lower secondary vocational education. Although this is
not true at present as the system is flooded with "overaged" pupils, the
situation is gradually improving and it is among the Government's priorities
to "regularize" the system as soonest possible. Hence, the 4th education
project proposal to "deformalize" the Vocational education sub-system at the
post-primary level by replacing the formal vocational schools with the
polyvalent training centres appears promising.
2.14      Lesson learned from this experience is that proposals for major
interventions in a particular education subsector should be based on a
thorough analysis of the subsector and aim at resolving the fundamental
issues affecting the performance of the subsector rather than dealing with
short-term interventions which, in one way or another, reinforce the "status
quo".



- 60 -
ANNEX 13
Page 9 of 11
Performance at the CMPP (Vocational Training Centre)
2.15      The appraisal objective of the CMPP was that the centre would run
only upgrading courses of short duration (2 weeks) for workers already in
industry and that industry would bear the training costs and help with
equipment when necessary. In practice, the CMPP never functioned as
planned. With the assistance of the ILO experts attached to INFP, the centre
integrated its activities with those of the INFP which included training or
pre-employment upgrading of vocational school graduates to a total of 273
workers during the 1983/84 period in assembly industries, electronics and
industrial sewing machines maintenance and repair. In addition 306 trainees
participated in a training/production activity for school furniture.
Industry's participation in the training process was practically nil and the
centre ceased functioning for lack of recurrent expenditures.
2.16      In conclusion, although the CMPP contributed somehow to
experimeiLLing with certain types of vocational programmes, it failed to
attain the project objectives, neither it is expected to do so in the
foreseen future, because at the present stage industry's needs are limited
and there is no dialogue between the INFP and the industrial set-up. Under
these circumstances, the INFP is studying ways and means to use the centre's
facilities more effectively within the framework of the 4th project without
excluding the original objective. Among the possibilities under study is the
transfer of the "garage-ecole" facilities at the centre's premises and the
establishment of a model entrepreneurial training centre combining training
in small enterprises management with upgrading activities in auto-mechanics
and other areas. Another possibility is to transfer the facilities to the
adjacent CPFP.
2.17      Lessons learned from this experience include:
(i)  whenever industry is intended to be actively involved in the
training process, establishment of an effective mechanism to ensure
a dialogue between the training agency and industry is at least as
essential as the provision of facilities. This aspect was not
dealt with at appraisal; and
(ii)  upgrading activities can be carried out in the adjacent CPFP
facilities whose workshops remain practically idle all afternoons
and during vacation periods. It is true that at the appraisal time
there was little, if any communication between INFP and CPFP but no
serious effort was made to bring the two agencies together instead
of proposing new facilities.
Instructor Training Assessment
2.18       Although the instructor training programme as such was successful
(well organized and implemented, satisfactory content) the overall results
were poor because of timing and remuneration problems which, combined, were
the main cause for the observed high abandon rate (paragraph 2.5). At the
end, out of the 36 teaching staff trained, only 4 work 'n the project school



- 61 -
ANNEX 13
Page 10 of 11
at Carrefour with improved service conditions and 5 are placed in the old
Cap-Haitien school without any promotion. Timing problems emerged from the
long delays in construction. Remuneration problems, stemmed out mainly from
the fact that stipends were much higher than the official salaries (US$150-
175/per month as against US$100) and there was no automatic improved service
conditions approved for those who terminated the training programme. In
practice, upon completion of training some instructors and teachers were
offered the limited number of available vacancies in existing schools with
the US$100 per month salary while the rest had to remain idle and without
salary waiting for the project schools to open. Extending the training
period (para. 2.5) eased somewhat the situation.
2.19      Lessons learned from the training experience is that: (i) timing is
very important and must be coordinated with the construction process; and
(ii) special stipends can be harmful unless salaries are adjusted
accordingly; simple assurances for improved service conditions on the part
of the Government proved to be insufficient.
Technical Assistance Results
2.20      The expert services provided proved satisfactory.  Curricula were
skillfully developed, equipment lists were efficiently established, and
equipment installation was adequate. However, it should be mentioned that
these results, especially in curriculum development, were not those of the
technical assiatance financed under the 2nd project (para. 2.7), but the
cumulative results of a long-term ILO/UNPD project (some 8 man/years for
curriculum development).   Further financing from the 4th project PPF
(Project Preparation Fund) provided the assistance necessary to adapt the
training programmes to the requirements of the polyvalent training centres.
They are now ready for experimentation.
2.21       The fellowships provided for the directors of the two project
schools (para. 2.7) were also successful but more benefit could be drawn from
this experience. One of the persons trained is appointed director of the
Carrefour Centre. Discussions with him proved that he has benefitted fully
both from his overseas experience and his local training at INAGHEI.8/ The
second person, however, works as an instructor in the old Cap-Haitien school
without any promotion.
2.22      Lessons learned from the technical assistance component is that the
system should make maximum use of the qualified personnel, It is a serious
waste to underutilize competent staff when reeds are urgent and resources are
scarce.
IIIo FOURTH PROJECT EXPECTATIONS
3.1       The Fourth Education Project modifies and complements the second.
The rational, which led to the formulation of this project is analyzed at
length in the sub-sector study on technical and vocational education and is
summarized in paragraphs 1.8-1.12 of this report.
8/ This director has since been replaced.



-62-                             ANNEX 13
Page 11 of 11
3.2       The main objective of the vocational education part of the 4th
project is to contribute to the implementation of the restructuring of the
Technical and Vocational Education and Training system with a view to:
(i) adapt vocational training to the Haitien context; (ii) increase the
efficiency of the system and reduce the unit costs; (iii) meet anticipated
manpower demands at the semi-skilled and skilled worker and technician
levels; (iv) enhance the self-employment process; and (v) provide education
and training opportunities for an increased number of children, youths and
adults of both sexes.
3.3        The means proposed to achieve the above-cited objectives include:
introduction of new institutions and training programmes; institutional
reinforcement, and instructor training and upgrading.
3.4        The extension of the Carrefour facilities provides an excellent
opportunity for experimentation in the new concept and for the restructuring
of the technical and vocational education subsystem. The elimination of the
Cap-Haitien facilities from the 2nd project has the positive element that the
facilities would be better adapted to the requirements of a polyvalent
training centre. The specific advantages of a polyvalent training centre
over a formal first level vocational schools are: (i) more effective training
because of the intensive courses; (ii) minimum wastage combined with maximum
flexibility because of the short and intensive type of courses proposed;
(iii) maximum cost/benefit rate; (iv) recuperation of school drop-outs at
several levels; and (v) minimum cost per graduate.  When the new system  is
in full operation, the cost per graduate of the regular courses (average 2
years) is estimated at US$900 as against US$2,800 at present. In addition,
such graduates would be much better equipped for employment.
3.5       Among the benefits already acquired as a result of the approval of
the 4th education project are: (i) readaptation of the curricula; (ii)
adoption of an improved service condition system for technical teachers and
instructors (it still remains to be generalized); (iii) abolishing the
technical and vocational education directorate and streamlining the service
under the INFP; (iv) realization that increased recurrent expenditures are
necessary for effective functioning manifested in an increased recurrent
budget for the Carrefour Centre and (v) introduction of a number of special
training programmes under the Ministry of Education or in collaboratiorn with
other ministries such as that planned in Carrefour with the Ministry of
Social Affairs.   Such programmes would broaden the scope of technical and
vocational education and increase the use factor of the available human and
physical resources.



- 63 -
COMMENTS FROM THE BORROWER.                                           ATTACHMENT I
page 1 of 3
E425/87   November 14, 1996
FR/Haiti
OED   JVS:bas
Government of Haiti
Educdtion and Training Projects Unit (UPEF)
No. DG-85
Ref: Credit 770/HA
November 10, 1986
Mr. Graham Donaldson
Chief, Agriculture and Human Resources Division
OED
World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433
Subject: Project Completion Report on Second
Education Project-Credit 770/HA
Dear Sir:
I greatly appreciate the objectivity shown in the Project Completion
Report on the Second Education Project. The aim of the following comments and
observations is merely to provide further information in certain areas.
Page 8, paragraph 2.044
The Project Bureau has all the relevant information in its financial
records. Furniture was procured through competitive bidding and the
contracts were executed by the vocational schools and other local
firms. As regards construction materials, iron and cement were also
procured through competitive bidding and were supplied by Ciment
d'Ha-iti and I'Aci6rie d'Haiti. Other materials, such as sheet
metal, boards, blocks and tiles were purchased from various
suppliers. The orders, specifications and delivery notes were
recorded and filed in the project archives. The omission which had
to be repaired was maintaining dossiers separately for each school.
Page 9, paragraph 2.07:
Part of the furniture for the primary schools, mainly benches and
desks, was built by the secondary vocational schools at J6remie and
Cayes, and a local firm in Port-au-Prince, La Sovah. Other
furniture, such as ofrice tables and chairs, were provided by a
local firm which ordered them from the Dominican Republic.
Page 9, paragraph 2.06:
The Radio Education building was constructed by a contractor under
the supervision of the Project Bureau and the architect responsible
for the study.



- 64 -
ATTACHMENT I
page 2 of 3
The Vocational Training Center was constructed on force account
under the supervision of the Project Supervision Service.
The Hinche agricultural school was fully completed in February 1985.
Psge 16, paragraph 4.13:
IDA should continue to discuss with the government the future
operations of the school. The main thrust of IDA's support should
be directed towards:
3.1 The organic legal existence of the school;
3.2 i4aximizing the use of the school's capacity so as to avoid
under-utilization of the installations;
3.3 Coordination of the implications of the ONPEP and the INFP;
3.4 Testing of new programs and of the education strategy introduced for
the school;
3.5 Definition of a system for monitoring the employment situation of
future graduates of the scbool.
Page 16, paragraph 4.14:
On the basis of the norms of the past few years, the Project Bureau
prepared a budget for the three ongoing projects amounting to
G72,000.00 per month to cover certain routine expenses arising out
of the normal operation of the schools and distance allowances ior
difficult posts. The approved budget of the Ministry of Education
provides only G51,665.00 per month, or about 72X of needs, an aiount
reduced to C46,500.00 during the current year. Furthermore, this
amount is no longer paid by monthly check to the order of the
project, which facilitated its allocation among the schools, but
retained and drawn down during the year on thel basis of
substantiating documents to cover certain nee-18 such as purchas--3 of
traditional supplies. procurement and maintenancp of furnitures the
closing and painting of schools, etc.
Pgs j_'9  paragraph 6:
This paragraph should be completed with the EAlI.c;ing info-t-mttit'on:
"the schooL -iow has 23 full-time employees:
-    Director
-    Director of Studies
-    Manager of the Farm
-    seven pefmaaient teachers
-    13 support staff, na:lely:



- 65 -
ATTACBiENT I
page 3 of 3
*    general administrator ....l
*    secretary ...   ....... I
*    tractor driver ...........l
*    caretakers ............. ..2
*    housekeepers .............2
*    laundrywomen ............. 2
*    cooks .. .. ................ 3
Yours, etc.
/s/ Roger Delmas
Director-General
cc: Ministry of Finance
Ministry of National Education



I, AN
t;
1)
rll'O
1411         1
6N
O's
I



- 67 -
COMMENTS FROM THE BORROWER                               ATTACHMENT II
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
MINISTRY OF NATIONAL EDUCATION
Office of the Minister
of National Education
Port-au-Prince, November 27, 1986
Mr. Graham Donaldson
Division Chief
Operations Evaluation Department
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C., 204.33
USA
Dear Sir,
I have received your letter of September 30, accompanied
by  the  first  version  of  the  Project  Completion  Report  on
Education II, which was  supported  by  Credit 777-HA approved by
the World Bank in 1978.
I thank you for these documents.
Generally,  and  based   on   the   information  I  have
available, this Report seems to be a valid evaluation.
However, having personally participated closely in the
work of the Curriculum Committee, I believe that paragraph 4.10
on page 16 of the document, is not an accurate reflection of the
Committee's work in support of the progress and orientation of
the undergoing education reform.
I would appreciate if my observation can be reflected in
the final version of the report which will be distributed to the
Bani: rs Board.
SLincerely,
s/Rosny Desroches
ROSNY DESROCHES
Mini ster
National Education
Stamp
(Ministry of National Education)



