Document of
FILE COPY                              The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2216-HA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
FOR A
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
February 8, 1978
This document has  restted distIbtution and my be _ed bY reciPients only In the perfornce of
their officil duies. Its contents may not ohwie  be discsetd witho   World Bank anthorlton.I



Currency Equivalents
Calendar 1977               January 1978
Currency Unit = Gourde (G)             G
US$1          = G5.00                  5.00
Gl            = us$0.20                0.20
Fiscal Year
October 1 - September 30
Measures
1 kilometer = 0.62 miles
1 sq. meter = 10.76 sq. feet
Abbreviations
CARE    -  Cooperative for American Relief to Everywhere
CEP     -  Primary Education Certificate
CIDA    -  Canadian International Development Agency
CLAP    -  Center for Applied Linguistics
CONADEP - National Council for Development and Planning
CPFP    -  Pilot Center for Technical Training
DARNDR  -  Department (Ministry) of Agriculture, Natural Resources,
and Rural Development
DEN     -  Department (Ministry) of National Education
FAO     -  Food and Agriculture Organization
IDB     -  Interamerican Development Bank
ILO     -  International Labor Organization
INFP    -  National Institute for Vocational Training
INP     -  National Pedagogical Institute
ONAAC   -  National Office for Literacy and Community Action
UNDP    -  United Nations Development Programme
UNESCO  -  United Nations Educational, Social, and Cultural Organization
UNICEF  -  United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HAITI
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower                    Republic of Haiti
Beneficiaries:              Departement de l'Education Nationale (Ministry
of Education); Departement de l'Agriculture,
Ressources Naturelles et Developpement Rurale
(Ministry of Agriculture); Radio Nationale
Amount:                     US$10.0 million equivalent
Terms:                      Standard IDA Terms
Project Description:        The project would (a) continue and expand the
Association's assistance in support of Haiti's
efforts to correct inequalities in access to
primary education, and to improve its relevance
and internal efficiency, and (b) increase the
supply of skilled and semi-skilled industrial
workers, agricultural extension agents and rural
community development agents. On completion,
the project would provide physical facilities
for about 19,500 primary school students and
would improve the quality of primary education
for more than 300,000 children in grades 1 - 4
in public schools. A UNDP grant of about
US$0.5 million would help finance part of the
technical assistance component. Project risks
concerning financing of recurrent costs generated
by the project would be minimized by proposed
assurances providing for the allocation of suffi-
cient funds for maintenance and operating costs,
adoption of improved conditions of teacher service
and reforms in the fiscal sector. Improved condi-
tions of teacher service would help to attract and
retain qualified teachers.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:                     Item                    --- JS$ millions -------
Local      Foreign      Total
Primary Education
Physical Facilities         2.00        1.99         3.99
Quality Improvements        1.01        0.64         1.65
Vocational and Agricultural
Education                   0.98        1.14         2.12
Technical Assistance          0.06        1.06         1.12
Project Administration        0.13        0.06         0.19
Subtotal                 4.18        4.89         9.07
Physical Contingencies        0.38        0.43         0.81
Price Contingencies           1.34        1.45         2.79
Total Project Costs      5.90        6.77        12.67
Financing Plan:
US$ million        Percentage
IDA Credit         10.00                 79%
UNDP Grant           .47                  4%
Government          2.20                 17%
Total        $12.67               100%
Estimated
Disbursements:             IDA/FY       ---------------- $ thousands -------------
1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983
Annual         75     865   2,355   2,940   2,545   1,220
Cummulatives  75      940   3,295   6,235   8,780  10,000
Staff Appraisal Report:    Report No. 1813a-Ha dated February 8, 1978
Regional Projects Department
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF HAITI
FOR A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed devel-
opment credit to the Republic of Haiti for the equivalent of US$10.0 million on
standard IDA terms to help finance a second education project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The most recent economic report on Haiti, Report No. 1243-HA entitled
"Current Economic Position and Prospects of Haiti" was distributed to the
Executive Directors on December 15, 1976. Social and economic data are pre-
sented in Annex I. A Bank mission is now in Haiti to update the Economic
report. Its findings will be distributed next August.
3.        Haiti is one of the poorest nations in the world, and one of two
countries in the Western Hemisphere included in the U.N. list of least devel-
oped nations. GNP per capita in 1976 stood at US$200. An infant mortality
rate of about 150 per thousand live births, an average life expectancy of 50
years, low nutrition and sanitation standards (malnutrition and gastroenteric
diseases account for over half the deaths in the country) and an adult illit-
eracy rate of about 80 percent characterize the depressed living standards of
the population.
4.        In marked contrast to the 1960-67 period when the economy stagnated,
Haiti enjoyed some growth in 1968-74. Expansion of small-scale manufacturing
and assembly operations, tourism and construction led to real average annual
increases of GDP of about 3.4 percent while population grew at an estimated
annual rate of 1.6 percent. These activities contributed noticeably to improv-
ing economic conditions in Port-au-Prince. Employment in assembly operations,
for example, increased from 10,000 in 1971 to 19,000 in 1974. Agriculture,
however, which constitutes the economic base of almost 80 percent of Haiti's
population and accounts for about 42 percent of GDP and 55 percent of merchan-
dise exports has, as yet, shown little dynamism. Progress in agriculture
will require the adoption of improved production techniques, provision of
greater incentives to farmers, as well as improvement of the transport infra-
structure.
5.        The economy's total output stagnated in 1975.  Agricultural output
declined mainly as a result of a severe drought which particularly affected
the northwestern part of the country. World recession brought about declines
in exports of mining products and manufactures as well as in industrial
1/   Reprinted verbatim from Report No. 2134-HA of December 1, 1977 (Haiti-
Provincial Towns Water Supply Project).



- 2 -
investment. Construction activity also slowed down significantly. However,
mainly because of favorable bauxite and sugar prices, the country's terms of
trade improved, thus allowing a moderate real increase in the Gross Domestic
Income. In 1976, the economy recovered from the effects of the 1975 drought
and world recession. Production growth was led by mining, manufacturing and
construction, but agriculture also performed satisfactorily. Preliminary
estimates point to a real growth of GDP of nearly 5 percent. This development
was again accompanied by a substantial improvement of the terms of trade,
mainly owing to a sharp increase in world coffee prices. Consequently, growth
of Gross Domestic Income is estimated at about 10 percent.
6.        During the first 4-5 months of 1977, the country was again hit by
a very severe drought with strong negative impact on agricultural production
(mainly domestic food crops), on power generation and consequently also on
industrial production. These effects were reflected by a deceleration of
GDP growth in 1977. A rough estimate points to an increase in real GDP of
about 2.5 percent. The shortfalls in agricultural production caused serious
supply shortages. The situation was relieved by food grants from multilateral
and bilateral emergency programs and by direct Government imports. At the
same time, the reduction in hydro-power generation led to the importation of
generators, both by the Government and the private sector. Since the drought
did not affect coffee production, increased earnings from coffee exports,
resulting from further increases in coffee prices, offset the foreign exchange
outflow caused by emergency imports.
7.        After several years of continuously decreasing net international
reserves, Haiti's balance of payments improved in 1976 and 1977, largely as a
result of higher coffee prices. In September 1975, the net reserves of the
banking system reached their lowest negative level of US$24 million. Since
then, they increased to reach a positive level of about US$6.3 million as at
the end of September 1977.
8.        In the past three years, the Government has adopted several measures
to encourage agricultural production. In 1973, the specific tax on coffee
which, by absorbing a large share of export proceeds, weakened producer incen-
tives when international prices were low, was replaced by a progressive ad
valorem levy. In 1974, a nationwide five-year coffee production program was
initiated with the support of USAID to provide small farmers with a package of
credit, technology and training. A substantial increase in the domestic
prices paid to farmers for sugarcane and to mills for sugar production was
approved. The export tax on sugar was lowered from its previous rate which
was as high as 80 percent at the margin. The tax on agricultural products
marketed domestically, levied each time a commodity changed hands, was elimi-
nated.
9.        The Government is carrying out an important investment program in
which infrastructure facilities, essential to the development of the directly
productive sectors, occupy a central place. Public investment increased by
about 68 percent in real terms during 1975 and again by some 35 percent in



-3-
1976. In the area of Port-au-Prince, projects are under way to expand and
improve port facilities and the water and power supply systems. Major roads
linking the northern and southern regions of the country were reconstructed,
and the network of agricultural feeder roads is being improved. The current
Five-Year Development Plan stresses regional development and it envisages the
expansion of health, sanitation and education services to the population in
rural areas and provincial towns. To meet even the most modest demand in
these areas, public sector development expenditures will have to increase from
about US$37 million per year in 1973-75 (or 5.1 percent of GDP) to about US$87
million per year in 1976-80 (or 7.2 percent of GDP) (all in current prices).
10.       The successful execution of such a program will require a substan-
tial increase in the flow of external assistance. In the early seventies,
when the level of public investment was still low, net external lending
accounted for only a fraction, less than one-tenth, of development expendi-
tures. Grants financed another 37 percent of development expenditures.
The share of external lending has grown to about 30 percent in 1975, with
the remaining 41 percent financed from foreign grants, 16 percent from net
internal borrowing and 13 percent from savings. On the basis of disbursements
of loans already committed and of likely future annual commitment levels
of US$45-US$50 million from official lending agencies, it is expected that
the importance of foreign lending will increase and that it will finance
about 40 percent of development expenditures in the 1976-80 period. Capital
investment grants from bilateral agencies are expected to finance 5 percent of
development expenditures. Other official grants and private donations are
expected to continue to represent an important, albeit declining, share of
development expenditures (about 20 percent). The remaining 35 percent will
have to be financed internally, mainly through public sector savings.
11.       The Government recently took some specific measures to increase
revenues. Among these measures are the levy of an additional specific coffee
export tax, which is applicable at prices above US$1.00 per kg, adoption of
a new system of taxation of bauxite exports and the improved administration
of import duties. Furthermore, a new income tax law which became effective
October 1, 1977 increases the taxation of higher incomes, mainly received by
members of the liberal professions. In addition to these measures, a compre-
hensive tax reform is in preparation including action with the assistance of
the IMF to subject various extra-budgetary accounts to normal budgetary
procedures. Finally, the Government has allocated 50 percent of the profits
of the Regie du Tabac, an autonomous public sector monopoly, to a National
Investment Fund.
12.       The growth of public savings will, nevertheless, be constrained by
the need to increase substantially current budget expenditures in order to
upgrade the quality of public administration and to meet sharply rising
operating expenditures related to new development projects in agriculture,
education, health, road maintenance and other sectors. In view of the extreme
poverty of the country, its fragile balance of payments and the constraints to



-4-
raising additional fiscal resources --- taxes already represent about 11 percent
of GDP, no mean achievement for a cotntry as poor as Haiti -- the successful
execution of the development plan will require external financing -- on con-
cessionary terms -- covering a high share of the cost of development projects.
In some sectors, financing of part of local costs would be necessary.
13.       A High Level Commission for the Implementation of External Assist-
ance to Haiti convenes twice a year to consider the country's economic
situation and expected technical and financial assistance. The Commission,
for which the organization of American States (OAS) provides Secretariat
Services (including background reports), is composed of senior government
officials and of representatives of the multilateral and bilateral aid agencies
active in Haiti.  The Government has proved to be receptive to advice from the
Commission, which also serves to coordinate the efforts of participating
agencies.
14.       The country's balance of payments is very fragile, mainly because
of high and rapidly increasing food imports which account for more than 25
percent of total merchandise imports. Although export performance in 1976
and 1977 has been satisfactory as a result of a sharp increase in coffee
prices and rising earnings from manufactured exports and tourism, the deficit
on the balance of goods and services has remained substantial; in 1976 it
reached about 4 percent of GDP. This development reflects the country's
increasing dependence on food imports and substantial investment programs
(which, in the longer run, are likely to contribute to strengthen the economic
structure and the export base). The strengthening of the country's external
reserve position was made possible by improved coffee prices and by a large
inflow of grants and official loans.
15.       Since there has been relatively little net foreign borrowing other
than on highly concessionary terms, the debt service ratio is relatively low
(about 7 percent in 1976). Nevertheless, the balance of payments is
likely to constitute a severe constraint to economic development in view of
the limited growth prospects of Haiti's agricultural exports, and because
export diversification through the development of manufacturing and tourism
is still at an early stage. In view of the country's poverty and the depen-
dence of its balance of payments on world demand for a few commodities, Haiti
will continue to require external assistance on concessionary terms for a long
time if it is to achieve a significant improvement in the standard of living
of its population.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HAITI 1/
16.       The Bank Group has had eight operations in Haiti.  A US$2.6 million
Bank loan (141-HA) was made in 1956 for highway rehabilitation and a US$350,000
1/   Reprinted from Report No. P-2134-HA and amended to include references to
the Provincial Towns Water Supply Project (para 16 and Table 1) to the
Second Education Project (para 21).



IDA credit (32-HA) was made in 1962 for highway maintenance. Two credits --
US$10 million (478-HA, Third Highway Project) in 1974 and US$20 million
(556-HA, Fourth Highway Project) in 1975 -- were made for reconstruction of
the Northern Road linking Port-au-Prince to Cap Haitien. In February 1976, a
credit of US$5.5 million was made for a First Education Project (618-HA); in
July 1976, a credit of US$16 million was made for a First Power Project
(645-HA); in January 1977, a credit of US$10 million was made for a Rural
Development Project in Haiti's Northern Department (675-HA) and a credit of
US$6.6 million was approved in December 1977 for a provincial town water
supply project. The Third and Fourth Highway Projects are making good
progress, with disbursements ahead of appraisal estimates. The Power Project,
after some delays, is proceeding substantially on schedule. The Rural
Development Credit became effective on May 26, 1977 and is still at an early
stage of execution. Annex II contains a summary statement of the Bank loan
and IDA credits as of September 30, 1977, and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.
17.       USAID is financing a road maintenance program, the improvement of
feeder roads and the construction of secondary roads. IDB is financing con-
struction of the Southern Road, linking the capital to the southern part of
Haiti, and expansion of the Port-au-Prince harbour. France is financing con-
struction of a road linking Jacmel to the Southern Road and is providing
assistance to improve provincial airports. UNDP is financing the technical
assistance component of the Third Highway Project (with the Bank as Executing
Agency) including training of local contractors in administration, engineer-
ing and management as well as a study of Haiti's transportation sector. This
study has been completed. The Government organizes twice-yearly meetings to
coordinate assistance to the transport sector.
18.       Several other international and bilateral agencies are helping
education in Haiti, including technical assistance from UNDP/UNESCO, for
educational planning and for radio, non-formal, primary and agricultural
education, UNDP/ILO, for vocational education; and UNDP/FAO, for agricultural
education; financing from UNICEF, for radio and teacher education and for the
supply of radios, France, for educational research and for vocational and
technical education, CIDA, for agricultural and technical education and
for construction of educational facilities, and IDB for rural, primary and
agricultural education.
19.       IDB has also made loans for agricultural and industrial credit and
for improvement of Port-au-Prince's water supply. It is providing assistance
to the Government for the preparation of integrated rural development projects
in the Cul-de-Sac Plain. USAID has given assistance for Haiti's malaria
eradication program, for community development, for a maternal child health
and family planning program, and for modernization of the production and
marketing of coffee. USAID is also providing assistance for integrated
agricultural development in two regions; this activity will be gradually
expanded to include other regions of Haiti and will also provide assistance
for control of soil erosion and for impzovement of agricultural extension and
research. Canada (CIDA) is supporting a rural development project in the
southern peninsula and has undertaken a survey of Haiti's water resources for
both irrigation and power production potential. The Federal Republic of



- 6 -
Germany is providing financial and technical assistance for regional develop-
ment in the Gonaives Plain. France is providing experts to assist in the
implementation of the IDA-financed Rural Development Project, for which
experts from the Federal Republic of Germany are also expected.
20.       Prospective IDA operations take into account the ongoing and planned
roles of other official lending agencies. In line with the Government's
Five-Year Economic and Social Development Plan (1976-81) and with the priori-
ties of Haiti's perceived needs, current and planned IDA operations are meant
to support the improvement and expansion of basic infrastructure in transporta-
tion and power; to expand educational opportunities and upgrade technical
skills and to promote regional development both in rural areas (as in the
Rural Development Project in the Northern Plain) and in provincial towns, as
in the water supply project.
Table 1: GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS TO HAITI, 1966-77
(US$ million)
IDA     IDB      Bilateral          Total
Agriculture           10.0    11.8          58.1            79.9
Industry                -      4.5           3.3             7.8
Transportation        30.0    64.7          30.5           125.2
Education              5.5    20.5           6.6            32.6
Water and Sewerage    6.6      9.8             -            16.4
Power                 16.0      -            5.5            21.5
Health                  -       6.3         26.5            32.8
Other /1                -       -           47.8            47.8
Total             68.1   117.6         178.3 /1        364.0 /2
/1   Including general budgetary support.
/2   Of which $113.3 million estimated to be in grants.
21.       The second education project proposed for IDA financing is consistent
with the high priority which the Government attaches towards improving the
educational system and making it more relevant to Haiti's social and economic
development needs.
22.       The recently appraised Fifth Transport Project takes into account
the recommendations of the sector study mentioned in paragraph 17, which
emphasizes the rehabilitation of secondary roads and the development of
coastal shipping.
23.       The Bank is Executing Agency for a UNDP-financed power study which
is presently under way. The study estimates energy supply/demand balances



and recommends investment priorities, taking into account the possibility of
using Haiti's deposits of lignite as fuel for thermal plants as well as the
country's hydropower potential determined on the basis of the CIDA-financed
survey mentioned in paragraph 19. A second power project suitable for IDA
financing will be identified as a result of the study and is scheduled for
appraisal in July 1978.
24.       The Bank Group's share in Haiti's public external debt outstanding
and disbursed amounted to 17 percent at the end of 1976. The Bank Group's
share of external public debt service in 1976 was about 0.3 percent. Its
share of outstanding public external debt would rise to about 29 percent by
1980, raising its share of external public debt service to about 6 percent.
PART III - THE SECTOR
General
25.       The Haitian education system is characterized by very high rates of
repetition, dropout, and failure at all levels, extreme imbalances in educa-
tional opportunities available to urban and rural areas, and curricula,
syllabi and teaching methodologies which are not relevant to the Haitian
environment. Public expenditure on education in 1976 was equal to 1 percent
of GDP, a figure which is among the lowest in the world. To overcome these
critical shortcomings, the Government has taken several key steps in recent
years towards improving the system, which lay the basis for its becoming a
more useful instrument to assist economic and social development.
Primary Education
26.       Issues and problems.  Enrollment in rural primary education is
equivalent to 41 percent of school age population compared to 176 percent 1/
in urban areas. Only 2 percent of rural compared to 27 percent of urban school
children complete primary education. Overall, only 13 percent of primary
school entrants complete the primary school course. In terms of structure and
administration, rural schools are under the administration of the Ministry of
Agriculture and follow a seven-year primary system, which includes an official
enfantine or pre-school year compared to a six-year system in urban areas.
Primary school curricula and syllabi encourage rote learning and passivity,
and do not take into account the fact that the vast majority of children
entering the system have no knowledge of French, which is the teaching and
official language. Untrained teachers make up more than 75 percent of the
teaching force; low teacher pay combined with lack of professional training
has led to absenteeism, high teacher turnover, and utilization of teaching
methodologies based on rote learning. With few exceptions textbooks are
inappropriate to the Haitian context and too expensive for the average child
to buy. Primary school facilities are non-functional, overcrowded, and
ill-equipped.
1/   The figure is above 100 percent because it includes overaged children and
rural children attending urban schools.



27.       Government policies and proposals.  Since signing of the First
IDA Education Project Credit Agreement (February 1976), the Government has
begun to attack the problems described above. With regard to administration,
the Government is planning to transfer responsibility for rural primary
education and teacher training from the Ministry of Agriculture (DARNDR) to
the Ministry of Education (DEN) and thus to unify administration of the
primary education system. The Government agreed to initiate action towards
the transfer by October 1, 1978 (Section 3.06 of the Credit Agreement).
With regard to school curricula and syllabi, the Government has established a
12-member Consultative Committee of educators to advise on administrative and
pedagogical aspects of primary education and a five member Curriculum Unit to
revise primary school curriculum and syllabi by October 1978. Both these
groups are receiving financial support under the First Education Project. To
further improve syllabi, the National Pedagogical Institute (IPN) and the
Center for Applied Linguistics (CLAP) are planning to study issues regarding
the appropriate use of Creole and French in the classroom.
28.       With regard to primary teacher training, a new curriculum developed
under the First Education Project, requiring two years of study and a full
year of supervised teaching, is now in force throughout the country. Output
of teachers will increase to 620 per year through expansion of teacher training
schools supported under the First Education Project and through assistance
from IDB. However, an additional output of a minimum of 120 teachers annually
will be required to meet teacher needs in public primary education over the
next ten years and the Government has, therefore, proposed construction of an
additional teacher training school. To further improve teacher performance,
the Government, with assistance from the proposed credit, is planning large
scale in-service teacher training programs designed to strengthen knowledge of
basic subjects, to improve methodology, and to introduce the new curriculum
and syllabi.
29.       The Government is also planning to prepare, test, produce and dis-
tribute primary school textbooks for grades one to four. This program would
build on existing experimental textbooks prepared by the IPN, but, because
of needs for curriculum revision, language study, and testing of learning
materials, would be progressively implemented on a large-scale starting only
in 1981.
30.       With the assistance of the Association and of other agencies, the
Government has initiated work to enable new rural schools to be constructed in
accordance with the concept of "nuclearization". A central school with
additional workshop, home economics and agricultural facilities and capacity
for six grades will serve several neighboring smaller schools with capacity of
only four grades and will also provide non-formal education and training for
adults. These ongoing and proposed programs show keen Government awareness
that an integrated approach is necessary for the resolution of primary edu-
cation problems. The proposed new programs are feasible since they build on
activities already being undertaken by existing institutions.
Urban Vocational Education
31.       Seven lower secondary vocational schools enrolling 1,500 students
prepare skilled workers in 14 industrial trades. These schools, directly



- 9 -
administered by the DEN, have inappropriate curricula, underpaid and
unqualified teachers, no modern equipment, a poor physical plant, an excessive
number of students per workshop, a shortage of funds for operating expenses,
and little or no contact with industry. Three schools in Port-au-Prince
provide three year upper secondary courses to prepare industrial technicians.
Two of these schools receive international assistance and provide good
training. A National Institute for Vocational Training (INFP) was established
in 1975 and is functioning well with ILO and French assistance to coordinate
vocational training and ensure the participation of industry. The INFP is
financed by a 1 percent payroll tax on industry.
32.       The Government is now planning a major reform of lower secondary
vocational education, including a complete revision of the curriculum, reduc-
tion of the course from four to three years, and training of vocational
teachers and administrative personnel. To initiate this program, an existing
vocational school in Cap Haitien would be remodeled and re-equipped and a new
vocational school would be established in Port-au-Prince. The INFP would
be responsible for curriculum reform and teacher training for these schools.
In addition the Government is planning to strengthen the linkages of the
INFP with industry through construction of three small workshops to provide
in-service training for factory workers in the Port-au-Prince area.
Agricultural and Non-Formal Education
33.       An agricultural school located in the suburbs of Port-au-Prince
has been training about 30 extension agents per year in a two-year upper
secondary course. This school will be strengthened through assistance from
the Canadian Government and output will be increase'd to 50 per year. How-
ever, to reach its long-term goals of one extension agent per 600 families
(the ratio, at present, is roughly 1:1750), the Government has proposed
construction of a new school, to be located in the Central Region, to train
an additional 50 extension agents per year. In addition, the Government is
proposing to increase significantly the number of rural community development
agents employed by the National Office for Literacy and Community Action
(ONAAC). To meet this need the proposed new agricultural school would train
an average of 25 rural development agents per year. The school would also
provide facilities for non-formal training of other rural development personnel.
Radio Education
34.       The Government initiated radio education programs for primary
students and adults in 1975 in the DARNDR, and in 1977 established a national
educational radio station. The aim of this station is to provide educational
and cultural programs which reinforce national development efforts. To
achieve these goals, the Government has requested the Association to finance
additional studios and equipment as well as technical assistance and fellow-
ships to improve production of educational programs.
Education Finance
35.       Public expenditure on education in Haiti was equivalent in 1976 to 1 per-
cent of GDP and 13 percent of Government budgetary expenditure. Private expendi-
ture accounted for an additional 0.6 percent of GDP for a total of 1.6, percent,



- 10 -
which is among the lowest in the world. A 15-20 percent salary increase for
civil servants in October 1977 alleviated salary problems somewhat by regaining
the ground lost to inflation over the last two years. A study of conditions of
service of primary teachers, to be financed under the First Education Project,
is expected to be completed by mid-1978. This study would serve as the basis
for the adoption by the Government by October 1, 1979, of financial and other
incentives to attract and retain qualified primary teachers, (Section 3.08 of
the Credit Agreement). Since the appraisal of the First Education Project in
June 1975, the Government has prepared an education development plan as part
of its second five-year economic development plan (1976-81). Government plans
call for an investment of US$44 million with assistance from the Association,
IDB, France and other sources. Government funds in support of these plans
would be about US$7.5 million or an average of US$1.5 million per year.
Government plans to increase primary and secondary school enrollment, reduce
the student/teacher ratio in rural areas from 70:1 to 50:1, improve the
quality of primary education, and implement a new salary scale will also
require an increase in the recurrent education budget of about 10.7 percent
per year in constant prices, from US$7.8 million in 1976/77 to US$13.0 million
(in real terms) by 1981/82. On this basis education's share of total budget-
ary recurrent expenditures would rise from 13 percent in 1977 to 17 percent in
FY1982. The assumed growth rate of 10.7 percent is feasible provided that the
Government implements the fiscal reforms discussed in paragraph 11. The
Government has informed the High Level Commission (para. 13) that it intends
to carry out those fiscal reforms and has agreed to present to the Commission
periodic reports on progress in achieving announced fiscal objectives. In
addition, specific assurances were obtained regarding the provision of ade-
quate budgetary support for the project (Sections 3.01(a) and 4.03 of the
Credit Agreement).
Government and IDA Education Development Strategy
36.       Government policy places emphasis on primary school quality improve-
ment, urban vocational education, and expanded non-formal education. This is
an appropriate strategy which provides a basis for the Association to continue
and widen its support to correct the inequalities in access to primary educa-
tion and for its qualitative improvement. A crucial assumption is that
budgetary allocations for education would be increased with the training and
upgrading of teachers. Government interest and action make it appropriate for
the Association to assist in strengthening vocational, agricultural and
non-formal education. This strategy has been carefully coordinated with the
substantial assistance being provided and to be provided by other international
and bilateral agencies (para. 18).
Experience with First Education Project
37.       The purpose of the First Education Project is to assist in primary
education reform and expansion, especially in rural areas, and to provide
limited assistance in non-formaleducation. Specifically, the Project includes
construction of 65 rural basic schools/community learning centers in the North
and Artibonite Departments, 10 urban primary schools/community learning



- 11 -
centers, and two new and extension of one teacher training schools; provision
of equipment for ONAAC; and nine man-years of specialist services and one
man-year of fellowships. Implementation of the major project components has
been proceeding with relatively minor delays; a study of teacher service
conditions has been delayed by the time necessary to enter into a technical
assistance agreement with UNESCO and by difficulties in recruiting experts;
staffing weaknesses in ONAAC have slowed ONAAC's literacy and community
development programs (Annex II).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Oblectives
38.       The proposed project has the two major objectives of (a) improving
the relevance and efficiency and correcting inequalities of access to primary
education, especially in rural areas, and (b) expanding the supply and improv-
ing the productivity of skilled and semi-skilled industrial workers, agricul-
tural extension and rural community development agents, and other agricultural
workers. As to the needs of women, primary schools are coeducational. In
addition, the strengthening of the health, nutrition and population aspects of
teacher training are likely to have a greater impact on women than on men.
Admission to vocational agricultural schools is open to both sexes and the
agricultural school included in the project is expected to provide 30 dormitory
places for women: the school will eventually develop home training courses.
The urban vocational center under the project would provide in-service train-
ing for factory workers, many of whom are women. Annex III contains a time-
table of key events in project processing and a description of the special
conditions of the proposed credit. The Staff Appraisal Report is being
circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
Elements of the Project
39.       Primary Education Physical Facilities.  The project would support
the construction, furnishing and equipping of 31 new rural basic schools
with 9,000 student places, providing four grades of education to children and
literacy and training opportunities to out-of-school youths and adults. These
schools would be located in the North, Central and Grande Anse Departments
in areas of development potential and relatively low enrollment ratios.
In addition to classrooms, schools would have simply equipped and designed
workshop and home management areas. Housing accommodation would be provided
for about 120 teachers in the 20 most remotely located schools. Initially
enrollment would be restricted to grades I to 4; as retention rates improve,
fifth and sixth grades would be introduced and schools would become centers of
educational nuclei (para. 30). The project would also support construction,
furnishing and equipping of 10 new urban primary schools with about 3,000
student places and providing six grades of education to children and literacy
and training opportunities to out-of-school youths and adults. Facilities of
the urban schools would be similar to those provided in rural schools except
that there would be no housing units. Assurances were obtained regarding
the employment of qualified teachers; the use of primary school facilities for
after-hours adult education; maximum class size and the percentage of teachers
who have received in-service training courses acceptable to the Association
(Sections 3.05 and 3.07 of the Credit Agreement).



- 12 -
40.       The project would support construction, furnishing, and equipping
of a new rural primary teacher training college, to be located in the Central
region, with enrollment of 240 students, 160 boarding places, and six staff
housing units. Output of this school, together with that of the three schools
being constructed under the First Education Project and of the IDB-assisted
three existing rural teacher training schools, would be sufficient to meet the
needs of public primary education over the next 10 years. Assurances were
obtained regarding the use of a common teacher training curriculum, the
employment of qualified teachers, and the establishment of conditions of
service that would provide adequate incentives for teachers by October 1, 1979
(Sections 3.05(c), 3.07, and 3.08 of the Credit Agreement).
41.       Educational Radio.  The project would provide assistance to
strengthen Radio Nationale's capacity to prepare and broadcast educational
programs, with emphasis on broadcasting to primary school students and
teachers. The project would support (a) construction, furnishing and equip-
ping of five production studios and space for about 48 production personnel in
Radio Nationale's headquarters in Port-au-Prince; (b) provision of a library
to Radio Nationale; (c) provision of 1,700 radios and accompanying batteries
to primary schools; (d) printing of about 5,000 teachers' manuals, and
(e) provision to Radio Nationale of two vehicles to distribute and service
radios. A condition of disbursement for the radio component would be that
arrangements satisfactory to the Association have been made to upgrade the
transmission capacity of Radio Nationale (Schedule 1, paragraph 4(d) of the
Credit Agreement). The amount of the proposed Credit subject to this condition
would be about $650,000.  In addition, assurances were obtained regarding the
administration of educational radio and the number of hours broadcast each
week for primary and teacher training education (Section 3.09 of the Credit
Agreement).
42.       Vocational and Agricultural Education.  The project would further
the reform of formal secondary vocational education and improve the output of
skilled workers through: (a) remodelling and re-equipping of an existing
lower secondary vocational school in Cap Haitien with enrollment of 260 and
output of 80 skilled workers per year; and (b) construction of a new secondary
vocational school in Port-au-Prince with enrollment of 416 and annual output
of 128 skilled workers per year. The project would finance the costs of
expendable materials and of stipends to vocational school teachers during a
training period to last 6 to 24 months before opening of the schools. The
project would also provide assistance to construct, furnish and equip a small
nonformal vocational training center, with workshop space for about 45 trainees,
to provide in-service training to about 800 workers per year in assembly,
manufacturing, and other industries in Port-au-Prince on a released time basis.
The center would be under control of the INFP and would be located on the INFP
site in Port-au-Prince. Assurances were obtained regarding administrative
arrangements and INFP's role in curriculum development; employment of INFP-
trained teachers; and the implementation of a tracer system (Sections 3.10 and
3.11 of the Credit Agreement).
43.       With regard to agricultural education, the project would support the
construction, furnishing and equipping of one school in the Central Region
with teaching and boarding facilities to accommodate 150 full-time students
and 25 short-term students and with housing for 11 teaching staff. The



- 13 -
school would train 50 extension agents and 25 rural community development
agents per year in two year upper secondary training courses and would also be
the site for various short-term training courses to be provided to agricultural
workers. Assurances were obtained regarding (i) the establishment of an
administrative council for the agricultural training school by April 1, 1979,
(ii) the appointment of senior staff, and (iii) the implementation of a tracer
system (Section 3.12 of the draft Credit Agreement).
44.       Primary Education Quality Improvement.  The project would continue
support for the Curriculum Unit established under the First Education Project,
with emphasis on the development of a new primary school curriculum, for the
Consultative Committee on primary education (para. 27), and for seminars,
contracting of local consultants, and printing of draft curricula and syllabi.
Assurances were obtained regarding: (i) appointment of Curriculum Unit
members; (ii) the work program of the Unit; and (iii) annual reviews with IDA
of the Unit's past and future work programs (Sections 3.13, and 4.02(b) of the
draft Credit Agreement).
45.       The project would support four types of in-service teacher training
programs, as follows: (a) normal school equivalency training for about 400
teachers; (b) regular in-service training for about 2,100 teachers to develop
basic academic skills, introduce the new curriculum, and improve teaching
methodology; (c) crash courses in book utilization for about 3,500 teachers
whose classes would receive textbooks under the proposed project; and
(c) training of about 80 seminar leaders who would assist in implementing the
in-service training programs. In addition the project would finance purchase
of vehicles and of educational materials and equipment for urban and rural
sub-regional inspectorates, and for the IPN and CLAP. A condition of dis-
bursement for teacher training after October 1,'1979, would be the implementa-
tion of terms and conditions of teacher service agreed with the Association
(Schedule 1, paragraph 4(c) of the Credit Agreement). The amount of the
proposed credit subject to this condition would be about $640,000.
46.       The project would support the initiation of a national program to
provide educational materials to primary school children, which would include
the writing and testing of educational materials for primary education through
grade four, and the printing and distribution on a large-scale basis of about
800,000 soft cover textbooks to students in first and second grades. Speci-
fically, the project would finance local consultants, textbook writing,
printing of books for experimental purposes, testing of books, and large-scale
printing and distribution of books. A condition of disbursement for the large
scale printing of textbooks would be the completion of a study on the possible
use of Creole in primary education and the adoption of a national policy on
the language of instruction at the primary level. The amount of the proposed
Credit subject to this condition would be about $450,000. Assurances were
obtained regarding administration of the textbook program and the training of
teachers who would be using new textbooks (Section 3.14 and Schedule 1,
paragraph 4(b) of the Credit Agreement).
47.       The project would support studies on:  (a) the effectiveness of
teacher training, radio education and book utilization programs; (b) the
appropriate roles of Creole and French in primary education; (c) ways of
reducing primary school construction costs; and (d) measurement of the
strength of Radio Nationale's signal in various geographical regions.



- 14 -
48.       Technical Assistance.  In order to ensure that the objectives of
the project are met, the project would include 20 1/2 man-years of specialist
services and 9 man-years of fellowships, as follows: primary school curriculum
development, health education, and teacher training, 5 man-years; educational
materials preparation and production, 3 man-years; radio education, 5-1/2
man-years; vocational and agricultural education, 3-1/4 man-years; education
administration, 2 man-years; project unit assistance, 3/4 man-year; pre-
investment studies, 1 man-year; fellowships in curriculum development, 2 man-
years, in vocational and agricultural education, 2 man-years, and in radio
education, 5 man-years. The Government has requested UNDP to finance 8 of the
above 20-1/2 specialist man-years; the remainder would be financed under the
proposed credit.  Specialists and their terms of reference and service
would be acceptable to the Association and candidates for the fellowship
programs would be selected in consultation with IDA (Section 3.04 of the
Credit Agreement). The cost per man/year of specialist services is estimated
at US$50,000 and, for the fellowship program, US$10,000 per man/year.
Project Costs
49.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$12.67 million, net
of taxes: the project is exempt from applicable import duties. Local costs
are estimated to amount to US$5.9 million, and foreign exchange costs, to
US$6.8 million or 54 percent of total project costs. Physical contingencies
represent 9 percent of base costs, and price contingencies, 28 percent of base
costs plus physical contingencies. Total contingencies are US$3.6 million, or
28 percent of total project costs.
50.       Financing of Project and Associated Costs.  The proposed Credit of
US$10.0 million would cover 79 percent of project costs. UNDP would finance
US$470,000 for technical assistance. The Credit would be equivalent to
100 percent of foreign exchange costs excluding those financed by UNDP and
US$3.7 million equivalent of local costs. IDA financing of local costs is
justified in the light of Haiti's low per capita income, of an already
substantial tax burden and of the major fiscal effort that the Government is
expected to make in meeting sharply increased costs for current expenditures.
The project would require the Government to provide about US$2.2 million over
the five-year project period and would result in an increase in budgetary
recurrent expenditures for education of 1.5 percent per year, or one-seventh
of the expected growth rate of the recurrent budget for education. The
Government undertook to provide sufficient funds for recurrent costs generated
by the project and, as in the case of the First Education Project, the Govern-
ment would annually review with the Association education reform plans and
policies, including the availability of sufficient funds for the education
sector (Sections 4.02(a) and 4.03(b) of the Credit Agreement).
Project Implementation
51.       The Project Unit, established under the Executive Secretary of
CONADEP to implement the First Education Project, would be responsible
for overall administration of the proposed Second Education Project and for



- 15 -
liaison with other Departments and parties involved. Project staff would be
augmented by additional personnel, and as under the First Education Project, a
project implementation fund would be established to ensure the timely avail-
ability of local funds for project execution. Consultants acceptable to the
Association would be appointed for architectural design and construction
supervision and for assistance in preparing and evaluating bids on civil
works. Sites selected for all project institutions, except primary schools
and the agricultural school, have been inspected, and are acceptable to
the Association; they are owned by the Government. Sites for the primary
schools and the agricultural school would be selected in accordance with
criteria acceptable to the Association (Sections 3.02, 3.03 and 3.17 of the
Credit Agreement). A condition of effectiveness of the proposed Credit
would be the establishment of a project implementation fund and the deposit
of US$200,000 equivalent in it (Sections 3.01(c) and 5.01 of the Credit
Agreement). Assurances were obtained regarding adequate maintenance of school
facilities and preparation of a Project Completion Report (Sections 4.03(a)
and 3.16(c) of Credit Agreement).
Procurement
52.       Contracts estimated to cost US$3.0 million for the procurement of
furniture, equipment, textbook printing, and bulk purchase of building materi-
als and paper would be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines, except that furniture and
equipment which cannot be grouped in packages of at least US$25,000 would be
procured on the basis of local procedures acceptable to the Association;
procurement under these procedures would not exceed US$230,000. Local
manufacturers would be allowed a preference margin of the lower of 15 percent
of the CIF price or the applicable customs tariff. Orders to the value of
about US$1.5 million are likely to be obtained by local suppliers under
international competitive bidding. Civil works contracts to a value of
US$4.9 million would, with the exceptions noted below, be awarded on the basis
of competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with local proce-
dures acceptable to the Association. Site development for rural basic schools
would be undertaken by local communities under Project Unit supervision. In
addition, as an experiment, up to five rural basic schools in areas of
difficult access would be constructed under "force account" methods using
community labor and on-site building materials, to a value of US$0.4 million.
About US$4.1 million would be for professional and technical services and for
activities undertaken by government agencies.
Disbursements
53.       Disbursements would finance 100 percent of foreign expenditures, or
85 percent of local expenditures for locally-procured equipment, furniture, and
building materials; 100 percent of expenditures for technical assistance,
studies, curriculum development, project administration, education materials
and teacher training; and 64 percent of costs of site works, construction, and
related professional services. Retroactive financing of US$200,000 would cover
expenditures incurred in respect of professional services, studies, technical
assistance and project administration from September 1, 1977.



- 16 -
Benefits and Risks
54.       The project would continue and expand the objectives of the First
Education Project in correcting inequalities of access to education; improving
the relevance and internal efficiency of primary education and increasing
the number and productivity of skilled and semi-skilled industrial workers,
agricultural technicians, community development agents and farm leaders.
Project risks are moderate because the project would build on existing insti-
tutions that have successfully initiated key programs and have been cooperating
well with one another. Risks in the new educational materials program would
be minimized through technical assistance and through careful preparation and
testing of new materials. Moreover, complementary technical assistance from
CIDA and ILO would help in the implementation of the vocational and agricul-
tural education components of the project. The main risk, concerning financing
of recurrent costs generated by the project, should not be considered excessive
given the Government's willingness to accord the project high priority through
allocation of funds for teacher salaries and maintenance and annual reviews of
the adequacy of recurrent funds. The ongoing fiscal reforms should strengthen
the Government's fiscal performance.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
55.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Haiti
and the Association and the recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of the project are
listed in Section III of Annex III.
56.       In addition to the features of the draft Credit Agreement which are
referred to in the text and listed in Section III of Annex III, the following
features are of particular interest: (a) an additional condition of effec-
tiveness would be that the Government has deposited an amount equivalent to
US$200,000 in the project implementation fund (Section 5.01 of the Credit
Agreement); (b) conditions of disbursement would be that: (i) no payments
would be made for large scale printing of textbooks until the results of a
study on issues regarding the language of instruction in primary education
have been made available to the Association and a national policy on the
subject has been established (Schedule 1, paragraph 4(b) of the Credit Agree-
ment); (ii) payments for in-service teacher training incurred after
October 1, 1979 would not be made unless new terms and conditions of teacher
service satisfactory to the Association had been introduced (Section 3.08 of
Schedule 1, para 4(c) of the Credit Agreement), and (iii) no payments would be
made for civil works, furniture or equipment under the radio component, unless
arrangements satisfactory to the Association had been made to upgrade the
transmission capacity of the national radio to 20 kW (Schedule 1, para. 4(c)
of the Credit Agreement).



- 17 -
57.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit vould comply vith the
Articles of the Association.
. PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
58.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
February 8, 1978






ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                    Page 1 of 4 pages
HAITI               - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND  AREA   (THOU  KM2)     --------                --- --------------
LANO- AREA (THOU KM2)HAITI                                                          REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL       27.8                                       MOST RECENT
AGRIC.      14.7                       1960      1970   ESTIMATE           CAMEROON       HONDURAS       IVORY COAST**
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    100,0*    120.0*   200.0*/a             210.0*      250.0*    350.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)            3.6       4.2        4.7a               6.8         2.5         5.4
POPULATION DENSITY                                          ,
PER SQUARE KM.                      131.0     153.0     168.o4aj             14.0        22.0       16.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      303.0    5o6.o       319.02a              44.o        89.0       32.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)        39.9       37.6      35.                 42.1        51.5       46.1
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)          21.       17.8      16.3                23.9        19.1       23.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)      200.0I S. 150.0                             .
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)      43.2       47.7       50.0               41.0       49.4        41.0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                ..       3.0        3.0                2.7        .3.4        3.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)                                   1
TOTAL                                 1.6       1.6        1.6               1.8          2.7 A      3.4,a
URBAN                                 2.6       3.8        4.0                6.1         7.9         8.775
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)          15.0      18.7       21.1 /ea           20.5        32.0        28.0
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       42.0      41.5       42.5               43.0        46.7       42.5
15 TO 64 YEARS                       54.9      54.0       53.2               54.0       50.9        54.9
65 YEARS AND OVER                     3.1       4.5        4.3                3.0         2.4        2.7
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                    0.8       0 9        0.9                0.9         1.0         0.B
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               0,l       0, L        ..                1.2         1,5A^       0.9/C
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)           ..        ..         ..                 ..        20.7
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..        ..         ..                 ..
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)        2100.0/_0 2300.0 k         .             2800.0      8D0.0     2600.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)         83.0      77.0         *                82.0        5.2        62.0
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)            ..         ..        ,,                 ,,         8.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..         ..        ..                           28.0
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..         ..                                     60.6 -        .
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS                                                     2..          .5 
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS                                                                 8.4 To
OISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
__________________ -_________--
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS             ..         ..        ..
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS           ..         ..        ..                  .
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULA7ION PER PHYSICIAN            10600.0   13210.0  8510.0              25960.0       3630.d 15
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      10310.0    7460.0  5550.0               2470.0                    20.0
POPULAI1ON PER HOSPITAL BED          1-790.0    1370.0  .5     .            40.0          560.0      1150.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (X OF REQUIREMENTS)         91.0      87.0       90.0               96.0        96.0       108.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              40.0      39.0       39.0               59 0        55.0       60.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           ..      1S.0         .                23: a&      25.0       1S.0/e
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4            27.0      33.0         ..                 ..        10.0
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                     46.o           . .     70.0              10            94.0      76.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL0.
SCNAYSCHOOL                    4.o                    8- 0              9.0         12.0       11 .o
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             13.0      13.0       13.0               14.Q/b      12.0       13.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                     21.0      19.0        8.0              23.0         18.0        7.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                10.0         .,      20.0 lb            12.0          *-        20.o
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                 ..         ..        ..
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (%)                        ..        ..       96.1 .i.
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                   ..                  2.                  .
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED                                     2-9
TO ELECTRICITY (X)                     ..         ..        ..                 ..
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)          5.0       17.0      20.0               36.0        57.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)           2.0        3.0       3.0                6.0         5.0        10.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)           25.0       29.0      34.0              201.0       127.0        95.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)               0.1                   02                  .         1.1         0.2
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ALINEX I
Page 2 of 4 pages
hOTES
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970 and for Most Recent Estimate between
1973 and 1975.
0 GNP per capita data are based on World Bank Atlas methodology (1974-76 basis).
00 The Ivory Coast has been selected as an objective country for Haiti Since both countries have a similar cultural background and the Ivory Coast
ha0 suoceeded in achieving a high rate of economic growth.
HAIT-          i960    /a  1962;    A   Ratio cf population under 15 and 65 and over to economically active population;    L   Economically active
populatio.
1970    /a  Ratio of population cnder 15 and 65 and over to economically active population;    A   Economically active population.
McOST PEffNT ESTIMATE:    a  19,6;    A   1971.
CANE RtC       1070     /   1964-66;    Ah  13 years for Past Cameroon.
HONDURAS       190    /a  Largely due to emigration of E1 Salvadoreans resident in Honduras population growth rate is lower than the rate of natural
increase;    /b  Ratio of population coder 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;    /c  1967-68, per capita iome;
/d  Registered, not all practicing in the country.
VIPY  2AST   197D     L   ae to imeigration population growth rate is higher than the rats of natural icre-c-;    Ab  1965-70;    / R Ptiot  of
populatior under 15 and 65 and over to- total labor force;    Ld  Government only, including midwives;    /t 19i4-6.
RIO, January 24, 1978
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Land Aces (thou k=2)                                                                      Posulation per nursing serson - Population divided by nmaser of practicing
Total - Total sorfeas  area casaprisiag land area and inaiad wsters,                         ale and female graduate aurses, "trained" or "certified" nurses, aad
Agric.   Most reseat estimsate of agricultural area used temporarily or pe-ma-              auxiliary personsel with training or expereease.
nently for crepe, pastures, market & kitchen g-rdeas or to its fallow.                  Population per hospital bed - Population divided by amber of hbspirtl beds
available in public and private geaer-l and ape-ialised hespitel and
GNP per cavita (US) - GiP per capita estimates at current market prices,                    rehabilitatien centers; emelades nursing hon.es cad  establisheent  far
calculated by sane conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1973-75 basis);                 custdial nd preventive care.
1960; 1970 and 1975 data.                                                               Per sapita supply of salaries (7. f renuirements) - Canputed frn energy
equivalent of net feed supplies available in country per capita per day;
populatioan ad vital atatistic,                                                              available supplies ecasprise dseeetic production, imparts Iesa experts, and
Population (aid-year million)   Aa of July first:  if not available, average                 changes ia stask; net supplies  sexlude actial feed, seeda, qwatities  seed
of twu  cad-year estimates; 1960, 1970 sad 1975 data,                                     in food pr.ossaing sad loasses in distribution; requiremeete were estimated
by FAO based On physiological needs for no l activity and health c-aid-
Spu atie  deasity - per asiuare hes - Hid-year population per square kilomseter              sinag esvlraencal grt-ap trs-, body weights, age sad see distributiona of
(100 heoIeres) af trual area                                                              population, and al1ewing 10  fur waste at household level.
Paeulatiea denaitv - per suare le of earsi. laud - C-upsted as shabe far                  Per capitasueply at protein fernPs per day) - Protein conteat of per capita
agricaltural land only.                                                                   net supply of feed per day;  net supply of food is defined as abhve  require-
meats for all countrie  established by USDA Econoric Research Services
Vital sattiatics                                                                             provid. far a nini-la   allowa..ce of 60 grans of total protein per day, and
Crude birth cret par th_usand, *verges - Annul live birth. per thousand of                   20 grear  of animal and pulse protein, of which lO grama should be anical
aid-year pepulatien; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970,                 prutein; these standarda are lever than thoae of 75 gra-a of total protein
and five-year average ending in 1975 far nest recent estimate                              and 23 gren of animal protein as an average for the w-rld, pr-psed by FADO
Crude death rate per thou-and, average - Annual deaths par thoasand of mid-year              in the Third World Food Survey.
papulatian; tea-year arithletic averages ending in 1960 sad 1970 and five-               Per capita protein supPly fr= aniatal and puise - Protein supply of food
year average ending in 1975 for nOst recent estimate,                                      derived froas animals and pulses im grman  per day.
Osfast  -treality erst (/thbu) - Annual desthe of infanes undsr  -n ysar of ase           D-ath rste </thout -mes 1-4 - Annual de-tha per thaus.ad in age group 1-4
per thuusand live births.                                                                  years, to children ie this age group; suggested as an indicatar of
Life empectancy at birth (lyr) - Average number of years of life remaining at                malnutrition.
birth; usually five-year averages eading in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
ing ceantrics                                                                           Educatimn
Crass reproduction rate - Average saber of live daughters a.  man waill bhs-               Adjusted anralasen ra  - primary sch,al - Earullseet of all *gea as per-
le her carnal -eproductive peried if she experiences present age-specific                  centage of primary achsal-age poputation; includes children aged 6-11 years
fertility rates; usually five-year  averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                 but adjuated for different lengths of primary education; for countries.  ith
fa- deyvelping countriesr                                                                   uiversal education, enrollment may ceased 1007 since cane pupils ar  below
Populatain grovth rate (%) - total - Canpowad annual grovth rates of mid-3eer                or above the official achool age.
population for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                             Adjusted sneell-est r-te   - secondasy school - Canputd   above; er-aed-rs
puoulati-a growth rate (%) - urban - Computed like gr-aoth rats of total                     educatian requires at least four years of approved primary inatruction;
papulation; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability of               provides general, vocational or teacher traiming instructions for pupils
data samng cosatries.                                                                      of 12 to 17 years of ege; correspondence courses are generally eacluded.
Urbac pePulation (7 of total) - Ratio of urban t totral population; different              years of schooling prowided (first and second levels) - Total year. of
definitiona of urban ares say affect cspar-bility of data amog coustrieas.                 choling; at  ecoadary 1 i, v-tisn _   in tetrttion sy be partially ar
oplately exldid.
ARe structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), corking-age (15-64 ye rs),                Veesrisal enrellaent (2 of secondary) - Vocational institutions include
and retired (65 years  nd over) as percentages of aid-year population.                     technical, indut,rial or other progr     which operate independently or  s
Age depeddeo.y ratio - Ratio of population under 15 nd 65  nd ever to these                  departmets of secondary institutions.
of ages  15 through 64.                                                                  Adult literacy rate (%) - Literate adults (able to read sad write) as P-
Ecosnoic dependencv ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and aver ta                  reatage of total adult population aged 15 yars and over.
the labor fares in age group of 15-64 years.
Family planning - a eptore (sumulative, thou) - Cumo lative nsaber of acceptors            Housing
of birth-conteal devices under a-upices of natioaal fanily planning program              Persona per rooa (urban) - Average anuber of persons per ruan is occupied
sce inception                                                                              conventional dwellings in urban areas; dwrllingsexslude nn-p-,
Family pla nig. -u-ers I1 of marrd  Pe r.e.) - Pc tn g o at married wane .a.f                atucturesand unoucupied parts.
child-bear.isi age (05-hi pec)hio cobirth-cntrol devices to all married                  Occupied dwelinae withou ped wate (1             - cpied  -oueeotsi-  dullieags
woaes  o saine  fgt group,                                                                 i urbas  ad rural ares   ithout inside or outside piped   atoer facilities
as percen.tage of all occupied dwellings.
R=plos= nt                                                                                 access ta electricity (7. of all dwellig-) - Conventianal dwelligs with
Tftal labor force (th--oand) - EcoDnancally active persons, including aeed                   electricity in living quarters as percent of total dwellings in  rbac aed
forces and u.eMplayed but excluding housewives, students, etc.; definitiona                rural areas.
is various cou triei  are net capar lble.                                                Rural dwellings aIsaoted to electricitY (%) - Canputed as above for rorts
Labor focus In  gricul1tre (       A) griculntarl labor force (in famming, forestry,         delings  only.
hunting and fi-hing) as percentage of total labor force
Ocnl-ye-d (7M of labor force) - Unemployed are usully defined as persona who               ConsumPtiod
are able and willing to take a jab, out of a job on a given day, remained out            Radio receivers (per theu PoP) - All types of receivers for radio broadcasts
of a job, and seeking work for a specified =iniman period not eoceeding one                to general public per thousand of popclation; excludes unlicensed reciver
week; may not be canparable between countries due to different definitions                 in countries and in years when registration of radio sets was in effect;
of unemplayed sad  -ourcs of dta, e. g., employment office etatiatic., sample              data fio  recent years may cot be canparable sitce east oUsi    bolihed
surveys, sonpulsary unenplvmynmt insurance                                                  licensinSg.
Passengeretcaersls Pathou pop) - Passenger cars canprise motorcars seating
Incisedietr.ibetic - P.teretage of priests inc-    (both in cask and kind)                   leste   ight prsons; seclbudes  mbulances,. he,ares asd nilitary
rc eived by richest 5%, richest 20%, poorest 20%, and poorest h02 of house-                vehicles.
halds.                               >Electricity (}hs/yr per cap) - Annual cont-Uption of industrial,  casreisi.
pablic and privts, elettricity in kilawtt hours per capita, generally
Dlistributian of land ocershie-p -erP-ntagea of land owned by wealthiest 10                 based on production data, without alt tte n foefrr l sin grids but allo-
and poore-t 10% of land owners.                                                            gin  for imports and emports of electricity.
Nfalaprint (kg/yr per cap) - Per capita annuaI conessption in kilogra
Health aad Rutrition                                                                         estimated fran deestic Production plus net imports of  -ewptict.
Peultai,, per ehysirtan - population divided by number af practicing
physLciacs qualified fran a medical school at eniversity level.



A
Page 3 of 4 pages
BCONOMIC INDICATORS  /
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 197,                                        ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%. constant prices)
US$ Mln.       %                        1960 -67           1967 -72           1972! 129
ONP at Market Prices         1025.5        100.0                          0.1                2.9                3.4
Gross Domestic Investment      119.6        11.7                         -3.0               18.5               11.5
Oross National Saving           68.6         6.7                        -16.5               44.2              -15.7
Current Account Balance        25.4          2.5
Exports of Goods, NFS          158.0        15.4                         -2.2                9.2                2.0
Imports of Goods, NFS         200.6         19.6                          0.2                7.0               13.5
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTImITY IN 1976
Value Added                   Labor Force                    V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.      %                              % n.  ffi            US $        -f
Agriculture                   428.1         41.5
Industry                      163.4         15.8
Services                      440.9         42.7
Unallocated
Total/Average      1032.4        100.0               ..                               ..         100.0
*00VERNM4ENT FINANCE
General Governuent 9                            Central Government
(G Mln     1976        1975DP(  G Mln.)                          Of GDP
197 6          _ of lGP7- 76
Current Receipts                    583.7         11.3  3/    11 2 V                 560.8       10.9         10.9
Current Expenditure                 498.7 4/       9.7  TV     10. o/                494.4        9.6          9.9
Current Surplus                      85.0          1.            1.2                  66          1.3          0.9
Capital Expenditurea li             473.5          9.2           8.o                 362.4        7.0          6.0
External Assistance (net)-s         320.9          6.2           5.5                 296.1        5.7          5.0
MONEY, CRBDIT and PRICES                  1970          1971        1972         1973         1974        1975    1976
TRHllion G outstanding end periodT
Money and Quasi Money                      198.2       251.2        321.1       408.4         530.7      595.5    794.4
Bank credit to Public Sector l/            189.2       202.5        215.3       244.7         331.6      415.6    510.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector               65.3        78.5         92.1       170.6         310.6      451.3    519.5
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP            9.7         11.3        13.8         14.4        14.8         13.6     15.4
Oeneral Price Index (1965 - l0) -2        109.8        112.8       116.2        145.8'      164.3        201.6    226.7
Annual percentage changes ins
General Price Index                          3.3          2.8         3.0         25.5        12.7         22.7     12.4
Bank credit to Public Sector                -2.1         7.0          5.4         13.7        35.5         25.3     22.8
Bank credit to Private Sector                9.9        20.2         19.6        85.2         82.0         45.3     15.1
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1/ Data refers to fiscal years ending September 30
2/ Oonsolidated-Acccurta n,f thp CentAl GmrOrnmPn-. nd-n ubli-c- Eaterprises
3/ Includes net operating surpluses of public corporations
4/ Includes net operating deficits of public corporations
5/ Includes technical assistance expenditures
6/ Net loans and grants
7/ Includes ID0B and IDA credits to the public sector channeled through the National Bank
8' GDP deflator
not available
not applicable



Page 4 of 4 pages
TRADE PAMEDTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                   MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1974-76)
(Mil  1974        1975    1976                                         US $ Mln    %
(Million-s US $)
Exports of Goods, NFS          78.0     115.2    118.7   160.9        Coffee                             28.8       27.1
Imports of Goods, NFS          95.7     134.9    154.4   193.3       Sugar                                4-4        4.1
Resource Gap (deficit = -)      -2 -3.                                Essential Oils                      365        6
-7.7      -19.7   735.                 Sisal                               3.2        3.0
Interest Payments (net)        -o.6       -o.6     -0.5   - 0.5       Bauxite                            11.7       11.0
Small Industries + Handicraft    41.5         39.0
Other Factor Payments (net)   -3.8        -5.3     -6.3    66.8
Uet Transfers                  19.1       26.9     40.1    65.1      All other commodities               10.3        9.7
Balance on Current Account    -3.0         1.3     -2.4                    Total                        106.4      100.0
Direct Foreign Investment       7.0       7.9       2.6     4.6   EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1976
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                3.2       8.4      22.4    39.8                                                US $ Mln
Amortization                -6.1       -4.8     -6,2    -9.2
Subtotal                    -2.9       3.6     -2    30.6         Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                 92.2
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                    ..
total outstanding & Disbursed                9.
Other items n.e.i              -2.2     -32.7    -39-5   -41.9
Increase in Reserves (+4)       1.1     -19.9    -23-1    187    DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 197 6 3/
Gross Reserves                 20.1       14.7     12.8    29.5
Net Reserves                   19.3      0o.6    -23.7    -5.0        Public Debt, incl. guaranteed            7.2
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Ruel and Related Materials                                            Total outstanding & Disbursed             7.2
importa                       4.3       12.4     11.2    13.9
Exports                         --                          -
IBRD/IDA LZNDING, CDec. 31,1976)(Million US $):
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                        IBRD         IDA
Outstanding & Disbursed                -26.5
Throuah     1971               Since  -  1971                   Undisbursed                            -          25.4
us $ 1-00   0 5.00             us $ 1.00 - X$.0                 Outstanding incl  Undisbursed                     51 9
j 1.00   US $ 0.20             it 1.00 = US $0.20                      g
/ Data refers to fiscal years ending September 30.
/  September 30
R gatio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
not available
not applicable
Country Programs I
Latin America gnd the Caribbean
Regional Office
November 29, 1977



ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HAITI
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of December 31, 1977)
-     US$ Million-------
Loan or                                                             (less cancellations)
Credit                                                            Bank
Number    Year         Borrower              Purpose             Amount   IDA  Undisbursed
One loan (1956) and one credit (1962),
both fully disbursed                                               2.6   0.40
478-HA    1974    Republic of Haiti    Highway                          10.00       0.4
556-HA    1975    Republic of Haiti    Highway                          20.00       3.0
618-HA    1976    Republic of Haiti    Education                         5.50       4.8
645-HA    1976    Republic of Haiti    Power                            16.00       3.6
675-HA    1977    Republic of Haiti    Rural Development                10.00      10.0
Total                                          2.6  61.9
of which has been repaid                     2.6
Total now outstanding                          Nil
Amount sold                                    0.4
of which has been repaid                     0.4   - 0 -
Total now held by Bank and IDA                       61.9 1/
Total undisbursed                                               21.8
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of December 31, 1977)
No IFC investments have been made in Haiti.
1/   Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit 478      Third Highway Project; US$10 Million Credit of June 6, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: September 9, 1974;
and             Closing Date:  December 31, 1977, postponed to June 30, 1978.
Credit 556      Fourth Highway Project; US$20 Million Credit of June 11, 1975;
Effective Date: October 8, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Both projects, which comprise reconstruction of the Northern
Road (250 km) linking Port-au-Prince to Cap Haitien, are near-
ing completion. Remaining works include: (i) putting up
traffic signs, (ii) a 125-m bridge across the Limbe river,
and (iii) additional minor improvements to be financed from
the balances of the two Credits. Works were substantially
completed by the end of 1977, ahead of schedule in the case of
Credit 556-HA. However, the Closing Date of Credit 478 has
been postponed to allow minor traffic signal works to proceed.
Consultants retained under Credit 556-HA are helping to prepare
a coastal shipping ports component for a possible Fifth Trans-
portation Project.
Credit 618      First Education Project; US$5.5 Million Credit
of February 27, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: May 20, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Physical works were about five months behind schedule because
of initial delays in organizing the Project Unit and in .'ppoint-
ing architects. However, acceleration of bidding procedures
for the second and third phases of school construction should
permit construction to be completed on time. At present,
construction of 18 rural primary schools is proceeding under a
first phase of the construction program, and contracts have
been approved for the second phase of school construction. A
new common curriculum for teacher training has been prepared, a
National Education Plan has been completed and work has started
on revision of primary school curricula. Most of the technical
assistance specialists have arrived in Haiti.
I/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects/investments in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understand-
ing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3
Credit 645      First Power ProJect; US$16 Million Credit of July 2. 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: September 28. 1976; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978.
All the main contracts have been awarded. The major ele-
ments of the project should be completed roughly within the
original schedule although the first two smaller units of
the diesel power plant have been delayed by nine months.
Credit 675     Rural Development Project; US$10 Million Credit
of January 14, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: May 27, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The Credit became effective on May 27, 1977 and is still at
an early stage of execution. The Deputy Project Manager, the
Agronomist and the Credit Specialist have taken up their
assignments. The three project engineers are expected to
arrive early in 1978. Sufficient Government funds for project
financing/prefinancing were made available after some delay.



ANNEX III
Page 1
HAITI
Second Education Project
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Project identified by: IDA Mission, November-December 1976.
(b) Project prepared by: CONADEP, Ministries of Education and
Agriculture and Radio Nationale from March 1977 to July 1977,
with assistance from IDA and UNESCO staff.
(c) First presentation to IDA: July 1977
(d) First IDA mission to consider the project: July 25, 1977
(e) Departure of appraisal mission: July 25, 1977
(f)  Completion of negotiations:         January 20, 1978
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:   June 1978
II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
III. Special Conditions
The Government agreed that:
(a) action would be initiated to transfer rural primary education
and teacher training to the DEN by October 1, 1978
(paragraph 27);
(b) (i) project primary schools would be available after school
hours for adult training; (ii) average primary class sizes
would not exceed 50 students; and (iii) beginning with the
fourth year of operation, 50 percent of project school
teachers would be qualified and the balance would receive
in-service training (paragraph 39);
(c) (i) the rural primary teacher training college would utilize
a curriculum common to all teacher training colleges;
(ii) graduates of this college would be allowed to work in
both urban and rural primary schools (paragraph 40);



ANNEX III
Page 2
(d) (i) the radio education group currently working for the DARNDR
would be transferred to Radio Nationale by October 1, 1978;
and (ii) by October 1, 1981 a minimum of 10 hours of broadcast
time per week would be utilized for primary school and teacher
training programs (paragraph 41);
(e)  (i) INFP would be responsible for curriculum development and
teacher training for project secondary vocational schools;
(ii) employment in these two schools would be offered to
graduates of the INFP training courses; (iii) conditions of
service adequate to retain qualified teachers and adequate
funds for operating budgets would be provided to these
schools upon their opening; and (iv) a tracer system to
monitor the employment conditions of recent graduates would
be implemented (paragraph 42);
(f) by October 1, 1978, INFP's administrative council would
prepare a plan for operation of the vocational training
center by INFP (paragraph 42).;
(g) (i) by April 1, 1979, an administrative council for the agricul-
tural training school would be established, including repre-
sentatives of ONAAC and the DARNDR; (ii) the DARNDR and ONAAC
would jointly appoint the school director and sub-director;
and (iii) a tracer system to monitor the employment conditions
of recent graduates would be implemented (paragraph 43);
(h) the membership and terms of reference of the Curriculum Unit
would be acceptable to the Association (paragraph 44);
(i) the Government and the Association would annually review
educational reform plans and programs, overall policies, and
the availability of funds for carrying them out, with
particular emphasis on needs for increases in educational
expenditure to ensure adequate teachers' salaries and
sufficient educational materials necessary for improved
quality; in addition, the Government would provide sufficient
funds to meet recurrent costs and, by October 1, 1979, it
would introduce new conditions of teacher service satisfactory
to the Association (paragraphs 35, 40 and 50);
(j) Government would deposit US$200,000 equivalent in the project
implementation fund (condition of effectiveness, paragraph 51);
and



ANNEX III
Page 3
(k)  no disbursements would be made:  - for large-scale printing
of textbooks, until completion of studies on the language
of instruction and the adoption of a national policy thereon
(paragraph 46); - for the radio component (excluding professional
services), until arrangements are made to increase the trans-
mission capacity of the National Radio (paragraph 41); and
- for in-service teacher training beyond October 1, 1979,
unless new conditions of teacher service shall have been
adopted (paragraph 45).



0     ;          <    f                                                                   73$0                                       7-3-00                                      72-30                                          G                     FEiRUAG  IS4I
A2'00                      A  T I  A N  T /C                                                              O            A  NGV
A r7A V E IC        OCECA N                                                                                                       ( CA7                              M
TC                                                                                             *p>%Po,o'-   #RR3AN2i l h#PORT-SE\PA SDe   - - - -
|VSECOND  IEDUCATION                    PROJEC4                                                                                              2          t                 ;-  --                        , -- - ----
0~    ~        .      St                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 )flN     d>fiAFEUF\   AI   OCTy    -h & .A 5;< ,  _,      0 
EUENQTI 0                   ~~~~~~M61E ST NICOGSIAcIt.rd                                                                                                I-AI-T
Roe        4 0  2M                                             I . s  
*RR G ~ V   CEN P i h Y G   S  N    d UIA R -A BE /ENEA I  SE eA                                               d                                                     P.                  A   P d   N.7d
W4 0                                                                                                                                                                       E4. ,o                             G,d *  P A  T
HAITI RtEoC' |                                                                                                                                                                                                                       i
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT                                                                                                                                           J
AEA UAND EO        P $URAL 6.C EDUCATIONh> C ----'----                                                                                                                                                                           K
AND    M     Y LEANING OEERS
URBIAN  PRIMARY SCHOOLS AND COMGMUNITY LEARNING CENTERS 
PRfIIMARY  TEACHER TRAIN NlO SCHOOL.G,d
A  ~IGSONDIARY VOCATIONAL  14OOLV
CATIONAL TRAINiNG CENTER
V    VI-AVTILTURAL TRAINNING SCHOOL                                                                                                                                             tVIC-S                                   '
N IATSIONAL RADITO STATION)
IISPHALT ROJASS
*GRAVEL ROADS;-
DAA -        M TIRPTS_ENT BOUNDARIEG                                                                                                                                                    >  ,f-e:3
-I'ELRN4ATITINAL BONDITARIESG.   -
T     ____    -  GIRt    ;   ta  tf                                                                                                                                                                  =        < <T  G   -l R-                               7   Q to  '   30
RIVERS5R
C.-I ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~C
0      >           L CSoas                    :p  er$       fo2 #n*F                         _                         >k6+>  ,.,      HA- 7                           -P.-                !     , -.   -      Oer9'eT,.  
ISi                                 ''>ge'                       e         ;                   .1P-f<-    WftA-,              \)      w             w           /S''~~    >@  <              g           !             =-n^-'st                  /t           _
\~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o  o'EloS,                                                                                                                                                     '   I-N" -o                  A -Wiz1r  N' 
_ltl!os7ittdO ,V<)                                                                       73-30                                       73-00 I                                                                                72D                           i
SII.oc'oNw(   5sqor I ~ ~ ~  ~ ~       0-  . I, 
No.  Ie'                                                                                                                                                                                Cro   C,,i
NEST 74~~~~~~~~~~G  ~74-0                                                     7355                                       Tr7OD0                                      72;3R                                       O



