Document of
The World Bank                                     y
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 1813a-HA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECI
HAITI
February 8, 1978
Education Projects Division
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit: Gourde (G)
US$1 = G5.00
G1 = US$0.20
Gi million = US$200,000
Measures
1 kilometer = 0.62 miles
1 sq. meter = 10.76 feet
Abbreviations
CARE    - Cooperative for American Relief to Everyone
CEP     - Primary Education Certificate
CIDA    - Canadian International Development Agency
CONADEP - National Council for Development and Planning
CPFP    - Pilot Center for Technical Training
DARNDR - Department (Ministry) of Agriculture, Natural Resources,
and Rural Development
DEN     - Department (Ministry) of National Education
FAO     - Food and Agriculture Organization
IDB     - Interamerican  Development Bank
ILO     - International Labor Organization
INFP    - National Institute for Vocational Training
IPN     - National Pedagogical Institute
ONAAC   - National Office for Literacy and Community Action
UNDP    - United Nations Development Programme
UNESCO - United Nations Educational, Social, and Cultural Organization
UNICEF - United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund
Fiscal Year
October 1   -  September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HAITI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT ON A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   SOCIO-ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND
HUMAN RESOURCES IMPLICATIONS .......................         1
Population and Socio-Economic Background                  1
Economic Development ............. ........ ............  1
Human Resources Implications ....................         2
II.   THE EDUCATION AID TRAINING SYSTEM--MAJOR ISSUES
AND PRIORITIES ...................... 3........ ..**         3
Overview                                                 ...............  ..... 3
Structure, Administration and Planning ..........         4
Primary Education ..........                              4
Urban Vocational and Technical Education ........         8
Agricultural Education                                    9
Non-Formal Education ....                                 9
Radio Education    ...........                            9
Education Finance                                        10
Government Education Development Strategy                11
IDA Lending Strategy,Including Experience with
First Education Project                   ....s.       12
I'l.  THE P..J.CT ..................13
Objectives and Composition                               13
Elements of the Project 1..*........                     14
Rural Basic Schools                                 14
Urban Primary Schools                               14
Primary Teacher Training College                    15
Radio Education ..........15
Secondary Vocational Schools .......16
Vocational Training Center .................        17
Agricultural Training School  .............         17
Curriculum Developuent                              18
In-Service Training Programs.                       19
Educational Materials                               20
Evaluation and Studies                              21
Technical Assistance                                22
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Haiti in July and August 1977.  The mission comprised Messrs. L. Wolff
(education plnamer), L.W. Lee (economist), D. Jamison (economist, DPS),
A. Wagnem (agticultural educator, UNESCO), G. Motel (technical educator,
consultant), T. Deri (educational materials specialist, consultant), and
C. Rodriguez-Robles (architect, consultant).
This docuqcnt ha  ra rmcwd dirlbution and nay be used by rcipients only in the performance
d1  eir    du d tie la contits may not otherwise be disclase without World Bankl authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
IV.    COSTS AND FINANCING OF THE PROJECT ..................                        23
Cost Estimates  ...................................                   23
Contingency Allowances  .....          ....................           25
Foreign Exchange Component .....................                      26
Financing of Project Capital and Recurrent Costs                      26
V.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ..............................                        27
Project Administration           ..........       .                   27
Project Implementation Fund                    .                      27
Implementation Schedule ................                              28
Professional and Technical Services  ..              ..........       28
Sites      ..........................................                 28
Maintenance        ................... .................              28
Procurement        ................... .................              28
Disbursements  .................. ................                    29
VI.    BENEFITS, RISKS, UNCERTAINTIES AND EVALUATION  .......                       29
Benefits              .........................       ......          29
Risks and Uncertainties  ........... .. ...........                   30
Evaluation .....................................                      30
VII.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ...............                       31



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
ANNEXES
ANNEX 1  Supporting Tables and Charts
T-1   Creation of Employment in Manufacturing, FY73-76
T-2   Manpower Requirements, 1985
T-3   Comparative Education Indicators
T-4   Public Primary School Teachers, 1975 and Projections for 1985
T-5   Indicators of Public Primary School Efficiency, 1975 and
Projections for 1985
T-6   Public Investment Programs in the Education Sector (FY76-81)
T-7   Recurrent Expenditures on Public Education by Level of
Education and Executing Agency
T-8   Projected Annual Enrollment and Output of
Project Institutions, 1985
T-9   Projected In-School Radio Programming, 1981
T-10  Estimated Number and Type of Textbooks to be Published,
1981-1982
T-11  Cost Summary
T-12  Estimated Disbursement Schedule
C-1   Full-time Enrollment and Population Pyramid, 1975
C-2   Structure of the Education System
C-3   Organization of the Department of National Education
C-4   Organization of the Department of Agriculture, Natural
Resources, and Rural Development
C-5   Implementation Schedule for Physical Facilities
C-6   Implementation Schedule for Curriculum Development,
Teacher Training, Materials Production, Studies, and
Technical Assistance
ANNEX 2   Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP






HAITI
BASIC DATA
Area                                                    27,750 km2
Population (1976)                                           4.7 million
-Urban                                                    1.0 million (21%)
-Rural                                                    3.7 million (79%)
Average annual population
growth (1950-71)                                          1.6%
GNP per capita (1976)                                      US$200
Public education expenditures as % of
central Government expenditure on
education (1975-76)
-Recurrent                                               16.2%
-Capital                                                  3.4%
-Total                                                    8.0%
Education expenditure as % of GDP (1975-76)
-Public                                                   1.0%
-Private                                                  0.6%
-Total                                                    1.6%
Literacy rate (1971)                                       20.0%
Total enrollments:
-Primary (1975)
urban                                          257,000
rural                                          228,000
total                                          485,000
-Secondary                                             61,000
-Higher                                                 2,500
Enrollment as a percentage of school-age
children, 1975 (including overaged
students)
-Primary (ages 7-12)
urban 1/                                         176%
rural                                             41%
total                                             70%
-Secondary (ages 13-19)                                   8%
-Higher (ages 20-24)                                      1%
Percentage of Qualified Teachers (1975)
-Primary                                                 25%
-Secondary                                                5%
1/ Also includes some rural children attending urban schools.






I. SOCIO-ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND HUMAN RESOURCES IMPLICATIONS
Population and Socio-Economic Background
1.01      Haiti is the poorest country in the Americas and one of the world's
25 least developed countries, as evidenced not only by its low annual per
capita income of US$200 in 1976, but also by the poor health, sanitation,
housing, and education levels of its population. At 4.7 million in 1976,
the population had a birth rate of 3.6% per year and one of the highest mortal-
ity rates in the world--1.6% per year. About half of the children under five
years of age suffer from chronic malnutrition; 90% of the population has neither
a safe water supply nor sewage disposal facilities, and 70% live in inadequate
housing. Despite the high population density (over 300 persons per km2 of
agricultural land), many rural towns and villages are completely isolated
because of lack of passable roads, and less than 10% of the rural population
has access to radios. About 80% of adults are illiterate; only 27% of urban
and 2% of rural school children complete primary education.
1.02      Labor is Haiti's most important, but most underutilized, resource.
The participation rate in the labor force is a high 79% of the population
15 years or older, attributable to the active participation of women (70% as
compared to 89.5% of men), who play an important role in the marketing of pro-
duce. Open unemployment is estimated at 12% and underemployment at 50%, while
at the same time there are shortages of skilled workers at all levels. The
availability of jobs and relatively higher wages in the capital provides
incentives for migration to Port-au-Prince, thus aggravating the unemployment
and housing situations in that city and impeding more balanced regional
development. Also, proximity to more highly developed countries has contri-
buted to large-scale emigration of professionals, technicians, and skilled
workers, averaging 0.4% of the population per year.
Economic Development
1.03      After a period of virtual stagnation during 1960-70, the Haitian
economy has grown at an average rate of 2.9% per year from 1971 to 1976. The
most dynamic sectors have been manufacturing (6.6% p.a.) and construction
(16.8% p.a.), which together have generated significant employment opportuni-
ties, mainly in Port-au-Prince. Within manufacturing, the output of small,
export-oriented assembly industries almost tripled during 1971-75. Const?uction
activity has been concentrated in industrial and private home building and in
expansion of the road network. In contrast, the agricultural sector has
virtually stagnated, and this constitutes a major constraint on economic and
social development. Agriculture contributes about one-half of GDP and exports
and provides a livelihood for almost 80% of the population. Output growth of
1.5% per year (1971-76) has lagged behind population growth, resulting
in shortages and high prices for food.
1.04      The Government's Five-Year Plan (1976-81) gives first priority to
agriculture, and emphasizes increasing the income level of farmers and expanding
supplies of food for private consumption and raw materials for agro-industries.



The second priority is the establishment of a decentralized infrastructure
around regional growth poles in order to stem the flow of migrants to urban
areas.  The third priority is education, with emphasis on training technical
manpower and on improving quality at all levels.
Human Resources Implications
1.05      Agriculture.  The Government's emphasis on agriculture is appropriate
to Haiti's development needs. If objectives are to be achieved, the rural
school-age population must be provided with functional education and basic
skills; the adult population must be motivated to understand, accept and apply
innovative agricultural techniques; and key agricultural development workers
must be trained and appropriately utilized by Government. Formal education
will need to be improved in quality and expanded, and an increased number of
community development agents and extension workers will have to be trained.
At present, 66 community development workers, most of whom are untrained, are
employed by the National Office for Literacy and Community Development (ONAAC).
For promotion and organization of community development activities, one agent
should be available in each of 555 "rural sections," but because of fiscal
constraints, such a goal is likely to be reached only over a 20-year period,
with output of 25 trained agents per year. At present 400 extension workers,
of whom only 100 are qualified, provide services to about 700,000 rural
families. Ongoing agricultural and rural development projects, require a
minimum of 1,500 extension workers. To meet this goal, current annual output
of 30 agricultural technicians should be increased to at least 100 over the
next 20 years.
1.06      Industry.  Most of the growth of the manufacturing sector comes from
assembly activities and processing of imported components for export. Since
1971, such industries have provided annually about 3,700 additional jobs,
principally for skilled or semi-skilled workers in textiles and basic electronic
and mechanical assembly. Average annual demand for workers in these industries
alone has included: for managers, 86; office workers, 158; technicians, 70;
skilled workers, 1,453 (Table T-1). Overall manpower projections for 1985
indicate requirements for 11,500 skilled workers and 3,900 professionals and
technicians per year (Table T-2). While most of this growth will be in the
Port-au-Prince area, the Government is also planning to develop industry in
Cap Haitien and other provincial cities. These needs compare with the present
low output of 175 graduates annually from public technician training institu-
tions.
1.07      Other.  Economic growth through 1985 will also require significant
expansion of the stock of service sector workers at all skill levels
(Table T-2).



-3-
II. THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEM: MAJOR ISSUES AND PRIORITIES
Overview 1/
2.01      The main thrust of the Haitian education system has been to prepare
a small urban elite, while excluding the vast majority of children and adults
from the educational process. Although participation is relatively high in
primary education (70%), more than 50% of students are in the first two years
of schooling, after which the educational pyramid narrows dramatically (Chart
C-1). The limited financial resources devoted to education are one of the sys-
tem's most striking features. In 1976 public expenditure on education was
equal to only 1% of GDP and 13X of goveriment budgetary expenditures. Private
expenditures of 0.6% brought the total to 1.6% of GDP, a figure which is among
the lowest in the world (Table T-3). The system's inefficiency and imbalances
are also striking.  Only 13% of entrants complete primary school, and in all
other levels less than 50% of entering students complete their course of study.
The historical division of education into two separate systems has contributed
to urban-rural inequities and duplication of common services. Enrollments
in rural primary education are equivalent to 41% of school age population
compared to 176% 2/ in urban areas, and only 2% of rural children complete
primary education compared to 27% in urban areas. Nearly all secondary schools
are urban and the scattered rural vocational, agricultural and primary teacher
training schools are small, uneconomical and underutilized. Some 45% of all
primary students and 40% of secondary students are female; however, only 37%
of rural primary students are female. Finally, the system is characterized by
a lack of relevance to economic and social development. Primary and secondary
level curricula and syllabi do not reflect the Haitian environment, and voca-
tional training courses and adult education programs are poorly staffed and
financed and have very low enrollments.
2.02      Despite these extremely serious shortcomings, the Government has
initiated a number of key steps towards improving the system. These include
completion of an education development plan as part of the National Five-Year
Economic Plan (1976-81) and completion of a new unified teacher training
school curriculum, both of which fulfill obligations set forth in the Credit
Agreement of the First IDA Education Project (Credit 618-HA signed February 27,
1976). Furthermore, a decision has recently been taken to merge rural and
urban primary education and teacher training into one integrated system. This
and additional actions described in paras. 2.06, 2.11, and 2.18 provide hope
that within the foreseeable future major progress can be made towards improving
the Haitian education system and making it more relevant to social and economic
development needs. Nonetheless numerous crucial problems remain to be dealt
with, especially those related to primary school relevance and efficiency,
vocational and agricultural education, and educational finance.
1/   Table T-3 provides a statistical summary of the Haitian education system
in comparison with those of other Bank countries.
2/   This figure is above 100% because of enrollment of overaged and rural
children.



-4-
Structure, Administration and Planning
2.03      Formal education in Haiti comprises four levels:  pre-primary
(one year), primary (six years in urban and seven years in rural areas),
secondary (seven years, divided into three-year and four-year sections) and
higher (three to seven years) (Chart C-2). At the primary level, the rural
system retains a seven-year cycle which includes an official enfantine or
pre-school year. However, only 24% of rural children complete the enfantine
year successfully and the majority of students enter primary education at
10 years of age or older.
2.04      Administration of education is divided between the Department of
National Education (DEN), responsible for most of the system, and the Depart-
ment of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural Development (DARNDR), respon-
sible for rural primary education and associated teacher training, rural voca-
tional and technical training, and some rural non-formal training (Charts C-3
and C-4). The National Literacy and Community Development Office (ONAAC), the
National Institute for Vocational Training (INFP), the National Pedagogical
Institute (IPN), and the Faculty of Arts and Sciences of the National Univer-
sity are officially under the DEN, but have their own budgets and considerable
autonomy. In addition, the Department of Health is responsible for medical,
dental and nurses' training. At the primary level, the division of authority
between the DEN and DARNDR has resulted in weak, dual systems of policy,
planning and administration. The IPN, established with assistance from France
to improve curriculum and teacher training services of the two Ministries, has
until recently been isolated from both. In June 1977, DARNDR announced its
willingness to transfer responsibility for rural education to the DEN. At
the same time, the DEN initiated activities to utilize the IPN more fully
as an agency for qualitative planning. Both these actions require careful
management advice for their full implementation, but are key steps towards
creating a unified education system.
2.05      Educational planning in Haiti has only recently been initiated.  In
1976, the DEN, DARNDR and CONADEP completed a National Education Plan, which
established qualitative improvement, improved relevance, and better adminis-
tration as national goals to be achieved over the 1976-81 plan period.
Despite methodological deficiencies and an overemphasis on urban vocational
education, the Plan was an important first step towards rational development
of the educational system. Planning will be improved over the next five years
through strengthening of a small unit in the DEN, continued planning assist-
ance to CONADEP by UNDP, and technical assistance financed under the First IDA
Education Project and designed to improve educational statistics and to
implement key studies on teaching conditions and labor market needs.
Primary Education
2.06      Key Issues and Problems.  As discussed above (paras. 2.01, 2.03, and
2.04) primary education is characterized by inefficiency, inequity, divided
administration, and inappropriate structure. Additional issues and problems
related to curricula and syllabi, teachers, educational materials and school
facilities are described below.



- 5 -
2.07      Both the urban and rural education systems follow curricula and
syllabi designed exclusively to prepare for the Certificate of Primary Studies
Examination (CEP) given at the end of the sixth grade. Syllabi are irrelevant
to Haitian economic and social conditions, inappropriate to the learning
capacity of children, and encourage rote learning and student passivity. In
particular, they ignore the fact that the vast majority of children entering
the system have no knowledge of French, which is however the official language
of instruction. Nor do teaching methodologies take into account the fact that
30% of first graders are over 15 years of age. Although these older children
have different psychological needs and learning capacities compared to younger
children, they are required to follow the same programs of study and no age
grouping is used.
2.08      Untrained teachers make up three-quarters of both the urban and
rural teaching force. Low teacher salaries (US$50-60 per month) have led
to excessive absenteeism and high turnover rates (estimated at 7% per year in
rural areas); the lack of incentives deters teachers from pursuing in-service
training or certification.
2.09      With few exceptions, textbooks are unsuited to the Haitian environ-
ment, since most are written abroad and introduce concepts and illustrations
often alien to the Haitian child. Although no data are available on the number
of children who own books, their average cost of US$1.15 puts them beyond the
reach of most. Publishing houses often provide books at wholesale to teachers,
who then resell them to students at a profit. Finally, primary school facili-
ties are non-functional, overcrowded, and ill-equipped. In urban areas the
majority consist of converted private homes most of which are rented and used
as schools. In rural areas physical facilities are inadequate and average
class sizes exceed 70 students.
2.10      Government Policies and Proposals.  Since signing of the First IDA
Education Project Credit Agreement in early 1976, the Government has begun to
attack the problems of the sub-sector and is now proposing an ambitious but
feasible primary education development for the next five years. Of critical
importance to the successful implementation of this program is the Government's
recently announced decision to merge the rural and urban systems into the
unified primary education and teacher training system under the administrative
authority of the DEN. While the details have yet to be worked out, it is
likely that such a merger will result in the elimination of the rural enfantine
year (para. 2.03) and the establishment of a common six-year cycle for all
parts of the country. Progress and plans related to curriculum, teacher
training, educational materials, and school facilities are described below.
Activities in radio education and in educational finance are described in
paras. 2.23 to 2.27.
2.11      With regard to primary school curriculum and syllabi, in May 1977 the
DEN and DARNDR jointly established a 12-member Consultative Committee comprising
key members of the educational establishment and designed to advise on administra-
tive and pedagogical matters of primary education. In October 1977 a full-time,
five-member Curriculum Unit was established to prepare a new primary school
curriculum and syllabi and student testing/evaluation system. The members of



- 6 -
these Committees had been working together on an ad hoc basis, but their
activities are now institutionalized with financial support under the First
IDA Education Project. The Curriculum Unit is expected to complete a draft
primary curriculum and syllabi by October 1978. Syllabi would emphasize more
active teaching/learning practices, utilize the Haitian environment as a
learning tool, be based on a common core six-year urban and rural program,
take into account the linguistic background of Haitian children, and require
achievement levels which can be met by 80% or more of all children. The
Curriculum Unit and Consultative Committee will also plan jointly with the
IPN related programs in teacher training and educational materials develop-
ment and coordinate with Radio Nationale in the development of radio programs
embodying new syllabi and teaching methodologies. Official consideration is
being given by the DEN to the introduction of Creole as the language of
instruction in the first two to three years of primary schooling; during
1978-79 the IPN and a recently established linguistic research institution,
the Center for Applied Linguistics (CLAP), will study the language question
to assist the DEN in establishing a clear policy on this matter.
2.12      With regard to pre-service teacher training, its quality should
improve with implementation of a new common curriculum for urban and rural
teacher training schools, completed in 1976 under the First IDA Education
Project. The new curriculum requires two years of academic training (rather
than the previous three years) and a full year of supervised teaching before
receiving a diploma. It will be implemented throughout Haiti during the
1977-78 school year and will be further revised if necessary after evaluation.
2.13      The output of qualified teachers will also increase, since under the
First IDA Education Project two urban teacher training schools, each with 240
student places, are being constructed and a third school is being expanded to
240 enrollment and equipped with basic workshops and laboratories. In addi-
tion, assistance from IDB will permit three existing rural teacher training
schools to expand from 280 to 520 enrollment. Total annual output of these
six schools at full operation would be 620 per year, which would still fail
to meet minimum requirements of 740 new teachers annually for the public
schools alone during 1976-85 (Table T-4). Therefore, the Government has
proposed construction of one additional teacher training school to be located
in the southern part of the previously neglected Central region.
2.14      With UNICEF assistance, DARNDR has been providing in-service training
to about 200 rural school teachers per year. In addition, regional centers of
the IPN have been providing short-term in-service training during the school
year in French language teaching to about 200 teachers in seven cities. Both
these programs reach only 10% of the public school teachers, mostly the more
highly qualified ones, and need revision. The Government is therefore proposing
a larger-scale in-service training program to reach up to two-thirds of all
teachers to strengthen knowledge of basic subjects, improve methodology, and
introduce the new curriculum and syllabi. A small but well-qualified core of
teacher trainers, as well as pedagogical assistants trained by the IPN, is
available to implement the new program.



-7-
2.15      The Government is also proposing a long-term program for prepara-
tion, production and distribution of learning materials. Because of needs for
curriculum revision, language study, and testing of learning materials, such
a program could be implemented on a national basis starting only in 1981.
The capacity exists in Haiti for preparation, production, and distribution
of learning materials. Haitians have already written some good primary text-
books and the IPN has been producing a series of experimental textbooks, most
of which would be appropriate after further revision. The local publishing
industry, which consists of three major and at least five minor firms, has
the capacity for printing 100,000 or more copies annually, and the IPN has
a capacity for limited editions of up to 5,000 copies. Distribution would be
accomplished through local publishers, as well as through the urban and rural
educational inspectorates. The IPN and the Consultative Committee will plan
an expanded experimental textbook program using soft-cover books and booklets.
2.16      With regard to primary school construction9 in 1976 the Government
initiated a school mapping program in six rural development regions (for a
proposed IDB project), and in 1977 it initiated mapping in rural areas of the
North, Artibonite, and Central regions (under the First IDA Education Project).
^Itditional school mapping is underway in the Grande Anse region and in
selected towns and cities where additional schools would be constructed under
the proposed Second Education Project. This will permit rational location of
schools in accordance with population, geography, and development possibilities.
New rural schools will be constructed in accordance with a school spacing and
organization concept known as "nuclearization", in which a central school with
practical facilities and capacity for six grades serves neighboring smaller
schools with capacity of only four grades. This system was introduced in Haiti
over 20 years ago, but fell into disuse. When it becomes operational again,
students from smaller schools will participate in practical activities and will
attend fifth and sixth grades at the central school; teachers will meet in the
central school for in-service training; and the local community will utilize
the central school building after school hours. Assistance from the First IDA
Education Project and the recently signed IDB project will permit implementa-
tion in five of the nine regions of the country. The Government has requested
additional assistance under the proposed project for school construction in
two previously neglected regions--the Central and the Grande Anse (Southern
peninsula)--which have relatively low enrollment ratios.
2.17      The Government also plans to continue using the primary schools as
community learning centers, a concept initiated under the First IDA Education
Project. Over the next year, ONAAC will establish organized adult radio
listening groups in communities where the First IDA Education Project schools
are located. In addition, in July 1977, CARE agreed with DARNDR to establish
nutrition centers and demonstration gardens adjacent to project schools to
provide food to pre-school children, non-formal training to adults and assist-
ance to teachers in integrating nutrition education into syllabi.
2.18      These ongoing and proposed programs show keen Government awareness
that primary education problems are interrelated and that an integrated
approach is necessary for their resolution. On the basis of the satisfactory



- 8 -
progress with the First IDA Education Project and numerous Government activi-
ties already underway, these programs are considered feasible. The principal
constraint to their implementation would be a possible lack of sufficient
funds for recurrent expenditures (para. 2.27). If the proposed programs
are successfully implemented, primary school promotion and retention rates
would increase significantly. The appraisal mission estimated that by 1985
about 70% of rural school children could complete four years of primary
education, compared to 14% in 1975, and 22Z of rural school children could
complete sixth grade compared to 2% in 1975. These rates assume, in parti-
cular, the gradual elimination of the rural enfantine year (para. 2.10) and a
complete revision of the present student testing/evaluation system (para. 2.11).
Urban school retention rates could also increase significantly (Table T-5).
Urban Vocational and Technical Education
2.19      Key Issues and Problems.  Seven vocational schools enrolling 1,500
students prepare skilled workers in 14 industrial trades, including electricity,
carpentry, tailoring, mechanics and construction. Administered directly by the
Vocational Education Division of the DEN, their programs are usually four years
in length at the lower secondary level. These schools have an irrelevant
curriculum, underpaid and unqualified teachers, no modern equipment, a poor
physical plant, an excessive number of students per workshop, a shortage of
funds for operating expenses, and little or no contact with industry. Despite
the extremely poor quality of instruction and output, the number of applicants
is usually twice that of available places. Three schools in Port-au-Prince
enrolled 200 students in 1975 in three-year training courses at the upper
secondary level designed to prepare industrial technicians. Two of these
schools (Pilot Center for Vocational Training-CPFP, and Canadian Haitian
Secondary School), recently established with French, ILO and Canadian assis-
tance, are autonomous and are producing technicians of acceptable quality and
in sufficient numbers to meet future needs. The third school, administered
directly by the DEN, has very low quality instruction and limited output. No
Haitian public institution provides in-service training for industrial workers,
despite the fact that assembly industries in Port-au-Prince now employ some
27,000 workers, and factory managers have been requesting such training.
2.20      The INFP, an autonomous agency officially under the administration
of the DEN, was established in 1975 with French and ILO assistance. It is in
charge of study and research on the entire vocational training system, coordi-
nation of all vocational training, and ensuring the active participation of
industry in vocational training. The INFP and CPFP are financed by a 1%
payroll tax on industry.
2.21      Government Policies and Proposals.  The Government is now planning
a major structural and curriculum reform of lower secondary vocational educa-
tion to enable it to provide appropriately trained skilled industrial workers.
The present, four-year curriculum would be reduced to three years at the
post-primary level; the first year would emphasize strengthening of general
knowledge, followed by gradual specialization in one of the skilled trades.
All teachers would be trained in courses of up to two years in length. To
initiate this program, the Government has proposed remodeling and reequipping



-9-
of the vocational school in Cap Haitien and establishment of a new vocational
school in Port-au-Prince. The INFP would be responsible tor curriculum reform
and industrial teacher training for these institutions. in addition, the
Government is proposing to construct three small workshops on the grounds of
the INFP and under its administration, for the implementation of in-service
training of factory workers in the Port-au-Prince area. No immediate plans
are being made for the expansion of technician training, which appears to be
meeting needs for the time being.
Agricultural Education
2.22      An agricultural school located in the suburbs of Port-au-Prince has
been training about 30 extension agents annually in a two-year upper secondary
course. The school lacks trained personnel, appropriate equipment, and an
adequate experimental farm. The Canadian Government is providing about US$3.6
million in acssstance to both this school and the Faculty of Agronomy at the
University. However, to reach its long-term goal of one extension agent per
600 families, DARNDR will require about 100 new agents per year. The suburban
location of the existing school precludes further expansion; therefore, the
Goveranient has proposed construction of a new school in the Central region
to train an additional 50 extension agents per year. This school would also
train an average of 25 rural community development workers per year and would
provide space for farmer training and in-service training of extension and
community development workers (paras. 1.05 and 2.23).
Non-Formal Education
2.23      The Government has recognized the importance of providing adequate
information and education to the adult rural population and is proposing to
reach adults through radio programming (para. 2.24) and through strength-
ening of ONAAC. ONAAC now has only about 66 paid community development
agents (and reports about 2,000 unpaid village monitors), inadequate funding,
poor central organization, and a poorly trained staff. These weaknesses have
delayed implementation of ONAAC's proposed programs, and have slowed procure-
ment of equipment to be provided under the First IDA Education Project. A
specialist in non-formal educational materials, supported under the Project,
arrived in October 1977. ONAAC has requested construction of a multipurpose
training center to train about 25 new community development agents per year.
To promote efficient use of resources, however, the center would be combined
with the proposed new agricultural training school (para. 2.22).
Radio Education
2.24      The use of radio in both formal and non-formal education has great
potential for supporting Haitian economic and social development because it
can circumvent geographic distances, adult illiteracy, and to some extent,
a lack of trained teachers and technicians in rural areas. In 1975, radio
education was initiated by DARNDR, and in April 1977 a national radio station,
Radio Nationale, was established. DARNDR has been producing educational
programs which now consist of four weekly broadcasts to rural primary schools



- 10 -
in language, social and physical sciences, and health, and one program broad-
cast for open listening by rural adults. These programs, some of which are in
Creole, are acceptable in quality but are in need of improved evaluation and
feedback mechanisms. They are now being incorporated into Radio Nationale
which is also broadcasting numerous cultural, music and sports programs.
2.25      Radio Nationale is an autonomous Government agency operating
directly under the Presidency and advised by a commission consisting of key
Government and non-Government representatives. Its aim is to provide edu-
cational and cultural programs which reinforce national development efforts.
Expected upgrading of Radio Nationale's transmission capacity from 10 kw to
20 kw will permit broadcasts to reach 88% of the Haitian population during the
daytime and 67% during the evening. Nevertheless, the fact less than only 10%
of the rural population has access to radios restricts the impact of its general
audience programs. The most appropriate target group at this time is primary
school students, since experience in program production already exists and
primary schools provide a physical setting for provision and control of radios
and for feedback and evaluation mechanisms. Production is expected to
increase to a maximum of 9-1/2 hours of weekly primary school programs by
1981, broadcast twice daily, with emphasis on French language, social and
physical sciences, and teacher in-service training. In non-formal education,
Radio Nationale is experimenting with the establishment of organized rural
listening groups which receive health, nutrition and agricultural information
over the radio and discuss means of implementing local community action.
Radio Nationale requires additional studios, as well as good technical and
production personnel at the central level, to expand its educational programs
rapidly. The Government has also expressed interest in educational television;
however, the high costs and the small number of privately owned television
sets make it inappropriate at this time for a country such as Haiti.
Education Finance
2.26      Public expenditure on education in Haiti is equivalent to 1% of GDP
and 13% of Government budgetary expenditure (1976 current prices). Private
expenditure accounts for an additional 0.6% of GDP, for a total of 1.6%, which
is among the lowest in the world (Table T-3). At the primary level a high
student/teacher ratio (70:1 in rural areas) and very low salaries (averaging
US$600 per year in 1977) keep per capita student costs at US$15 per year.
However, since only 13% of entering students complete primary education,
annual costs per primary school graduate are US$115. The situation is similar
in secondary and vocational schools. At all levels, low salaries and lack of
financial incentives for professional growth through certification or expe-
rience result in a preponderance of untrained, part-time teachers and high
staff turnover. Only about 5% of the recurrent budget is allocated to mate-
rials, supplies, maintenance, and boarding expenses. In vocational schools
the lack of funds for operating expenditures is particularly acute and has
seriously affected the quality of education. An average 15% salary increase
of all civil servants in October 1977 alleviated salary problems somewhat by
regaining the ground lost to inflation over the last two years. A study of
conditions of service of teachers will be completed by June 1978 with
technical assistance financed under the First IDA Education Project.



- 11 -
2.27      Haiti devotes a modest 3% of its total public investment budget
to education. Since almost all of this is financed by external aid agencies
(para. 2.31), only a minimum amount of counterpart funds, averaging about
US$0.5 million per year, have been required since 1973. Planned assistance
from IDA, IDB, France, and others will result in investment "I education
during 1976-81 of US$44 million, with emphasis on primary education (Table
T-6). Haitian counterpart funds required will be only US$7.5 million, or an
average of US$1.5 million per year. Given the recent decision to devote one
half the profits of the Regie du Tabac to investment, this figure is well
within the Government's capacity to finance.
2.28      Government plans for increased primary and secondary school enroll-
ment, reduction of the rural student/teacher ratio from 70:1 to 50:1, improved
quality of primary education, and implementation of a new salary scale would
require an increase in the recurrent education budget from US$7.8 million in
1976-77 to US$13 million (in constant prices) by 1981-82, or the equivalent
of an annual 10.7% increase in recurrent expenditures (Table T-7). During
this same period, total budgetary revenues are expected to grow at between
3.5% and 6% per annum, and education's share of the total would therefore
rise from 13% in 1977 to a maximum of 17% in 1982. This would be similar to
the percentage maintained in 1973-76 and would be attainable. However, any
delay in action by the Government on tax legislation and transfer of funds
from extra-budgetary accounts to the budget would create problems for suc-
cessful implementation of proposed education programs, as well as for high
priority development programs in other sectors such as agriculture, health,
and transportation.
Government Education Development Strategy
2.29      At the time of the appraisal of the First Education Project in June
1975, the Gover;nment had not yet established a national development strategy
addressing Haiti's fundamental education problems. Since then, serious efforts
have been made and an education development plan has been prepared as part of
the Second Five-year Economic Development Plan (1976-81). The general objec-
tives of the 1976-81 Education Plan are to improve quality and expand primary
education, reform secondary education, expand vocational, technical, and
non-formal education, and improve efficiency, relevance, and administration
at all levels. Specifically, the Plan proposes modest enrollment growth
in primary and secondary education, reduction of the primary student/teacher
ratio in rural areas from 70:1 to 50:1, and expansion of vocational education.
2.30      Since completion of the Plan, Government policy has placed addi-
tional emphasis on primary school quality improvement through curriculum
reform, teacher training, materials development, radio education, and school
construction, and reduced emphasis on urban vocational education. The Govern-
ment will also support non-formal education through Radio Nationale; however,
it has not yet taken action to provide sufficient financing or staffing of
ONAAC. These goals of improving the educational system at the basic level,
expanding non-formal programs for adults, and training technical and vocational
workers in major occupations are an appropriate strategy for utilization of
education to improve productivity and life of both urban and rural populations.



- 12 -
Key policy actions for the implementation of these goals include: (a) the
implementation of the decision to transfer responsibility of primary education
to the DEN, (b) improved administration and staffing of the DEN's offices, and
(c) adequate financing of recurrent costs.
IDA Lending Strategy, Including Experience with First Education Project
2.31      Numerous other international and bilateral agencies are assisting
education in Haiti, including: (a) UNDP/UNESCO in educational planning and
radio, non-formal, primary, and agricultural education; (b) UNDP/ILO in voca-
tional education; (c) UNDP/FAO in agricultural education; (d) UNICEF in radio
and teacher education; (e) IDB in rural, primary, and agricultural education;
(f) CIDA in agricultural and technical education; and (g) France in educational
research and vocational and technical education. IDA has been mainly concerned
with primary education and associated teacher training, focussing its efforts
on basic sector issues related to administration, curricula, the language of
instruction and educational finance. IDA lending strategy takes into account
the very substantial ongoing and planned assistance by other agencies; close
coordination has been maintained to ensure a unified and balanced approach to
education in Haiti, consistent with Government objectives.
2.32      The First IDA Education Project (signed February 27, 1976) is assist-
ing in primary education reform and expansion, especially in rural areas, and
is providing limited assistance in non-formal education. Specifically, it
includes construction of 65 rural basic schools/community learning centers, 10
urban primary schools/community learning centers, and two new and extension of
one teacher training schools; provision of equipment to ONAAC; and seven man-
years of specialist services and one man-year of fellowships. The project
area is restricted to the North and Artibonite regions, with a small component
(two primary schools and expansion of a teacher training school) in Port-au-
Prince. Implementation of physical aspects of the project is about five months
behind schedule but will accelerate over the next six months. School mapping
and development of a National Education Plan and a common teacher training
curriculum have been completed. However, staffing weaknesses of ONAAC have
slowed implementation of that project item. In addition, a study on conditions
of teacher service will be delayed until about June 1978 because of late
recruitment of technical assistance experts. The Government and IDA reached
agreement during negotiations of the First Education Project for periodic
joint review of progress of education plans and specific programs, implementa-
tion problems, new approaches and availability of resources for proposed pro-
grams and action, in addition to the regular review of the physical execution
of the project and realization of its objectives. Assurances have been
obtained from the Government that such joint reviews will be continued during
the implementation of the proposed second education project.
2.33      On the basis of satisfactory progress in implementation of the
First Education Project, IDA would continue and widen its support to help
correct inequalities of access and improve quality of basic education in Haiti.
Government interest and action also make it appropriate to initiate assistance
to strengthen vocational and agricultural education. Further assistance to
ONAAC would be deferred pending evaluation of the agency's performance under



- 13 -
the First IDA Education Project; however, IDA's long-term goals of assisting
non-formal education would be implemented through provision of training
facilities available to ONAAC and through assistance to Radio Nationale.
III. THE PROJECT
Oblectives and Composition
3.01      The proposed project has the two major objectives of:
(a)  correcting inequalities of access, improving the relevance
and increasing the internal efficiency of basic education; and
(b)  expanding the supply and improving the productivity of skilled
and semi-skilled workers in Port-au-Prince and Cap Haitien and
of agricultural extension and rural community development
agents, and rural farm leaders for the North and Artibonite.
The project composition is summarized as follows (Table T-8 provides further
details on enrollment and output of proposed project institutions):
(a) construction, furnishing and equipping of:
Capacity            Boarding  Staff
Grades  Places  Enrollment   Places   Housing
Primary Education
(i) 31 Rural Basic Schools        1 - 4   9,000   13,500 a/        -      120
(ii) 10 Urban Primary
Schools                       1 - 6   3,000    6,000 bI/       -       -
(iii) 1 Primary Teacher
Training College             10 - 12    240       240         160       6
(iv) Radio Education Pro-
duction Facilities              -    5 studios
& production -           -       -
space
Vocational and Agricultural
Education
(v) 2 Secondary Vocational
Schools                       7 - 9      676      676          -       18
(vi) 1 Vocational Training         non-        45      800 c/       -        -
Center                        formal
(vii) 1 Agricultural                 10 - 11   175      650 c/      175       11
Training School               & non-
formal
a/   Enrollment based on double shift in 50% of schools.
b/   Enrollment based on double shift in all schools.
c/   Enrollment based on total number of trainees per year.



- 14 -
(b) support for curriculum development, in-service teacher training,
educational materials preparation, production, and distribution,
and evaluation and studies, all related to primary education; and
(c) related technical assistance, in the form of 20-1/2 man-years
of specialist services and 9 man-years of fellowships.
Elements of the Proiect
Rural Basic Schools
3.02      This project item would consist of the construction, furnishing and
equipping of 31 new rural basic schools, with 9,000 student places, offering
four grades of education to children and literacy and training opportunities
to out-of-school youths and adults. About half of these schools would have
large enough catchment areas for double-shift operations, thereby providing
new opportunities to a total of 13,500 children. In addition to classrooms,
the schools would have simply equipped and designed workshop and home manage-
ment areas which would be used regularly in the afternoon and evening by a
total of about 2,500 out-of-school youths and adults per year for radio
listening, functional literacy, artisan training and other activities
organized by ONAAC and the Ministries of Health and Social Affairs. Simple
housing accommodation for about 120 teachers would be provided at the 20 most
remotely located schools as an inducement for teachers to accept rural posts
and to participate in non-formal training programs.
3.03      The schools would be located in the Northern (7 schools), Central
(12) and Grande Anse (12) regions (see Map). The number of schools and
classrooms to be built has been estimated on the basis of enrollment deficits
and the estimated development potential of each region. About 28 schools
would have six classrooms and 300 student places each, and about three located
in more remote areas would have four classrooms and 200 student places.
Initially, enrollments would be restricted to grades 1 to 4, but as retention
rates improve, the schools would gradually introduce the fifth and sixth
grades. All schools would function as central schools of educational nuclei
(para. 2.16), eventually providing a full six grades of education to students
in the immediate catchment areas and to those graduating from surrounding
four-grade schools.
Urban Primary Schools
3.04      This project item would consist of the construction, furnishing and
equipping of 10 new urban primary schools (see Map) with about 3,000 student
places, providing six grades of education to children and literacy and train-
ing opportunities to out-of-school youths and adults. All schools would have
catchment areas large enough for double-shift operations to serve a total of
6,000 students. In all cases they would replace inadequate rented facilities
or would be located in neglected urban areas without alternative access to
public primary education. In addition to classrooms, each school would have
a simply equipped workshop and home management area for use in the evenings



- 15 -
by about 1,000 out of school youths and adults per year for literacy training,
community development, radio listening, and artisan training activities
organized by ONAAC and the Ministries of Health and Social Affairs.
3.05      As under the First IDA Education Project, the Government gave assur-
ances that (a) facilities of both urban and rural project schools will be
available after school hours for youth and adult training programs, (b) the
average number of children in classrooms will not exceed 50, and (c) 50% of
the teachers will be qualified and the balance will have received in-service
training courses acceptable to IDA. In addition, the Government gave assur-
ances that it will initiate action to implement its decision to transfer
rural primary education and teacher training to the DEN by October 1, 1978
(para. 2.10). Technical assistance in educational administration has been
provided under the First Education Project and further assistance to help
implement the transfer would be provided under the proposed Second Project.
Primary Teacher Training College
3.06      This project item would support construction, furnishing, and equip-
ping of a new rural teacher training college in the Central region, with an
enrollmept of 240 students in a two-year upper secondary course, including
boarding for 160 students and housing for 6 staff members. Output of 120
graduates annually from this school, plus the output of 620 from the three
schools being constructed under the First Education Project and three existing
rural schools, would be sufficient to meet the needs of public primary educa-
tion over the next 10 years (para. 2.13). As under the First IDA Education
Project, the IPN would be responsible for preparing teacher trainers. The
Government gave assurances that this school will utilize the new curriculum
common to all teacher training colleges (para. 2.12) and that graduates will
be qualified and allowed to serve in both urban and rural primary schools.
The Government also gave assurances that by October 1, 1979, the Government
will establish terms and conditions of teacher service acceptable to IDA which
will provide incentives for teachers to seek both certification and in-service
training courses (para. 3.18).
Radio Education
3.07      This project item would strengthen Radio Nationale's capacity to
prepare and broadcast educational programs, with emphasis on primary school
students and teachers. By 1981 the number of programs for primary schools
would increase from the present 2-1/2 hours per week, with each program broad-
cast twice weekly, to a maximum of 9-1/2 hours of programs broadcast twice
weekly,for a total of 19 hours per week (Table T-9). Programs would be based
on new primary curricula and syllabi and would include language instruction,
social and physical sciences, hygiene, and mathematics. Two programs per
week would be directed at teachers to supplement in-service teacher training
programs.
3.08      Specifically, the project would support:  (a) construction, furnishing,
and equipping of five production studios and space for about 48 program pro-
duction personnel; (b) provision of a radio education library; (c) purchase of



- 16 -
1,700 radios and accompanying batteries; and (e) procurement of two vehicles
to distribute and service radios. Studios and production facilities would be
constructed on land-adjacent to Radio Nationale headquarters in Port-au-Prince
and already purchased by the Government. Distribution of 1,700 radio receivers
would be sufficient to reach 88% of all public primary children in grades 1-4
(i.e, about 260,000 children in 1980-81) on the assumptions that: (a) one
receiver would serve several classes, since programs for lower grades would
be broadcast at different times from upper grade programs; and (b) an ongoing
UNICEF-supported program would distribute an additional 1,800 radios over the
next four years. About 900 regular receivers ($30 each) and 800 high-sensitivity
receivers ($60 each) would be provided. The latter would be used in regions
where Radio Nationale's signal is weak because of remoteness or topography.
A study (para. 3.21) would be undertaken to determine the exact number of high
intensity receivers needed. If UNICEF's program changes or other agencies
provide assistance, the number and type of receivers to be procured under the
proposed project would be adjusted accordingly. During negotiations the Gov-
ernment gave assurances that (a) the radio education service of the DARNDR
(para. 2.24) will be administratively transferred to Radio Nationale by
October 1, 1978; and (b) by October 1, 1981, a minimum of 10 hours of broad-
cast time per week will be utilized by Radio Nationale for primary school and
teacher training programs. Evidence that satisfactory arrangements have been
made to upgrade Radio Nationale's transmission capacity to 20 kw would be a
condition of disbursement for civil works, furniture and equipment procurement
in respect of this project item (para. 2.25).
Secondary Vocational Schools
3.09      This project item would further the reform of lower secondary voca-
tional education and improve the output of skilled workers through remodelling
one vocational school in Cap Haitien, constructing a new vocational school
in Port-au-Prince, and supporting the training of project school teachers.
There would be no significant increase in enrollment at the Cap Haitien school,
which would remain at 260 students. The Cap Haitien School would produce 80
skilled workers annually, or 16 each in general mechanics, auto mechanics,
electricity, carpentry and tailoring. The new school in Port-au-Prince would
be constructed in the southern zone of the city, on the site of an existing
vocational primary school which would be closed. Serviceable buildings on the
site would be modified for appropriate use by the new school. Total enrollment
would be 416 and annual output of skilled workers would be 128, including 16
each in general mechanics, automobile mechanics, electricity, metal work,
plumbing, construction, and carpentry, and 32 in masonry. This output would
supplement the present annual output of 80 from an existing vocational school
in the northern zone of Port-au-Prince. Six housing units would be constructed
in Cap Haitien and 12 units in Port-au-Prince to provide incentives for quali-
fied teachers to seek employment in these schools.
3.10      The two vocational schools would use a new curriculum based on a three-
year, post-primary course to prepare craftsmen, rather than the present excess-
ively long four-year course. Entering students would be expected to have
completed primary education and be at least 15 years old. Although output of
the two project schools and the existing vocational school in Port-au-Prince



- 17 -
would supply only one-tenth of the demand for skilled workers in Port-au-Prince
and Cap Haitien, no greater expansion is possible at this time, given the lack
of financial and human resources. The experience in implementing a new
curriculum, in training vocational teachers, and in managing the two schools
would, however, provide the basis for future expansion and improvement of
vocational training.
3.11      While the schools would be administered by the Division of Voca-
tional Education of the DEN, the INFP would be responsible for developing the
new curriculum and for training all 46 staff workers of the schools in courses
ranging from five to 24 months (para. 2.20). The INFP would pay salaries of
teacher training personnel and provide the basic equipment necessary for
the teacher training courses. The proposed project would finance the costs
of expendable materials and stipends to the teacher trainees. During nego-
tiations, the Government gave assurances that: (a) the INFP will be responsible
for curriculum and syllabi development and teacher training for the secondary
vocational schools in Port-au-Prince and Cap Haitien; (b) employment in these
two schools will be offered to graduates of the INFP training courses; (c)
conditions of service will be improved to attract and retain competent voca-
tional teachers and adequate operating budgets would be provided to the
vocational schools upon their opening; and (d) officials of the two schools
and the INFP will jointly implement a tracer system designed to monitor the
employment conditions of recent graduates and thus assist in revising programs
and curricula.
Vocational Training Center
3.12      This project item would assist in improving productivity of workers
in assembly and other manufacturing industries through the construction,
furnishing and equipping of a small center, with workshop space for about
45 trainees, located in Port-au-Prince on the same site as that of the INFP
and under the direct administration of the INFP. Courses would be provided
to about 800 workers per year on a released time basis for an average period
of two weeks per training group. Local industries would be expected to pay
for the costs of the courses and to provide specialized equipment from their
own shops when necessary. The INFP has appropriate available staff to provide
the training. The Government gave assurances that, by October 1, 1978, the
administrative council of the INFP will prepare a plan for the operation of
the Center by the INFP.
Agricultural Training School
3.13      This project item would consist of construction, furnishing and
equipping of a new agricultural training school to be located in the Central
Region. The school would have teaching and boarding facilities to accommodate
150 full-time and 25 short-term students, and 11 staff housing units. About
30 of the boarding places would be available to women. The school would train
agricultural extension agents and rural community agents and would have addi-
tional facilities for short-term training of farmers and other workers, as
follows:



- 18 -
(a) Agricultural Extension Agents. Courses of two years' duration
(grades 10 and 11), including six months' field training, would be provided
to 100 students, with output of 50 extension agents per year, most of whom
would be employed by the DARNDR. Admission to this course would be available
to those who had completed at least three years of secondary education, with
preference to graduates of rural vocational schools. Training of 50 agents
per year at this school and 50 from the existing Agricultural School in Damien
would permit expansion of the number of trained agricultural extension agents
from 100 in 1976 to 1,500 in 1996, consistent with Haiti's agricultural needs.
(b) Rural Community Development Agents. Courses of two years' duration
(grades 10 and 11) would be provided to an average of 50 students per year,
which would result in an annual output of 25 rural development agents. Most
would be employed by ONAAC, which would thus be able to increase its field
staff over a 20-year period from the present 66 to 550 in 1996, or one per
section rurale. During the first year of study, students would pursue the
same course of studies as agricultural extension agents. Entrance require-
ments for the community development program would be the same as those for
extension agents, except that preference would be given to those with previous
experience in rural development work.
(c) Short-Term Training. Short-term training courses would be provided
to rural farm leaders and artisans in the areas served by the First IDA Rural
Development Project (Credit 675-HA) and by other development projects in the
North, Artibonite and Central Regions, as well as to extension and community
development agents and teachers to upgrade their skills. About 25 student
places would be permanently available for short-term training courses and 50
additional spaces would be available for such courses during the period when
students undergo their six-month field training.
3.14      Administratively the school would be under the DARNDR, but a coun-
cil with representation by all interested organizations, including ONAAC,
will be responsible for overall school policy. The Government gave assur-
ances that (a) the council will be established by April 1, 1979,- (b) the
DARNDR and ONAAC will jointly appoint the school director and sub-director;
and (c) officials of ONAAC, the DARNDR, and the school will implement a
tracer system to monitor the employment conditions of graduates and thus
assist in revision of programs and curricula (para. 3.23(d)).
Curriculum Development
3.15      This project item continues financial support initiated under the
First IDA Education Project for the activities of the Consultative Committee
and Curriculum Unit (para. 2.11). The Curriculum Unit, which reports to the
Consultative Committee and receives guidance from it, is expected to: (a) re-
view and determine the appropriate length of the primary education course;
(b) review studies and make proposals regarding language policy in primary
education; (c) ensure the integration of appropriate health, nutrition and
population concepts into the curriculum; (d) jointly with the Consultative
Committee and the IPN plan teacher training programs to be implemented by IPN;



- 19 -
(e) ensure that new curricula and syllabi are compatible with educational
radio programs and the educational materials program; and (f) propose a means
of providing accelerated primary equivalency programs for overaged children.
3.16      Specifically this project item would finance the zosts of salaries
of five Curriculum Unit members for a period of about three years; honoraria
to members of the Consultative Committee for attendance at meetings; up to
four seminars per year to introduce new curricula and syllabi to teacher
trainers, teachers, and school directors; local consultants to the Curriculum
Unit; and printing of draft programs and syllabi. During negotiations the
Government gave assurances that (a) members of the Curriculum Unit will be
acceptable to IDA; (b) the Curriculum Unit will implement the activities
described in para 3.14 on the basis of a timetable acceptable to IDA; and
(c) the Government and IDA will undertake an annual review of the activities
of the Curriculum Committee and Curriculum Unit, which will include, inter
alia, an evaluation of the previous year's work and the proposed agenda for
the following year's work and consideration of the possible integration of
the Curriculum Unit into the IPN.
In-Service Training Programs
3.17      This project item would support in-service teacher training programs
designed to assist in the implementation of new curricula and syllabi and to
improve academic skills and teaching methodology as follows:
(a) Normal School Equivalency Training. About 400 teachers who have
completed at least six years of secondary schooling would take summer courses
over a three-year period, after which they would receive a normal school
equivalency degree (Certificate of Primary School Aptitude) and an appropriate
salary increment. This course would supplement an existing course for about
200 rural teachers being supported by UNICEF.
(b) Regular In-service Training. About 2,100 teachers would receive
in-service training to develop basic academic skills, introduce the new
curriculum, and improve teaching methodology. Training would be provided
to groups of up to 20 teachers for one afternoon a week during the school
year over a two-year period. Training during the school year would be rein-
forced by a radio education program which would set the theme or topic to be
discussed. School inspectors and "pedagogical assistants" paid by the IPN
would monitor these seminars during the school year as part of their regular
duties. The seminars would be supplemented by two-week, intensive courses
during the summer. A longer summer course equivalent to the weekly seminars
would be provided to about 500 teachers living in isolated areas without access
to radios and unable to attend local seminars. Courses (a) and (b) would reach
about two-thirds of all public primary school teachers.
(c) Crash Courses in Book Utilization. All teachers up to grade two
whose classes would receive textbooks under the project (paras. 3.18 to 3.20)
would receive two-week courses in textbook utilization during the summers
of 1981 and 1982, before distribution of the textbooks. The number of



- 20 -
teachers to be trained, currently estimated at 3,500, would depend on enroll-
ment growth and teacher/student ratios. Tlls program would also be supple-
mented by radio broadcasts during the school year.
(d) Training of Seminar Leaders. About 80 pedagogical assistants and
school inspectors would receive special short-term training to enable them
to assist in in-service training and to monitor seminars held during the
school year.
3.18      This project item would finance all costs associated with in-service
training programs, including travel and per diem of participants, materials,
and payment to teacher trainers for planning and directing vacation courses,
as well as the purchase of ten vehicles and educational materials and equip-
ment for about 30 urban and rural sub-regional inspectorates, the IPN and the
Center for Applied Linguistics. During negotiations the Government gave
assurances that after completion of the study on conditions of service of
service of teachers (para. 2.25) and no later than by October 1, 1979, the
Government will implement new terms and conditions of teacher service which
will provide adequate incentives for teachers to seek both certification
and regular in-service training. Implementation of these terms and conditions
of service would be a condition of disbursement for in-service teacher training
programs undertaken after October 1, 1979.
Educational Materials
3.19      This project item would support the initiation of a national
program to provide appropriate teaching/learning materials to primary school
children. Because of needs for curriculum revision, review of issues concerning
the language of instruction in primary schools, and writing and testing of new
textbooks, full implementation of a national textbook program would require up
to a decade. During the five-year project implementation period, the Govern-
ment would complete the writing and testing of educational materials for
grades 1-4, but would distribute books on a nation-wide or large-scale basis
to grades 1-2 only. Implementation would be on a phased basis, with a full
year spent in evaluating existing textbooks and writing new ones for each
grade, followed by an additional year of experimentation and a third year of
large-scale distribution. This approach would ensure that children receiving
textbooks in upper grades would have common learning experiences based on ex-
posure to the same or similar textbooks in earlier grades. The impact of the
textbook program would be carefully evaluated (para. 3.22).
3.20      During implementation of this project item existing textbooks would
be evaluated and revised or new textbooks written. Books would then be tested
and further revised during a one-year period prior to their general distri-
bution. Private enterprises would print and distribute books to urban and
rural regional inspectorates, which would then distribute them to individual
schools. Special short-term courses in book utilization would be provided to
teachers (para. 3.17(c)) whose classes receive books.
3.21      Specifically, the project would finance the writing and testing of
educational materials for grades 1-4, the printing and distribution on



- 21 -
a national basis of materials for grades 1-2, and the costs of administering
the program. To permit experimentation and rapid revision, books would be
soft cover and only up to 64 pages in length; three to four such small books
would be provided to each student. On this basis, it is estimated that
up to 800,000 books would be distributed during the project implementation
period (Table T-10). During negotiations the Government gave assurances that
(a) by October 1, 1978, the Consultative Committee and the IPN will jointly
prepare a plan, satisfactory to IDA, for the implementation of the educational
materials component of the project, including organizational, staffing, and
financial aspects; (b) Implementation of this component will begin by April 1,
1979; and (c) teachers whose classes receive books will receive special
training courses acceptable to IDA to ensure appropriate classroom utilization
of books. A condition of disbursement for printing and distribution of text-
books on a nationwide scale would be the completion of a study on linguistic
issues in primary education (para. 3.22) and the establishment of an official
policy on the language of instruction in primary schools.
Evaluation and Studies
3.22      This project item would support the implementation of the following:
(a) Evaluation. The effectiveness of teacher training, radio educa-
tion, and book distribution implemented under the project in introducing
new curricula and in improving primary school student achievement and reten-
tion would be evaluated by the IPN and an external university or research
institution.
(b) Language Study. The appropriate respective roles of the Creole
and French languages in primary education would be examined, in order to
assist the Government in determining a language policy for primary education.
The study would include implementation of an experiment in the teaching of
of basic first, second and third grade subjects in Creole. The Center for
Applied Linguistics and the IPN, with outside technical assistance, would
implement the study.
(c) School Construction Study. This study would determine ways of fur-
ther reducing primary school construction costs through possible use of on-
site building materials, fuller community participation, and/or a less costly
school design. The study would be undertaken by local and foreign specialists
working with Project Unit staff, and would be initiated early in the project
period. Up to five prototype buildings might be constructed.
(d) Radio Transmission Survey. This study, to be undertaken by local
and/or foreign consultants to Radio Nationale, would measure the strength
of Radio Nationale's signal, and where the signal is weak, high sensitivity
radios would be provided to primary schools. The study would also provide
basic data to the Government on needs for additional or more powerful
transmitters for night coverage when, because of atmospheric conditions,
reception is reduced by at least one-third.



- 22 -
Technical Assistance
3.23      In order to ensure that the objectives of the project are met,
20-1/2 man-years of specialist services and nine man-years of fellowships
would be provided, as follows:
(a) Curriculum Development and Teacher Training (5 man-years). Three
man-years to assist in the revision of primary school curricula and syllabi
and to advise on programs of teacher training, radio education, and educa-
tional materials production; one man-year to assist in the integration of
health, nutrition and population concepts into primary and teacher training
curricula and syllabi and into non-formal education programs associated with
project schools; and one man-year to continue assistance financed under the
First Education Project in organizing the teacher training schools and to
prepare in-service training programs included in the proposed project.
(b) Educational Materials (3 man-years). Two man-years to assist in
evaluating existing educational materials and in writing and testing of new
or revised materials; and one man-year to assist in producing and distribut-
ing educational materials and to help set up an appropriate administrative
mechanism,for a continuing national book program.
(c) Radio Education (5-1/2 man-years). Three man-years to assist in
management of all aspects of radio program preparation and production (this
specialist is already in the field under a UNDP program); two man-years
to assist in preparation and production of specific programs directed to
primary school students and teachers; one-half man-year to assist in
developing equipment lists for Radio Nationale and in installing equipment.
(d) Vocational and Agricultural Education (3-1/4 man-years). One
man-year to assist in the implementation of the new curriculum and syllabi
in project vocational schools and in school management and administration;
one quarter man-year to develop equipment lists for project vocational
school; and two man-years to assist in curriculum development, management,
and administration of the project agricultural school, and establishment
of a tracer system.
(e) Educational Administration (2 man-years). To assist in setting up
mechanisms for transfer of rural education from the DARNDR to the DEN.
(f) Prolect Unit (3/4 man-year). To assist in preparing equipment
and furniture procurement documents and in improving procurement procedures.
(g) Pre-investment Studies (I man-year). To assist in school mapping
aLnd related studies for preparation of a possible Third Education Project.
(h) Fellowships (9 man-years). Two man-years for short-term visits
to neighboring countries by members of the Curriculum Unit and Consultative
Committee to study innovations in primary and basic education; two man-years
for the directors of project agricultural and vocational schools to study
administration; and five man-years to Radio Nationale to strengthen the



- 23 -
skills of its technical and production personnel. All specialists and their
terms of reference and conditions of service would be acceptable to IDA and
candidates for the fellowship programs would be selected in consultation
with IDA.
3.24      UNDP has programmed financing for 8 of the above 20-1/2 man-years,
in curriculum development, materials preparation, and radio education manage-
ment, and a memorandum of intention to negotiate a technical assistance program
including these experts was signed by the Government, UNDP, and UNESCO on
January 31, 1978. The technical assistance personnel selected for the proposed
project and their terms of reference should be acceptable to the Association.
Since other agencies are also planning technical assistance, the Government,
IDA and the agencies concerned should regularly review the needs and supply of
technical assistance and upon mutual agreement revise the above program. Any
savings made in technical assistance resulting from grant support by other
agencies would be utilized for other project-related purposes acceptable to
IDA.
IV. COSTS AND FINANCING OF THE PROJECT
Cost Estimates
4.01      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$12.67 million,
as summarized below. Further details by type of expenditure and project item
are provided in. Table T-11.



- 24 -
Gourdes (millions) a/       US$ (millions)
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total
Primary Education
Physical Facilities
Rural Basic Schools           5.50    5.15   10.65   1.10    1.03         2.13
Urban Primary Schools         2.00    1.70    3.71   0.40    0.34        0.74
Teacher Training College    1.45    1.15    2.60   0.29    0.23          0.52
Radio Education
Production Facilities       1.05    1.95    3.00   0.21    0.39        0.60
Software
Curriculum Development        0.56    0.06    0.62   0.11    0.01        0.12
In-Service Training           2.56    0.95    3.60   0.53    0.19        0.72
Educational Materials         1.59    1.36    2.95   0.32    0.27        0.59
Evaluation and Studies        0.27    0.85    1.10   0.05    0.17        0.22
Vocational and Agricultural
Education
Vocational School
Port-au-Prince              1.85    2.20    4.05   0.37    0.44        0.81
Vocational School,
Cap Haitien                 1.15    1.60    2.75   0.23    0.32        0.55
Vocational Training
Center                      0.23    0.18    0.41   0.04    0.04        0.08
Agricultural Training
School                      1.70    1.69    3.39   0.34    0.34        0.68
Technical Assistance               0.30    5.30    5.60   0.06    1.06         1.12
Project Administration             0.65    0.30    0.95   0.13    0.06         0.19
Base Costs b/                     20.90   24.45   45.35   4.18    4.89         9.07
Contingencies
Physical                      1.90    2.15    4.05   0.38    0.43        0.81
Price                         6.70    7.25   13.95   1.34    1.45        2.79
Total Project Costs               29.50   33.85   63.35   5.90    6.77    12.67
a/   Differences due to rounding.
b/   Prices estimated as of January 1, 1978.



- 25 -
4.02      Civil Works.  Estimated construction costs for primary schools were
derived from recent school building contracts under the First IDA Education
Project and adjusted for expected price escalation during 1977. All schools
would be one-story buildings designed to make maximum use of local materials
and reflect economical norms and standards. Urban schools would have elec-
tricity and toilets, while rural schools would have only latrines. Thus the
estimated unit costs of construction r2nge from about US$77/m of the gross
floor area in rural schools to US$97/m for urban schools. A study (para.
3.22) would be undertaken to further reduce construction costs through the
possible use of on-site building materials such as stone, fuller community
participation, and/or simpler school designs, especially in areas of difficult
access. Any savings in construction costs which may result from the applica-
tion of the findings of the study would be used for other project-related
purposes acceptable to IDA.
4.03      Construction costs for the project technical, vocational, and teacher
training schools range from US$97/m of gross floor area to about US$110.
Construction costs of 2Radio Nationale studios, including soundproofing, are
estimated at US$261/m , based on costs of construction of the main building
completed in December 1976 and adjusted for price escalation during 1977. An
additional cost factor ranging from 2% to 16% has been added for schools
located outside Port-au-Prince to cover transportation costs.
4.04      Furniture and Equipment.  Furniture and equipment lists of the
primary and teacher training schools are based on lists developed for the
First IDA Education Project and are costed accordingly. Costs of furniture
and equipment for the vocational and agricultural schools are based on recent
costs and lists for similar institutions financed under Bank/IDA projects and
appropriately adjusted to the Haitian context. Equipment costs of Radio
Nationale are based on international standards for radio equipment. Imported
equipment and furniture would be exempt of customs duties and are costed
accordingly.
4.05      Other Items.  In-service teacher training costs are based on actual
costs of ongoing programs in Haiti and average US$183 per graduate of the
upgrading courses to be offered over a two-year period and US$381 per graduate
of the normal school equivalency courses provided over a three-year period.
Costs of the educational materials component are based on estimated costs
of contracts with authors, testing, production, and distribution. Printing
costs of educational materials are based on informal quotations by local and
foreign publishers and average US$0.25 for a softcover 64-page book. Imported
paper and ink would be exempt of custom duties. Costs for curriculum develop-
ment include salaries, honoraria, and seminars during the project period. The
costs of technical assistance specialists have been estimated at US$50,000 per
man-year. Fellowships for studies abroad have been estimated at an average of
US$10,000 per man-year.
Contingency Allowances
4.06      Physical contingencies are estimated at 5% for in-service teacher
training, technical assistance, and project administration and 10% for all
other items. Expected annual price increases for local costs of all items are
estimated as follows:  12% in 1978, 10% in 1979/80, and 8% in 1981/82.



- 26 -
Recent increases in costs of imported items in Haiti have been higher than
average world-wide inflation. On this basis, annual increases in foreign
costs of construction, site works, and professional services are estimated
as follows: 15% in 1978, 12% in 1979/80, and 10% in 1981/82. Increases in
the foreign costs of other iteJms are estimated at: 10% in 1978 and 8% in
following years. Physical contingencies represent 9% of base costs, and price
contingencies, 28% of base costs plus physical contingencies. Total contingen-
cies would be US$3.6 million, or 28% of total project costs.
Foreign Exchange Component
4.07      On the basis of experience with the First Education Project, the
foreign exchange component is estimated at 30% for site works, 45% for con-
struction, 95% for equipment, 70% for furniture, 95% for technical assistance
and fellowships, 10% for professional services, teacher training, and curricu-
lum development, 75% for studies, 45% for educational materials, and 25% for
project administration. The total foreign exchange component of the project
is estimated at US$6.8 million, or 54% of total project costs.
Financing of Project Capital and Recurrent Costs
4.08      The proposed project would require US$2.2 million in counterpart
funds over the five-year period of implementation (1977-82), as follows:
US$ Million    Percent
IDA Credit                        10.00          79
UNDP Grant                          .47           4
Government Contribution            2.20          17
Total                             12.67         100
During this period all educational investments supported by external agencies
will require about US$7.5 million in counterpart funds (para. 2.27). Given
recent government efforts to mobilize resources for the implementation of
priority investment programs, this requirement would be within the capacity of
the government to finance.
4.09      The proposed project would increase recurrent expenditures for educa-
C'nn by about 1.5% per year. This figure would be one-seventh of the expected
owth rate in overall recurrent expenditures for education of 10.7% per year
(in constant 1977 dollars), which would occur through implementation of Gov-
ernment plans for enrollment expansion, improved quality, and higher teacher
salaries (see Table T-7). Since over the same period total budgetary recur-
rent expenditures would grow at between 3.5% to 6%, education's share of total
recurrent expenditures would rise from 13% in 1977 to a maximum of 17% in 1982
(para. 2.27). This would not be excessive and would be similar to experience
during 1973-76. Nevertheless, the estimates of increases in overall Government
budgetary expenditure of 3.5 to 6.0% are based on an assumption that the Gov-
ernment will take fiscal measures to increase budgetary revenues and to trans-
fer non-budgetary revenues to the budget. As under the First IDA Education



- 27 -
Project, the Government and IDA will jointly review educational reform plans
and programs, overall policies, and the availability of funds for carrying out
proposed programs, with particular emphasis on needs for increases in edu-
cational expenditures to ensure adequate teachers' salaries and sufficient
educational materials for improved quality. During negotiations the Govern-
ment gave assurances that it will provide sufficient funds to meet recurrent
costs required to operate project schools.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Project Administration
5.01      The Project Unit established under CONADEP to implement the First
IDA Education Project would also be responsible for overall administration
of the proposed project and for liaison with other relevant Departments and
parties and the Association. While the core staff of a project director/
engineer, educator, accountant, and procurement specialist has performed well
in implementing the First Education Project, the demands of the proposed
project would require appointment of additional personnel, including a deputy
director in charge of educational matters, an architect, accountant, and
procurement officer. Costs for additional equipment for the Project Unit
and key project personnel, as well as for a rural community development agent
and four assistants (who have been organizing communities for site and school
preparation under the First Project and would continue under the Second
Project), all amounting to US$190,000 (net of contingencies), have been
included under project administration.
5.02      The Consultative Committee and Curriculum Unit would be responsible
for ensuring the full integration of curriculum development, teacher training,
radio education, and materials production activities. In addition, (a) the
high level representatives of the Ministries of Education and Agriculture
selected under the First IDA Education Project to advise on educational aspects
of implementation and for liaison with the Project Unit would continue under
the proposed project; and (b) Radio Nationale would appoint an official respon-
sible for aspects of implementation related to radio education and for appro-
priate liaison with the Project Unit.
Prolect Implementation Fund
5.03      As under the First IDA Education Project, to ensure the timely avail-
ability of counterpart funds for the execution of the project, a project imple-
mentation fund would be established.  The fund would have an initial deposit of
US$200,000, and the Government would make subsequent quarterly advance payments
as needed. Withdrawals from the Credit Account would be credited directly to
the fund. This fund would be audited on an annual basis by auditors acceptable
to IDA. A condition of credit effectiveness should be the establishment of
this fund.



- 28 -
Implementation Schedule
5.04      To assist in the effective and timely execution of the project, an
implementation schedule has been prepared (Charts C-5 and C-6). This schedule
was discussed during negotiations and it was mutually agreed that the schedule
would be updated on a regular basis and used as a project implementation and
monitoring tool.
Professional and Technical Services
5.05      Consultants acceptable to IDA would be appointed for architectural
design and construction supervision, and for assistance in preparing and eval-
uating civil works. With the assistance of consultants, the Project Unit
would expand the agreed project implementation schedule, and would determine,
inter alia: (a) educational standards and specifications for preparing
designs; (b) basic construction standards and building materials to be used;
and (c) the unit costs for the project institutions. Technical review committees
established under the First Education Project would continue to analyze and
review architectural designs and equipment and furniture lists and specifica-
tions and certify that they meet economic and functional standards and costs
and the educational objectives of each project institution.
Sites
5.06      The sites selected for the teacher training school, secondary
vocational schools, vocational training center, and the educational radio
studios are acceptable to IDA and owned by the Government. Sites for 8 rural
and 6 urban primary schools and for the agricultural training school have been
tentatively selected by the Government for review by IDA. Additional sites
would be selected in accordance with criteria acceptable to IDA and acquired
as and when needed in order to avoid any delays in construction.
Maintenance
5.07      During negotiations the Government gave assurances that it will
adequately maintain and repair all equipment, furniture and buildings provided
under the project. To that effect, the annual budget for each completed pro-
ject school will include a sum of funds equivalent to at least 1% of the
replacement cost of construction during the first four years of school opera-
tion and 1.5% thereafter (except for rural primary schools, for which main-
tenance of buildings will be a community responsibility) and 5% of the cost
of equipment, for maintenance of physical facilities.
Procurement
5.08      Contracts for the procurement of furniture, equipment, textbook
printing, and bulk purchase of building materials and paper would be awarded
on the basis of international competitive bidding, in accordance with Bank/IDA
Guidelines, except that: (a) furniture and equipment which cannot be grouped
in packages of at least US$25,000 or more would be procured on the basis of
local procedures acceptable to IDA; and (b) if feasible, furniture for the



- 29 -
vocational training center would be manufactured by students of the INFP
and CPFP. Procurement under the above procedures would not, in aggregate,
exceed US$230,000, or about 10Z of the total cost of furniture and equipment.
Domestic furniture and equipment manufacturers, tendering under international
competitive procedures, would be allowed a preferential margin of 15% of the
CIF costs of competitive imports or the current applicable import duty, which-
ever is lower. Civil -orks contracts, with the exceptions noted below, would
be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding in accordance with local proce-
dures acceptable to IDA. Since project civil works are of small size and
physically dispersed, foreign contractors are not expected to participate,
but they would not be precluded from bidding. Site development for rural
basic schools would be undertaken by local communities under Project Unit
supervision. In addition, as an experiment, up to five rural basic schools
in areas of difficult access would be constructed under "force account" methods
using community labor and on-site building materials. Estimated amounts under
the various procurement categories are: international competitive bidding,
US$3.1 million; local competitive bidding, US$5.1 million; force account for
construction, US$.4 million. The remainder of the project (US$4.1 million)
would be under negotiated contracts for professional and technical services
and reimbursements for approved activities undertaken by Government agencies.
Disbursements
5.09      The proposed IDA credit of US$10.0 million would cover 79% of total
project costs. UNDP would finance about US$470,000 for technical assistance,
or about 4% of project costs. The credit would be equivalent to 100% of for-
eign costs other than those financed by UNDP and 63% of local costs, and
would finance: (a) 100% of foreign expenditures for imports or 85% of expen-
ditures for locally-procured equipment, furniture and building materials;
(b) 100% of total expenditures for technical assistance (other than that
portion financed by UNDP), studies, curriculum development, project adminis-
tration, educational materials and in-service teacher training; and (c) 64%
of total expenditures for site works, construction, and professional services.
The credit would be disbursed over a period of five years (Table T-12). Retro-
active financing of US$200,000 in respect of expenditures since September 1,
1977, for professional services, studies, technical assistance, and project
administration would be provided.
VI. BENEFITS, RISKS., UNCERTAINTIES, AND EVALUATION
Benefits
6.01      The proposed project offers an opportunity to continue and expand
the First IDA Education Project objectives of correcting inequalities of
access, improving the relevance and increasing the internal efficiency of
primary education; and to initiate assistance to expand the supply and improve
the productivity of key skilled and semi-skilled industrial workers, agricul-
tural technicians, and farm leaders. Full implementation of these goals would



- 30 -
assist in making the Haitian educational system an instrument more fully
capable of providing the population with basic knowledge and skills needed for
improved productivity and better living conditions.
Risks and Uncertainties
6.02      The technical risks in implementing the primary and basic education
component of the proposed project are moderate, since the project builds on
institutions such as the IPN, the Curriculum Unit, the radio education group,
and the Project Unit, which have already successfully initiated key programs.
Risks in the educational materials program, which would be an innovation in
Haitian public education, would be minimized through provision of technical
assistance and through establishment of a feasible implementation schedule
based on careful preparation and testing of new materials. While new primary
curricula and syllabi have not yet been written, the Curriculum Unit has
proved its capability through completion and implementation of the new teacher
training curriculum. In order to further reduce project risks and uncertain-
ties, the Government gave assurances that it will initiate action by October 1,
1978 to implement its decision to transfer rural education to the DEN. The
technical risks in implementation of the vocational and agricultural component
of the project are also moderate because of demonstrated cooperation between
the INFP and the DEN and between ONAAC and the DARNDR and because of ongoing
complementary technical assistance to be provided by IDA, ILO and CIDA (paras.
2.19 and 2.22).
6.03      The main risk for project implementation concerns the need for
adequate financing of primary teachers' salaries and of operating budgets for
project vocational and agricultural schools. Under the proposed project, this
risk would be minimized by covenants regarding teacher salaries and operating
costs. The problem of inadequate expenditures for recurrent costs is not
confined to education, but also affects high priority development programs in
agriculture, health, transportation, and the like. Its long-term resolution
depends on continued Government implementation of fiscal reform measures.
Evaluation
6.04      Because of the innovative nature of the primary school component,
an external institution working jointly with the IPN would evaluate the
effectiveness of teacher training, radio education, and educational materials
programs in improving primary school relevance and efficiency. In addition,
the IPN and Radio Nationale would regularly conduct informal evaluations to
improve their programs and the vocational and agricultural schools would
initiate tracer systems designed to follow up on graduates' work activities
and to assist accordingly in program and curriculum revision. Within six
months of the closing of the Credit Account, Government would prepare a
Project Completion Report.



- 31 -
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations the Government gave assurances on the following:
(a)  utilization, staffing, and average class size of project
primary schools (para. 3.05);
(b)  action to initiate the transfer of rural primary and teacher
education to the DEN (paras. 3.05 and 6.02);
(c)  utilization of a common curriculum and employment of graduates
of the project teacher training college (para. 3.06);
(d)  transfer of the radio education service from DARDNR to Radio
Nationale and the expected minimum number of hours of educa-
tional broadcasts by 1981 (para. 3.08);
(e)  responsibility of INFP to develop curriculum and train
teachers for project vocational schools, employment of
trained teachers by these schools, provision of adequate
funds for their operation, and preparation of a tracer
system for these schools (para. 3.11);
(f)  preparation of a plan for operation of the project voca-
tional training center (para. 3.12);
(g)  administration of the project agricultural school and
preparation of a tracer system for this school (para.
3.14);
(h)  terms of reference and membership of the Curriculum Unit
and annual review of its activities (paras. 3.15 and 3.16);
(i)  preparation and implementation of a plan for the educational
materials component of the project and provision of train-
ing courses to teachers whose classes would receive books
(para. 3.21);
(j)  terms of reference and selection of technical assistance
specialists and fellowship recipients (para. 3.23);
(k)  annual review with IDA of Government educational plans and
programs (para. 4.09);
(1)  appointment of additional Project Unit staff (para. 5.01);
(m)  appointment of representatives from the DEN, DARNDR, and
Radio Nationale for liaison with the Project Unit (para.
5.02);



- 32 -
(n) continuation of technical review committees established
under the First Education Project (para. 5.05);
(o) selection of project school sites (para. 5.06);
(p) provision of adequate funds for maintenance and operating
expenses of project schools (paras. 4.09 and 5.07); and
(q) preparation of a Project Completion Report (para. 6.04).
7.02      A condition of effectiveness of the Credit Agreement would be the
establishment of a project implementation fund with an initial deposit of
US$200,000 (para. 5.03).
7.03      The following would be conditions of disbursement for the respective
project items:
(a) for civil works, furniture and equipment procurement for
radio education, evidence that satisfactory arrangements
has been made to upgrade Radio Nationale's transmission
capacity to 20 kw (para. 3.08);
(b) for the in-service teacher training programs undertaken
after October 1, 1979, implementation of improved terms
and conditions of teacher service (para. 3.17); and
(c) for nationwide printing of textbooks, the completion of
a study and establishment of a national policy on the
language of instruction in primary education (para. 3.21).
7.04      The project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA credit of US$10.0
million to the Republic of Haiti.



TABLE T-1
HAITI
Second Education Project
Creation of Employment in Manufacturing-./, FY1973-1976
Other                                               Skilled                   Total
FY        Managers      Office Workers      Professionals       Technicians      Workers      Others     Workers
1972/73         78             243                  11                72            2,332       3,408       6,144
1973/74        90              152                  10                72            1,908       1,916        4,148
1974/75       100               120                 19                98              691         827        1,855
1975/76         74              127                  4                37              881       1,718        2,841
Average
Annual Demand
(1972-76)      86              158                  11                70            1,453       1,967        3,747
Source: Ministry of Industry and Commerce
1/ Only those enterprises which applied for benefits under the
industrial promotion laws (1963, 1969).
December 15, 1977



TABLE T-2
HAITI
Second Education Project
Manpower Requirements, 1985
('000 persons)
Administ.
Professionals  & Office       Sales    Agriculture   Skilled       Service
Total   & Technicians  Workers       Workers      Workers      Workers      Workers       Others
Employment
1950                  1,705.1        8.5          9.5         60.5       1,461.2       101.9         59.2          4.2
(100.0)     (0.6)        (0.6)        (3.5)        (85.7)       (5.9)        (3.5)        (0.2)
1971                  1,969.7       23.9         12.3        199.7       1,434.7       169.5        123.1          6.4
(100.0)     (1.2)        (0.6)       (10.1)        (72.9)       (8.6)        (6.3)        (0.3)
1985                  2,477.1       72.1         14.4        768.4      1,060.6        280.1        272.1          9.4
(100.0)     (2.9)        (0.6)       (31.0)        (42.8)      (11.3)       (11.0)        (0.4)
Annual Requirements
(1971-1985)                 71.3       3.9          0.1         44.1          -1.4        11.5         12.8          0.3
Net       1              36.1        3.4          0.1         40.6         -27.6         7.9         10.6          0.2
Attrition -              35.2        0.5           -           3.5          25.3         3.6          2.2          0.1
Annual Supply
(1975/76)
Vocational Schools                                             0.4                       0.2          0.1
Technical Schools                    0.2
General Secondary                                 2.4
University                           0.3
Source: Population Censuses of 1950, 1971 and Mission estimates.
1/ Assuming that attrition rates would be 2.5X for professionals, technicians and skilled workers and 2.0% for the rest.
December 15, 19TT



HAT,T1
L-LE T-3
Second Education Project                                               Page 1 f 51
-_d,&jj2,,_jtj4jia1o1s (Cont.)
------------------------ -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
:1 TOTAL:%  OF PUBLIC :                      I :          1.      :AV,PRI,
GNP/ : S GNP                                                                  PRI,                                     :SEC
IC&FITAI DEVOTLDIPUBLIC i EDUCATION    JLITER- t PRI. 1COMPLE- tSTU- iSCH.TEACHiPROGRESS-: SEC. 18TU- I                                   I
I  AT    i Tn EDU.:  EXP. i RECURRENT    iACY             tENROLLiTION         iDENTSiSALARY INtION RATE sENROLL:DENTSiMIGHERs
I       INARKETe (PUBLICSDEVOTEDSEXP ALLOCATEDi  RATE $RATIO iRATE FORoPER    iRELA-'ON eFROM PRI.SRATIO IPER    tENROLLi
pop' SPRICESI EXP,    t  TO    t            TO:        t(% OF  t NET   IPRI.SCM,:TEACHo TO GNP/ :TO SEC.   : NEr  sTEACH- RATIOI
YR:MILLS.i (USS)i ONLY)  t  EDU. iPRI. 3EC. HI.IADULT3)t (Z)  SCYCLE(Z)IER    I CAPITA   t  (%)                             t CZ)  SER    I (z)  1
3                t           I         II                          I        I           I      s            t            I        I       t        I
I (0  83  (2$ 1  (3)    8  (4)  8              (5)       a (6)    8(7)  t   (a)    1 (9)3   (lo)    I (11)               IC12)  t(13) 1(14)  t
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ADVANCED
Z;;;7;           73    T,SE 4,410E         4.3      9.9      47G  2SC  200    99          96        93         26        2.0         99        51       19       6.00
CANADA           TZ  22,SE 6,199E          7.7    19.4       30    38    19      98       89        98         24        2.0         99        52       17       9.00
GERMANY F.RCP.TZ  62.OE 6,260E             4.?    14.2       ...  74** 26        99       91        99         33                    99        91       22      17.OOCY
JAPAN            71 109.7c 4,07.E          4.3   20.7        39    38    la      99       99D       99C        asc       2.0         99C       94D      eoc   ?.8.000
NETHERLANDS    72  13.SE S,250E            a's    tg,16    32    4S,19           99       95        9s         29        3,0         97        73       20      ii.00
NEW ZEALAND    73    3.0L 4,310E           5 ..?   .,.       39    24    29      99       99        99         a6                    99        67       19      24.00
NORWAY           72    4.0C S,960E         7.8    15.2       S9    21    13      99       99        98         20        1.9         99        7 6      14      11.00
SWEDEN           73    8.2E 1,240E         8,9    16,9       36    14    13      99       99        99         17                   go         65       1 9     3 0 . 0 0
U.K.             le  SS.9L 1,590E          6.3    12.7       ?6    39    22      98       99         ...       26        2.0                   63       17      11.00
U.S.A.           T? 2ti.9E 6,670E          6.0    IS.4       ...  73** 27        99       99        99         2su       2.0                   93       19U    29. 0 0
EURLIVE
WW             76    9.1  a,sqa          2.6    10,4       37    26    21      469      99        82D        3 1      2.0          70E       so       27      15.00
IRLLAND          72    3.1E 2,3a0E         slo    13.9D    43Y  41Y  14Y    98            97        99A        35       ...          95A       7 5      19       7.00A
PORTUGAL          75    9.6  1,630         4,4    t7.m       S2    27    13      70       96         Ss        2 1      3.u          7 o       2 9      14       7 .60
ROMANIA          7s  21.3  1,300           4.0      6.4      36    19    13      98       loix       ...       21       ...          98        49       22      1 0 . 0 0
SPAIN            71  3S.11 Z,490E          2,48  15.2A    49Y  22Y  ISY    94A            91A        ...       35A      ...                    29A      30       6.OOA
AFRICA
ZG-[--I;        77  16.9        99OG      7.5      ...      42    .,.  21       35       78X        45        39        4.0         55        abx      13       6.0U
BENIN            73    I.QL    120E        5.3    32.0       47    23    to      11       32xs       708       -ios     25.OB        43B        7 0     398      0.44CY
BOTSMANA          74    0.1      290       5.0    20.0       38    20    is      25       7OX        75        3s        S,o         24        13X      I a      0.30Y
BORiINDI          7 4   3.6       go       2's    19.90    4IR  4IR   12R    10           2ox        30?       38       10.0         14         2x      18       1.0
CAMEROON          73    7,IL    250E       5,9    20.0       3gy  29Y  IIY    ...         7 4        ...       91DY    ...                      9       23cy    0.9ucy
C.A.R.            70    I.TE    210E       4,ON  20.0        56    19            ...      64cy       2S        6SCY    ...           to         SCY    ?7HY    0.07Y
CHAD              75    4.OE    IOOE       3.0    10.0       78    ea            Is       29XBY    30          65BY    15,0           a         2XBY  3o         0.0tay
CUNGO(B)          7 4   1.1      470       6.0    19.3       40    32    21      so?    133X         63        63        6.0         48        33X      22       3.40
EGYPT            74  36.4        280       S.3               29    36    24      40       T4X        4S        40       ...          64        39X      28      11.00
E r H I 11 P I A  76  28.0       too       2.8    15.8       28    2s    10        7      21        ...        so        ...         63         6       3 4
GABON             73    0.5   1,960E       5,0    20.6       2s     9     It     ...    184XBY    25C          46C       5.0         ISA       20C      21C      1 :40cy
GAMBIA           76    0.5       170       ;. I    11.5      46    2s      b     10       27         90        33       ...          92        13       25
GHANA             71   9.6E    43CE        4.7   24.4DR  380  ISO  230    ...             56XCY    62          30cy    ...           14        lix      16CY    O:iBY
IVORY COAST   la    6.4L    46CE           6.3   24.7        278Y 338Y 13Y        9A      52         S7A       46       ...          ..,       I 0      25       1,20BY
KENYA            76   13.6       240       S.9    26.0       67    23 ,10        40       so?        60?       34        6. 0        30        16       27       1.0
LESLITHO          TS    1.2      149E    12.0p  23.0         49    to    20      40       Ss         so        92        7.ON        at        I 0      26       1.00
LIBERIA           7s    1.s      410       2,4    13.2       27    is    20      73       se         ...       35        2.0         ...       12       Zb       1.10AY
MADAGASCAR        74    8.6      ISO       3.2    22.1       St   24    2s       40       6ex        30        63       15.0         48         9x      26       I.DO
MALAWI            76    S,z      140       2,4    10.0       42    18    23      2S       56EX       17        52        a . 4       7o         4EX    20        0 .26CY
MALI             75    S.TF       9OF      4,2M  33.Or    45F  31F   18F    toF           22XF                 48F      9.5F         5oF        6X      21
MAURITANIA       70    1.3E    290E        4.5    21.0       ...  ...  ...    10          lsx                  22        ...         ...        3       24
MAURITIUS        76    0,91.   695         4.7    12.1       50    26      6     aoc      94         99        24        4.5          90       45       32       1.50
HUROCCO          74   16,3       340       5.0c  16.5        44    47      9     26?      54X        21        37                    3i        13X      21       2.00
NIGERIA          71  73.QL    3Z7F         3.2N  ...         49A  24A  ZOA    .,.         39xcy    ...         34cy      ...                    4       ?OCY    0.37cy
RWANDA           73    4.OE       SOE      3.2C  28.0D    ...  ". ....   23               52         ...       51        ...         ...        2       13       0.23CY
SENEGAL          71    4.9L    330E        4,ON  22.SDR  39A  42A    SA    10             3ax        ...       46        ...         ...       lix      25       1.71cy
SIERRA LEONE  73    2.9E    t9OE           3.4   23.4        31    36    30      Is?      34X        45        32        4.QE        68        13X      zi       0.53BY
SOMALIA           75    3.2      lob       3.70  10,80    490  160  19G    50?            34X        86        35       10.0         60          3      15       0.10
SUDAN            72   IS.ZL    230E        4.5    13.2       43    29    28       15      38         75        45        4.0         25        It       20       1.23Y
SWAZILAND        75    0.9       470       3.8      ---      39    31    19      so       73         7 1       38        3.8         51        24       22       1.01)
TANZANIA         74   14.4L    16.E        S.IN  17.0        36    1-1  12       63       44X        ...       49                     7         2       eic      0.3U
TUNISIA          73    S.SE    650E        6.3   23.4        37    43    la      55       72         81        4 J       6. 0        31        14       21       3.00
UGANDA            TO  119ZE    240E        S.2N  17.6CR  40Q  220  250    2SA             48XCY    ...         36                    14A         4XCY  21        0.588Y
UPPER VOLTA    72    S.AE         96E      4.0    23.9       6S    10      6       5      to         ...       45       18.0         20         2       23       0.01BY
ZAIRE            73  24.IE    ISOE         5,2CN 21.3C    54C   17C  29C    Is            63         38        44A       6.0         43         8       24       0.960Y
ZAMBIA           74    4,8       520       5,3    t4.2       34    18    16      43       sa         so        47        9 . 0       20        13       22       1.00
CENTRAL AMERICA AND THE CARIBBLAN
--- - ----       --- S"
;.;E    ;;;         ,   22.7       ST    25    12       89       86cy      65        29'        3.0        so         22CY    25       12.11CY
DOMINICAN REP,72    4.6E    650E           3.0    13.9       42    24    2a      51       so         17        54        3.OD        63         13.5    24       7.00
EL SALVAOnR    7S    3.SE    410E          3.6    23.8       61      5    22     608      bsc        ...       39cy       ...        39        13XC    ,ICY    4.3SBY
GUATEMALA        73    5.3E    560E        1.9    16.0       55    23    14      47       64         26        35        3,0         64          a      25       4.09Y
HAITI            76    4.7       200       1.0      8.0      61   21    it       209      2SF        13        56U       3.0         62         4        ...       0.7
HONDURAS         75    2.9       390       4.2G  tR.SG    62G  15G   19G    61E           78         30        35        3.0         80        It        1 7     4,00
JAMAICA          72    2.OL 1,190E         6.SY  19.7        33Y  22Y    TY    86        106xy       ...       52                              32XY       9      4 79Y
MEXICLI          70  57.9c 11090E          2,6      9.3      54    24    12      76       71         31        46                               19       '3      6 32CY
NICARAGUA                                                                                                                i:;         ;i,                2
74    2.0c    670E       2.5    14.2       61    13    13       57       65        21        37         2.0        93         17       24       7.00
TRINIDAD 9 T. 76    1.00 1,87SE            3,4N  10.80    SOE  2SE   13E    90C             fq 1     93        34        2.00        49        44       25         ...
SOUTH AMERICA
;;Z-l;7;          76    5.8      315F      5.0    17.SF    ... ...    ...    38            178       29D       24        SF                      4B      18D
BRAZIL           75 107.0  1,010           5,0    12.4       42E  ?OE    37E  64A          86G       ...       27CY       ...        ...       26G       15CY    6,OOB
CHILE            72   19.4E    830E        4,6Y  10.6AY  36Y  14Y  36Y            -      IIIXDY    ...         37BY       ...        ...       48XDY
COLOMBIA         70  23.IE    Sw           4.0    10.9       35    18    20       73       67        20        36         4.0        90         17       14       4.00
EC UA DOR        72    6.9E    480E        3,7    27.7C    459Y 4agY IOGY  69              72        ...       38                               111.     14       4 97BY
GUYANA           74    0.8       Soo       S.SN  14.70    47    35    14          83A      92X       19                                          2       24       1 00
PARAGUAY         74                                                                                            33
2.5      520       1.8    11.0       55    13    22      at       62         26        30        1.9         65        17        12      S.Ou
PERU             71  14,9E    74.E         4.S    24.1D    Se    2z    is         72       so        3a        39DY       3.0        70         30       23DY  12.00
VENEZUELA        73   11.6E 1,966E         4.6    19.9       300  26G  3SQ    ??A          at        ...       33         2.4                   33       ...    12.63CY
Dedember 22, 1977



TABLE T-3
Page 2 of 2
a  GNP/ I X GNP  IX  TOTALIX  OF PUBLIC I                  I        I          aPR!.  1AV,PRI,   I             I       alEC   I 
I       $CAPITA# DEVOTEDIPUILIC  i EDUCATION    tLITER- a PRI,  ICOMPLE-  WIU- i3CH,TEACHtPROSRE$3-i SEC. sSTU- i                          a
a       i  Ar  a TO EDU.1  EXP. a RECURRENT    sACY             IENRDLLITION       SDENTSISALARY INZION RATE jENROLLsDENT3tHIGHERs
I       IMARKETi  CPUBLICIDEVUTEDOEXP ALLOCATEDi  RATE :RATIO IRATE FORaPER   :RELATION sFR0M PRI.sRATIO tPER  aENROLLJ
a POP, iPRICESI EXP,    I  TO    a          TOa       sC% Of  a NET  zPRI.3CH,:TEACHt TO GNP/ ITD SEC,  t NET  :TEACH- RATIGa
YRIMILLS.1 (USS)i ONL Y)         EDU. aPRI. SEC. HI.iADULTS)i CX)  tCYCLE(%):ER    s CAPITA   I   MX                 s CX)  aER    a (X)   a
Ca) as  (2) I  (3)    a(4)  I             15)      a (6)    a (7)  a  (B)    a (9) i  (20)             (11I)    :(12)  tC13) c(14)
ASIA AND OICEANIA
AFGH,ANISTAN    T4  16.3       1I0                        39P  23P  16P    20        26X       24        41        5.0        78         80     21       1.00
BANG.LADESH     73  7b.ZE    lOSE        1,2    20,2........    23                   56X       ...       '18       ...        ...      230      28
CHINACTAIWANi 73  15,7E    AlOE          3.2    14.0    2i9   41   22        82      98C       94        '40      14.0        84       61E      26     20.OOC
INDIA           71 595,6E    140E       Z.60)' **         ......      ... 29         790       ...       el3A      ...        ..i      280      20AY    4.OOAY
INDONESIA       74 136F        220G    3.9F   11*oF    69   23    10         608     790       43        30       2.05       52        090      04      2.00
IRAN            73 133.3E 1,25@E        3.3    12.6      508   188   128   50        77        74A       32       S.OB       BOA       24       32      4.32CY
IRAU            72  l0,8E 1,1ISE        6.7    16.3DR....... 26                      61CY      ...       22        ...        ...      26XCY  26        6.28CY
JORDAN          73   2,6L   430E        7.0      A,8     52    Is   21       59      910       76        38        5.0       84        500      22      4. 00
KOREA           75  35.3       530      2.9    16.OR    65    33       2     920    3040       98        92       3.5         7 7      550      38      7.8
LEBANO)N        72    3,IL 3,OTOE       3.5    38,0      39    40    10      68      86        65        19       2.0        63        26U      25     23.0 0
MALAY31A        74  31,7       680      6,4    2R.0      44    31   21       60C     96F       90        32       4.40       8SF       414F     27F     3.0OAF
NEPAL           76  IZ.6F'   IIOF        I.!    Io.0     29    20    41      19      59        28        3 1      2.3        64        14       24      0.8
OMAN            72    0,7E 1,660E        2,7N   3,8      96      .   -       20      240       99        33       7.0         ...      0.40      9
PAKISTAN        75  69,0       ISSE      3,6    26.2     45   215   18    22         47X       50        3 9      2.0         I..      27X      18      60
PAPIJA N.G.     75   Z,6       410      5.6    16,1      38    16   24       32      SI?       73 P      31      13.0        90        120?    24       0.90?
PHILIPI-INE3   74  4l,4E    330E        2.5    14,9      73    25    1 2     ST     1040       ...       3 4     15.0         ...      460     ...   21.00
SINGAPURE       72   2.2L 2,24@E        3.1    36.2      44    3 1    IS     ISA     96Y       72A       33        ...       99A       57)'     24      8.25Y'
SYRIA           is   7,4       660      3,6    6,9       39    25    26      53      89        70        35       2. .0      92        4 5      20     12.00
THAILAND        73  4v.7E    $ICE       4.ONF 20.7F    65       9    15      82      870       93C       32       3.0 U      91C       2I0      24      2.00
TURKEY          72  37,9D   6000         ...    13.ODR .......2.050CY    ...                             340Y'     . ..      ..,       22xy    27DY'  5.318B'
YEMEN           73   6,AE   lIaSE       0.5    '1,0    ASP  21P  23P    10           050       I8        36       5.0        75         20      19      0.05BY
YEMEN P'.D.R.  72    1.6E    M2E        ?.3A  12.6       79    12      -     20      700       31        29      20.0        99        120      20      0.08AY
NUMBECR OF COUNTRIES3                    77     75      73   72    7 2     74       40        58       RI           55      58        a1       76       74
ANGE                                (0,5-  (3,8-   (25- (B-   (0-    15-         (20-     (17-      (19-       (3.8-    (7-       (.4-    (9-       (.01-
12.OP I  32.3)  96 0 521   401)   98)          1840)    99 I    63 I         25.0)   99)         75.0)  431       23.o)
@''ART1LESIUP('ER s                   5.2    22,2      55   321   22      75       87       75        46          8        80        29      26       6.0
ME D IAN                  9 40    18.0     45   23    is      50       72       s0        38a         5        63        16      23       2.00
LLOWER 1                  3.0    23,9      38    26    32     21       52        30       33          3        25         9      20        .9
SYMBOLS:...  DATUM UNAVA   ----LABLE-A:270 OR BEFOR --- C---             RRE-----PRICES-- SO-URCE-S:-------------
-MAGNITUDE NIL OR8 NEGLIGIBLE 5=1971                            NxGOP----
9 UkSTrIINABLE                      C=2972                       PmINCLUDING FOREIGN AID                     COLUMNait AND 2 WORLD BANK ATLAS
*INCLUDES PART-TIME STUDENTS DvI973                             GaCENTRAL GOVT. ONLY                                            OR IBRD MISSIONS
8*CIJYBINED WITH PRIMARY            L'197'1                      R'MINISTRY OF EDUCATION (MOE) ONLY                   3 TO 14 18R0 MISSIONS
**UNDER RLVIEW                      F:2975                       SxMOE AND STATE GOVT, ONLY                                      AND/DjR UNESCO
G.1976                       T*EXCLUDING CENTRAL GOVT,                                      STATISTICAL
U'PUBLIC ONLY                                                  YEARBOOK
VxINCLUDING PRIVATE EXPENDITURE
XcINCLUDING OVERAGED STUDENTS
YwUNESCO SOURCES
COMPARATIVE EDUCEATIUN DATA ARE USEFUL IN THE EVALUATION OF VARIOUS EDUCATION SYSTEMS AND ANALYSIS OF RELATIVE STAGES OF EDUCATIONAL
DEVELOIPMENT BETWEEN VARIOUS COUNTRIES, HUWEVER,ON THE BASIS UF THE PRESENT DATA,CROBS-NATIONAL COMPARISON SHOULD BE APPROACHED WITH
GREAT CAUTION. DATA PRESENTED IN THE ABUVE TABLE HAVE BEEN CULLECTED LARGELY BY THE IBANK MISSIONS FROM GOVERNMENT SOURCES, THE
REMAINDER ARE STAFF ESTIMATES OIR DATA FROM UNESCO. EFFORrS HAVE BEEN MADE TO STANDARDIZE DEFINITIONS AND wITHIN LimiTS, TO CHECK THE
ACCORACY OF THE DATA. NEVERTHELESS,SUCH DATA ARE STILL IMPERFECT IN SEVCRAL RESPECTS AND THE BANK IS WORKING TO IMPROVE THEM
PROGRESSIVELY (IN THE OICCASION IOF ITS OPERATIONAL WORK, IN THE USE OF THESE DATA, TWE FOLLOWING GUALIFICATIONS SHOULD BE ODRNE IN
MIND:
(01)EDUCATION' AS DEFINED IN THE TABLE INCLUDES ALL EDUCATION AND TRAINING, FORMAL AND NON-FORMALI
(I)IPPIMARY EDUCATIION REFERS TO EDUCATION AT THE FIRST LEVEL AND 'SECONDARY& EDUCATION REFERS TO ALL EDUCATION AT THE SECONDARY
LEVEL REGARDLESS OF TYPE (E,G, GENERAL, TECHNICAL, AGRICULTURAL) 2
(3)NLITERACY RATE3'(COL,b) ARE UFTEN OBTAINED FROM COUNTRY CENSUSES, IN MANYCOUNTRIES THEY ARE ONLY APPROXIMATIONS AND IT IS
DOUBTFUL THAT ANY uNIFO)RM DEFINlTiION OF 'LITERATE' HAS BEEN FOLLOWED CONSISrENrLYI
(4ImPUBLIC EXPENDITURE IN EDUCATION'(COL3,3,4 AND 51 REFER TO ALL CAPItAL AND RECURRENT EXPENDITURES DEVOTED TO EDUCATION BY
PUBLIC AND SUA31-PUBLIC AGENCIES;
(5)VENRULLMENT RATIIS3'(COLS 7, 12 AND 14) REFER TO SCHOOL YEAR AND MEAN THE PERCENTAGE OF ELIGIBLE CHILDREN ENROLLED FULL-TIME
IN THE APPROIPRIATE SCHOOIL, PUBLIC AND PRIVATE BY LEVEL, THEY ARE OFTEN SUBJECT TO A WIDE MARGIN OF ERROR IN THE DEVELOPING
CUUNTRIES OWING TO VARIAritiN IN THE ACCURACY OF BASIC DATACI.E. AGE-SPECIFIC POPULATION AND ENROLLMENTS). ENROLLMENT FIGURES
FREQUENTLY ARE HIGHER THAN THE NUMBER OF STUDENTS ACTUALLY IN SCHOOL. OVERAGED STUDENTS WHOSE INCLUSION IS INDICATED BY
FUOTNOTES ALSO CAN INFLATE THE RATIOS,



TABLE T-4
HAITI
Second Education Project
Public Primary School Teachers, 1975 and Projections for 1985
1975                  1985
Urban
Primary school enrollment                152,000              196,000
Teacher-student ratio                      1:39                  1:45
Teachers on Post                           3,900                 4,400
- Qualified                                975                 3,40o
- Unqualified                            1,925                1,000
Number of new teachers required                                    280/1
(annual 1975 - 85)
Annual output of teacher training            120                   360oL2
colleges
Rural
Primary school enrollment                129,000              232,000
Teacher-student ratio                      1:70                  1:50
Teachers on Post                           1,800                 4,600
- Qualified                                48o                3,900
- Unqualified                            1,320                   700
Number of new teachers required                                    480/1
(annual, 1975 - 85)
Annual output of teacher training             70                   38o/2
colleges
1/ Does not include needs for private school teachers or for replacement
of untrained teachers.
2/ Based on assistance to be provided by IDA and IDB.
December 15, 1977



TABLE T-5
HAITI
Second Education Project
Indicators of Public Primary School Efficiency, 1975 and Projections for 1985
Urban-'/                               Rural
1975              1985                19751985 
Percentage of entering students
- who complete 4th grade              77.0%             94.4%                14.4%            70.3%
- vho complete 6th grade              26.7%             78.2%                 2.4%            24.7%
School years to produce
- 4th grade graduate                   6.1                4.6                23.5              5.3
- 6th grade graduate                  22.3               7.8                 81.2             17.8
Promotion rates
Enfantine                                                               .24
Grade 1                          .77               .89                  .52              .80
Grade 2                          .74               .88                  .47              .80
Grade 3                          .65               .88                  .46              .80
Grade 4                          .64               .78                  .38              .40
Grade 5                          .69               .88                  .39              .80
Grade 6                          .50               .88                  .29              .80
Repetition rates
Enfantine                                                               .44
Grade 1                          .22               .10                  .34              .10
Grade 2                          .22               .10                  .31              .10
Grade 3                          .21                .10                 .30              .10
Grade 4                          .20               .10                  .32              .10
Grade 5                          .17               .10                  .39              .10
Grade 6                          .05               .10                  .45              .10
Dropout rates
Enfantine                                                               .32
GCrade 1                         .01                .01                 .14              .10
Grade 2                          .04                .02                 .22              .10
Grade 3                          .14                .02                 .24              .10
Grade 4                          .16               .12                  .30              .50
Grade 5                          .14                .02                 .22              .10
Grade 6                           .45               .02                 .26              .10
Urban data estimated.  Includes an unknown amount of transfers from rural and
private schools.
2/ Assumes gradual absortion of enfantine class into Grade 1.



0411!                                                                                            TfA3LE T-6
Sec.nd Education Prlect
?Pblit lln.->-l  Ononrasa tD uho Education Sector (n5 1976 -1961)
(US9 '000)
utoo.r1  9ltito.                                                                                                                  F1e1oS l8htitinn    Penlct  Total  nl976.77  0l977.78  F7i978-79  0Y1979-80  P01980-81
Aid    6htutita        tOa                  PanIod       Tot1l   N.tio-.1       Total   9tort-al       Total   Natio.-l   Total   N.liioIl          TOtal   Natt-oul   Total   N.tlo0  l
_a a o     ~     n        Cradi=c e   ira t       o       E a ourt   En  otr                                                        __   _ _ _  _   _ _ _  _ _  _ _ __     _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _
1. P        Un     f     CUr1i48
1.  Pilitcer   fOt Vc.          ScCT/
Stalaina     crt          FNe-a        0r5P                    X         1975-78        788       92          2Vd         B0         425       12
7.  Haiti- V inn. Wfgaa089                                                                                                                          7
2  ti. CoIA                             MOE                    X         1975-79     4,452       735          870        70          859       25
3.  P.dAgoin.i Aeia.otco   8NCC/            IT%/
(IPN)                     fta, u     M81E/15A                  X         1974-76     1.697      150                 --                --       --
4.  Err.l 6du-tito  PT08.S       UNI9C0F   mu3                    X         1976-79        696       --           210        -_                    --
5.  IDA/Haiti Finatl              1
Edwction Foji t             IDA       M,319E/       X                    1976-79      6,500   1,00           2J139       341       4,000      400           361      259
6.  I0tn..attd Rn.. L
d-taion           l          Di         m3          X                    1978-81    01,800   2,200              --       _ _   3,517          656        4,472       834         2,372        442      1.439      268
7.  Adlt EAdn, by iadio         0AS       0NIIA                   _x         1975-77         40      -_             30        --           10       --
S.  Xa0oi0O0.fi  Of nOon
AgrTnit- nol Faculty    C0I0            UE0                    X         1977-80      4h800   1.200            144        94        1,640      140        1,372      322         1,372        322      1,372      322
9.  Lborutnor   Eq4tpat
fot Ph8y-i.                C1116        UEi                    1         1974-77        101       a-            70        -            31      -_
10.  B.oieaa   Ed-cation        CIlA         Ur0                    X         1977-80        405       Ss           -_                     405       55
II. P8.03B0T 08080 STUDY
11   -IAJOanlion, Pd  Proj.   1021 3580)9- X                                197683    ii,o33Y/2,01ZJ                __         _       1,267      220        3,420      593         3,673         637    3.293        571
lot-I Icnocucfr                                                                      43,872   7.453          3,553       535       12.099   1,453         9,625   2,008           7,417      1,401    6,104       l,161
(I. Th-ond ico-dna)                                                                0219,360)737.265)       (17,765)  (2,925)    (60,495) (7,265)    (48,125)(10,040)           )37,085)   (8,260)  30,520)  (5,805
Y/mToht p-gr3    hAi.h prc,ido for tncbnicil .a..tit-ncn ct   clodad.
2/Cos.-  -otiautod tho-i0  80 1980-81.
1000CE  C009D0   and mlncio- C,ciatt-
DO ... b.. 13, 1977



HAITI
Second Education Prolect                                                     TABLE T-7
Recurrent Res..diture- on Public Educ-tion
by Level of Education and Exec.ting Agency
FY197134,    VFY1974175         FY1975176      FY1976/177     F19  I/82             Incre-ent:    FY1977 - FY1982 (G'000)
(G '000) (Z3  (G '000) (71   (G  000) (2000G '000) (%)  (G  '000) (%)   E.rolloent   Lower rtudente/   Quality   Implem.  of              Total
Increase    Teacher ratios   jmrovr       Sal. Scale   Increment
Prinary Education            19,297  (65)   19,858  (63)   21,514           24,408  (63)  43,523  (67)   +LI,783              + 2,068        + 3,700      + 1,572      +19,115
Urban (MOE)            11,982           12,097          13,393  (21)  15,537
Rural (MOA)             7,315           7,761            8,121          8,871
Secondary Ed.cation           6,428  (21)    7,233  (23)    7,484  (21)   8,244  (21)  12,898  (20)   + 3,809                                                        + 4,654
Geacral & Norcal            3,357  (11)    3,839  (12)    4.046  (11)   4,443  (11)   7,027  (11)  + 2,574                                                         + 2,584
Urban (MOE)             3,172           3,587            3,772          4,089                         + 2,462                                                   + 2,062
Rural (8OA)                185             252             274            354                         +   112                           +    10                 +
Vocational                  2.181   (7)    2,497   (8)    2,528   (7)   2,821   (7)   4,308   (7)  +   900                                                         + 1,487
Industrial (MOE)        1,717           2,034            2,064          2,357                         +   170                           +   571                 +   741
Agricultural (MOA)        463              463             463            464                         +   730                           +    56                 +   746
Technical                     890   (3)       897   (3)       910   (3)      980   (3)   1,563   (2)  +   335                               +   248                +   583
Industrial (MOE)           162             148             138            139
Agricultural (MOA)          89              89              89             89                         +   335                           +   248                 +   583
Health (MOH)               640             660             683            752
Higher Educatino  (UEH)       2,587   (9)    3,333  (10)    3,844   (11)  3,986  (10)   5,148   (8)   + 1.162                                                        + 1,162
Adm. and Others                 822   (3)       497   (2)    1,401    (4)  1,560   (4)   1,560   (2)
(MOE)                          822             497           1,236          1,386
(MOAg)                         --             ----             165            174
Radio Education (MOA/EN)       n/a             s/a              183    (1)    183    -    1,183   (2)                                         + 1,100
Adult Education (ONNAC)         530 (100)       588   (2)       588    (2)    588   (2)        588   (1)
Total
Recurrent Expenditure        29,724 (100)   31,509 (100)   35,014  (100) 38,969 (100)  64,900 (100)   +16,754                  + 2,060        + 5,545      + 1,572   +25,931
Source: Ministries of Education (MOE), Agriculture (NOA) and Health (MOH), Notional University, CONADEP, and Radio Netionale (RN).
Dc-ber 15, 1977



TABLE T-8
HAITI
Second Education Project
Projected Annual Enrollment and Output
of Project Institutions, 1985
Enrollment               Output
Rural Basic Schools (31)
- Basic education                         13,500                  2,700a/
- Non-formal education                     2,480o                  2,480o-
Urban Primary Schools (10)
- Primary education                        6,oooa/                   8ooa/
- Non-formal education                     1,000-                 1,000a
Teacher Training School                          240                     120
Secondary Vocational School,
Port-au-Prince                               416                     128
Secondary Vocational School,
Cap Haitien                                  260                      80
Vocational Training Center                        45                     8 0O 
Agricultural Training Center
- Extension Agents                           100                      50
- Community Development Agents                50                      25b/
- Farm Leaders and Others                  25 - 75                   500 -'
a/ Based on year-long programs of adult literacy training, radio
listening groups, and artisan training.
b/  Based on short-term courses about two weeks in length.
December 15, 1977



TABLE T-9
HAITI
Second Education Project
Projected In-School Radio Programming, 1981
Hours per Week (Excluding Rebroadcasts)!I
Course                                  Minimum                    Maximum
Basic Language (French)                              1                        1-1/2
Advanced Language (French)                           1                        1-1/2
Basic Study of the Environment                       1/2                      1
Advanced  Study of the Environment                   1/2                      1
Basic Mathematics                                    0                        1-1/2
Advanced Mathematics                                 0                        1-1/2
Hygiene Class                                        1/4                      1/4
Orientation and Discussion (An nou Kose-Lets Talk)1/4                         1/4
Teacher Training                                     1/2                      1
TOTAL, Original Programming                       4                        9-1/2
Total Broadcast Time (one repeat broadcast)       8                        19
Total Listening by Typical Student                2                         5
/ Actual broadcast times will be slightly less (e.g. 25 minutes per half-hour) to allow
for program transitions.
December 15, 1977



TABLE T-10
HAITI
Second Education Project
Estimated Number and Type of Textbooks to be Published, 1981-19827/
Number and Type
of Books         Number of Pages       Number of Students .    Number of Books
Class           per Student         in Each Book         in Public Schools       to be Distributed        Year
Enfantine      3 - Reading                32                   65,000                 195,000              1981
Writing
Arithmetic
Grade 1        4 - Reading                64                    80,000                320,000              1981
Writing
Arithmetic
Study of the
Environment
Grade 2        4 - Reading                64                   72,000                 288,000              1982
Writing
Arithmetic
Study of the
Environment
TOTAL                                                         217,000                 803,000
_/ Would be revised if the enfantine year is eliminated by 1981-82.



HAITI                                                                                                                 TABLE T-11
S.co.nd Education Prol-ct
Cost S     .   (USS' 000)
SC i V i 1  W 2 r k *                          P-fIs-                               Curric.    in          Edc-                   Fa7.;os                   Project baAC.I.
st.cdnnt   EtI           sit.                            Staff                             ston.                               Sevlo.P   Ser-ice       tionl                               elo,        Ad.in-           TiiC
Places    Ares (M )_'  Works   Acod-1tic   BootdiD       HoosioS   Studio.    Total        Fee,      hotuitre   Egionont   snt             Trt.ni.      i Mt.ri l.   Studi.s  Enerts    shi.            tmation     US500         Ot
PRI&N  EDUCATION                                             940.3    1.949.7      150.7       2         Z        2.815 5       306.6        372.0        635.9      125.0       581.5        590.0      215.0                                           .6415   28 207.5
Phy,sial FacLlities                 -                     240.3    1.949.7       150.7       240.0      234 S   2.815.5       306.6        372.0        492,9         .-                       -         -                                            3.   -  3,987.0  .19,935.0
R.ral Bs-ic So 1oola             3,000      17.090          79.8    1,321.2        -         182.4        -     1,583.4       158.9        233.6        158.9         -           -            -         -        -          -                        2,134.8   10,674.0
Urobn Prisrny Schools            9,000      4 841           73.1      488.7        -           -                  561.8        67.3         72.0         39.9                                              _ _    .          .                         741.0    3,705.0
Teach-r Trolnins Colle8e           Z40       1.026         52.2       139.8      150.7        57.6        .       400.3        48.0         31.2         36.4         _           -            _         *           *                                  515.9    2,579.5
Radio Edo-stion                     -          -            35.2       -           -           -        234.8     270.0        32.4         35.2        257.7         *           -           -          _        .          -                          595.3    2,976.5
Softeare Develo.nt                -                         _          -           -           -          -         -           -     _      -          143.0      125.0       581.5        590.0      215.0      -          -                        1.654,5    8.272.5
Corriclu  DS elops-t               -          .             .         .           -           .          _         _           .            .            .        125.0          -            -          _       _          _              _           125.0       625.0
I.-Servi.e Trsning                  -          .             -         -           -           -          -         -           -            -          143.0         -        581.5          -          -        .          -              .           724.5    3,622.5
Eduosti.-l M terisl.               *          -             -               -           -          -          -          -            -                  -          -            -         590.0        -        -          -              -           590.0    2,950.8
Ealc-ti-o end Studies              -                                                                                                                     -                      -             -       215.0      -                         -           215.0    1,075.0
VOCAT10BAL AND ACRICUlLTURAL                                 173.2       714,0     170.4       189.8        _     1,247.4       146.6         61.5        582.8         -          83.0          .                  -          -               -        2.121.3   10.606.5
EDUCATION
Voc tion-l School,
Poet-au-Pri.e                  416       3,118          59.7       307.3        -          90.9        -       457.9        53.0         18.7        234.5         -         51.0           -         -                   .              -           815.1    4,075.5
Voc-tion-l School,
Cop haitie                       260      2,002          36.5       194.0        -          49.2        _       279.7        32.4         12.4        109,5                   1 32.0                                                                  5 .  -  346.2    2,731.0
Vocation-l Trdning C.nter           45         510           5.6       56.0        -           -          -        61.6          7.4         3.2          9.8         -                                                                                   8 _  *  *  _  ,  82.0  410.0
Ogoiuultorol School                175       2,115          71.4      156.7      170.4        49.7        _       448.2        53.8         27.0        149.0         -           .            .          .          .                                  678.0    3,396.0
TECht71CAL ASSISTANCE                            - -                                __ -   1,025.0                                                                                                                             -90.0                    1,115.0    5.575.0
PROJE1CT ADMItIS8TRATION             _           _                   .          -          .                _         _           .            -           17.0                                             -       -          -             173.0        190.0       950.0
Bass Cost2'                    _           _           413.5    2.663.7       321.1      428        234.8   4.062.9        453.2       433.5       1,235.7      125.0       664.5        590.0      215.0  1.025.0         90.0         173.0      9,067.8   45.339.0
Phy.icol Contin8enci-c         -         -            41.3       266.4       32.1       43.0       23.5      406.3        45.3         43.3        123.6       12.5        33.2         59.0       21.5      51.2         4.5           8.7        809.1    4,045.5
(-7.)                                           (          (10)       (10)        (10)       (10)      (10)        (10)         (10)         (50)        (10)         (5)         (10)       (10)       (5)        (5)            (5)
Base Cost plus Ph7-i-o1
Coutin-encios                _           -           454.8    2.930.1       353.2      472.8      258,3   4.469.2        496.5        476.0     1,359.3       137.5       697.7        649.0      236.5  1.076.2         94.5         181.7      9,876,9   49.384.5
Price Conting.ocios           .          .           140.1       923.0      111.3      148.9       81.4   1,404.7         94.2        125.4        361.6       25.9       205.1         252.5      60.1    196.9         17.2          46.0      2,789.6   13,948.0
(7)                                          (30.8)      (31.5)    (31.5)       (31.5)    (31.5)    (31.4)       (18.9)       (26.3)       (26.6)      (18.8)      (29.4)       (38.9)    (25.4)   (18.3)       (18.2)        (25.3)        (28.2)    (28.2)
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                     594_9    3,3.1         464.5       61        339.7   5.873.9 592.7               602.2      1         .7Z.9  163.4    902.8        901.5     296.6                 111.          227.7    126665   63 332
Foteig. Enthang  Co-pon..t                           178.5    1,733.9       209.0      279.8      152,9   2,554.1         59.3        421.5      1,634.9        16.3       90.3        405.7      222.5  1,209.4        106.1          56.9      6,777.0   33,885.0
(7.)                                           (30)        (45)       (45)        (45)       (45)       (43)       (10)         (70)         (95)        (10)        (10)         (45)       (75)      (95)        (95)          (25)         (54)        (54)
2/  AoadiOscsrso. only
2/  Gortde  5.00 - US01.00
3/  ftpre.sed in prico as of Jtn. 1, 1976.



TABLE T-12
HAITI
Second Education Project
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(US$'000)
Accumulated        Undisbursed
Fiscal Year      Semester      Disbursements        Disbursements         Balance
1978             1
2                  75                   75             9,925
1979             1                 275                   350             9,650
2                 590                  940              9,o60
1980             1               1,000                1,940              8,o60
2               1,355                3,295              6,705
1981             1               1,465                4,760              5.240
2               1,475                6,235              3,765
1982             1               1,345                7,580              2,320
2               1,200                8,780              1,120
1983             1                 820                9,600                400
2                 400               10,000                  0
December 15, 1977



CHART C-1
HAITI
Second Education Project
Full-Time Enrollnment and Population Pyramid - 1975
AGE GROUP                                                                                  URBAN    I  RURAL
AGE     GRAOE    POPULATION                                                                                           HIGHER
HIGHER              URBAN  RURAL
25      5           15000   57000                                                                                     s o0
24      4           16080   60000                                                                                    300
23      3           18080   83000                                                                                    300
22      2           1000   66000                                                                          I          500i
21       1          15080   70000                                                                         !          900
20      Prep        19000   737                                                                                      400
SECONDARY                                                                                                            SECONDARY
19      7           20000   75000i                                                                                  170
18      6           21000   79D8                                                                                 0400         90 
17      5           22080   81000                                                                              69 0800      100
16      4           22000 8D   0                                                                             9000           20
15      3           22000   S6000                                                                            5600           70
14      2           22000   86000                                                                         128               180
13      1           24000   86000                                                                     140                   100
PRIMARY
PRIMARY
12      6           24000   88010                                                              236                           2600
17      9           24000   89000                                                          28700                                 0
10      4           24000   91000                                                   37400                            73 00
9      3           24000   820800                                         810
8      2           25000   94000                                  56100                                              15200
7      1           25000   98000                             628                                                                              2300 /  ,  2 0
S      Prs-Onhool  25000   97000                                                                                                                                                   64200
100      90       80      70       60       s0      40       30       20       10       0        10      20       30       40       50      60       70       80       90       100
1/ Rural are4s ha.e an official pre-schoal year (en-nf-n- 01-55)
bef-re lie beginning of grade 1
V Enroll-n1 t in geeda 1-S in urban areas is higher lhan agg,roup
popul-tion be-aus of inClusion of averaged and rural childrn-
1 Full-Time Enrollnent
December  151977                                          [      Age Graup Popolion                                                                                                                  World an-k - 18009



CHART C-2
HAITI
Second Education Project
Structure of The Education System
AGE                                                      1 7  0  1  10  Il  12  13  14     15           10      17       19      19           20       21      22       23      24       25
PRIMARY                                                         SECGNDARY                                                            HIGHER
URBAN TEACHER TRAINING                 SECONDARY TEACHER TRAINING
RURAL TEACHER TRAINING|
EXTENDED PRIMARY               <
URBAN PRIMARY                             {        H}                     ISECOND LEVELI        li                           - 
EMI-KILLEWORCEP    ACADEMIC         SKILE  WOKLAW AND SOCIAL SCIENCES
ADMINISTRATION
RURAL PRIMAR Y
F7KDR  1,           _                _7_
LtH F  L 1   _ i_  _  1   _   _   _   7  _   _  1 CEP    RURALW  BME   AGRICULTURE &
ECONOMICS                                                      VETERINARY SCIENCES
_   RURAL VOUvI ONAl        AGRICU LTURAL                          =|_
< i H ) }            |                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MEDICINE
ADULT LlTERACY TRA ININGlE
ADU LT SK ILL TRA IN ING                                              IANC{3
i     URBAN VOCATIONAL             URBAN VOCATIONAL
~s EntralCe Exminaticn      0 |         IRIBAN HOME                                      9     {p     
CEP - ni-,scho S.                                      ECONOMICSSUVYN
| |S-lod Ed..,...n P,o.c                   2 1-
*                              ~~~~~~~~~~SF-lSKI LL-EDWORKERS      SKILLED WORKERS               TECHNICALWORKERs                                          PROFEEilONALS
15,mtrlS1977
W.rld B-nk - 18010



HAITI
Second Education Project                                                                   ClaT C-3
Organization of the Department of National Education
|     Secretary of State      
General Administration                  Primary Education                   Secondary Education                   Vocational Education                    Youth and Sports      l
l   Personnel                        Regional                             Supervisory
Offices                              Services
-|  Audio-Visual Aids      l
H   Accounts      l                                                                   National Library
National Archives
Music Conservatory
Statistics and
P Furnitute and                                                                            Planning
_    Materials
Documentation
December 15, 1977                                                                                                                                              World Bank-9887



CH4RT  c-4
HAITI
Second Education Project
Organization of the Department of Agriculture,Natural Resources and Rural Oevelopment
ndIAEd B                                                                      i - 1
Ac.br1   .?                                               .                                                              nd
F ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ -  C.n; 2                                                                                  E .ten, i. Gnem
|Ct R  -1 E-|     .     ndene                                                                                                                                                                T.h. inT ,try..ne inpotg   lf&_
ch_.                                                            nd V.t..
L                                                                                                                         1XeietlRsac    | Gooyi,th.rm e                                      WOl B-k - 18069nt
D.ce.b  ra 15,     oic an19grclurl                                                                                                            lTee7Tann



CXART C-2
HAITI
S.o.d Eru.ab P,oj.t
ImpMntdtio Sdfudlo, PhyiW Fweilitin
77     7a          79          an          m           82      83
'{ ., F,.,.,.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...,....,...
r~
-     ANn  OS* S          At7



CUART C-6
HAITI
Second Education Project
Implementation Schedule for Curriculum Development,
Teacher Training, Materials Production, Studies, and Technical Assistance
CUF~RICUL.  1977  1978    1 1979      - 1980    1    1981           1982
C,UhREICULD.A DEVELOPIXTM                                
1.  Select curriculum unit                             XX
2. Prepare primary school curriculum                      XXX XXXXXXXXX
3. Test, review end revise curriculum                                XXOOXX XXXXXX
4.  Implement curriculum on a grade by grade                                      XXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXX X)OXOXX CXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXX
basis
TEACHER TRAINING
1. Provide normal school equivalency course
Group 1                                                    )X            XX            XX
Group 2                                                                  XX            XX           XX
2. Upgrade untrained teachers
Group 1                                                                    XXXXX XXXXX  XXXXX XXXXX
Group 2                                                                                  XXXXX XXXX   XXXXX  XXXXX
3. Train local trainers
Group 1                                                                    x             X
Group 2                                                                                  x             x
4. Provide special course for textbook utilization
Effantine and Grade 1                                                                             XXXX
Grade 2                                                                                                         XXXXXX
MATERIALS PRODUCTION
1.  Prepare plan for program                                 XXXXXXXXX
2.  Prepare primary school curriculum                    XXX xxxxxxX
3.  Establish program unit                                             xXX xxx
4. Reviev existing textbooks                                 XXXXXXXXXX    XXXXXX
5.  Study linguistic issues                                         XXXXXX KXXXXxXXXXXX  xXXXXXxXXX
6. Textbooks for enfantine and grade one
a)  write books                                                          XXXXXX XXX
b) test books                                                                          XXXXXX KXXX
c) distribute books                                                                             mX X
7.  Textbooks for grade two                                                                                  wAA.
a)  write books                                                                        XX
b)  test books                                                                                       XXXXXXm  E
c)  distribute books
8. Textbooks for grades three and four                                                                                    XXXXXX
a) write books                              .                                                       X        X
b)  test books                                                                                                    XXXXXX
STUDIES
1.  Construction Study
2. Radio Coverage Study                                                     XYXXXX
3. Evaluation                                                        XXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXEXXXXXX
. Language Study                                                   XXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXnCXXXXXXX
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Specialists
Curriculum Development and Teacher Training
-  Curriculum Development 1/                                 XXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXX    XXm
-  health Education                                           X X  nXnXX
-  Teacher Training                                                   nmmmx
Education Materials                                                     XXXXXXXXXXXX
-  Education Materials PreparationI/                                      XXXXXXX  XXXXXXXX  m
-  Education Materials Production                                        XOOXX   XXXXD     x
Radio Education                                                                                    xXX       XXX xxx   xxx
-  Radio Program Manag- ernt                             DCEIaDXXOXXX1CX0CC{O0C
-  Radio Program Production                                   XXXX  XXXXXXXXXXX iXXXEX
-  Radio Equipment                                             XX    XX)ODM )=
Vocational and Agricultural Education                           XXX           XXX
-  Agricultural Educatio.X1
-  Vocational School Curriculum                                       XXXXXX                 XXXXX  X XXXXX XXXXX
-  Vocatislal School Equipment                                     XXX
Educational Administration                                                r r          x
Project Urit                                                     XX XXXm     XXX      XXXXXXXXXXXX
Pre-Invest+r'-t Studieb                                                      flococa  mm
FellowrabiPs
Curriceulu  (2 mn-years)                                  I         m
Vocational and Agricultural Schools (2 men-years)                            xnxn I firooc
Radio Education (5 esan-yasrs)                                                 XXXxX XxXXXX
XXXXXX lXXXXXXXX X )CXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXX
l5oXXXXmOCa XjmX
1/ To be provided by UNDP.
December 15, 1977



ANNEX 2
HAITI
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
Reports Related to the Sector
Al   CONADEP, Plan Quinquennal 1976-1981, October 1976.
A2   CONADEP, L'Assistance Externe en Education, March 1976.
A3   DEN, Plan Quinquennal 1976-1981, May 1976.
A4   DARNDR, Secteur de l'Education:  Sous Secteur Rural, May 1976.
A5   UNESCO, Haiti:  Analyse et Perspectives pour une Nouvelle
Education, 1974.
A6   IDB, Informe de Proyecto, Haiti.  Proyecto de Educacion Integrada
para el Desarrollo Rural, 1977.
Reports Related to the Project
B1   CONADEP, Second Projet d'Education dans le Cadre du Plan Quinquennal
1976-1981, Requete du Governement Haitien, June 1977.
B2   DEN and DARNDR, Programme des Ecoles Normales Primaires de la
Republique d'Haiti, October 1976.
B3   UNDP, Haiti:  Education pour le Developpement, Document de Projet.
HAI/77/A/01/13, December 1977.
Working Papers
Cl   World Bank, Haiti, Second Education Project, Working Papers,
January 1977.



K                                                         5             N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V V 9 S/   V 9                  C7EVV        s  
P-1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~".
WW~~~~~~*4                             -   ,sjj  ~~~~~~~~INIIIIIN 
                                                                                                                                                                                  ds      Ni S~~~INOiVIS010       VO,
SSOHqIVNONFI.ON OAsRJK
IOD  3.DWNIU5510V5 ,NAldV55,1
SkJU30 UINUV~ AlMM"0  ONVSIOO3 $0555H NVSIS--  
10053$ ONININsi 1V51 (INV5 
c    '~~~~~~~s'""~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                 55533 55l51V55 15s5i1NOui.~~~~~~~~~~~~Nlllnl  .Iss  vuu WO    N  YW
-q ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~$05515  vO    5503 
'3"1'9"5  ,.'---k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' ~~IIIVH-
i,5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
7<'CI  -         'F''--'5 ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~---------
oa.04~
~~~  K-'  ~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                                7547 ~~~~~~~~~~"5'~~~~~~.-77'77~~~~~~~~~~~"'77f7~~~~E E



