Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
0&t/- SE-6 Tu
Report Ne- 5571-TU
TURKEY
FOURTH TEK TRANSMISSION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
May 20, 1985
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                      Turkish Lira (TL)
TL 1                               100 Kurus (krs)
US$1                               TL 450
TL 1                               US$.002
Currency equivalents are those effective January 1985, unless otherwise
indicated.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
kVA                                          =    kilovolt ampere
kW                                           -    kilowatt
kWh                                          -    kilowatt hour
GWh (Gigawatt hour)                          =    1,000,000 kWh
HV                                           =   High Voltage
kV (kilovolt)                                =    1,000 volts
MW (Megawatt)                                =    1,000 kW
MVA (Megavolt-ampere)                              1 1,000 kVA
MVAR (Megavolt-ampere reactive)              -    1,000 kVAR
One meter (m)                                =    3.28 feet
One kilometer (km)                           -    0.624 miles
One kilogram (kg) (1,000 grams)              -    2.2 pounds
Ore ton (metric ton) (1,000 kg)              -    2,205 pounds
One kilocalorie (kcal) (1,000 calories)      =    3.968 BTU
GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
AGMs          -   Assistant General Managers
CEAS          -    Cukurova Elektrik A.S. (Cukurova Power Company)
DSI           -    Devlet Su Isleri (State Hydraulic Works)
DYB           -    Devlet Yatirim Bankasi (State Investment Bank)
ELTEM-TEK     -    Elektrik Tesisleri Mishen Dislik Hizmetteri ve Ticaret
Anonim Sirketi
EdF           -    Electricite de France
ICB           -    International Competitive Bidding
IDA           -    International Development Association
KEPEZ A.S.    -    Kepez Electric Company
KfW           -    Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
LRMC          -    Long-Run Marginal Cost
MENR          -    Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources
MTA           -    Mineral Research Institute
PEE           -    Public Economic Establishment
PIPMU         -    Project [mplementation and Performance Monitoring Unit
PPAR          -    Project Performance Audit Report
PPF           -    Public Participation Fund
SAL           -    Structural Adjustment Loan
SEE           -    State Economic Enterprise
SEI           -    Southern Electric International
SPO           -    State Planning Organization
TEK           -    Turkiye Electrik Kuruxu (Turkish Electricity Authority)
TKI           -    Turkiye Komur Isletmeleri Kurumu (Turkish Coal Enterprise)
TPAO          -    Turkiye Petrollerei Anonini Ortakligi (Turkish Petroleum
Corporation)
Fiscal Year - January 1 to December 31



TURKEY                           FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURrH TEK TRANSMISSION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.  THE ENERGY SECTOR ........................ 
The Role  of the Energy Sector  in  the Economy  ...................                               I
The Resource Base ...........................                                                      I
Main Agencies    ........................................                                          2
Demand and Supply   ........................................                                       3
Energy Policy  ..................................         ..         ....                          4
Bank Strategy    ........................................                                         5
II.    THE ELECTRIC POWER SUBSECTOR  ...................................                                   7
Background .....................................................    7
System Characteristics  ......................................                                7
Sectoral Development 1971-1984  ..............................                                9
Government's New  Strategy  ......................................                                9
Institutional Development  ...................................                               10
Pricing and Demand Management ...............................                                12
Electricity Planning ....................................  13
Medium-Term  Investment .....................................                                    14
Bank"s Role  in the Pswer  Subsector  .............................                              16
III.  THE PROJECT ENTITY: TEK  .......................................   19
Legal Context ..............                                                                     19
Organization  and Management of TEK  .............................                               19
Manpower  Development  and Training  ..............................                              21
General Characteristics  of the TEK Power System  ........                      o . ......       21
TEK's Power  System Operation Performance  .......................                               22
IV.    THE PROJECT  ....................................................                                  24
Project  Setting and Objectives  ..............                  ..      .................       24
Project Description  ........             ..............          ......................         24
Status on Engineering                       .......................  25
Project Cost            .........................           ..........................           26
Training ,........,.,,................................................                        26
Project Financing Plan  .........................................                                28
Lending Arrangement  ............................................                                28
Project Implementation  .........................................                                28
Following a mission to Turkey in January/February 1985, this report was
prepared by: Z. Ladhibi (Power Engineer), A. Posada (Power Engineer),
I. Johnson (Economist), L. Meek Foote (Financial Analyst), and
J. Chassard-Manibog (Consultant).
This document has a resticted distibution ad may be used by recipints only in te perfoimnce of
their ofrxic  auties. Its contents may not otherwise be didosed without World Bank authorizaton.



- ii1 -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)
Page No.
IV. THE PROJECT (Cont'd)
Procurement .       .    ..................................................  29
Disbursements                         ...32
Special Account ..       .      ............................................  33
Retroactive Financing and Advanced Contracting        ....              33
Environmental Impact                 . ............  34
Project Risks                   . . . ............  34
V. FINANCIAL ASPECTS .35
Introduction .35
Recent Financial Performance .35
Electricity Pricing ...................... 35
Working Capital ....................                                36
Debt Service ....................                                   38
Recent Trends in Sector Financing and Internal Cash
Generation .39
Public Participation Fund and Keban Revenue-Sharing
Certificates .40
Financial Planning and Accounting Practices .41
Financial Planning ...................      ,    .     .......      41
Audits ......       . ...................................           42
Asset Revaluation .................., , , .                 ...     42
Technical Assistance to Improve Accounting .43
Future Financial Prospects .43
Financing of Medium-Term Power Investment Program ..........        43
Future Financial Position of TEK .48
Agreed Revenue Covenant and Supporting Covenants .48
Potential for Private Investment in Power .49
VI. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION .50
Least-Cost Solution .50
Return on Investment .50
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .52



- iii1 
TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)
ANNEXES
1.1  Energy Balances
2.1   Demand Forecasts
2.2  Electric Power Investment Program (1985-1989)
2.3   Tariff Study
3.1 Legal Framework of TEK and Related Legislation
3.2   Organization Chart of the Turkish Electricity Authority
3.3   Personnel of TEK by Function and Level of Training
4.1   Detailed Project Description
4.2   Yearly Breakdown of the Total Project Cost
4.3   Cost Arranged by Nature of Goods and Services - Lines Component
4.4   Cost Arranged by Nature of Goods and Services - Substations Component
4.5   Estimated Implementation Schedule - Lines Component
4.6   Estimated Implementation Schedule - Substations Component
4.7   Estimated Procurement Schedule - Lines Component
4.8   Estimated Procurement Schedule - Substations Component
4.9   Estimated Disbursements Schedule
4.10 Comparison of Disbursement Profiles
5.1  Bulk (High Voltage) Electricity Tariffs: 1983-1985
5.2  Bulk (High Voltage) Tariffs Compared with TEK's Annual Revenue and
Inflation: 1982-1985
5.3   Retail (Low Voltage) Electricity Tariffst  1983-1985
5.4  Income Statements for TEK (1981-1990)
5.5   Balance Sheets for TEK (1981-1990)
5.6   Statement of Sources and Uses of Funds for TEK (1981 - 1990)
5.7   Summary of Financial latios
5.8   Assumptions used in Financial Forecasts
6.1   Rate of Return Analysis
7.1   Selected Documents and Data Available in the
Prcject File
MAP
IBRD 18845
May 14, 1985



1. THE ENERGY SECTOR
The Role of the Energy Sector in the Economy
1.01      In 1977, four years after the first of the major oil price
increases, Turkey's oil import bill was equivalent to 84Z of its merchandise
export earnings. By 1980, the situation was even more precarious; oil
imports stood at 1242 of total merchandise export earnings. Based on remedial
actions in line with the Government's structural adjustment program the
situation had, by 1984, improved and the above ratio had declined to 53%. The
improvement was a result of both strong performance of merchandise exports as
well as a policy of holding the growth in imports of crude oil and oil
products to a more moderate level (oil imports grew by an average annual rate
of 3.6Z between 1981 and 1984). However, despite this improvement the need to
move away from an excessive reliance on oil imports remains crucial to
Turkey's medium-term development strategy, as the latter is dependent on the
economy's ability to mobilize foreign exchange. 1/
1.02      High priority was assigned to the energy sector by Government during
the 1980-83 period of structural adjustment. Energy policy was geared to
increasing the domestic supply of energy, primarily through increased capital
investment to about 35% of total public investment compared to about 20%
during the 1970's. In parallel greater attention was given by Government to
energy pricing policy as a means of restraining demand and mobilizing
resources. In particular Government has ensured that petroleum products
reflect economic costs as reflected by world prices, and electricity tariffs
have increased in real terms over the period (para. 2.19). Although lignite
prices declined slightly in real terms in 1981-83 a turnaround in lignite
pricing policy during 1984 resulted in a 30% increase in April 1984 and a
further 29.6% in January 1985 thus exceeding inflation over the 12-month
period.
The Resource base
1.03      Turkey has substantial untapped lignite and hydropower resources, as
well as more limited, but still important, oil, gas and coal resources and
geothermal potential.  Hydropower with potential economic viability is
estimated at about 29,500 KW under average hydrological conditions and
corresponds to an annual production of about 100,000 GWh. Only 152 has been
developed so far, but this is projected to rise to about 30% by 1990. Proven
recoverable reserves of oil are about 16 million tons. However, potential
reserves that may become economically recoverable using enhanced oil recovery
1/ See "Turkey-The Vth Five Year Plan in the Context of Structural
Adjustment: A Review" (Green cover), February 27, 1985.



- 2 -
techniques currently being tested could be as high as 30 million tons. Oil
production has been declining over the last decade, as few discoveries have
been made in recent years; in 1983 production was about 3 million tons.
Proven recoverable gas reserves are about 400 billion standard cubic feet.
Domestic gas will, however, be supplemented, beginning in 1987, by large scale
imports of natural gas from the USSR. Total known reserves of hard coal are
estimated at about 1 billion tons, all located in the north of Turkey
(Zonguldak). Coal production has been declining as operations move to deeper,
less accessible seams; in 1983 production was about 3.5 million tons,
equivalent to 2.2 million tons of oil equivalent (toe). Proven and probable
lignite reserves are about 8 billion tons, but about half of this is of
extremely low quality (950-1,000 kcal/kg). Lignite production in 1983 was
about 20 million tons, equivalent to about 4.6 million toe. The economic
costs of domestic lignite appears to be very high, and, in some mines, not
competitive with imported coal. There is potential for geothermal
development, for both space heating and electricity generation. A foreign
company with extensive experience in geothermal power has recently undertaken
a technical review of a number of promising geothermal sites, and discussions
with the Government on possible terms and conditions for developing one of
these sites are currently in progress.
Main Agencies
1.04      The energy sector in Turkey is characterized by the dominance of
government-owned enterprises and agencies. The Ministry of Energy and Natural
Resources (MEMR) is responsible for the development of energy resources in
Turkey. Under MENR, the Turkish Coal Enterprise (TKI), the Turkish Petroleum
Company (TPAO), and the Mineral Research Institute (MTA) have responsibility
for the extraction of fossil fuels and radioactive minerals. Identification,
design and construction of hydro projects is entrusted to the State Hydraulics
Authority (DSI). The Turkish Electricity Authority (TEK) is responsible for
the generation, transmission and, since November 1982, the distribution of
almost all the electricity sold in Turkey. TEK is also responsible for the
implementation of the Government's program for rural electrification and the
construction of all generating and transmission facilities, with the exception
of hydroelectric plants for which DSI has responsibility (see Chapter III).
1.05      Private sector participation in the supply of electricity was until
1983, confined to two small semi-private utilities (CEAS and KEPEZ) and
industrial comparies which generated power for their own use, often in
conjunction with the production of steam for process heat. However, recent
shifts in government energy policy now give greater encouragement to private
sector participation in the development and production of energy (para.
2.16).



3
Demand and Supply
1.06      Total gross energy consumption was about 38 million toe in 1983, of
which co  ercial energy consumption amounted to about 30 million toe.
Petroleum made up the most significant share of primary commercial energy
(60%) witn the balance made up of lignite (18%), hydropower (11%), coal (10%)
and imported electricity (1X). About 24% of final commercial energy
consumption was in the form of electricity. Non-commercial energy production
(primarily fuelvood, but also other biomass) was an important energy source,
accounting for 23% of total energy consumption. Imported energy (petroleum,
hard coal and electricity) represents about 45% of total energy supply.
Annex 1.1 presents energy balances for the period 1978-1983.
1.07      The most notable change in the pattern of energy consumption over
the past two decades has been the decrease in the relative share of hard coal
in total energy. This was accompanied by a rapid growth in consumption of
petroleum until the mid-1970s, peaking at over 50% in 1977/78; and a rapid
rise in the share of lignite (primarily for thermal power production) and
hydroelectric power consumption starting in the second half of the 1970's.
During this period, hard coal consumption stayed relatively constant in
absolute terms, while traditional biomass energy sources increased slightly in
absolute t3rms, but decreased steadily as a percentage of total energy
consumed.
1.08      The most important factors in the growth of energy demand will be
the growth rate of the economy as a whole, the growth rate of the
energy-intensive industrial sector of the economy, and the extent to which
Government implements an energy conservation and demand management program.
Bank estimates indicate that the growth rate of the economy would average
about 5.6% pe. annum during the 1980s and that the industrial sector would
grow sl:-ghtly faster at about 7%.  Under these projections and in the absence
of a vigorous demand management program, electricity demand is expected to
grow by over 200Z between 1980 and 1990 to about 60,000 GWh; lignite demand
for thermal power plants would grow by almost tenfold to about 50 million
tons; and petroleum products demand would grow by 110% to 30 million tons of
oil equivalent. In total this -ould represent approximately 58 million toe,
an increase of over 8% per annum from 1983 (38 million toe). However supply
constraints, especially in the lignite sector (para. 2.30) and in the power
sector (para. 2.03), will result in demard not being met, at least to 1990.
The energy deficit is estimated by 1990 to be in the region of 7-8 million toe.
1.09      There is, however, considerable scope for conservation of energy
particularly in the industrial sector which currently accounts for 40% of
total energy consumption and this is expected to rise to 45% by 1990. The
industrial sector also consumes 64% of total electricity supplied.
Furthermore eight industries 1/ account for 40% of total industrial energy
1/ Iron and steel, cement, fertilizer, pulp and paper, glass, brick,
aluminum, copper.



consumption, from which it has been estimated that almost 1 million toe could
be saved through investment in conservation. The total estimated potential
energy savings in the industrial sector, including a large number of
energy-inefficient small industries, is about 2.4 million toe. There is
therefore an urgent requirement for an energy conservation program in Turkey
(para. 1.10).
1.10      The Gove-nment is in the process of developing a program for the
conservation of energy by encouraging efficient use in existing and new
industrial enterprises. Energy efficiency progrsms and legislation have been
evaluated by both the MENR and the SPO, and legislation has already been
passed which allows for tax credits for various types of investments in energy
efficiency improvements. The Government has initiated programs to assist
industrial firms to learn how to improve their energy efficiency in existing
operations. The Bank included technical assistance for energy audits in
selected manufacturing facilities as part of the assistance to the Government
under Loan 1916-TU. These audits have now been completed and the Bank is
currently reviewing their findings with a view to financing a conservation
project. The findings of the energy audit on the Anbarli E'lectric Power Plant
have been used as the basis for preparing a subcomponent of the proposed
System Operations Assistance Project. TEK has also hired consultants to
assist in the development of an energy conservation and load management
program (para. 2.21).
Energy Policy
1.11      To meet its energy requirements Turkey launched a massive program in
the late 1970's to increase the domestic production of electricity and
lignite. This program tended to stretch the implementation capabilities of
the state energy agencies, and spread the resources available too thinly over
too many projects, with resulting long delays in completion schedules. This
has, in turn, resulted in an energy deficit which is likely to remain a
feature of the Turkish economy at least through the 1980's (para. 1.08). MENR
and TEK are currently in the process of improving their energy planning
capabilities (para. 2.21) and MENR has produced Turkey's first energy policy
paper. The recent Five-Year Development Plan!/ contains the following
energy sector objectives:
-     priority is to be given to domestic sources of energy, especially,
hydro and lignite, provided that they are economically justified;
-     imported energy including, but not limited to oil, will be
considered;
renewable and nonconventional resources such as geothermal, solar
and biogas are to be supported; and
1/ V. Bes Yillik Kalkinma Plani 1985-1989, State Planning Organization, June
1984



-    private sector financing, both local and foreign, will be sought for
participation in energy development.
1.12     One feature of Government which represents a departure from previous
energy policy concerns the expanded role of the private sector in the
development and production of energy. Government policy is now quite clearly
to encourage private sector participation in the energy sector. There are now
no legal constraints to private sector generation, and private utilities
(KEPEZ and CEAS) have plans to increase their capacities. In addition, the
State Planning Organization (SPO) is currently undertaking, with assistance
from consultants, preliminary studies to assess whether private financiers
could be sought to construct and operate thermal plants based upon imported
fuels (coal, nuclear) and geothermal. Over the long term this could have a
fundamental bearing on the financing, staffing and planning of the subsector
(para. 2.16).
Bank Strategy
1.13     The Bank has prepared and discussed with Government an Energy
Assessment Study as well as subsector studies on electricity and lignite_/.
In addition, under SAL V Government agreed to develop and discuss with the
Bank an energy action plan and MENR has instructed the individual energy
institutions to prepare detailed medium term action programs (para. 2.11). As
an ongoing part of our policy dialogue the Bank prepared an energy sector
strategy paper on strategy and actions required in the energy sector. In
discussions of this palper agreement was reached with the Government and
related energy institutions on the content, analysis and scope of the issues
facing the energy sectcr (para. 2.12).
1.14     The strategy for Bank lending and operational work in the energy
sector is to focus on selected key issues in the medium term in order that
projects may be brought on stream as rapidly as possible and the efficiency of
existing energy producing facilities be maximized. The magnitude of the
looming energy supply gap (para. 1.08) is such that priority should be
accorded to projects aimed at reducing the deficit as soon as possible.
Projects with relatively short gestation periods such as improvement of
efficiency within existing facilities, industrial conservation, reduction of
energy leakages, and utilization of energy resources which can be brought on
stream rapidly, should have priority. Furthermore the private sector may well
offer opportunities for developing energy resources more rapidly than the
public sector, and emphasis will be given to investments which may increase
private sector participation.
1/ See Turkey: Issues and Options in the Energy Sector (Blue Cover)
3877-TU, dated March 1983
Turkey: Electricity Planning and Investment (Green Cover) 5031-TU,
dated June 22, 1984. (EPI)
Turkey: Coal and Lignite Subsector: The Analysis of Sectoral
Development Prospects and Main Issues (Green Cover) 5021-TU,
dated September 18, 1984.



- 6 -
1.15      In conjunction with the strategy to address the key medium term
issues the Bank will also emphasize the strengthening of the various energy
institutions through technical assistance in training, manpower development,
technical, economic and financial planning and project management. Finally,
the open and constructive policy discussions between Government and the Bank
undertaken in conjunction with SAL V (para. 1.13) will be continued on a
regular and sustained basis and should provide a continuing policy framework
within which both project lending and the development of a robust project
pipeline can proceed.



- 7 -
II. THE ELECTRIC POWER SUBSECTOR
A. BACKGROUND
System Characteristics
2.01     The present (1984) installed power capacity in Turkey is about 7,600
MW of which 3,500 MW (50%) is thermal and the balance hydro. The share of
hydro power has increased over the past ten years from 33% in 1972 to about
50Z in 1984. On the thermal side lignite has made an increasing contribution
to the production of electricity. Total gross generation in 1984 was about
30,000 GWh, of which TEK accounted for almost 90% and this was supplemented by
2,500 GWh imported electricity from Bulgaria and the USSR. This was less than
the potential effective demand, estimated at 35,000 GWh. There is
considerable evidence that power shortages have caused cutbacks in production
in industries such as cement, textiles and paper. In addition to the capacity
constraint, the high ievel of total system losses (technical losses plus
unaccounted for energy), at about 20%!  contributed to the supply shortages.
2.02     Demand Forecast.  Growth in demand has averaged about 9Z per annum
over the period 1965-1983. Between 1970 and 1983 the percentage of population
with public electricity supply rose from 51% to 78Z. Per capita consumption
of electricity is currently about 550 kWh. The current medium and long-term
forecasts, prepared in connection with TEK's long-term generation plan
(1987-2005) are based upon the relationship between electricity consumption
and industrial output. They show total energy demand (GWh) growing at about
102 per annum to 1990 and peak demand (MW) increasing at about 8%. Beyond
1990 TEK project a growth in peak demand of about 9.5% per annum and about 9%
per annum in energy. This implies a continuation of the high (1.6-1.8)
elasticities with respect to GDP and sectoral (primarily industrial) growth
rates. These are higher than in many other industrializing countries (e.g.
Korea, Hungary, Singapore) which have been able to reduce electricity demand
significantly by implementing a program of demand management. Given the
difficulty Turkey has faced in expanding electricity supply (para. 2.09) it is
critical that efforts be made to bring about lower demand elasticities. A
program of demand management implemented in parallel with a program to improve
efficiency and plant availabilitv within the electricity subsector could
produce significant savings in investment over the medium to long term
(para. 2.17). Annex 2.1 presents a summary of the long term demand forecasts.
2.03     Generation.  Annex 2.2 gives details of the forecast electric energy
and capacity balances.  The forecast was prepared by the Bank on the basis of
an updated implementation schedule, likely slippages in the commissioning of
I/ This compares with losses of about 10% in a well designed and operated
transmission and distribution network.



- 8 -
some hydro or thermal pover plants and a review of potential fuel supply
bottlenecks, especially in the lignite sector. The installed capacity is
expected to grow from about 8,000 KW in 1985 to almost 15,000 MW by 1990, with
the share of hydropower remaining constant at about 53%. Assuming average
water flows, the share of hydropower in total generation is expected to be
between 65% and 70% over the period. This estimate is, however, dependent on
the extent to which lignite supply constrains the availability of thermal
generation. The Bank assumed that it would take up to four years for major
lignite mines to meet full power plant requirements. Any improvement in the
lignite mines' abilities to supply lignite would have a major impact upon
inereasing generation from the thermal plants (para. 2.30). However, it is
unlikely that the projected generation expansion to 1990 will be able to meet
the system's energy requirements (GWh), even under average hydrological
conditions and with imports of up to 2,500 GWh per annunm from Bulgaria and
USSR.
2.04     All new thermal power plants, under construction or proposed in the
investment program, would use lignite for power generation, with the exception
of a coal-fired plant to replace an old unit at Catalagzi, a small pilot (18
MW) geothermal plant, and a new 600 MW combined cycle plant located near
Istanbul to utilize domestic gas (Hamitabat) and imported gas (USSR).
2.05     Given the shortfall in supply (para. 2.03) the forecast of
electricity sales has been derived from the Bank's projections of available
generation. Under this forecast, TEK's sales would increase at an annual
average rate of about 12% to reach almost 50,000 GWh by 1990 (Annex 2.2,
Attachment 1). It is estimated that by the early 1990s the electricity system
would be in equilibrium and generation would be adequate to meet projected
demand.
2.06     Trausmission.  The salient feature of the Turkish transmission system
is that the largest load centers are located at considerable distances from
the existing and/or committed major power plants, most of which are to be
located in the far east or south west of the country. For technical reasons
of system stability and reliability, there is a need for a more geographically
balanced system, especially in European Turkey (Thrace) where the system is
particularly vulnerable. Greater flexibility could be afforded to the system
by the installation of additional capacity in the Istanbul area. Government
has recent'ly approved the construction of a combined cycle power plant (600
MW) located at Hamitabat, some 100 kms from Istanbul, to utilize indigenous
natural gas. TEK is also to undertake a feasibility study, to be financed
under the proposed Power System Operations Assistance Project, for an
additional combined cycle power plant of 1,000 MW located in Thrace and fueled
by natural gas.
2.07     Distribution and Village Electrification.  Since 1982 TEK has been
responsible for urban distribution (para. 3.02). Prior to the TEK takeover
the municipalities were responsibLe for urban electrification. During the



1970s there was a sharp decline in the share of investment in urban
distribution, from 14% of total subsector investment in 1975 to 6% in 1979
despite an urban population growth rate of almost twice the national average.
Problems of underinvestment were compounded by the fact that many
municipalities practiced cross subsidization of services, utilizing revenues
from urban electricity sales to finance other services. This resulted in a
deterioration in the physical condition of the urban networks and high
losses. Recent estimates by TEK place losses at 1,500 GWh, of which pilferage
and illegal connections account for about 500 GWh and technical losses the
balance. Almost 1,000 GWh of total losses occur in the three largest urban
areas, Istanbul, Ankara and Izmir. Rehabilitating the urban networks should
be accorded greater priority than hitherto since it would provide a
cost-effective and rapid way to increase the capacity of the system. TEK has
hired consultants (EdF, France) to assist in identifying losses and to prepare
an investment program for the urban networks. Izmir has been selected by TEK
for the development of the first comprehensive investment masterplan.
2.08     The village electrification program forms part of Government's social
policy of providing basic services to rural areas, especially to those
provinces designated as least developed and most impoverished. As such,
Covernment objectives are geared to regional development, equity
considerations and poverty alleviation rather than either financial cost
recovery or economic efficiency. By the end of 1984, about 70% of the
villages had been connected to the national system, and the target is to
electrify the balance by the end of 1990.
SectorM. Development 1971-1984
2.09     The Turkish power sub-sector has been confronted with problems of
major proportions. Electricity supply has been insufficient to meet demand in
every year since 1971, resulting in high costs to the economy, as imports
increased and supply interruptions became more frequent. The shortfalls in
supply are attributed mainly to institutional problems, especially the
shortage of qualified staff in the public sector agencies responsible for
planning and implementing the development of the electricity sub-sector, and
shortages of local funding resources. This has resulted in project delays,
consequent substantial cost escalations, chronic power shortages, frequent and
protracted power plant breakdowns due to inadequate maintenance, and high
system losses. The shortages of qualified staff in TEK has resulted in
resources, spread too thinly over too many projects in the investment
program. Government has, however, now recognized many of these problems and
is actively addressing them.
B. GOVERNMENT'S NEW STRATEGY
2.10     Meeting electricity demand in Turkey will require a major coordinated
effort on behalf of the major agencies in the subsector since it will require



- 10 -
that the country bring on stream three times more capacity in the 1980s than
in the 1970s and sustain that momentum throughout most of the l990s.
Furthermore it will require that scarce resources be tied up in technologies
new to the country (e.g. gas based generation, geothermal, nuclear) and in
projects of a size unprecedented in the country.
2.11     The Government is however, committed to a program to deal with the
issues faced by the electricity sector and plans to focus particularly on the
medium term issues of expanding output, maximizing efficiency and, in line
with the Government's structural adjustment program, curtailing the country's
oil import bill. MENR has instructed all the individual energy institutions
to prepare detailed medium term action programs to address the following
priority issues:
(a) managerial and institutional improvements, in particular the
strengthening of planning, project selection and project management
capabilities through increased training and technical assistance;
(b) the completion of ongoing priority projects in the electricity
subsector and in lignite mines to supply key thermal plants;
(c) the upgrading of existing facilities with special reference to
improving operational efficiency, retrofitting of plant and provision
of adequate spare parts;
(d)  evaluation and implementation of a broader range of alternative
energy supplies including natural gas, imported coal, and geothermal;
(e) energy conservation, including the identification of investments and
pricing policies to increase the efficiency with which energy is both
produced and consumed; and
(f) an increased role for the private sector, particularly in the
construction and operation of power plants and operation of lignite
mines.
2.12     In the electric power subsector both Government and TEK have
recognized the nature and scope of the issues outlined in para. 2.09 and
progress toward resolving many issues has been made. Paras. 2.13 to 2.31
below indicate actions taken or planned.
Institutional Development
2.13     Maintenance and operation of the power system.  The exigencies of
maintaining supply at all costs has resulted in TEK abandoning a systematic
maintenance plan for thermal power stations. This in turn has led to frequent
and often protracted outages as well as major losses in plant efficiency and
output. TEK has increased the allocation for equipment for operations,



- 11 -
maintenance and spare parts, as well as specialized training in pover plant
and network maintenance. The proposed Bank financed Power Systems Operations
Assistance Project will result in improved operational efficiency and will
develop manpower skills for operations and maintenance within TEK.
2.14     Project management. Inadequate project management has resulted in
considerable delays in implementation and consequent high costs to the economy
as project costs have escalated and supply shortages increased. Greater
emphasis is being placed upon the development of strong project management
teams utilizing both local and foreign expertise, increased autonomy at the
project management level, especially on financial, procurement and personnel
matters, and greater selectivity to ensure that high caliber teams are
recruited. Initiatives taken by TEK have included a full project management
contract for the construction of the Thrace Combined Cycle Plant and greater
management autonomy at the Elbistan site. Furthermore, the establishment of
ELTEM-TEK, a nublicly owned local consulting firm which remains outside civil
service payscales, offers opportunities to recruit experienced engineering
manpower, both local and foreign, for specific tasks including project
management.
2.15     Manpower Development.  Inadequate manpower planning, including the
lack of a comprehensive training staff improvement program, has hindered both
the recruitment and retention of qualified staff. In addition TEK's training
centers are in poor condition and suffer from inadequate and outdated
equipment. TEK has recently hired consultants (Ontario Hydro, Canada) under
Bank Loan 2322-TU to assist in the development of a manpower and training plan
focusing particularly on power plant operations and maintenance. Further
details on manpower development and training including Bank assistance are
given in paras. 3.08 to 3.11.
2.16     An Increased Role for the Private Sector.  Government policy is now
directed towards encouraging a greater role for the private sector in all
aspects of the electricity subsector activities. The objectives are to ease
the manpower and staffing problems in the public sector, improve project
management, and mobilize private financing. TEK can now share ownership ir.
electric power and mining projects through "participations", in which TEK
would hold from 15% to 50% of shares. or in "affilitate partnerships', in
which TEK would hold a majority of the astres. As of early 1985, TEX had
received about twenty proposals from the private sector to enter into these
types of joint ventures, mostly for construction of hydropower plants.
Construction of an imported coal-fired station, for which the Government has
requested proposals from three foreign companies, may also be financed through
this mechanism, with TEK taking part as a minority shareholder. Decisions on
these proposals are pending the Government establishing a policy for setting
the electricity tariffs for sales from the public/private ventures to TEK.
Furthermore a recent law (Law 3096) allows utilities and other companies,
designated as entrusted companies, to construct and operate generating
facilities and to have full responsibility for electricity distribution and



- 12 -
sales within a concession area. The pilot case for the creation of an
entrusted company is the application of CEAS to become a fully integrated
utility. A decision on this matter is expected from Government in mid-1985.
Pricing and Demand Management
2.17     Studies on the potential for demand management and load shedding,
including the effect on peak demand and growth in connections by TEK, have
just been started (para. 2.21). While load management policies would have
relatively little impact upon energy demand, they could affect peak demand by
up to 10%. This would represent a major investment saving and a load
management program is an urgent requirement. Demand management can be
achieved through both an appropriate pricing policy (para. 2.19-2.20) and by
non-pricing mechanisms (e.g., ripple control, contracted interruptible
supplies).
2.18     Pricing Policy.  Bulk electricity tariffs are close to the long-run
marginal costs of bulk supply (LRMC) but do not yet fully reflect the
structure of LRMC. TEK has hired consultants (EdF, France) to assist them in
preparing a tariff study on the long run marginal cost of supplying
electricity at both the bulk and retail level. The Bank has monitored closely
progress of the study and its preliminary findings were discussed with TEK in
the course of project supervision. The consultants have prepared a draft
report on bulk supply tariffs and are currently analyzing the retail tariff
level and structure, although no preliminary report has yet been prepared.
Annex 2.3 presents a simmary of the study's findings so far. The final
results and recommendations on an appropriate level and structure of
electricity tariffs (including those at the retail level) are expected in July
1985, and vill be implemented fully following discussion with the Bank, as
already agreed under Loan 2322-TU.
2.19     However, in line with Government policy to price energy products
closer to their respective economic costs, bulk tariffs were increased from
1982 to 1984 by about 13% in real terms. TEK's consultants (para. 2.18)
estimated that average bulk supply tariff (TL 19/kWh as of January 1985)
represented about 65%-70% of the LRMC of electricity supply at high voltage,
estimated at about TL 26/kWh (adjusted to January 1985 prices). Following
further tariff increases effective January, March and April 1, 1985, bulk
tariffs (including all taxes and charges collected by TEK) were estimated at
85Z-90% of LRMC as of April 1, 1985 (Annexes 5.1 and 5.2). This represents a
considerable improvement over the past two years; at the time of the previous
Bank appraisal in May 1983 (TEK Transmission III, Loan 2232-TU), bulk tariffs
were about 50Z of LRMC. Furthermore, the introduction in June, 1984 of a
time-of-day differential in the tariff scnedule also brings tariffs closer to
the structure of marginal costs and, once fully implemented, should help
correct imbalances in the pattern of electricity consumption. The Bank will
continue to discuss with Government required increases to mwintain and improve
the structure and level of electricity tariffs.



-13 -
2.20     Load Research and Demand Management. A major constraint in
identifying the costs and benefits of a load management program has been the
inadequate data base upon which to prepare demand projections.  Furthermore
TEK staff has not been adequately trained in demand forecasting techniques nor
in identifying and analyzing various demand management strategies. To address
this problem TEK recently hired consultants (GOPA Consortium, Germany) under
Bank Loan 2322-TU to assist them in developing a program of load research,
demand management and conservation. The technical assistance includes the
design of a system for the collection and storage of data, the development and
testing of models to project energy and peak demand (short, medium and long
term projections), the simulation of load management strategies including
measurement of likely costs and benefits of alternative strategies, training
of TEK staff and the preparation of recommended actions for a load management
program. The work of the consultants is to be closely coordinated with the
tariff study (para. 2.18) so that the impact of pricing policies on growth in
demand may be estimated. The consultants started work in March 1985 and
completion is expected by the end of 1987, although progress reports during
the various phases of the work will provide recommendations for specific
actions. The Bank will work closelv with TEK and the consultants to ensure
that pricing policy, demand management and system planning (demand forecasting
and supply analysis) are fully integrated.
Electricity Planning
2.21    TEK is, and has been since its creation, overwhelmed by the immediate
problems of coping with increasing demand, problems that have preoccupied
senior management to the detriment of forward looking strategies. As a
consequence little effort has, in the past, been made to upgrade TEK's
planning skills. However, agreement has been reached with the Bank on a
comprehensive system planning training pro-ram with MENR and TEK. Training is
to be given in system planning using the WASP1/ model and in demand
forecasting using the MAED/ model. Both models have been developed by the
International Atomic Energy Agency (TAF4) and the training program is provided
under their auspices. The latter will be fully coordinated by TEK's Planning
and Coordination Department with the demand management study outlined in
para. 2.20.
2.22     Results of the exercises are expected in early 1986 and the task
force selected for training has completed its training using the WASP model.
IAEA experts will visit TEK periodically throughout 1985 to assist in the
implementation of the training program.  Improved planning would ensure that
significant opportunities to maximize supply over the medium term are realized
(e.g., reduction of system losses, coordination of the investment program,
1/ WASP - Wien Automatic System Planning Model.
21 MAED - Model for Analysis of Energy Demand.



- 14 -
demand management, rehabilitation of plant currently derated, etc.) as well as
identifying a long-term least-cost expansion program for the subsector. TEK
is to prepare a report by early 1986 of the proposed long term generation plan.
2.23     One area of system planning where technical and cost data could be
significantly improved is in the hydro sub-sector. System planning is
hampered by the lack of a systematic inventory of hydroelectric resources and
a ranking of these resources based upon uniform technical criteria and
comparable economic and cost criteria. A hydro inventory study will be
included in a forthcoming Bank project (Kayraktepe, FY86) and once completed
would allow the optimal design and development, scheduling and construction of
hydro plants with consequent major savings in investment. The results of this
study would provide additional information to a subsequent round of expansion
planning exercises.
C. MEDIUM-TERM Il1VESTMENT
2.24     There is considerable uncertainty surrounding likely resource
availability for power investment in the period up to 1990. In view of this a
set of investment scenarios was developed for the appraisal on the basis of
information available to the Bank on physical progress and likely costs of
ongoing projects as well as new projects likely to enter the investment
program. The investment scenarios will also be used for discussion with the
Turkish authorities, to assist them in formulating and understanding the
financial implications of subsector requirements and to improve their
investment planning. The financial implications of the investment scenarios
are discussed fully in paras. 5.25 to 5.34.
2.25     Scenario "A"':  As part of the short- to medium-term planning process
both TEK and DSI prepare annual investment budgets for submission to SPO and
Government. Currently there is no requirement for TEK and DS! to prepare a
medium-term (e.g., three to five years) projection of expenditures. However,
TEK and DSI were requested by the Bank to provide projections, in line with
the timing of the 5th Five-Year Plan, of capital investment requirements to
cover the period 1985-1989. (See Scenario "A" in Table 2.1). The projections
were discussed in detail with the Bank and a summary and commentary on this
Scenario "A', are given in Annex 2.2. On the basis of these discussions the
Bank prepared alternative scenarios of projected investment.
2.26     Scenario "B" was based upon the national investment requirements for
electric power during the 1985-1989 period and did not distinguish between
public and private investment. This was prepared in view of the current
uncertainty regarding the scope and likely role of public versus private
investment in electric power development.  While the projections of required
investment in Scenario "B" are consistent with present demand estimates, it
was not constrained by resource availability, nor by the implementation
capacity of either the public or private sector.



- 15 -
2.27     Scenario 'C" was based upon the minimum requirements for completion
of high priority projects and took into account likely completion dates of
generation Drojects, a limited number of potential new generation projects
entering the program and the requirements for the components of the program
other than generation.
2.29     Scenario "D" was developed, based not upon a detailed project by
project review of investment requirements but rather on the estimated
availability of resources. It was assumed that the increases in both
Government contributions to investment and foreign borrowing would be
restrained to about 4% per annum in real terms and that, in line with
Government's pricing policy (para. 2.18), tariffs would continue to increase
in real terms to reach and maintain levels equivalent to LRMC. As shown in
Table 2.1, on this basis TEK would be able to finance the completion of all
ongoing projects (Scenario "C") and provide funds for expansion although not
up to the full requirements of the sector (Scenario "B"). Scenario "D" was
considered the base case for the financial projections (paras. 5.31-5.34).
Table 2.1
Electric Power Investment Scenarios
(TL billions).!i
(In Mid-1984 Prices)
1985-89
Scenario               1985    1986       1987    1988    1989    Total
A. TEK/DSI projection            600     973        936     987   1,195      4,691
B.  National Investment to
meet Demand               600      850     1,075   1,200   1,300       5,025
C. Adjusted to ensure, at
minimum, completion
of high priority
projects                  600      698       674      702     741      3,415
D. Public investment
based upon estimated
resource availability    589       684       810      974   1,054      4,111
a/ TL 350 = UStl



- 16 -
2.29     There is inadequate coordination of the investment programs of TEK
and TKI. Further delays in the implementation of several lignite mining
projects to supply fuel for thermal power plants remain a problem. Unless
resolved this would result in substantial delays in electric power
availability and consequent perpetuation of supply shortages continuing into
the early 1990s and beyond. The Bank has prepared a subsector study on the
lignite subsector (op cit) which identified the major problems faced by the
subsector (poor planning, inadequate project management and inadequate
financial management). The study has not yet been discussed with Government.
The recent Technical Assistance Project for State Economic Enterprises (Loan
2400-TU) includes funds for two studies to improve TKI's project management
and implementation capabilities, although consultants have not yet been hired.
2.30     To ensure the rational design of the medium term investment program,
agreement was be reached during negotiations to undertake, as part of the
ongoing energy policy dialogue, an annual joint Bank and Government review of
the electric power investment program and related financing plans. This would
include a review, by October 31 of each year, with Bank and representatives of
MENR, TEK, SPO and Treasury of the proposed annual investment program for the
power subsector and the required investments and related financing plans for
the medium-term (five-year) period. The format and content of the information
for such a review would be discussed between the Bank and MENR during
supervision and would be undertaken with a view to identifying project
priorities, realistic completion dates and adequacy of electric power
investment levels and finance.
D. BANK'S ROLE IN THE POWER SUBSECTOR
2.31     The two proposed Projects being processed in parallel1' would be
the sixteenth and seventeenth Bank operations in the power subsector in
Turkey. The Bank has made eleven loans and a technical assistance grant
(total US$639.7 million), anc IDA has granted three credits (total USS55.7
million). These comprise loans/credits for four hydroelectric projects; two
thermal power stations (oil- and lignite-fired); a lignite mine; and several
for transmission and distribution networks. The technical assistance grant
helped reorganize Turkey's power subsector. The first five loans/credits were
for projects in the CEAS concession area. All these projects were completed
successfully, although often with long delays. The Bank has made four
previous loans to TEK, for the First, Second and Third Power Transmission
Projects, and for the Elbistan Mine and Power Project.
2.32     A Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR), distributed to the Board
in November 1981, on the Keban Transmission (Loan 568-TU) and the first TEK
1/ The Fourth TEK Transmission Project and the Power System Operations
Assistance Project.



-17 -
Power Transmission (Loan 763-TU) projects found that these projects had met
their physical objectives despite implementation delays and cost overruns. A
Project Completion Report on the Istanbul Power Distriburion Project (Loan
892-TU), distributed to the Board in December 1982, also reported physical
completion of the Project after considerable delay. Major constraints to
timely project completion were identified as shortage of local counterpart
finance and, in the case of Loan 892-TU, late preparation of bidding
documents. A major conclusion of the TEK II (Loan 1194-TU) Project Completion
Report was the need for improvement in the monitoring and coordination of the
Project. The Report recommended the establishment of a single unit within TEK
to be accountable for project implementation. Such a monitoring unit has now
become a feature of project design in Bank financed power projects in Turkey.
For example, ELTEM-TEK was hired by TEK to assist in monitoring all aspects of
the Third TEK Transmission Project (Loan 2232-TU). Procurement and physical
implementation of this project, which includes about 1500 km of 380-kV lines,
are proceeding on schedule.
2.33     The Bank played a major role in the consolidation of the power sector
and in the creation of TEK. The Bank has since then continued to advocate
needed institutional reforms and has met with some success in its endeavors to
assist in strengthening the institutional capabilities of the subsector.
Substantial progress has been made in some areas, e.g., improvements in TEK's
accounting system, in system planning, and in procurement procedures.
Furthermore, the Bank has assisted in attracting funds from other bilateral
and international financing agencies (e.g., EIB, German Aid (RfW), US
EXIMBANK).
2.34     The Bank has, through its sector work program, provided guidance and
assistance in sector planning and pricing policy. The Energy Strategy Paper
(op cit) and the Electricity Planning and Investment Report (op cit) discussed
with the Government and energy sector agencies including TEK have provided a
useful forum for a policy dialogue on the issues and constraints facing the
subsector. Policy level discussions with MENR, TEK, DSI and SPO have
continued to increase the awareness of those problems; and Bank guidance and
advice has frequently been sought on a number of operational and policy
questions.
2.35     Since it is not possible to address the full range of issues facing
the subsector it was recommended in the Energy Strategy Paper that attention
be given to a selected number of high priority issues where the Bank could
have an appreciable impact. The strategy for assisting the power subsector is
in line with the overall planned strategy for the energy sector as outlined ir
para. 1.15 and includes focusing resources on investments which yield quick
returns (e.g., completion of priority ongoing investments, upgrading of
existing facilities, reduction in losses, improvements in efficiency etc.);
ensuring a balanced electric power development program with respect to
adequate investment in generation, transmission, distribution and general
plant; strengthening, through technical assistance, capabilities in planning,



- 18 -
financial management and manpower develonent; investment in new generation
options such as those based upon imported coal and natural gas; and increasing
the role of the private sector in the production of electricity.
2.36     The Bank has made a major effort at defining jointly with Government
a series of pote..tial investments which would address the above mediumr-term
issues. In particular the Bank proposes, in addition to the two proposed
Projects, to finance, inter alia, a loan to ensure the completion of the
Elbistan Project, an urban distribution component of the proposed Energy
Policy Loan, a project with a private utility (CEAS), and a high priority
hydro project (Kayraktepe). Project lending aimed at alleviating the
medium-term problems faced by the subsector will be supported judiciously by
technical assistance and sector work in a number of key areas such as planning
and financial management.



- 19 -
III. THE PROJECT ENTITY: TEK
3.01     The borrower, TEK, has primary responsibility in Turkey for design
and construction of thermal generating plants, for operation of both thermal
and hydroelectric generating plants, and for design, construction and
operation of the national transmission system and distribution systems
(para. 1.04). The organization and scope of responsibilities of TEK have
been altered recently by a number of significant legal changes. TEK is now
authorized to invest in and operate lignite mines and geothermal fields to
supply its power plants; previously TKI was the only public enterprise
authorized to own and operate lignite mines. In parallel, the opportunities
for private sector investment in electric power have been expanded, removing
TEK's previous near monopoly on electricity generation and sales. TEK will
continue to require the Bank's assistance in institution-building. TEK is
presently receiving technical assistance in four areas as part of Loan
2322-TU (TEK Transmission III), as follows: demand management and load
analysis (para. 2.20); administration and standardization of distribution
operations (para. 3.07); manpower planning and training (para. 3.10); and,
improvements in accounting and management information systems (para. 5.23).
Legal Context
3.02     TEK presently operates as a Public Economic Establishment (PEE)
defined under Law 233 as a venture owned entirely by the Government which is
"public service-oriented and founded to produce and market basic goods and
services of a monopoly nature".  As part of the reform in public
enterprises, TEK's legal structure and organization were redefined
effective January 1, 1985. The new legislation affecting TEK is listed in
Annex 3.1. TEK was originally established in 1970 with its current mandate,
but excluding urban electricity distribution, which had been the
responsibility of the municipalities. Urban distribution was then legally
traneferred to TEK in 1982, with actual operation and control of these
distribution facilities being assumed in stages during 1983 and 1984. The
objective of public enterprise reform in Turkey has been to permit greater
autonomy and improved productivity, and in fact the Government has recently
been taking significant steps toward increasing TEK's financial
self-f.ufficiency (para. 5.01). However, TEK continues to be subject to the
State Personnel Law (No. 657), which restricts management decisions on
hiring, firing, salaries, and internal transfer of staff. Revised
legislation for government employees is being drafted but the timing for
implementation is uncertain.
Organization and Management of TEK
3.03     Notwithstanding the recent reforms affecting public enterprises,
important managerial and organizational decisions continue to require
Government approval, and thus are not dealt with as quickly as would be the
case in a more autonomous utility. Furthermore, there are no board members
from the private sector who could represent the concerns of TEK's industrial



- 20 -
and private consumers.  In the past fifteen years, TEK has had seven general
managers, normally appointed from within the company. The Board of
Directors of TEK is chaired by the General Manager, and includes five
members: two nominated by the NENR, one nominated by the Minister of
Finance and two nominated from among the six Assistant General Managers
(AGMs) of TEK by the Minister of Energy. The present organization of TEK is
shown in Annex 3.2. The responsibilities of the six AGMs were shifted in
early 1985, and are currently divided as follows:
(a)  Operations:  Generation, Transmission and Distribution;
(b)  Design and Construction of Generating Plants;
(c)  Design and Installation of Transmission Lines and Substations;
(d)  General Administration and Distribution Studies;
(e)  Planning, Training and Data Processing; and
(f)  Finance.
3.04     Some of the activities reporting to the AGM for Operations have
recently been classified as part of an "Operations Enterprise" within TEK,
which is to include generation and transmission operations and
responsibility for wholesale electricity sales to high voltage customers and
to TEK's distribution enterprises. It is too soon to determine whether this
recent change will have a visible impact on TEK's operations.
3.05     Having historically emphasized centralized operations and
construction of new generating facilities in particular, the management of
TEK is still adjusting to the new requirements of overseeing distribution
where highly centralized decision-making is not desirable. Eighteen
regional electricity distribution enterprises were created in 1983 as
separate departments of TEK after the takeover of distribution from the
municipalities (para. 3.02). While, officially, each enterprise manager
reports directly to the General Manager, in practice they are required to
report to two AGMs, to one with regard to operations and to the other with
regard to distribution studies and project design. It would be advantageous
to reallocate the responsibilities of the AGMs so that one would be fully
responsible for coordinating distribution activities.
3.06     TER's central office provides continuous monitoring and inspection
of the distribution enterprises, approves all personnel decisions, and
determines the allocation of investment resources among the regions. The
distribution enterprises are presently not authorized to seek outside
financing. They are charged by the parent company for electricity
purchased at wholesale tariff rates and for part of the overhead
headquarters expenses associated with distribution. Each enterprise is
responsible for preparation of its annual operating budget, drafting annual
and long-term investment and plans, and preparation of annual financial
statements. Full responsibility for the design, execution and control of
urban distribution and rural electrification projects is only gradually
being transferred from headquarters to the regional enterprises.
3.07     A number of distribution enterprises are presently receiving
technical assistance on a pilot basis. A master plan for reduction of losses



- 21 -
and network expansion is being developed for the Ege Enterprise (Izmir);
improvement of the customer billing system is being introduced in one
district of the Bosphorus Enterprise (Istanbul); and, improvements in stock
control, general and customer accounting are being introduced to two
enterprises, Ege and Central Anatolia (Ankara).
Manpower Development and Training
3.08     The rapid expansion of electricity supply in Turkey has been
accompanied by an almost equally rapid increase in the number of people
employed by TEK. The total number of staff as of October 1984, was just
over 55,000, of which 33,000 worked for TEK's Distribution Enterprises.
This represents an increase in staff of 15,000 over a two-year period, of
which 11,000 were new distribution staff and 4,000 were added to other
departments of the utility. After distribution the next largest group,
about 13,500, work in operations. A breakdown of TEK's staff by department
and by level of training is shown in Annex 3.3.
3.09     Manpower planning for TEK as a whole is presently carried out only
one year at a time, although staffing requirements for new generating plants
are identified further in advance. The Personnel Department and the
Training Department do not report to the same AGM, which complicates
coordination. TEK has three technical training centers, the largest of
which is located in Soma and has extensive laboratory capacity and models
related to thermal electricity generation. However, much of the equipment
is out of date and the training center is used at less than full capacity
largely due to the shortage of instructors. Training materials dealing with
transmission, distribution and overall system reliability are lacking.
3.10     Some of these weaknesses are being addressed under TEK Transmission
III (Loan 2322-TU) which includes a thirtv-four man-month contract with
Ontario Hydro. This technical assistance component is addressing; manpower
planning for generation, overseas training of master instructors (in
operation of generating plants, transmission and control), training on plant
commissioning; and improvement of the equipment at the Soma training center.
3.11     The proposed Project includes a training component, addressing the
specific requirements of staff in network engineering, planning and in
transmision lines and substations design (para. 4.09).
General Characteristics of the TEK Power System (see Map IBRD 18845)
3.12     The large magnitude of the TEK power system can be appreciated by
considering the volume of the electric load supplied and the extension and
size of its physical facilities. In 1984 the peak load in TEK power system
reached 5,450 MW and gros_ generation was 26,000 GWh (net 23,600 GWh). In
the same year TEK imported 2,500 GWh from Bulgaria and the USSR which gave a
total electric energy delivered to the TEK power transmission grid of 26,100
GWh. Generation plus energy purchased, however, was not able to fully meet
the system's unrestrained energy demand.



- 22 -
3.13     Total rated capacity of TEK power plants in commercial operation in
1984 amounted to 6,330 MW. Adding the peak supply from Bulgaria and the
USSR - 285 KW - the total capacity available reached 6,615 MW, to meet a
system constrained peak demand of 5,450 MW. This would give an apparent
reserve margin of 1,165 MW or 21Z. In fact, TE1 had no actual reserve
margin available in 1984 and could not meet the system's constrained peak
demand, due to poor availability of its generating facilities.
3.14     TEK's bulk transport system consists of a 380-kV National Grid
System that feeds into 1.54-kV grids. These 154-kV grids supply major power
users and feed into 66-kV, 35-kV, and 15-kV subtransmission grids. In 1984
there was a total of 46,135 km of transmission and subtransmission lines.
TEK's substation plant in the transmission grids consists in 1984 of 368
transformer substations with 593 transformers, having an aggregated capacity
of 15,798 MVA. Besides power transformers, in these substations there were
in 1984 a total of 34,569 major switchgear apparatus.
3.15     Low voltage distribution throughout Turkey is done at 50 Hz
220/380 V three-phase with neutral grounded. Primary distribution voltages
are 35 kV, 15 kV, 6 kV and 3 kV. In the 18 regional distribution
enterprises under TEX, the distribution systems consisted in 1984 ofi
19,500 km of primary distribution feeders at 35 kV, 15 kV and 6 kV; 64,000
km of secondaries at 220/380 V; and 6,289 distribution transformers with an
aggregated capacity of 4,730 MVA (more than half of this distribution
transformer capacity is installed in the Bogazici Distribution Enterprise,
which includes the city of Istanbul with 1,600,000 consumers).
3.16     The level of technical losses in distribution is between 122 and
15Z, which is high by modern standards 1/. These losses can be reduced by
increasing the capacity of the distribution facilities, particularly
distributior transformer and feeders. (Master plans for reduction of losses
and expansion of the distribution systems are underway; para. 3.07). It is
considered economically feasible to reduce losses to about half of what they
are now, but this will require considerable investment in the coming years.
TEK is already programming substantial investments in this area in the next
five years (para. 2.07).
TEK's Power System Operation Performance
3.17     A parallel project "Power System Operations Assistance Project",
describes in detail TEK's operational performance in the generation,
transmission and distribution areas. The following paragraph gives a brief
description of TEK's transmission system operation from the design point of
view.
3.18     During the last ten years, TEK's transmission system proved stable
in spite of the long transmission distance; voltage and reactive power were
1/ In most developed countries, the level of technical losses in the well
operated distribution systems is about 6%.



- 23 -
satisfactory. Operation experience with the substations equipment has been
satisfactory, although maintenance problems have led to a considerable
number of outages. The only major problem was in connection with the
lightning arresters and TEK has taken measures to improve in3ulation
coordination and lightning protection in the substations. With regard to
the transmission lines, and during the first 5-year operation of the 380-kV
system, TEK faced a more serious problem of mechanical failure iue to
insufficient knowledge of the very severe weather conditions in certain
areas where there was no prior experience of transmission line operation.
Since then, TEK has introduced more adequate mechanical design for the
lines, as well as the reinforcement of the existing lines exposed to heavy
ice and wind loads in winter.



- 24 -
Iv. THE PROJECT
Project setting and Objectives
4.01     In view of the Gbvernment's policy objective to reduce dependence on
imported hydrocarbons, and the location of the main indigenous energy
resources vis-a-vis the load centers, TEK has had to develop, with the
assistance of consultants, a least-cost and long-term construction program for
an extensive transmission grid at the 380-kV level. Implementation of this
grid started in 1974 and the related long-term construction program is being
updated regularly to take account of changes in TEK's load growth and
generation system. The latest update in January 1985, Which analysed the
380-kV transmission grid required to accommodate the load flows foreseen in
the early l990s, has been reviewed by the Bank and found satisfactory. 1/
4.02     The proposed Project, which is a continuation of the ongoing TEK
Transmission III Project (Loan 2322-TU), constitutes the fourth phase of
development of the 380-kV transmission network, and would provide major links
and transformer substations needed to strengthen further TEK's power system
and to ensure a continued supply of electricity to the growing demand on TEK's
interconnected system.
Project Description
4.03     The Project is part of TEK's current 1986-1990 development plan and
involves:
(a)  the construction of about 800 km of 380-kV transmission lines to
interconnect Altinkaya and Hamitabat power stations under
construction to TEK's bulk supply system and to provide two
additional links for Karakaya power station;
(b) the construction and/or extension and placing into operation of
380/L54 kV transformer substations with total installed capacity of
about 2,100 MVA;
(c)  the supply, installation and commissioning of equipment for the
construction and/or extension of 154/35 kV substations with about
3,300 MVA of new installed capacity;
(d) the construction of a tower testing station for testing towers for
transmission lines up to 380 kV with possibility of extension for
800-kW range;
1/ TEK is currently evaluating, with the assistance of experts, the long-term
planning (10-15 years ahead) of its transmission system, based on load
flow, short-circuit studies and economic evaluation, and including the
alternative of superimposing an 800-kV grid on the 380-kV system.



- 25 -
(e) the supply of specialized line stringing equipment and vehicles to be
used in the installation of transmission lines;
(f) training and supply of devices, such as computer hardwarelsoftware to
strengthen TEK's capabilities in network engineering, planning and in
transmission lines aind substations design; and
(g) consulting services to assist TEK in the implementation of the
Project.
Annex 4.1 gives a detailed description of the Project and IBRD Map No. 18845
indicates the location of the main Project components.
Status of Engineering
4.04     TEK's transmission extension network has been planned and designed on
the basis of:
(a) traditional contingenc: criteria according to which the system should
ride through disturbances at peak load without incurring instability,
cascading or loss of load;
Cb) studies carried out to ensure adequate operation of the projected
system and correct design of each extension. These studies involve
more specifically load flows, short-circuit study, transient and
steady state stability, switching surges and dynaLic overvoltages; and
(c) mechanical and electrical design and specifications of equipment and
materials standardized in accordance with criteria established during
previous construction and operation of TEK's transmission system.
The adequacy of these criteria and the results of the studies carried out by
TEK for its 1986-1990 transmission development program which includes the
proposed Project, have been reviewed by the Bank and found satisfactory.
4.05     TEK's Engineering Department has prepared the detailed project
design, which has been reviewed by the Bank and found satisfactory.
Acquisition of rights-of-way for the lines is underway and bidding documents
will be issued starting May 1985.
4.06     A study for the estaDlishment of a tower testing station in Turkey
has been carried out by TEK's consultants, reviewed by the Bank and found
satisfactory. Availability in Turkey of such a facility has become necessary
as the 380-kV system expands and the export of locally manufactured steel
towers develops. Tower testing is currently being done abroad and TEK and the
local manufacturers are more and more faced with difficulties for getting the
required tests in a timely manner. The tower testing station included in the
proposed Project will be used for TEK's needs and also for the local
manufacturers' requirements, and will permit the local firms to be more
competitive by refining their design. During negotiations, TEX confirmed that
these firms will be charged for the use of the facility, and that the basis



- 26 -
for determining the level of fees will be reviewed with the Bank. The tower
testing station will be used initially for testing towers for transmission
lines up to 380-kV with the possibiiity of extension to the range 800kV. The
facility will also provide for mechanical tests of steel structures,
insulators, conductors and line fittings and for the analysis of concrete
samples taken from tower foundations. With regard to the proposed line
stringing equipment, TEK determined the list of the necesary equipment on the
basis of the available equipment, the private sector construction capacity and
the volume of works involved in TEK's investment program. This list has been
reviewed by the Bank, and the type and quantities required have been found
reasonable.
Project Cost
4.07     The total cost of the proposed Project including physical and price
contingencies but excluding interest during construction is about TL 180
billion (UStL95 million) of which TL 135 billion (US$146 million) is in
foreign currency. Details of the project cost are given in the Annexes 4.2,
4.3  and 4.4 and sumnarized in Table 4.1 below.  The project cost estimates
are based on January 1985 prices derived from detailed data provided by TEK
and discussed with the Bank and quotations received recently by the Borrower
for equipment and material similar to those included in the Project. Total
physical contingencies are about 10 of base cost, because of the advanced
state of the design for the lines, and the repetitive and routine nature of
the work for the substations. Price contingencies have been computed assuming
an implementation period consistent with the relevant Bank standard profile
and specific annual increases in domestic and international prices as follows;
1985     1986      1987     1988     1989      1990     1991
Local (Z)              35      30         25       20        15       10        10
International (v)       5       7.5        8        8         8        8         5
4.08     TEK is currently exempt from import taxes and customs duties for the
projects under construction and plans to apply for an extension of that
exemption for the proposed Project. Therefore, taxes and import duties are
not included in the project cost. During negotiations, the Government gave
assurances that tnis exemption will be extended to the proposed Project.
Training
4.09     To further strengthen manpower development at TEK, and as a
continuation of the training component included in the TEK Transmission
Project III, the proposed Project would also include a training component
which aims at improving TEK's capabilities in network engineering, planning
and in transmission lines and substations design. This training will be
provided to specialized and experienced personnel in certain specific areas.
The Project provides training for about 90 trainees for the whole period of
the project implementation. During negotiations, the Borrower agreed to
submit to the Bank, not later than June 30, 1986 a detailed staff training
program, and to implement the agreed program in accordance with an
implementation schedule satisfactory to the Bank.



- 27 -
Tible 4.1
amaoy of Project Cost
--In TL Bilio -         -In tD 1 Miim Equi3.-
Fcreign  Local           Freign   Local
Cost    Cost   Tbtal    Cost    Cost   Ibtal
A. 380-kV Trasnissicn Line
- Rar0smmiy             9.50    3.41   12.91     21.10    7.60   28.70
- Atirkaya-Camba               1.90    0.77    2.67       4.22    1.71    5.93
- Hauitabat-Alibe3coy          3.96    1.0    5.36        8.79    3.12   11.91
- KmardsaDikymb*ir             2.71    0.66    3.37      6.00    1.48    7.48
- Other Camnetios ii
New 38).-W Sibstticns       0.90    0.31    1.21       2.00    0.71    2.71
- Tcver Testing Statim         1.13    0.90    2.03       2.52    2.00    4.5
- Line Str - z
Equipiet                    2.00       -    2.00       4.45       -    4.45
Sdbtta'L Base Line Cost A
(Jar 185 pries)            2210)   7.45   29.55       49.08   16.62   65.70
B. Substatims Cozmpcnet
- 38D/)14-W Sbstatics          9.22    1.85   11.07.    20.47    4.04   24.51
- 154/30G-k Sustatims         12.00    4.79    6.79      25.6B   1.66   37.34
StDtal Base Line Cost B
(Jaiury 1985 prices)       21.22    6.64   27.86      47.15  1A.70   61.85
C. Others
-C iHardeSoftware               1.00    0.02    1.02       2.20    0.06    2.26
-TUK Bg'g. Adin. forrA4B          -    0.79    0.79          -    1.77    1.77
-Cmsa ting Sevices firA43       0.16    0.07    0.23      0.35    0.45    0.50
-Traming                        0.29    0.14    0.43      0.65    0.31    0.96
SibtDtal BaseCost C
(Ja-ary 1985 prices)        1.45    1.02    2.47      3.20    2.29    5.49
D. ibtal Project Cost (A + B + C)
- Ibtal Base Lire Ccst
(Jaiunry 'i:8 Prices)     44.77   15.11   59.88      99.43   33.61  133.04
- Physicl Cmtingacies          4.47    1.51    5.9B       9.96    3.36   13.37
- Price Ccatingecies          85.76   28.38  114.14      36.61   12.03   48.64
TOML lR)ECr ([ST            135.00   45.00  ]80 0     146.00   4900  195.00
Interst Dur* CCAStnsoti
- Bark finad                  110        -   11.00       13.00      -   13.00
-Other
DIaL FE&{GIMG E;lpl)       166.00   45.00  191m       159.00   49.00  208.00



- 28 -
Project Financing Plan
4.10     The proposed Bank loan of US$142 million would finance about 68Z of
the total financing required for the Project of US$208 million, and 89Z of the
foreign cost. It includes the US4L3.0 million required for the interest
during construction. This is justified given the tight cash flow situation of
TEK during a period of extension of its investment program. The remaining
US$66 million would be covered by TEK's internal cash generation, materials
fron stock, and government contributions (US$17.0 million of the foreign
exchange cost represent the cost of material and equipment to be supplied by
TEK and the indirect foreign exchange cost for installation and erection which
would be undertaken by TEK or local contractors). A summary of the project
financing plan is given in Table 4.2 below. Det; :led list of contracts to be
financed by the Bank loan are given in the Tables 4.3 and 4.4. The foreign
exchange risk would be borne by TEK.
Table 4.2
Project Financing Plan
(US$ Million)
Local Currency    Foreign Currency         Total
IBRD loan                      -                 142.0 /a            142.0
TEK and Government            49.0                17.0                66.0
Total                     49.0               159.0              208.0
/a Including US$13.0 million for interest during construction.
Lending Arrangement
4.11     The proposed Bank loan will be made to TEK with the guarantee of the
Republic of Turkey.
Project Implementation
4.12     The Project will be implemented by TEK, in parallel with the
extension and reinforcement of the existing system, and with assistance from
consultants to ensure efficient implementation of the Project. As is
currently being done for TEK Transmission Project III (Loan 2322-TU), TEK
plans to retain for this project the services of ELTEM-TEK. ELTEM-TEK would
provide assistance in engineering, project management and coordination and
other technical and administrative services. ELTEM-TEK will hire foreign
experts, whenever needed, to assist its own personnel. This arrangement is
satisfactory to the Bank. It is estimated that TEK would require 60



- 29 -
man-months of consulting services to implement the proposed Project. The
engagement of project management consultants under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank shall be a condition of loan effectiveness.
4.13     The Project will be implemented over five years.  The preparation of
detailed design and tender documents for procurement of goods are underway and
will be completed by March 30, 1986. Installation and erection of project
facilities will start in mid-1986 and is expected to be completed by June 30,
1990. Annexes 4.5 and 4.6 show the related implementation schedule for the
lines and substations, respectively.
4.14     Acquisition of rights-of-way for the lines is underway, and the
implementation schedule has been estimated on the basis of current experience
with TEK Transmision III. With regard to the substations, land acquisition
for the new 380-kV and 154-kV substations has not yet started. During
negotiations TEK agreed on a land acquisition timetable satisfactory to the
Bank, which would permit completion of all necessary land acquisition by
September 30, 1986 and for at least 50% of the substations by June 30,
1986.2!
Procurement
4.15     The goods and services to be procured for the proposed Project have
been grouped into 10 contracts for the transmission lines and 11 contracts for
the substations to ensure effective international competition. Annexes 4.7
and 4.8 give the detailed list of these contracts and their estimated
procurement schedule. The contracts with Bank financing are detailed in
Tables 4.3 and 4.4 below.
1/ The detailed timetable for land acquisition appears in Supplemental No. 1
to the Loan Agreement.



- 30 -
Table 4.3
Contract Packages with IBRD Financing
Lines Component
(In US$ Million)
Foreign     Local          Total
Cost       Cost       Bank Financing
(a)  Steel Towers /a                           3.0          -              3.0
(b)  Conductors and Shieldwires               36.6          -            36.6
(c)  Insulators                                4.0          -             4.0
(d)  Hardware                                  3.3         -              3.3
(e)  Tower Erection                            2.2          8.8           2.2
(f)  Tower Testing Station                     3.7          3.0            3.7
(g)  Line Stringing Eqpmt. and Vehicles        6.5         -              6.5
(h)  Computer Hardware/Software                3.2          0.1            3.2
(i)  Training                                  0.8         0.4             0.8
(j)  Consulting Services                       0.2         0.1            0.2
TOTAL                                63.5         12.4          63.5
/a   For the Karakaya-Diyarbakir line and for the connections of the new
380-kV substations included in the proposed Project. The steel towers
for the remaining lines will be provided by TEK from stock.
Table 4.4
Contract Packages with IBRD Financing
Substations Component
(In US$ Million)
Foreign   Local        Total
Cost     Cost    Bank Financing
(a)  Power Transformers                            34.3       -          34.3
(b)  Circuit Breakers 380kv & 154kV                13.5       -          13.5
(c)  Circuit Breakers 35kV                          1.2      -            1.2
(d)  Disconnecting Switches & Earthing Blades       4.2       -           4.2
(e)  Lightning Arresters                            1.5      -             1.5
(f) Measurement Transformers                        4.4       -           4.4
(g)  Measuring, Protection & Auxiliary Eqpmt.       4.2       -           4.2
(h)  Bus Bars and Hardware                          1.0       -            1.0
(i)  Insulators                                     0.7       -           0.7
(j)  Training                                       0.3       0.1         0.3
(k)  Consulting Services                            0.2       0.1         0.2
TOTAL                                       65.5      0.2         65.5



- 31 -
All items financed by the Bank will be procured in accordance with the Bank's
procurement guidelines. Items (a) through (h) for the lines and (a) through
(i) for the substations will be procured through international competitive
bidding (ICB). For procurement through ICB, local firms will be allowed a
margin of preference equal to the existing rate of customs duties applicable
to nonexempt importers or 152 of the c.i.f. price of such goods, whichever is
lower. 60 man-months of consulting services for both components will be
procured in accordance with the provision of Part II of the Bank's Guidelines
for Use of Consultants. Training manuals and other miscellaneous training
aids and computer software/hardware packages will be purchased through limited
international shopping for items of less than US$10,000 up to an aggregate
limit of US$300,000; for such contracts the Borrower will obtain written price
quotations from at least three reputable suppliers. To complete the Project,
TEK will provide the following goods and services which will not be financed
by the Bank; (i) towers (material and fabrication) for three lines:
Karakaya-Osmaniye, Altinkaya-Carsamba and Hemitabat-Alibeykoy and all the
remaining equipment for the substations (line traps, panels, steel structures,
etc.); and (ii) lines stringing, and civil works and installation and erection
of the substations which would be carried out by force account or local
contractors. All the contracts for work, and equipment and materials to be
financed by the Bank and costing over US$250,000 each will be subject to prior
Bank review. Other Bank-financed contracts will be subject Lo post-award
review. Table 4.5 below summarizes the procurement arrangements for the
Project.



- 32 -
Table 4.5
Summary of Procurement Arransements for the Project
(US$ Million)
"'rocurement Method
Project Element           ICB           LCB           Other      Total Cost
Transmission Lines
- 8 Contract Packages        74.3                                       74.3
(see Annex 4.7)         (62.5)                                    (62.5)
- Towers                                                  16.6 /a       16.6
- Line Stringing                           4.4             4.5 75        8.9
Substations
- 9 Contract Packages        65.0                                      65.0
(see Annex 4.8)         (65.0)                                    (65.0)
- Other Equipment                                          2.6 /a        2.6
- Civil Works                                             11.2 /b       11.2
- Installation & Erection                                 11.7 /b       11.7
Others
- Training                                                 1.6           1.6
(1.1)        (1.1)
- Consulting Services                                      0.6          0.6
(0.4)        (0.4)
- TEK Project Engineering
Administration                                         2.5 /b       2.5
TOTAL PROJECT COST      139.3          4.4            51.3        195.0
(127.5)                       (1.5)       (129.0)
Note:    Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank.
The total does not include interest during construction.
/a  Equipment and material provided by TEK from its stock.
/b Force account.
Disbursements
4.16     The disbursements from the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan would
be made for:



- 33 -
(a)  100l   of the foreign expenditures of directly imported equipment and
materials or 100% of local ex-factory prices of equipment and
materials manufactured in Turkey;
(b) 20% of total expenditures for erection of steel towers for the lines;
(c) 100% of foreign expenditures for overseas training;
(d) 85% of total expenditures for services of consultants domiciled
within Turkey and 100% of foreign expenditures for services of other
consultants; and
(e) interest during construction.
4.17     The estimated disbursements from the proposed loan are shown in
Annex 4.9 and have been computed on the basis of the EMENA Region standard
profile for similar power projects. Annex 4.10 gives a comparison with the
actual disbursement of TEK Transmission Project II.
Special Account
4.18     The establishment of a Special Account in the Central Bank will
permit payment of Bank-financed expenditures with a minimum administrative
delay. This Special Account would be replenished in the same currency, and
would have a ceiling of US$8.0 million, which is equivalent to four-month
average of the total expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Bank loan. During negotiations the procedure for withdrawal of funds from the
Special Account was explained. The following aspects concerning this Special
Account will be reflected in the disbursement letter:
(a)  the unit within TEK responsible for aggregation and submission of
withdrawal applications to the Bank; and
(b) intervals at which bank statements and applications for replenishment
will be submitted (in principle at quarterly intervals).
Central Bank statements showing the transactions in the Special Account will
be submitted to the Bank. Applications for replenishment will be accompanied
by appropriate documentation or Statements of Expenditures. Replenishment
will normally be made in the amount equal to payments made out of the Special
Account for eligible expenditures, but only to the extent that the amount of
any such deposit together with any amount remaining on the deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such request, does not exceed the equivalent
of the agreed ceiling.
Retroactive Financing and Advanced Contracting
4.19     No retroactive financing or advanced contracting is involved in the
proposed Project.



- 34 -
Environmental Impact
4.20     The Project has no major adverse effects on the environment.
Aesthetic impacts on the landscape and, to a lesser extent, noise are the
principal adverse effects, and both would be kept at acceptable levels.
Project Risks
4.21     Most of the 380-kV lines are in mountainous areas difficult to
reach. However, adequate construction technology is available to cope with
the expected terrain and climatic conditions.
4.22     Land acquisition for the new 380-kV and 154-kV substations has not
yet started and could be a critical factor in ensuring timely completion of
the Project. Actions to carry out land acquisition on time have been agreed
during negotiations (para. 4.14). Furthermore, the use of consultants to
assist TEK in project implementation will provide improved coordination with
construction of lines, substations and power plants affecting the Project and
will assist TEK in preventing delays in project implementation.
4.23     Given the uncertainty surrounding likely investment levels for the
medium term (para. 2.10 and Annex 2.3) there is some possibility of a
shortfall in available funds to meet overall investment requirements.
However, even at the suggested lowest range of investment, the components
whicn will be served by the proposed Project represent a set of core high
priority investments which would remain unaffected.



- 35 -
V. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
A. INTRODUCTION
5.01      The trend in the past year toward rapid improvement in TEK's
financial position marks a reversal in the deteriorating situation which was
presented two years ago.!/ While TEK suffered a net operating loss in 1983,
due to insufficient tariff increases combined with very poor hydrological
conditions, the financial situation improved dramatically in 1984. Tariffs
increased significantly in real terms in 1984 (see para. 5.02), and internal
cash generatLon in 1984 was adequate to finance about 16% of investments in
the electric power subsector that year../ The changes in policy reflect the
priorities of the new Government (elected in late 1983) for reducing public
expenditures, pricing energy products closer to oconomic cost, and increasing
the self-financing level of the electric power subsector. The financial
analysis which follows assumes that this government commitment will be
sustained during project implementation. However, financial constraints will
continue to shape the level and timing of electric power investments. Foreign
debt management, working capital stability and overall financial planning are
other issues which will be dealt with through a Financial Action Plan in the
proposed Project.
B. RECENT FINANCIA PERFORMANCE
Electricity Pricing
5.02      Wholesale Tariffs.  Over the three-year period, 1982-1984, wholesale
tariffs increased by about 13% in real terms. As shown in Table 5.1 (details
in Annexes 5.1 and 5.2), wholesale tariffs were not adjusted sufficiently to
keep up with inflation in 1982 and 1983, and consequentl  lost 2% and 18% of
their real value in those two years, respectively. Then in 1984, tariffs
increased by 41% in real terms during the year, more thai making up for the
ground lost in the two previous years. Although the wholesale price index
climbed by just over 50% in 1984, the Government was apparently determined to
increase tariffs even faster. In the first quarter of 1985, further
1/ TEK Transmission III (Loan 2322-TU, May 31, 1983).
2   N.B. All financial results for 1984 are based on estimated information
which was available in January 1985; changes are likely to occur after the
financial records are finalized and audited.



- 36 -
significant tariff increases occurred (para. 5.26); however, the actual real
increase resulting for 1985 will of course not be known until the end of the
year.SY
Table 5.1
Trends in Wholesale Electricity Tariffs
1982     1983     1984
Average Tariff (TL/kWh) - Jan. 01        5.70     6.99     8.05
- Dec. 31       6.99     8.05    17.15
Nominal Change During Year (Z)             23       15      113
Inflation (Z)                              25       41       51
Real Incr. (Decr.) in Tariffs
During Year (Z)                          (2)     (18)      41
5.03     Retail Tariffs.  During TEK's takeover of urban electricity
distribution from the municipalities in 1983, retail tariffs were standardized
for all regions of Turkey. Annex 5.3 shows changes in retail tariffs by
customer group effective over 1983-1985. During the eighteen months following
June 1983, retail tariffs increased by a range of 14Z to 25Z in real terms,
depending on the customer type. Under Loan 2322-TU, TEK and the Government
undertook to reflect fully in retail tariffs all increases in wholesale
tariffs, including fuel cost adjustments, starting in 1984. In 1984, when the
average wholesale tariff increased by TL 9.l0/kWh, the single-term retail
tariff for small industries increased by TL 11.85/kWh during the same period.
Other retail customer groups experienced larger tariff increases. Therefore,
it appears that increases in wholesale tariffs, as measured in absolute terms
CTL/kWh), were at least fully passed on through to the retail level in 1984.
5.04     Tariff Covenants. Existing agreements assuring automatic fuel cost
adjustment of tariffs and passing increases in wholesale tariffs on to the
retail level have been confirmed under the present loan_
Working Capital
5.05     Given TEK's new authority to collect sales revenues directly from
retail customers (instead of the municipalities retaining these revenues), the
deterioration in TEK's working capital situation should normally have been
I/ The relationship between tariffs and the econocic cost of electricity
supply (LRMC) is discussed in para 2.19. Bulk tariffs were estimated at
65Z-70Z of LRMC in January 1985, increasing to about 85Z-90Z of LRMC by
April 1985.



- 37 -
reversed in 1983.   However, because of the significant real decrease in
tariffs in 1983, serious cash flow problems continued in 1983. Foregoing
payments to its fuel suppliers in 1983 (including other public enterprises
such as TPAO, for fuel oil and TKI, for lignite), TEK used its available ftnds
for the payment of capital expenditures, rather than operating expenses, in
order to avoid delays in the implementation of its investment program. As a
result of this, combined with past accumulated arrears, TEK's accounts payable
had increased to TL 283 billion by the end of 1983, more than that year's
gross operating revenues.
5.06     To put a halt to rising indebtedness among public enterprises, the
Government took action in 1984 to consolidate these debts. TL 230 billion in
TEK's net overdue accouats payable were consolidated and converted into
equity. The Government made it clear, however, that it did not expect to
repeat the role of a financial clearing house for debts between public
enterprises. Furthermore, TEK was charged penalties of almost TL 50 billion
in 1983 for late payments to its fuel suppliers. Since mid-1984, TEK has
generally been paying its fuel suppliers on schedule.
Table 5.2
TEK - Working Capital Position (As of December 31, 1982-1984)
1982       1983        1984
---(Actual)--    (Estimated)
Working Capital (Deficit) (in TL billion)         -39         -106        +87
Current Ratio                                       .8          .7        1.5
Days Receivables                                  272          267        186
5.07     Although TEK is reducing its accounts receivable, they are still very
high, amounting to 267 and 186 days of sales at the end of 1983 and 1984,
respectively. The estimated composition of TEK's accounts receivable by
customer group as of 12/31/84 was as follows: 35% from municipalities, 28%
from private industry and households, 22% from government agencies, 8Z from
public agencies, and the remaining 7% from other customers. The largest
category, municipalities, is composed of arrears due TEK for bulk purchases
prior to the transfer of distribution from the municipalities to TEK. The law
which transferred distribution assets and their operation from the
municipalities to TEK made provision for outstanding arrears to be offset
against net asset value. TEK's end-84 accounts receivable tould be equivalent
instead to about 117 days of sales, if adjusted to exclude municipal arrears.
The decision by the Ministry of Finance on how the municipalities' accounts



- 38 -
would be repaid or consolidated is still pending, but is scheduled to be
finalized by 1986 following the determination of the value of the distribution
assets transferred to TEK.
5.08     Working Capital Covenants.  It was agreed under Loan 2322-TU that TEK
would maintain a current ratio (defined as current assets divided by current
liabilities) of at least 0.7 at the end of 1983, increasing to 1.0 at the end
of 1984 and future years, and this was confirmed under the present project.
As indicated on Table 5.2, TEK has complied with this covenant (based on
unaudited results)_ However, a satisfactory current ratio can still cover up
other weaknesses in TEK's working capital situation; delays in collecting
payments from some customers will also need to be reduced. As part of a
Financial Action Plan, agreement was reached on a target for improving
collection of customer payments. Measured in terms of days of average sales
revenue, accounts receivable from all customers except municipalities should
be reduced to 90 days by December 31, 1988, meeting that target in stages as
follows: 1986 - 110 days; 1987 - 100 days.
Debt Service
5.09     TEK has access to a limited amount of medium-te-rm TL borrowing from
the State Investment Bank (DYB), and relies on foreign credits to finance most
of the foreign cost of its investments. Due to  TEK's past cash shortages, TEK
and the Treasury have tacitly agreed that TEgC will defer from time to time
reimbursement to the Government for installments on TEK's foreign debts paid
by the Central Bank, without formally rescheduling them. In the last three
years (1982-1984), it is estimated that TEK actually paid only about one half
of foreign debt installments due out of its internal funds, with the remainder
being postponed to the following year. The amount of foreign debt service
payments deferred by TEK (including principal and interest) is estimated at
US$16l million, US$232 million and USS74 million in 1982, 1983 and 1984,
respectively. In 1984, the Government converted about US$115 million (TL 40
billion equivalent) of these arrears to equity. The accumulation of arrears to
the Central Bank is the equivalent of giving an additional transfer to TEK
from the Government, acting as an interest-free loan. In the future, it would
be preferable either for TEK to receive adequate government equity to stay up
to date on its debt service payments, or to make more internally generated
funds available for TEK's debt service.
5.10     The Bank has discussed with TEK a method to maintain more accurate
records of principal and interest payments due to foreign creditors and the
date and amount of payments actually made by TEK, in foreign currency terms
and converted to TL at the correct exchange rate. As part of the Financial
Action Plan, TEK will update on a semi-annual basis records of foreign debt
service payments paid and outstanding for the current and following two years
for periodic review by the Bank.



- 39 -
Recent Trends in Sector Financing and Internal Cash Generation
5.11       Among public enterprises, TEK has received in recent years the
largest allocation from the national budget in the form of direct government
equity. In 1983 and 1984, TEK received 23% and 35Z respectively of total
government investments in public enterprises. With the objective of increasing
sector self-financing, the Bank and the Government have agreed on targets for
the share of public investments in electric power to be covered by internally
generated funds. According to the agreed formula, TEK's internal cash
generation is adjusted for TEK and DSI electric power-related debt service,
and then compared to the subsector investment program, including TEK and DSI
power investments.!!
5.12     Changes in working capital are included in the definition of internal
cash generation (i.e., a decrease (increase) in working capital is regarded as
a source (use) of funds). However, the covenant was not intended to consider
failure to pay for annual operating costs as a "source of funds" for capital
expenditures. As explained above (paras. 5.05-5.07), in the past four years,
there have been abnormal variations in TEK's short-term accounts, distorting
the picture of the degree of self-financing achieved. Therefore, in reviewing
TEK's past levels of internal cash generation, it is more meaningful to
exclude changes in working capital during this period. (Such unusual
fluctuations in working capital are no longer expected after 1985.)
5.13     Table 5.3 compares the covenanted level of internal cash generation
(column a) for the 1981-1984 period, with actual performance, both excluding
changes in working capital (column b) and including these changes (column c).
The level of sector internal cash generation for 1981-83 has been overstated
since it was not possible to adjust correctly for DSI's debt service for power
projects. However, estimated DSI debt service has been included for 1984 and
afterwards. Borrowing for DSI projects is contracted by the Government; since
many of DSI's projects are multi-purpose, it has been difficult to isolate the
power-related debt service. This matter will be analyzed in the course of the
appraisal for the next Bank-financed hydropower project with DSI, which is
planned for FY86.
5.14     While estimated internal cash generation financed between 10% and 20%
of power investments in 1981 and 1982, it did not quite reach covenanted
levels. Then in 1983, when tariffs dropped in real terms, TEK internal cash
generation was actually negative. Preliminary results for 1984 indicate a
rebound, with internal cash generation at about 16% of power investment,
compared to the covenanted level of 21Z. In view of the large real increase
in tariffs achieved in 1984, however, the recent performance under the
covenant can be regarded as acceptable.
1/ This covenant was originally included in the Karakaya Hydropower Project
(Loan 1844-TU, 1980), and-later ammended in May, 1983. (The treatment of
taxes in the internal cash generation formula is discussed in Annex 5.8,
para. 16.)



- 40 -
Table 5.3
TEK Internal Cash Generation (1981-1985)
(As Z of Power Subsector Investment)
Year              Covenant              Actual
/a            /b          /c
1981                 20            13           20
1982                 22            19           21
1983                 12             0           21
1984 (estimated)     21            16          (31)
1985                 32             -            -
1986 onwards         35             -
/a Agreed under Loan 1844-TU (May 1980); subsequently targets for 1983 and
1984 were lowered during negotiations for Loan 2322-TU (May 1983).
/b  Excluding changes in working capital.  More meaningful than /c  for
1981-84 (as explained in para. 5.12).
/c  Including changes in working capital.  Less meaningful than /b for 1981-84
(as explained in para. 5.12).
Public Participation Fund and Keban Revenue-Sharing Certificates
5.15     As part of the Government's innovative resource mobilization policy,
the recently created Public Participation Fund (PPF) issued in January, 1985,
TL 40 billion (US$90 million equivalent) of revenue-sharing certificates
associated with the Keban hydropower plant../ The certificates, underwritten
by the Isbank, were sold within two days. TEK retains full ownership of the
Keban power station but must transfer to the PPF a base rate of TL 11.3/kWh
(60X of the bulk tariff) for electricity generated by the Keban station, with
this rate increasing as bulk tariffs increase. The PPF will pay out as
interest only 22Z of the money transferred to it from TEK, the remainder to be
used for priority projects, especially in the energy sector. Holders of Keban
certificates earn no guaranteed return, because the interest payments which
they will receive are a function of TEK's sales tariffs and of the actual
1/  The PPF, established by Law 2983 (1984), can issue revenue-sharing
certificates associated with existing public infrastructure facilities,
and such certificates have also been issued for the Bosphorus Bridge. The
first issue of Keban certificates included TL 20 billion of Series A with
a three-year maturity and TL 20 billion of Series B with a five-year
maturity. The Keban Hydropower Plant of 1330 MW was constructed in two
stages during 1964-1983; the total cost in January 1985 prices is
estimated at US$1.1 billion, or TL495 billion. Using a 50-year life, the
annual depreciation would be about TL 9.5 billion.



- 41 -
generation of Keban and, therefore, these investors could become a new
constituency in favor of electricity tariff increases.
5.16     Most of the resources available to the PPF in conjunction with the
Keban certificates come directly from TEK; out of TL 360 billion (in 1985
prices) projected to flow thr6ugh the PPF in 1985-1989, only the initial TL 40
billion invested by private individuals represent new resources being
generated from outside the sector. In 1985 the PPF is directing these funds
at priority hydroelectric projects under construction (e.g., Karakaya,
Kapulkaya, Menzelet, Catalan, Genzende, Adiguzel) to assure a steady flow of
Turkish Lira to contractors and, where possible, to advance the completion
dates. Eventually some investments carried out by TEK may be selected for
financing through grants from the PPF. Additional revenue-sharing
certificates may be issued in the future, tied either to the Keban Dam or to
other hydropower plants.
5.17     It is logical that cash generated by TEK should be used to finance
DSI's investments in hydroelectric power, since DSI itself is not a
revenue-earning entity, and because, under the present policy, TEK does not
pay anything to the Government when completed hydroelectric facilities are
transferred to TEK from DSI. TEK's payments to the PPF could now be regarded
as a form of reimbursement for the Keban facility. On the basis of the
January 1985 tariffs, TEK would have to pay TL 64 billion annually to the
PPF. At this rate, TEK would have repaid the Government for the total cost of
the Keban power station at the end of eight years.
C. FINANCIAL PLANNING AND ACCOUNTING PRACTICES
Financial Planning
5.18     Short-term financial planning is carried out by TEK in conjunction
with the approved annual investment program, normally finalized in
November/December preceding the given year. At this point, TEK receives an
indication from the Ministry of Finance of the likely amounts of three
sources: (a) government equity contribution from the budget, (b) foreign
credits, and (c) local credits from the State Investment Bank (DYB). There is
no implicit government approval of any tariff increases needed to permit
financing the remainder of approved investment program. In its yearly
finaa=ing plan, TEK therefore esti:a:es ,:s 4aterna` cash generation based
only on tariff increases already authorized by the Government, showing a-y
residual as a "gap".
5.19     Partly due to its lack of control over tariff setting, TEK management
does not rely on medium- or long-term financial planning to determine the
possible size of the investment program. Without giving full consideration to
whether financing will be available, the formulation of the investment program
is instead driven by technical criteria. Although a rolling five-year
financial forecast is updated annually by TEK for submission to the World



- 42 -
Bank, it is a very time-consuming exercise with inadequate flexibility to test
the consequences of major changes. TEK prepares the forecast manually, making
it nearly impossible to change parameters once the exercise is under -;ay.
Furthermore, contingencies for price and exchange rate fluctuations over the
forecast period are not incorporated. The necessity for closer coordination
between financial and technical planning is now being recognized by TEK and
the Government given that resource limits have directly affected the
implementation of the investment program. This issue will cdntinue to be a
focus of Bank sector and supervision missions.
Audits
5.20     As with other public enterprises, TEK's financial statements follow
the Ur.f'orm Chart of Accounts, and are audited by the High Control Board
connected with the Prime Ministry. TEK is required by Law 233 to submit its
balance sheets and final accounts to the Prime Ministry for auditing no later
than the third month following the year they pertain to. TEK is then meant to
submit its annual audited accounts to the Bank no later than five months after
the close of the year. However, there are shortcomings with both the scope
and the timing of the preser.t audit reports. The auditors rarely comnent on
the reliability of the presentation of the accounts, or on significant events
which occurred during the year. The audit reports concerning 1981 and 1982
were received more than a year after the close of the fiscal year. Similarly,
the audit report for 1983 had not yet been received as of April 1985.
5.21     Most likely it will not be possible to meet the five month target for
submission of the audit report, until the 1987 report. TEK's consultants,
SEI/Mage (para. 5.23), are giving priority to helping TEK improve the
timeliness and accuracy of the financial statements. Furthermore, an upgrading
of TEK's computer center, presently being studied, should improve TEK's
ability to prepare and correct the annual financial reports. During
negotiations agreement was reached on a gradual schedule of improvement for
submitting audit reports, with the 1985 and 1986 audit reports being expected
within 10 and 8 months, respectively, after the end of the given fiscal year,
and within 5 months for 1987 and afterwards.
Asset Revaluation
5.22     The practice of revaluation of fixed assets in service was
discontinued by TEK in 1979. Then, starting in January 1983, according to Law
2791, TEK and all other public enterprises were once again required to revalue
their assets. However, the mission does not consider that the present
revaluation regulation will result in a meaningful asset value.J' At such
/ The price index stipulated in the law does not appear to bear any
relationship to historical trends, as this index would imply that
inflation in Turkey has been 100% each year from 1972 to 1983, and then
37% in 1984, when the change in the wholesale price index was actually
about 50%. In any year when inflation is less than 10%, no revaluation of
assets need occur, according to this law.



- 43 -
time when TEK's fixed assets have been revalued adequately reflecting their
replacement value, the rate of return on assets will become a meaningful
indicator of adequacy of tariffs. However, given higher priorities for
improvement of TEK's accounting, including the accurate recording of the
historical book value of assets, asset revaluation will not be dealt with
under the proposed Project.
Technical Assistance to Improve Accounting
5.23     A three-year technical assistance effort (1985-1987) to improve TEK's
financial reporting and customer accounting, is being implemented under TEK
Transmission III (Loan 2322-TU) by TEK with Southern Electric International
(SEI) and Mage, their Turkish partner. The objectives are to: (a) eliminate
double accounting and information flow bottlenecks between the accounting and
related departments; (b) improve customer accounting systems for two pilot
distribution enterprises -- Ege (Izmir) and Central Anatolia (Ankara); (c)
improve the timeliness, accuracy and format of financial reports needed for
management and external users (including IBRD); and (d) design the first stage
of a management information system for TEK. This TA effort has made good
progress to date and enjoys the close collaboration of the related TEK
managers and staff. While the scope of the present contract is ambitious, it
has still been limited to take account of constraints on TEK's absorptive
capacity for change.
5.24      Follow-up will be needed to build on and extend the improvements
made, but further consulting services in this area should be engaged only
after the present TA contract has been implemented. The Power System
Operations Assistance Project includes funds for an estimated 100 man-months
of technical assistance which will cover the following: (a) development and
implementation of improved cost accounting for maintenance, operations and
materials; (b) introduction of a management information system for TEK; and
(c) improvement in financial planning.
D. FUTURE FINANCIAL PROSPECTS
Financing of MediumrTerm Power Investment Program:  1985-1989
5.25     In order to meet expected national electricity demand after 1990, a
considerable growth in investments in electricity generation, transmission and
distribution would be required in the next five years. At the same time, TEK
and DSI are expected to face substantial resource constraints in this period.
The Bank's review of the public sector investment program and the potential
for resource mobilization, which is presently being conducted in the context
of SAL V, has ind-cated that it will be necessary to limit real growtn in
overall public spending to lower levels than planned by the Governnent in the
medium-term. However, since TEK is a revenue-earning entity, the power



- 44 -
subsector will have increasing amounts of internally generated funds available
and will not need to depend heavily on Government equity contributions.
Furthermore, legal changes have increased the potential for private investment
in power generating capacity (para. 5.36).
5.26     1985:  As already mentioned, medium-term planning for the power
subsector needs to be strengthened;   only for 1985 is there some certainty
regarding the power subsector investment program and related financing plan.
TEK's 1985 investment program as approved in December 1984 amounts to TL 400
billion, and another TL 200 billion has been allocated for DSI's hydropower
investments in 1985. DSI's power investments are to be financed in 1985 by
government budget and borrowing (66%) and by transfers from TEK through the
PPF (33Z). Financing for TEK was originally authorized as follows: 25% from
government equity contribution; 30% from foreign borrowing; 5% in local
borrowing from the State Investment Bank (DYB); and the remaining 40% from
internal cash generation. Then in April 1985, the government contribution to
TEK was reduced by half to TL 50 billion. To fill the resulting gap and to
meet the remaining resource needs, the Government has already begun to
implement a series of tariff increasu,. Bulk tariffs went up in nominal terms
by 47% in the first quarter of 1985,- a period during which the wholesale
price index increased 15% to 20%. It may be difficult for the Government to
maintain the present level of tariffs in real terms throughout 1985, in the
light of the sizeable tariff increases already implemented. One possible
outcome is that no further tariff increases would occur other than fuel cost
adjustments; in this case, the approved program would need to be slightly cut
(by about 5%) and the resulting self-financing level would be about 36%. This
is assumed to be a "base case". (Available internal cash generation could be
lower if inflation surpasses the 35% forecast, or higher if significant
further tariff increases are implemented during the rest of 1985.)
5.27     To determine what level of overall power subsector investment could
realistically be financed through the public sector after 1985, the investment
scenarios outlined in Chapter II were examined.2/
5.28     Scenario "A":  The desired investment program as proposed by TEK and
DSI reflects a very large increase in investments in 1986, almost 60% higher
than the 1985 level. This level of investment could be financed if:
(i) tariffs in effect April 1, 1985 are sustained in real terms throughout
1985 and then increased a further 15% in 1986, and (ii) government equity
doubles in real terms, compared with the approved 1985 level. Because this
1/ Bulk tariffs were increased by 10%, 11% and 20% effective January 1, March
1 and April 1, respectively. These are the nominal increases excluding
the VAT and TRT charge collected by TEK, which do not affect TEK's net
income. (See Annexes 5.1, 5.2 and 5.3.)
2/ Alternative scenarios for the TEK and DSI power investment programs are
discussed in paras. 2.24-2.28 and Annex 2.2.



- 45 -
combination of actions does not appear to be feasible, it is concluded that
the program proposed by TEK and DSI for 1986, could not be financed. Overall
the TEK/DSI program proposed for 1985-89 is about 15-20Z higher than the
likely level of resource availability for the public sector.
5.29     Scenario "B":  This represents the upper bound of national investment
requirements needed to meet demand in the 1990s as estimated by the Bank. In
order for TEK and DSI investments to reach this level, resources available to
the public sector would need to be greater than can reasonably be envisaged.
Government equity and foreign borrowing for power would need to increase by
10% and 20% p.a., respectively, over 1985-1989, and average tariff revenue in
1985 and 1986 would need to be 15% higher in real terms than the preceding
years. The resulting internal cash generation levels would range from 50% to
60%.
5.30     Scenario "C":  This scenario, considered by the Bank a lower bound of
required investments, will still require significant tariff increases in 1985
and 1986. The average revenue per kWh sold would need to increase in real
terms by 20% and 15Z in 1985 and 1986 respectively over the previous year's
level in order to meet the sector's resource requirements. After 1986, as a
result of these increases, and the expected increase in electricity sales made
possible by completion of major plants, there would be more than adequate
resources available within the sector to finance the minimum level described
as Scenario "C".
5.31     Scenario "D":  The Bank's financial projections thus indicate that
resources could be available to the public sector (i.e., TEK and DSI) to
finance an intermediate level of investment, which is between the higher
levels (Scenarios "A" and "B") and lower bound (Scenario "C") discussed
above. Scenario 'D", which was used as a base for the financial forecasts,
indicates the level of investment which the public sector is likely to be able
to support. The composition of the public power investment program and the
timing of major projects which would be consistent with Scenario "D" will need
to be examined through sector missions and project supervision. The relation
of Scenario "Di  to the other investment scenarios is shown graphically in
Table 5.4. It is based on the assumptions listed below. (Related agreements
are given in para. 5.35.)
(a)  Electricity tariffs.  Following the major increases implemented in
the first quarter of 1985 (para. 5.26), it is assumed conservatively
that no further increases might occur in 1985 beyond the agreed fuel
cost adjustment of tariffs. The real increase in the average bulk
tariff for 1985 over the 1984 level would then be 10, assuming 35%
inflation in 1985. Then, during 1986-1988, real increases of 5% p.a.
are assumed in order to bring tariffs to at least reflect LRMC by
1989.



- 46 -
(b) TEK's internally generated funds would stay within the sector,
financing TEK's investment program directly, as well as being
transferred in part to DSI via the PPF.
(c) TEK's foreign borrowings and government contributions to TEK in the
form of new equity would increase by at most 4% p.a. in real terms
over the approved 1985 level.
(d)  DSI's power investment program could be funded by foreign borrowing
and government contributions, together increasing at most 6% p.a. in
real terms over the approved 1985 level, and by TEK's transfers to
the PPF as already committed for the first Keban revenue-sharing
certificates (para. 5.15).
Under these assumptions, the level of self-financing (internal cash
generation) for the power subsector could increase to 60-65% by the end of the
decade.l/
1/ The calculation of estimated internal cash generation is shown in Annex
5.6 and related assumptions are discussed in Annex 5.8, para. 16.



- 47 -
Table 5.4
Scenarios for Investment in Electric Power
(thousands of billion TL in mid-1984 prices)
(TL 3501US$)
1.3                                                                   *B
1.2                                                                    A
D
0.9
0.8 
C
0.7 
0.6 1
0.4
0.3-
0.2
0.1
1985            1986            1987             1988            1989
-    Scenario "A"   -  TEK and DSI projection of required expenditures
(TEK/DSI estimate).
II = |Scenario "B"   -  Overall national level of investment required to meet
growth in electricity demand in Turkey in the 1990s
(Bank estimate).
O~   Scenario "C"   -  Minimum level of investment required to complete
ongoing and high priority projects (Bank estimate).
A     Scenario "D"   -  Level of investment by TEK and DSI which could be
financed, taking into account expected tariff
increases and growth in foreign borrowing and
government equity (Bank estimate).



- 48 -
Future Financial Position of TEK
5.32     Financial statements for TEK for 1981-1989, showing the implications
of Scenario "D", appear in Annexes 5.4 to 5.6, and the resulting financial
ratios for TEK and the subsector are shown in Annex 5.7. The assumptions used
in the base forecasts are listed in Annex 5.8.
5.33     Summary. 1985-1989.  The growth in TEK's access to government equity
and foreign borrowing is expected to be constrained, and the base financial
forecasts show TEK relying increasingly on self-financing towards the end of
the 1980s. The Bank was informed by MENR during the appraisal mission that
this was the Government's intention. The expected completion of major
generating facilities (e.g., Elbistan, Karakaya) will enable TEK to increase
its level of electricity sales at a faster rate (by up to 20% p.a.) at the end
of the forecast period, and to start to close the gap of unmet energy demand.
Debt service coverage could increase from a low level of 0.8 times in 1983 to
4.0 times at the end of the 1980s, assuming that sales tariffs at that time
would reflect fully LRMC. TEK's liquidity situation is expected to improve,
as a result of the technical assistance TEK is currently receiving in customer
billing and monitoring of receivables. It is estimated that nearly half of
TEK's investments in 1985-89 would be financed by internally-generated funds
available to TEK after tax (43%), supplemented by foreign borrowings (44%) and
local credits (3%). Government equity would still be relied on to finance the
remaining 10% of TEK's program, but would be more than offset by TEK's
expected income tax payments.
5.34     Sensitivity analysis shows that the base financial forecast would be
materially affected by periods with higher than expected inflation, during
which tariffs could easily slip downwards in real terms, while the cost of
completing ongoing investment projects would increase and the Turkish Lira
cost of foreign debt service obligations would also rise more than expected.
Agreed Revenue Covenant and Supporting Covenants
5.35     If the progress made since January 1984 toward economic pricing of
electricity (para. 2.19) is sustained, levels of sector self-financing could
surpass 60%, especially when other sources (national budget, borrowing) are
constrained. However, much uncertainty remains about future inflation rates
in Turkey, as well as the possible levels of investment in electric power.
The proposed Project therefore includes the present internal cash generation
covenant (para. 5.11), supported by complementary covenants to strengthen
investment and financial planning and to improve TEK's liquidity situation.
The following agreements were reached during negotiations:
--   to repeat the present internal cash generation covenant in the
present loan, maintaining the same covenanted levels for subsector
self-financing as minimum targets (32% in 1985, 35% thereafter).



- 49 -
Indication of how the agreed level of internal cash generation would
be met for the following year would be provided to the Bank by
October 31 of each year. The definition of internal cash generation
would be clarified as follows: TEK's payments to the PPF (para.
5.15), to the extent that these amounts are maintained within the
subsector to finance electric power investments, would be treated as
subsector internal cash generation.
for TEK and the Government to review with the Bank by October 31 of
each year the proposed annual investment program for the power
subsector for the next year and the planned power subsector
investments for the next five years and the related financing plans,
(para. 2.30). These annual reviews would address present concerns
that medium-term investment planning does not take financial
constraints into account.
for TEK to implement a Financial Action Plan achieving the following
objectives; improvement of collection of customer bills (para.
5.08); improvement of foreign debt service recording and management
(para. 5.10); and engagement of consultants to follow-up and extend
improvements in accounting and MIS presently underway (para. 5.24).
Potential for Private Investment in Power
5.36     A large gap remains between the total national requirements for
investments in electric power (Scenario "B"), and the level of investment
which can reasonably be financed and carried out by TEK and DSI
(Scenario "D"). This gap is illustrated in Table 5.4. For the five-year
period, 1985-1989, it is estimated that total national requirements will
amount to uS$14 billion equivalent (TL 6,500 billion in early 1985 prices), of
which TEK and DSI could feasibly carry out only about 802. The remaining gap,
about US42.8 billion (TL 1,250 billion), would need to be financed through
other sources which could include the following: (a) CEAS and KEPEZ; (b)
foreign concessions; (c) local investors; and (d) issue of more
revenue-sharing certificates associated with Keban or other hydro facilities.
5.37     The likely level of private investment in power in Turkey is still
uncertain, other than for CEAS and KEPEZ, who plan to undertake investments of
about US$0.5 billion in the next five years. The Government has begun
discussions with local parties which could serve as "entrusted" companies
operating as integrated utilities in designated regions, and with foreign
companies which could invest in thermal power plants (e.g., nuclear, imported
coal) on a concession basis without requiring TEK or the Government to take on
additional foreign debt (para. 2.16). An expanded role for private
investments in power could be advantageous, depending on the cost and the
sales tariff agreed to for purchases from private suppliers. However, it is
not likely that these prospects will result in the necessary scale and timing
of investments in the next five years, and thus the shortage of electricity
supply in Turkey is expected to continue into the 1990's, until financing
constraints can be resolved.



- 50 -
VI. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
Least-Cost Solution
6.01     The proposed Project is justified as being the least-cost means of
interconnecting the new plants coming on line to meet the power requirements
as reviewed by the Bank. The Project is part of TEK's long-term (10-15 years)
transmission expansion plan which was updated in January 1985, on the basis of
present worth comparison of investments and operating costs, including losses,
for the following technically viable alternatives:
(a) A 380-kv system throughout.
(b) A combined 380-kV and 800-kV system.
(c) A combined 380-kR and -, 500-kV (DC) system.
6.02     Alternative (a)-380 kV alone-was shown to be the least-cost
solution at 12Z discount rate, equal to the estimated opportunity cost of
capital in Turkey.
6.03     The evaluation of transmission expansion alternatives is updated
regularly to reflect experience with the initial group of lines, as well as
changes in the development of TEK's interconnected system. The latest
technical and economic evaluation in January 1985 confirmed that the lines
included in the Project are the least cost means of extending the 380-kv
network to interconnect the new plants. The evaluation was reviewed by the
Bank and found to be satisfactory.
6.04     In addition, given the uncertainty in the availability of investment
resources (para. 2.24), the Bank reviewed the timing, priority and level of
invest-mnts in transmission and concluded that the proposed Project is
justified since it would finance lines and substations needed to meet the high
priority generating plants identified as part of the core electric power
investment program (para. 2.27 and Annex 2.2).
Return on Investment
6.05     Since the Project forms an integral part of TEK/DSI's 1985-1990
expansion program the economic rate of return on the whole timeslice of TEK's
investment program for 1985-1990 (covering the construction period of the
proposed project) was calculated (Annex 6.1).
6.06     The measurable costs comprise:  (a) the capital cost of the adjusted
expansion program for 1985-1990; (b) operating costs; and (c) the fuel cost of
incremental thermal generation excluding fuel savings. No fuel escalation was
assumed since increases in the price of fuels are covered by the fuel
adjustment clause incorporated in the tariff structure. Detailed assumptions
as well as results of the analysis are presented in Annex 6.1.
6.07     Measurable benefits were limited to the incremental revenue
attributable to the program (para. 6.06), computed on the basis of: (a) TEK's



- 51 -
projected sales to industrial customers supplied directly at the high-voltage
level and to low-voltage consumers supplied through TEK's distribution
enterprises; (b) projected tariffs at the high- and low-voltage levels; and
any net fuel savings resulting from investment in improved efficiency in the
thermal plants. Tariff adjustments were projected in line with the financial
projections given in Chapter V, as follows: the January 1 through April 1,
1985 increases would result in an average high-voltage sales revenue for 1985
of TL 26.87/kWh, and for low-voltage sales, of TL 34.90/kWh, assuming that all
increases in bulk tariffs are passed on to retail tariffs as agreed under the
Project (para. 5.04). Further increases would take place in 1986, 1987, 1988
and 1989 (6Z, 5Z, 2Z and 2Z in real terms, respectively), reflecting the
Government's commitment to allow sufficient tariff increases to raise the
level of self-financing in the power subsector. Tariffs would remain constant
in real terms thereafter. Since the tariffs used in the calculation were
estimated as a proxy for consumers' willingness to pay, all taxes were
included. Given the large unmet demand (para. 2.02) the willingness to pay,
for electricity is likely to be higher than the current average tariff; but it
cannot be quantified.
6.08     Under the above assumptions, the return on the program is estimated
at 11.2%, marginally below the estimated opportunity cost of capital of 12%.
However, it understates the real economic return since it excl-des the
consumer's surplus. In addition, given the difficulties of quantifying
precisely all the benefits generated by investments in improved efficiency of
system operations, these benefits were not fully taken into account in the
analysis, thus understating further the rual return on the investment program.



- 52 -
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01     During negotiations, the Government agreed to extend the customs
duties exemption to the proposed Project (para. 4.08).
7.02     During negotiations, the Government and TEK agreed to:
(a)  review with the Bank, not later than October 31 of each year, (i) the
proposed annual investment program for the power subsector for the
next succeeding year and the related financing plan, and (ii) the
required investments and related financing plans for the next
succeeding five years (para. 2.30);
(b)  maintain a fuel adjustment clause in TEK's electricity supply
contracts and enforce a provision that its charges will be increased
automatically to take account of increases in its fuel costs (para.
5.04);
(c)  reflect all increases affecting bulk (high voltage) tariffs,
including fuel cost adjustments, in retail (low voltage) tariffs
(para. 5.04); and
(d)  take necessary actions to ensure that subsector internal cash
generation is at least equal to the following shares of annual
capital expenditures in electric power made by TEK and DSI; 1985 -
32%, 1986 and afterwards - 35%. TEK's payments to the PPF, to the
extent that these amounts are maintained within the subsector to
finance electric power investments, would be treated as subsector
internal cash generation (para. 5.35).
7.03     During negotiations, TEK agreed:
(a)  to submit to the Bank not later than June 30, 1986 a detailed staff
training program, and to implement this program in accordance with an
implementation schedule satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.09);
(b)  on an action plan for completion of land acquisition proceedings for
the new 380-kV and 154-kV substations by September 30, 1986, and to
complete the land acquisition for at least 50% of the new substations
by June 30, 1986 (para. 4.14);
(c)  to maintain a current ratio (defined as current assets divided by
current liabilities) of at least 1.0 (para. 5.08);
(d)  to implement a financial action plan including:
(i)    steps to improve collection of customer bills (para. 5.08);



- 53 -
(ii)    improvement of foreign debt service recording and management
(para. 5.10); and
(e) to subinit its annual audited financial statements to the Bank not
later than ten months after the close of 1985, eigL- months after the
close of 1986, and five months after the close of each following year
starting with 1987 (para. 5.21).
7.04     As a condition of loan effectiveness, TEK shall engage a project
management consultant under terms and conditinsC sevisfactory to the Bank
(para. 4.12).
7.05     With the above agreements, the proposed Project is suitable for a
Bank loan of US$142.0 million, for a term of 17 years at the standard variable
interest rate, including a four-year grace period, to the Borrower, TEK, with
the guarantee of the Republic of Turkey.
May 14, 1985



- 54 -
ANNE 1.1
TUFKE
FOUR  TEK TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Turkey - Energy Balances
(Million tons of oil equivalent, NTOE)
1978         1980          1982          1983
MTOE     Z   HTOE    Z   2OE        Z   MTOE    Z
Consumption
Petroleum                18.0  51.6  16.2  46.3  17.1  45.2  17.2  44.8
Ligaite                   4.0  11.4   4.6  13.1   5.2  13.8   6.0  15.6
Hard coal                 2.8   8.0   2.7   7.7   3.0   7.9   3.2   8.3
Asphaltite                0.1   0.3   0.2   0.6   0.3   0.8   0.3   0.8
Hydroelectric             2.3   6.6   2.8   8.0   3.5   9.3   2.8   7.3
Imported electricity      0.2   0.6   0.3   0.9   0.1   0.3   0.2   0.5
Wood                      4.6  13.2   4.8  13.7   5.0  13.2   5.1  13.3
Wastes                    2.9   8.3   3.4   9.7   3.6   9.5   3.6   9.4
Total Consumption        34.9  100.0  35.0  100.0  38.0  100.0  38.4  100.0
Domestic Production
Petroleum                 2.9   8.3   2.4   6.9   2.5   6.6   2.3   5.9
Lignite                   4.6   13.2   4.3  12.3   5.3  14.0   6.1  15.9
Hard coal                 2.6   7.4   2.2   6.3   2.5   6.6   2.2   5.7
Asphaltite                0.1   0.3   0.2   0.5   0.4    1.1   0.3   0.8
Hydroelectric             2.3   6.6   2.8   8.0   3.5   9.3   2.8   7.3
Wood                      2.3   6.6   2.7   7.7   2.3   6.1   3.5   6.5
Wastes                    2.9   8.3   3.4   9.7   3.6   9.5   3.6   9.4
Subtotal                 17.7  50.7  18.0  51.4  20.1  53.2  19.8  54.5
Illicit deforestation     2.3   6.6   2.1   6.0   2.7   7.1   2.6   6.8
Stock changes, net       (0.7)  (2.0)  0.1   0.3  (0.2)  (0.5  (0.2)  (0.5)
Total domestic supply    19.3  55.3  20.2  57.7  22.6  59.8  22.2  57.8
Imports
Petroleum                15.2  43.5  14.3  40.9  16.0  42.3  16.2  42.2
Hard coal                 0.3   0.9   0.5    1.4   0.6    1.6   0.9   2.3
Electricity               0.2   0.6   0.3   0.9   0.2   0.5   0.2   0.5
Total imports            15.7  45.0  15.1  43.2  16.8  44.4  17.3  45.0
Petroleum exports        (0.1)  (0.3)  (0.3)  (0.9)  (1.6)  (4.2)  (1.1)  (2.8)
Total supply             34.9  100.0  -35.0  100.0  37.8  100.0  38.4  100.0
Source: Energy Sector Strategy Paper, IBRD Report No. 4973-TU,
September 1984.
Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources.
April 1 1985



- 55                      ANNEX 2.1
Page 1 of 4
TURXEY
FOUIErR TEK TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Demand Forecasts
1.      TEK's latest long-term generation plan (1987-2005) is based upon the
demand forecast shown in Table 2.1. Overall growth in energy demand is
estimated at 11.2Z per annum with peak demand increasing at 9.OZ per annum.
This represents a considerable sustained annual increase in demand,
particularly as the base from which the demand is extrapolated (1987) appears
to be high.
Table 1
TEK's Demand Forecast (1987-2005)
(Selected Years)
Net Demand                  Required Generation
Peak (MW)    Energy (GMh)       Capacity (mg)    Energy (GWh)
1987        8,760          49,100             11,966           59,411
1990       12,180          68,300            16,199            82,960
1995       21,350         119,800            29,429           143,760
2000       28,900          162,200           38,437           192,640
2005       40,500         227,400            53,865           270,606
Source: TEK.
2.      TEK's medium and long term demand forecasts are based upon the past
relationships (1965-1983) between growth of (MP, industry and electricity
consumption which may no longer be valid, and on over-optimistic assumptions
about the future growth of the economy. Furthermore the forecast does not
take into account the possibilities for modifying electricity consumption
patterns through demand management, conservation and appropriate pricing
policies.
3.      In connection with Bank sector work as well as the subsector study -
'Turkey - Electricity Planning and Investment", Report No. 5031-TU, dated
June 22, 1984 a set of demand projections were prepared for discussion with
TEK. These were based upon the scenarios as presented below.



- 56 -                       ANNEX 2.1
Page 2 of 4
4.       Scenario One assumes that the Government does not vigorously pursue a
load management program nor increase prices in real terms. Projections of
sales were made for five sectors: industry (large bulk supply consumers),
manufacturing, agriculture, public buildings and households. Industry,
manufacturing and agricuLture projections were based upon elasticity
coefficients of 1.634, 1.663, and 1.0, respectively, from data for the 1965 to
1982 period. Estimated growth in the Government buildings and households
sectors was, in the absence of adequate data on electricity usage in these
sectors, assumed to be directly related to GDP growth. The economic growth
projections used for this case are given in Table 2 and are below those used
in TEK's forecast. Sales data for 1982 were adjusted by 12Z as estimated by
TEK to represent effective demand for that year. Reliability standards
(reserve margin of 36X) and system losses were maintained as in TEK's original
demand forecast.
Table 2
Economic Growth Projections
(% per annpm)
GDP       Industry       Manufacturing       Agriculture
1985-1990          5.4           6.6               8.0                 3.5
1991-2000           5.0          6.0               7 .0                 3.0
2001-2005           4.5          5.5               6.5                 3.0
Source: Bank estimates
5.       The purpose of this forecast was to develop a scenario which was
based upon the methodology employed by TEK but adjusted to take into account
new projections of economic growth and available data on current sales and
effective demand. While this scenario results in a very high demand forecast
it was used to compare with scenarios 2 and 3 in order to illustrate the
considerable potential for conservation and demand management as well as
demonstrate the urgent need for an improved and more realistic demand forecast.
Table 3
Scenario 1
Net Demand                 Required Generation
(HW)            (GWh)            (Mw)           (GWh)
1987         9,624           46,389           12,088          57,666
1990        12,340           59,480           16,056          71,376
1995        17,363           91,157           23,440         109,388
2000        26,758          140,480           36,123         168,576
2005        34,715          194,406           46,865         233,287



- 57 -
ANNEX 2.1
Page 3 of 4
6.       Scenario Two was developed to illustrate the possible impact a demand
management program could have upon the level of demand. A direct load
management program (excluding tariff adjustments) would have a greater impact
upon peak demand than energy demand. In the absence of detailed price
elasticities for Turkey a conservative estimate of -0.15 was used and this was
based upon approximate price elasticities calculated in other countries.l/
The introduction of tariff increases was assumed to take place over a ten year
period such that tariffs increased to their respective long run marginal
costs. For three specific industries, iron and steel, copper and aluminum
energy savings equivalent to about 600 GWh or approximately 100 MW of capacity
were calculated. Required generation, excluding losses, was estimated on the
same basis as the base case. The results indicate a long term growth in peak
demand of about 7.5% per annum.
Table 4
Scenario 2
Net Demand            Required Generationa/
(MW)        (Gih)        (Mw)           (GWh)
1987             9,624      46,389        12,088         57,666
1990            12,120      58,421        15,756        65,342
2000            15,787       88,847       20,523         97,731
2000            24,158      137,686       30,197        151,456
2005            31,243      180,867       39,054        195,894
a/ Assumes system losses reduce from 20% to 10X and a reserve margin
equivalent to 25Z.
7.       Scenario 3 assumed a more dramatic improvement in energy efficiency
including a progressive decline in GDP-energy elasticity until unity is
reached by 1995. This results in an overall growth from 1990 onwards of 6.12
per annum in peak demand and represents capacity additions of about 1000 MW
per anntum.
1/ See for example, D. Julius 'Energy Pricing in Developing Countries: A
Review of the Literature" World Bank Energy Department Paper No. 1,
October 1, 1981.



- 58 -
ANNEX 2.1
Page 4 of 4
Table 5
Scenario 3
Net Demand                  Required Generation
(MW)      (GWh)                 (KW)          (GWh)
1987          9,624     46,389                12,088       57,666
1990         12,120     58,421                15,756       65,342
1995         15,190     85,064                18,988       90,421
2000         19,386    110,488                24,232      121,537
2005         24,742    143,232                30,927      155,129
8.       The estimates in Scenario 1 are close to those estimated by TEK up to
1990 but thereafter show a marked difference, primarily as a result of the
lower economic growth projections assumed by the Bank. This results in a
required capacity by 2000 of about 2,300 MW less than in the TEK projection
and 7,000 MW less in 2005. However, under Scenario 2, a further 3,000 MW by
2000 and almost 1,000 KW by 2005 could be saved. Scenario 3 shows an even
greater savings in requited capacity by 2005, some 8,100 MW less than
Scenario 2 and almost 23,000 MW less than TEK's projections.
9.       While the above forecasts are very preliminary, they do illustrate
the considerable potential for investment savings in generating plant. For
example, Scenario 1 implies present worth (1983) capital investment savings of
about $5.75 billion compared with the TEK forecast. Furthermore, a lower
growth rate in demand would allow TEK to delay implementation of some of the
more costly investment options in the plan such as the high capital cost
nuclear and the more marginal lignite-fired plants.
10.      The above projections underline the critical importance of preparing
a realistic demand forecast. As discussed in para. 2.21 TEK has hired
consultants to assist in the analysis of load data, preparation of detailed
short-, medium- and long-term demand forecast and identify the costs and
impact on demand of various load management (including pricing) actions.
11.      The analysis of demand discussed here was, however, not used as a
basis for the TEK sales forecast in the financial projections. In the period
1985-1989 electricity supply is expected to be less than demand, and sales
will therefore be a residual of the supply forecast, i.e., gross available
generation less losses (see Annex 2.2, Attachment 1).
April 11, 1985



- 59 -
ANNEX 2.2
Page 1 of 10
TURKEY
FOURTH TEK TRANSMISSION PROJECT
The Electric Power Investment Program 1985-1989
Introduction
1.      TEK and DSI prepare annual investment budgets for submission to SPO
and Government. There is no bureaucratic requirement for TEK and DSI to
prepare a medium term (e.g. 3-5 year) projection of expenditures and, in the
case of TEK a projection of revenues from sales. However, as part of the Bank
appraisal and supervision process TEK and DSI were requested to provide
projections of expenditures, sales and revenues for the period 1985-1989. The
energy chapter of the Government approved 5th Five Year Plan was used as a
guide to Government priorities and policies in the energy sector.
.The 1985 Approved Program
2.      Table 1 below summarizes the main features of TEK's proposed
investment program submitted to SPO in July, 1984 for approval and the final
Government approved investment program for 1985, including the DSI hydro
program.
Table 1
(a) The TEK 1985 Investment Program
(millions of TI., June 1984 prices)
TEK proposal sub-      SPO-approved
mitted to SPO            program
Generation                                          Z
Ongoing - to be completed in 1985           3,300               3,000
Ongoing - to be completed after 1985      281,756             185,300
New projects                               39,270              12,750
Total generation                      324,326 (53Z)       201,050 (50%)
Transmission
Transmission                              100,378              63,250
Subtransmission                            22,000              18,000
Total transmission                    122,378 (20%)        81,250 (21%)
a/ Exchange rate: US$1 - T1 350.



- 60 -
ANNEX 2.2
Page 2 of 10
Table 1
(Con't)
(a) The TEK 1985 Investment Program
(millions of TL, June 1984 prices)
TEK proposal sub-    SPO-approved
mitted to SPO          program
Distribution
Urban distribution b/                       77,792               50,000
Village electrification                     28,548               28,500
Total distribution                     106,340 (17%)         78,500 (20%)
Operations, Machinery & Equipment
Operations                                  34,274               21,500
Machinery and Equipment                     18,607               11,000
Vehicles                                     3,839                1,800
Total                                   35720 (9%)          23T;W (8%)
Miscellaneous
Studies                                      2,360                  900
New TEX building                             5563                4,000
Total miscellaneous                      7,923 (lZ)          4,900 (1%)
Total Investment                           617,687 (1OOZ)      400,000 (100%)
(b) TEK and DSI 1985 Investment Program
(millions of TL at June 1984 prices)
TL                        z
Generating plant                           401,050                      65%
Main transmission                           63,250                      11%
Subtransmission                             18,000                      3%
Urban distribution                          50,000                       9%
Village distribution                        28,500                       5Z
Other investment                            39 200                       7%
Total                                  600,000
b/ Includes Illerbank.
Source: TEK, MENR



- 61 -
ANNEX 2.2
Page 3 of 10
3.       The above table calls for the following comments:
(a)  The approved allocations for 1984 show a continuation of the trend
for generating plant to take the major share of the program although
the allocation shows some improvement compared with previous years.
(b)  The allocation to urban distribution shows considerable improvement
(9Z compared with 5% in 1983) although still substantially below the
investment requirements for renovating and expanding the urban
distribution systems; and below the current absorptive capacity level
of the distribution enterprises, estimated by TEK at 75-80 billion
Turkish Lira.
(c)  The overall TEK investment program for 1985 shows a decline in real
terms over the 1984 program. TEK had initially proposed a program
for 1985 of about TL 618 billion althoug. this has been reduced to
TL 400 billion. There are some encouraging signs that TEX has, in
adjusting the program, paid attention to priority investments:
(i)  minimal adjustments have been made to the allocations for the high
priority ongoing generation projects;
(ii)  the allocations for new projects (other than Thrace
combined-cycle) have been substantially reduced or eliminated;
(iii) potential uneconomic new projects such as Elbistan B and Saray
have been excluded from the 1985 program and this should give time
for TEK to re-evaluate these projects (in conjunction with the
Bank's policy dialogue on the lignite sector);
(iv)  despite a trimming of investment for urban distribution to a level
at which TEK agrees is undesirable, the allocation represents a
real increase over the 1984 program;
(v)  the allocation for the nuclear program was cut from TL 45 billion
to a negligible TL 10 million.
(vi) allocation to operations and equipment (and hence presumably
maintenance) shows an increase in real terms over 1984.
4.       In economic and financial terms, the continuing high levels of
investment in village electrification compared with other parts of the
subsector investment program is unjustified. The investment requirements for
the village electrification program show no reduction and are currently at a
level of about 60% of the urban distribution program. For example, investment
in the three major distribution enterprises (Bogazici, Ege, and Icanadolu) at
about TL 20 billion is less than the village electrification program (TL 28.5
billion) despite the fact that those three enterprises account for 68% of
total low-voltage consumption (1983 data). However, the village
electrification program is considered an important social and political



- 62 -
ANNEX 2.2
Page 4 of 10
objective of the Government, especially since the present program is focused
primarily in the eastern provinces of the country which are considered
impoverished and less developed than Western Turkey.
Scenario "A": 1985-1989 TEK/DSI Projected Investment Program
5.       Both TEK and DSI provided to the Bank an estimate of annual projected
public sector expenditures between 1985 and 1989. These were given to the
Bank as informal working documents and not as approved levels of investment
for electric power. The principal assumption made by the agencies was that
implementation capacity and not financial availability would be the main
constraint to investment scheduling. The financing constraint is discussed in
para 18. auble 4 summarizes the projected expenditures and greater detail is
provided in the Project File. In addition balances of energy and capacity
consistent with the projected investment program were prepared by TEK and are
shown in Attachment 1.
Table 2
Scenario "A"
TEKIDSI Projected Investment 1985-1989
CTm billions, June 1984) at
1985   1986    1987   1988    1989
Thermal generation                       201    368      200    159      135
Hydro generation                         200    343      454    514      666
Transmission                              63     88       69     69       89
Sub-transmission                          18     24       33     45       60
Urban electrification                     50     65       85    115      150
Rural electrification                     29     40       50     60       70
Miscellaneous b/                          39      45      45     25       25
Total                               600    973      936    987   1,195
of which TEK                      400    630      482    473      529
a/ ~Figures rounded up, exchange rate US$l = TL 350.
b/ Includes operations, buildings, machinery and equipment and studies.
6.       Investment costs are based upon estimated costs to complete all
ongoing projects; the introduction of a limited number of new thermal power
plants, a rapid build up of new hydra plants, and the necessary investments in
transmission, distribution, maintenance and general plant to complement the
growth in new generation projects.
7.       The Bank reviewed with the agencies and )ENR the proposed expenditure
program and gave the following comments;



- 63 -
ANNEX 2.2
Page 5 of 10
(a)  The thermal generation program is basically sound although the Bank
recommended that the Beysehir power plant be dropped from the 1985
investment program and revaluated, new geothermal projects be dropped
from the program and Government should focus increasingly on
providing a policy f.ramework for e;;couraging private sector
development in the geothermal sector; the nuclear program be deferred
from the 1985-1989 program until clarification is received on the
"concession financing" model proposed, and a second combined cycle
plant be introduced to utilize imported natural gas by the early
1990s.
(b) The hydro generation program requires considerable revision:
(i)  it includes 26 ongoing projects which represents a heavy burden
with respect to implementation schedules. However of these 26
ongoing projects 82! are either under 75 MW in size and/or have
expenditures to date as a proportion of total cost of less than 5Z
and would, therefore, be of lower priority than the larger and
more developed projects.
(ii) DSI has included start up of 84 new hydra projects in the
1986-1989 period which is totally unrealistic both from a
financing viewpoint and from the implementation capacity of DSI to
mount such a program. In essence, the list appears to be a
'shopping list" of potential projects, neither ranked technically
nor economically and including projects ranging in size from 8 MW
to 1,200 MW. A severe pruning of this project list is, therefore,
required.
(iii) Transmission and subtransmission line items appear to be
consistent with the timing of the well advanced thermal and hydro
generation projects although annual reviews and increased
awareness of flexibility in planning the timing of transmission
investments will be required, especially if delays are encountered
in the generation program.
(iv) Urban distribution is shown as increasing by about 30% per annum
in real terms and this is a reasonable assumption given the growth
in demand at the retail level as well as the poor condition of
many existing urban networks. No breakdown by region was given,
although it is recommended that the high density large urban
areas, especially Istanbul, Izmir and Ankara, be given priority
since together they account for almost 70% of total low voltage
consumption. TEK has wisely hired consultants (EdF, France) to
develop masterplans for these three urban areas which, once
completed, would provide greater insight to required levels of
investment for distribution.
1/ Lam2s 4, Mercan, Tohma, Derbent, Yenice, Ozluce, Kralkizi, Dicle (1100 MW
but no expenditures yet incurred).



- 64 -
ANMEX 2.2
Page o of 10
(v) Allccations for rural electrification are projected to rise by
about TL 10 billion per annum on the basis of the targets for
village electrification set by Government and the likelihood that
new villages primarily located in the more remote provinces will
cost more to connect as the program develops. This is a
reasonable assumption at this point in time although TEK's
consultants (EdF, France) have been requested to review the
technical standards of the rural electrification program to assess
whether investment costs could be reduced.
(vi) The miscellaneous category includes general plant, vehicles,
buildings, other machinery, studies and investment costs
associated with the dispatch center but did not include the
investment costs associated with the proposed Bank financed
Operations Assistance Project.
8.       The methodology adopted by SPO to estimate projected expenditures may
result in a tendency to underestimate investment requirements. Both total
project cost and past expenditures are adjusted to a constant price base and
the difference represented as the balance of project cost. It is not clear
whether real cost escalation as a result of delays is included in reestimating
total costs nor whether costs are adjusted to reflect changes in project
design. The Bank plans to investigate this issue further during the planned
Public investment Review scheduled for end FY85.
Scenario "B": Overall Power Subsector Investment Requirements - 1985-1989
9.       Although TEK and MENR are currently working on the development of a
long term least cost investment plan (para 2.09) for the power subsector no
output from the WASP computer runs was available to the appraisal mission.
However on the basis of sector work undertaken in Turkey (see Turkey - Long
Term Investment Options for Power, Report nos. 5431-TU; and Turkey -
Electricity Planning and Investment, Report nos. 5031-TU) the appraisal
mission has constructed a likely level of investment in electric power to meet
projected demand.
10.      While the projections of required investment are consistent with
present demand estimates they are assumed not to be constrained by resource
availability nor by the implezentation capacity of the public sector. Indeed
given the public sector's past record on implementation of key electric power
investments it is clear that such an investment program could not be mounted
solely in the public sector. It was assumed that ongoing projects currently
in the investment program would be supplemented by the start up of new
projects in order that demand between 1990 and 1995 would be met. Capacity
requirements throughout the 1990-1995 period were taken from the base case of
the draft subsector report on Long Term O7tions for Power (op cit) and are
estimated as follows:



ANNEX 2.2
- 65 -                       Page 7 of 10
Table 3
Capacity A iEtons (NW)
1991                995
1992              1,095
1993              1,204
1994              1,191
1995              1,300
11.      The table below gives the approximate levels of investment required
during the 1985-1989 period to meet demand up to 1995.
Table 4
Overall Investment Levels
(T11 billion) W
1985         1986          1987         1988         1989
Thermal        201           250           250          300          325
Hydro          200           250          350           400          425
other          199           350          475           500          550
Total        600           850          1075         1200         1300
a/ TL 350 = US$1.
Scenario "C": The Adjusted Public Investment Program
12.      In view of the comments given in paras 6 and 7 the Bank carried out
its own review of the different components of the program. This was based
upon the assumption dhat, at a minimum, all ongoing high priority projects
would be completed expeditiously and it included a review of current physical
progress of ongoing hydro and thermal power plants, evaluation of size and
type of new generation expansion candidates likely to be added to the program;
and a review of the transmission, distribution and village electrification
components of the program. The adjusted program, presented in sumary form in
table 3 and in detail in the Project File, did not take into account
macro-economic considerations of resource availability although a second
scenario was constructed to reflect the serious resource mobilization issue
facing the Goverment and this is presented in para 18 below. The adjusted
program may be viewed as the minimum program required to ensure the completion



ANNEX 2.2
-66 -                        Page 8 of 10
of high priority ongoing generation projects. Balances of capacity and energy
were also prepared reflecting the adjustments made to the investment program
and these are available in the Project file.
13.      The principal adjustments to TEK's projections of expenditures are
sumxarized below:
(a)  Thermal Generation.  High priority should be given to the following
plants: Tuncbilek, Elbistan, Cayirham, Rangal, Chaneli, Soma,
Yenikoy, Seyitomer, Yatagan 3, Yeni Catalagzi, Aliaga and Denizli 1,
all of which are well advanced projects supported by foreign
credits. Expenditures reflect TEK's estimates with the exception of
Elbistan which was updated on the basis of recent cost data available
within the Bank. Although physical progress to date is limited
completion of the Trakya 1 combined cycle plant was accorded high
priority since contracts have been awarded on a full project
managament basis. The Kemerkoy plant scheduled for completion in
1987 is probably over ambitious and a rescheduling of that plant to
1989 has been assumed. Given the large scale imports of natural gas
and TEK's decision to prepare a fesibility study for a second
combined cycle plant located in Thrace it was assumed that
construction of Trakya 2 (1000 MW) would start in 1987. Other than
the first Denizli unit no new geothermal plants were included in the
public investment program since it was assumed that no further
investment would take place until the severe operating problems of
the pilot project in Aydin were resolved and any future investments
in geothermal would be undertaken by the private sector. The 1 x 340
MW Beysehir unit was assumed to be deferred, pending a reevaluation
of its economic merit since preliminary analysis by the Bank
indicates that, because of the high cost of lignite supplied to the
power plant, the project is uneconomic. The first nuclear plant as
well as any imported coal fired power plants were deferred from the
adjusted program pending clarification on the "concession financing"
model proposed by Government. However since it is likely that TEK
will embark upon construction of an additional 2-3 large thermal
power plants a line item for unidentified thermal plants was included
in the adjusted program.
(b)  Hydro Generation.  High priority large hydro projects were maintained
in the program as scheduled by DSI with some adjustments to the Urfa
Tunnel and Ataturk, both of which appear to have a rapid investment
build up in the 1986-1989 period. The smaller hydro projects listed
in pare 7 (b) (i) were either dropped or deferred. The unrealistic
number of new projects included in the DSI proposal was reduced to
six including Kayraktepe, Batman, Boyabat, Ilisu, Cizre and
Karkamis. In the absence of a detailed hydro inventory and
technico-economic ranking of the available hydro sites these six were
selected on the basis of size, known characteristics, likely
financing and stage of preparation. Furthermore, given the large DSI



-67-                          ANNEX 2.2
Page 9 of 10
portfolio of ongoing projects it was assumed that no more than two
projects per annum would enter the investment program.
(c) Transmission and Distribution. The transmission and distribution
program was reviewed with respect to timing of lines and substations
with power plants. Urban distribution was maintained as per the TEK
schedule and no real growth in investment in the village
electrification program was assumed. Finally the miscellaneous
category was, in line with Government policy to ensure adequate
resources for maintenance and rehabilitation, increased to include
allocations for the proposed Bank financed Operations Assistance
Project.
14.      The adjusted investment program is shown in Table 5 below:
Table 5
Scenario "C"
The Adjusted 1985-1989 Program
mTL billions, June 1984) /
l9851/   1986    1987      1988     1989
Thermal Generation                    201       245     205       247      207
Hydro Generation                     200        199     200       157      164
Transmission                           63        88      69        69       89
Subtransmission                       18         24      33        45       60
Urban Electrification                  50        65       85      115      150
Rural Electrification                 29         30      30        30       30
Miscellaneous                         39         47      52        39       41
Total                          600        698     674      702       741
of which TEK                  400       499      474      545       577
a| Approved program.
15.      The adjusted program still shows a large increase in investment
requirements in 1986 compared with the approved allocation for 1985. This
stems from the large number of thermal and hydro generation projects which are
relatively well advanced and need to be completed as expeditiously as possible
in order to bring electric power on stream as rapidly as possible.
Macro-Economic Considerations
16.      A final level of investment was reviewed by the Bank and was based
not upon investment requirements but rather upon macro-economic considerations



- 68 -                       ANNEX 2.2
Page 10 of 10
of resource availability and foreign debt constraints.   SPO currently
estimates that public investment fo- all sectors will rise within the range of
4-6% per annmu, although preliminary analysis by the Bank indicates that a
lower bound of 3X per annum is more likely. Since priority in the 5th Five
Year Plan has been accorded to the energy sector it is likely that growth in
energy investment would exceed the overall total growth rate. However, if
investment in the power subsector was constrained to say 4.0^' per annum this
would reduce total public investment in electric power for the period to
TL 3,249 billion (June 1984 prices).
17.      If such a program was realized it is clear that even priority
investments in generating plant, transmission and distribution would have to
be deferred. The construction of almost all new projects would have to be
delayed until 1988 and 1989. Completion of ongoing projects would need to be
reviewed on the basis of existing contractual and financial obligations as
well as physical progress, and investments in associated transmission, and
urban and rural electrification would need to be slowed down. Such a program
would have a deliterous impact upon the growth in sales by the late 1980's
since it would delay the commissioning of key power plants. However given the
advanced status of several high priority thermal and hydro power plants as
well as the availability of full foreign financing it is assumed that
Government would provide adequate counterpart local financing to ensure
scheduled completion of those high priority projects.
18.      In undertaking its financial projections the Bank did not take into
account the program described in para. 16 above since: (a) it is not yet
clear whether revenue earning parastatals would be subject to the same
constraints on growth in public fixed investment as non-revenue earning
parastatals. (b) The result of the cost saving investments outlined in the
proposed Power System Operations Assistance Project as well as the policy to
reach long run marginal cost within a 5 year period should result in available
resources, generated by the sector to more than finance the above level of
investment, provided that funds generated by the sector are retained within
the sector. (c) The above level of investment would result in even further
delays to key high priority ongoing projects in the program. (d) Most of the
ongoing projects in the program are bound by either financing obligations
and/or contractual obligations and would be difficult to relinquish.
April 12, 1985



- 69                                                    ANNEX 2.2
Attachment 1
Page 1 of 5
Filmmsen   lbainc                                                        TURrEV
I-"ay-65
Balance of Energy and Capacitis
biti   Fuel   :   Installed  Average Full Comaissioning-                  Plant Capacities (in lM)
PLH  CAWPAITIES iu) 11  ID    Type    Capacity (N) WOutput (Uhl.   Date                 199S      1996     1987     1988      1989     1901
:    -:I       S                           :              :                                          ---
[a)  Existing Plants  I
--i               :         :              :             I             : :
TE:  3,948    3,849    3,948    3,848    3,848    3,H48
(hi  Ne Plants
TEK
Karacaoren             1    Hydra              31           142      9/97              -       31        31       31       31        31
Kokice                  I   NHydro             45           290     11/97      1       -       45        45       45       45        45
Kotluce                2    Hydro             #45           290      6/97              -       45        45       45       45        45
Karakaya                I   Hydra             300          20001   6186                -      300       300      300      300       300
Karakaya               2    Hydro             300          1950      1/87              -      300       3C0      300      300       300
Karakaya               3    Hydro  I          300          1850      9987              -        -       300      300       300     300
Karakaya               4    Hydroa            300           564      I/9e              -        -         -      300      300       300
Karakaya              5:   Hydroa            300           564      bl69              -        -         -      300      300       300
karakaya               6    Hydro:            300           127      9/18              -        -         -      300      300      300
Kapulukaya            1 I   Hydra              1I9           E0      1137              -        -        18       Is       19        to
Kapulukaya          :2  Hydro                   I;           so;    3187               -        -        18       to        Is       Is8
Kapulukaya             3    Hydra               191          EO      6/17      :       -                 1        19        199 Is
Altinkaya               I    Hydro             175          SE3      9/97              -        -       175      175      175       175
Altinkaya            :22    Hydro              175          5E:    t/9E                -        -         -      175      175       175
Mtinkaya            :3:  Hydro                 IJ5          2B9      31:8                                 -      175      175       175
Altinkaya              4    Hydro              17n          239      61,9              -        -        -       175      175       175
Adiqgzel                I   Hydra              31           140      9/97              -        -       31        31       31        31
Adiguzel               2 2 Hydro               31           140      1188              -        -         -       31       31        31
bezelet                I    NHdro              30            94      3187              -        -       30        30       30       30
leozelet               2  Hydro                30            94 ;   6197               -        -        30       30       30        30
neezelet               3    Hydra              30            94      997               -        -       30        30       30        30
Neezelet               4    Hydra              30            94:    1IB                -        -        -        30       30        30
Gezende               I1   Hydra               50           176      6/99              -        -        -        50       50        50
Gezntde                2  Hydra                50           176      9/98              -        -        -        50       50        50
Gezende              :3    Hydro               50           176      1/89              -        -        -         -       50        50
Tercan                 I    Hydro              15:           30      6198              -        -        -        15       15        15
Kilickaya           : I: Hydro  :O                          166      6/E7             0-        -       6         60       60        60
Kilickaya              2    Hydro              60           I6:    1/8         :       -        -         -       60       60        60
Catalan                I    Hydro              51 I         169      6199              -        -        -        51       51       51
Catalan                2    Hydra              51           169Ib    91B3              -        -        -        Sl       51       51
Catalan                3    Hydra              51           IU9      1189              -        -        -         -       51       Si
Lamas                  4:  Hydro  1             17           27      190               -        -         -        -        -        17
Subtotal (2)                                                                         -      721    1,431    3,194    3,295    3,312
TOTAL HYDRO                                                                    :  3,848    4,569    5,279    7,042    7,143    7,16o
1 at the mnd of mach year



- 70 -
ANNEX 2.2
Attachment 1
Page 2 of 5
Unit: Fuel   I   Installed :Averaoe Ful ICa ueission imq---     Plant Capacities (in nO 
PLPHT CAPACITIES tHUR It  ID    Type    Capacity 1IW Output (GUh!          late            1985     19Bb      1967      199B     1969    I190O
(a)  Fxisting Plants 
-~ ~~~... :    :             :               :             :I             ,                                                          :1
TEIK|                                                                                 3,794    3,7S4   3,794    3,I          3,794    3,79U
(ba  Ekt Plants
TEK
Elbistan A               t     Lignite          340          1950       tIIBS           340       340       340      3 *       340       340
Elbistan A              2   LiUgnite            340           ISSO5     1/86              -       340       3S0      340       340       340
Elbistan A              3    Lignite ;          340          1950       1IB7              --                340      340       340       340
Elbistan A              4    Lignit h           340           19fO      6187              -         -       340      340       340       340
Yatagan                 3    Lignite            210          1260       4185            210       210       21i      210       210       210
So a B               1 3 :Lignite               165           990       1/86              -       lt5       1b3      165       M5        16,
su   B                  4  : Lignite            1tS           "O        4186              -       165      1bS       165       165       16S 
Kangal                  I   Lignite             150           SOO      9/87               -         -        -       IS        ISO      ISO
Kangal                  2   Lign.te             t50           900       1188-                       -         -      ISO        5 IS     ISO
(hyirhan                 I   Lignite            ISO           so        6186              -         -       IS        150      ISO         I
Cayirhtn                2 i Lignite             I0S            1O0      1/8               0         -       150      150       150        401
Enist                    I :  iugnite           210          1230       0186              -         -      210       210       210       210
Elhiksa n               Z   Lignite            230           1230       1/87              -         -      210       210       210       210
Shyitntr 4               I   Lignite            150           15O       4108              -         -       3        150       340        40S
Yaneli                   I   Liqnite            210          1200       1/89                        -         - 2  2           210       210
Yeni Catalagzi           I    Coal              150 l900                1E9               -       1         150      150       165       150
Thrace ST                I    N.ga5             100           600       2196              -       too       100      100       100       too:
Thrace ST               2 L gtes                1651          600       4/96              -       100       100      100       165      1to
Thruae ST               3   L        gas        100           600       61 6              -       too       150     1t0        100      1t0
Thrace ST               4    N.ga               100           600       81/86             -       100       100      150       100      1to
Thrace  C                I   Lq gas  110                      600      5187               -         -       100       100      100       100
Thrace CC               2    N.gas  1           100           200       7197              -         -       10        10       2100      100
Orhineli~       :    :1 L       :at  11:                120        1        :9       -    --       -       -     --       210      210:
Subtatal(5a                                                 S97                                1,620         3,370     3,820     4,030    4,030
MTATL THERNAL                                                                          4,3U4   5,414    7,164    7,614    7,824    7,824 
TTraL INST4LLED U PACIT'                             1                                    8,192    9,913   12,043   14,656   14,967   14,984
1/ at the end of each year



- 71 -
ANNEX 2.2
Attachment 1
Page 3 of 5
AYAILABLE          :Unit:  Fuel   :   Installed  'verage Full:Couissionisg:------ Available Generation (in SUb) -------
GENERATION (Kb)       : In:  Type   :Capacity (IN)hl:utput (6ll0l          Date      1    1905      1986      1997      1990      1989      1990
__________ ~ ~~~~~~               ~~~~~~~~ - __-  - - -,-  -:----
HYDRD 
la)  Exi5ting Plants'         :'                                       :::
TEK:::     12,262   12,762   12,762   12,762   12,762   12,7b2:
(b)  NNm PI ants         :       :      :              :              :               :
TE      i   P               :          :              :
Kiracaoren       t       I  1    ydro      :       31      .    .142:   9187               :--                   32       [i       142        142 ;1 :
Kokluce                  I I Nydro  :45 :                       290     11187        :       --                261       lq0       290       2"O 
Koksluce        :        2  :Hydro         :       45           290:   61e7                :--                 261       290       290       2"O
Karakaya        :        I:  Hydro        :       300    :     2D     :   6/0b           :O  1,090    2,00    2,000    2,000:
Karakaya2                      Hydra                  :    2                         :  12,262   127         12756  1250,  1275            175017
Kara( aya                3 :    ydr               300           700    91     7                                   -      370       540       700
Karakaya        :        4 : Hydro        :       300     :     564:   1/8a:  -                                   -      253       535       564:
Karkaya               :   S:  Hydro:              300 .         564:    61988                          -          -       70       116       5U:
Karakaya              '  b:  Hydra                300:          1271      9197       1       -          -        2         21      117       5142
Kpohlukaa             : :   Hydro  Iis                           SO:    1/87              :            -        72       21         Go0      200
Kakuluaya             :2       Hydra:        lb:                 SO:    3197               :           -       2654     72          70      729:
Kaulukaya             :  3 :  Hydro0 le                        200        6/17       1            -  9          31         7b       BO       00 :
Altinkaya             1  2    Hydra3                     175       0 :     1 918                        - -   1           529       508       500
Alinkaya                32   Hydro          1      75     '    58:        9/9 :              -         -          -      352       568       588:
Atinkaya              :43    Hydra:               175 02R B               3118       :                 -         -        586      268       280  :
altinkaya             :4:   Hydra  17                           2BB4:    6/98 :              -         -          -       259      2B1      2568
Adigaael              :6:   Hydra:                31            140:    9/87                 -         -          -      129       1I4        140:
adiuuzel             21 :   Hydro:                 31           140   1' 88                  -         -          -      12b       140       1I
Henzelet              :21    Hydro:                30:           940      3187            :            -            5 7   82        74        84
Kaueluaet             :2  Hydro:                   30            84:    6197               : -         -        38        so         04   B @:
enzelet a                3 : Hydroa                30 :         58        9197             '           -          -      52        89        5949
enzelet       :          4 2    Hydra              30            845   1   t1i :                                  -      35          8       394 84:
6ezende               : 3:  Hydra                  50:     17      6:    618  :                                 -        79       267       17b
6ezende                  2    Hydra:              15O           176:    918869               -         -          -       40       162       1729
6izende                  3    Hydro:               3O           174        17 11    0                  -          -         -12    150       17b4
Ter eanq :            1   :  Hydra           1      5     3        0: 6184 1/9               14 30                        30        30        sO:
Kilicmya tI    Hydra                               60     :       166     6187             : -         -         75      I9        164       166:
Kiliciya              12   Hydro          :         0            94:    l6I/         1:                     -   9        148       164       166
Cathelan              14       Hydra  1   : I 1                  694       198  :            -         -          -       76       b94       169
Catalan                  2  l Hydra       e        51          17169     /9 *B                :                 -        79       156       1169
Catelan               1 3  1   Hydra1              51           17:       99I9                       : -  -      -         -       152       176
Laus                  :4 :Hydra:                    1            171       1:/99 :                               - -  -     -       5        147:
Ki:ay             :1    Hyra                 6:            1 :6      6         :?                     -                                     : 5 19 16 16
Lass  4Hydral               171            21:      1/90      1 ~~~~~~~~~~~---  ---     ---       ---       --24-
Subtotal (21        :    :           :                                                     0    1,004    4,431    7,741    9,663   10,891 
TOTAL HYRN    :        :        ;                                                    1  12,262   13,766   17,193   20,503   22,425   23,653 1
11 at the end of earh year



- 72 -
ANNEX 2.2
Attachment 1
Page 4 of 5
AVAILABLE        'Unit' Fuel   I   Installed  AWerage Full Comissioningl-- - Available Generation lin BINdhl
GEhERATIO  (6Kh I   ID    Type   .Capacity (l) Output (61hll    hater               IqB9      19Gb     1917      15989     999     1990
_      ~       ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~ __  _                                      S_ _ _                  -- -- ------- --
THERIIAL
la)  Existing Plants
TEK                  :    :         :                                             13,802   13,102   13,202   13,202   13,202   13,202
(hi  eNw Plants
TElK
Elbistan A              I   Lignite            340         1950       1/5      :   1,000    1,755    1,755    1,950    1,910    1,950
Elbistan A              2   Lignite            340 1       1950       1186             -       975    1,000    1,365    1,755    1,950
Elbistan A             3   Lignite            340 1        1950       1/97     :       -         -      877    1,107    1,304    1,304
Elbistan A           1  4 : Lignite 1         340 1        1950 :   6187       1       -         -      290      990    1,190    1,190
Yatagan                3 1 Lignite            210          1260       4/85     :     800      900       800    1,134    1,191    1,260:
So"                  :  3   Liqnitc I          165:         990:    1196       1       -       594      594       693      851      990:
Ssa 3                   4   Ligniie 1          165:         99:   4186         :       -       380      514      684       891      990:
Kangal                I    LiguiteI            150          90: SO:    919             -         -        -      540       540      540:
Kaegal                  2   Lignite            150          900       1188     :       -         -        -       405      529      6161
Cayirban                I   Lignite            ISO:         900:    8186       1       -         -      540      540       630      910 1
Cayirhan               2 2   Lignite           150          90 0:    1187      1       -         -      405      528       647      9321
Vetikoy                 I1 Lignite            210          1230 1  IO/B6               -         -      710      735       860    1,106:
Tenikoy                21 Lignite 1           210          1230 :    1187      :       -         -      553      700       873    1,122
Sqyitonr 4            I  : Lignite             150          9001    48         :       -         -        -      225       477      5571
Orhanceli            1  I   Lignite           210          1200:    WilY       1       -         -        -         -      540      540 :
Vleni Catalagzi         I1  Coal               150          900      6187      :       -         -      135      459       551      708:
Thrace 6T             I:   N.gas  1O0                       600      2/86      1       -      375       575      600       600      600
Thrace 61              2 1   N.gas             100          600       4/86     :       -      300       550      600       600      600:
Thrace 6T              3    MN.as  1           100:         600:    6/86       :       -      225       525      600       600      600:
Thrace ST              4 :M.gas:               100:         b.0: 8bo6          :       -       150      500      bOO       600      6OG
ThraceCC M1I    Hgas                           to1001       600      5         :       -         -      262      537       600      bOO:
Thracec M              2:  H.gas               100          600      7187              -         -      197      512       600      600:
:    S         :              :             ;             .S   --                                   ----    ---- :
SubtataltS)                                                                       1,800    5,554   10,712   15,503   IB,425   20,065 :
TOTAL THENIAL                                                                      15,602   19,356   23,974   28,105   31,627   33,267
TOTAL AVEILALE           :    :         :
TEK GENEATIN                        :                                                 27,964   33,122   41,167   49,208   54,052   56,920 :
of mbich : Hydra                                                                  12,262   13,766   17,193   20,503   22,425   23,653
Thermal                                                                15,602   19,356   23,974   26,705   31,627   33,267
:    :         :              :             '             :                                                        :



- 73 -
ANNEX 2.2
Attkcbh.eat 1
Page 5 of 5
SUIIIARY TABLE
A. GENERATION AND SSILES               1995      16        1997     191i      189       199I
Existig Gmnwration                      26064    26564    25164    25964    2564    Z5964
Hydra                               12262    12762    12762    12762    12762    12762
Theral                              1302    13802    13202    13202    13202    13202
Station losses (lOll                 130       1390      1320     1320      1320      1320
Net Existing Generation               24184    25194    24644    2444   2444    2464
New iuneration                            1100     153      15203    23244    21309      30956
Hydro                                   -      1004     4431       741      9663    10391
Thersal                               200     5554    10772    15503    18425    20068
Station usellasesn  11011            IO        555      1077     1550      1943     2007
Not New bmneration                      1120     6003    14126    21694    26246    29950
NET TOTAL IENERATION                 2U304    3118       3770    46339    50899    53593
Imports                              2520      2500     2500      2500      2500     2500
Purchases                             150         -         -        -         -         -
TDOAL NET WUAILULE                    29974    M39        1170    49939    53         56093
Irans. lasses (52)                   1449      1694     2063      2442      2669      2605
TOTAL 9LK SUPPLV                      27525    32002    39206    46396    50720    53289
TOTAL BULLI SUPPLY OF lHICH
DirKt Sles (5011                    13763    1001    19603    2319        25360    2644
Distribution Enters (50S1           13763    16001    19103    23199    25360    2164
htuork loss    (151)                 2064      2400     2940      3490      3904     37
Net distrihutian sale               11699    13601    16663    1971B    21556    22649
TMTAL SALES                         25461    29602    31216    42916    46916    49292
1. 6RSS 6       TENERION by FIEL tYPE (hl1
El ISTIN1
Hydra                            12212    12762    12762    12762    12762    12712
Lignite                           9751     8751      9713      9713     9713      9713
coal                               562      512         -         -         -        -
Fuel oil                          4356      4359     4359      4359     4358      4359
Natur al gas                         -         -        -         -         -        -
Gas oil                            131       131      131       131       131      131
Su-total                       2606     26564    25964    25964    25964    25964
NEW
Hydra                                -     1004      4431      7741     9163    10991
Lignite                           1900      4504     9039    11596    14274    15757
Coal                                 -         -      135       459      551       709
Fuel oil                             -         -        -         -        -         -
Natural gas                          -      1050     2595      3449     3600      3600
Sub-total                       1900     6559    15203    23244    28098    30956
TOTAL
HydrD                            12262    13766    17193    20503    22425    23653
Lignite                          10551    13255    16751    20309    22597    24470
Coal                              5s        562       135       459      551       709
Fuel oil                          4359     4359      4358      4359     4359      4359
Natural las                          -      1050     2599      3445     3600      30O0
Gas oil                            131       131      131       131       131      131
Total                       27964    33122    41167    49209    54052    56920



ANNEX 2.3
- 74 -                      Page 1 of 3
TURKEY
FOURTH TEK TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Tariff Study
1.       Introduction.  Following the transfer to TEK of responsibility for
urban electricity distribution in November 1982, TEK hired Electricite de
France (EdF) to assist in the resolution of a number of organizational and
operational problems emerging from its new distribution activities. As part
of its duties EdF was to: (i) provide guidance to the management of TEK on
policy and procedures; (ii) prepare detailed technical and economic
feasibility studies on the rehabilitation and extension of urban networks; and
(iii) provide a diagnosis of retail pricing. Because the latter activity
involved a general review of TEK's electricity tariffs, it was subsequently
agreed, in consultation with the Bayk, that EdF would undertake a
comprehensive tariff study for TEK_/ with a view to recommending a revised
structure of tariffs based upon estimated long-run marginal costs (LRKC).
2.       EdF's study is being carried out in three phases:  phase I, completed
in May 1983, provided a preliminary diagnostic of electricity pricing in
Turkey and recommended a number of changes to the tariff structure; phase II,
completed in October 1984, consisted in the determination of LRMC-based bulk
supply tariffs for TEK; phase III, to be completed by end-June 1985, will
cover electricity tariffs at the medium- and low-voltage levels and check the
adequacy of the resulting LRMC-based tariffs with the financial requirements
of the sector. Preliminary results on the bulk supply tariffs are presented
below.
3.       Calculation of Long-Run Marginal Costs.  The objective of the tariff
study is to determine the level and structure of electricity tariffs that
would ensure that the tariffs reflect the true economic cost of electricity
supply, and generate enough revenues to finance the investment program for the
power subsector.  Therefore, the study of Turkey's bulk supply tariffs is
being undertaken in two steps: (i) calculation of long-run marginal costs at
the high-voltage level; and (ii) determination of the average revenue. As of
March 1985 step (i) had been completed.
4.       The study, which was undertaken with Bank guidance, assumes that,
given a projected growth of electricity demand of 10% p.a. until 1990 and the
timely implementation of TEK's and DSI's investment programs, 1988 would
represent the first year when TEK's generating capacity would be able to meet
1/ The tariff study was therefore deleted from the terms of reference for the
load research, demand management and conservation study financed by the
Bank under TEK III (Loan 2322-TU).



ANNEX 2.3
Page 2 of 3
demand; it is therefore selected as the reference year for the calculation of
the marginal cost of electricity supply at the bulk level.  EdF used its
in-house computer model (GRETA)I! to simulate the operation of TEK's
electricity system in 1988 and determine the load duration curve. The
simulation indicates that consumption would be clearly divided into three
time-of-day periods: 27X at peak, 472 in the off-peak day hours, and 26% at
night.2/ Furthermore, the simulation provil7s the basis for determining the
different components of the marginal cost:_
(a) Marginal Capacity Costs
(i) Generatior. Capacity: The simulation exercise indicates that an
additional increase in electricity demand would be met by a
lignite-fired steam plant. Yenikoy 1-2 (2x210 MW) was taken as
being representative, with a construction cost of TL 350,000/kW.
The marginal capacity cost, expressed as annuitized investment
costs of the addition (TL/kW/year) less fuel savings
TL 2.48/kWh), is therefore calculated as follows:
Investment cost      -         TL 350,000/kW
Discount rate         -        12%
Equipment life        -        25 years
O&M cost              -        3.5% of investment cost
Capacity factor       -        72%
Annual charge         -        TL 58,371/kW
(ii)  Transmission Capacity:  the marginal cost of transmission is
calculated on the basis of TEK's investment program for
1984-1988. The present value of transmission investments is
TL 420,745 million and the present value of the system load
increments from one year to the next is 3,356.15/MW. The long-run
average incremental cost of transmission is TL 125,365/kW,
equivalent to an annual charge of TL 15,985/kW (122 discount rate
and 25-year life). O&M costs were estimated at 2Z of investment
cost. The marginal capacity cost of transmission is estimated at
TL 18,492/kW/year.
1/ With minor modifications to reflect conditions specific to Turkey.
2/ This is based on the assumption that no significant changes in the
patterns of electricity depnand would have occurred between now and 1988.
3/ All costs quoted in the EdF study refer to January 1984 and have since
been updated to reflect January 1985 economic conditions, with an exchange
rate of TL 450/US$.



- 76 -
ANNEX 2.3
Page 3 of 3
In summary, and including system losses incurred at each level of
supplyY, the marginal capacity costs are as follows:
----------- TL/kW/Year -------------
Generation             Transmission
Capacity Cost           Capacity Cost
At generation                       58,371
At high voltage                     60,122                 19,047
(b)  Energy Costs:  The results of the simulation directly provide the
marginal energy costs for the three periods of the day; namely TL
11.89/kWh for peak hours, and TL 11.44/kWh for off-peak hours (both
day and night).
5.       Proposed Tariffs.  Because electricity demand in Turkey varies
significantly during the day, EdF has recommended to introduce a time-of-day
feature in the electricity tariffs, at least at the high-voltage level where
metering equipment could more easily be installed.2/ The study also
considers that capacity addition necessary to meet incremental demand during
both peak and off-peak hours is more a function of the average consumption by
all customers than a function of each customer's share in the system peak.
The marginal capacity cost of generation is thus translated fully into an
energy charge to be applied to both peak and off-peak day hours according to
the relative levels of maximum demand in both periods. This results into a
marginal cost of generation of TL 17.24/kWh at peak and TL 13.81/kWh during
off-peak day hours.
6.       Assuming a coincidence factor of 0.95 for high-voltage consumers, the
study proposes the following HV tariffs:
Demand charge (Tl/kW/year):                18,095  (  19,047 x 0.95)
Energy charge (TL/kWh): - peak             29.13   (  17.24 + 11.89)
- off-peak day   25.25   (  13.81 + 11.44)
- night           11.44
This is equivalent to an average tariff of TL 26.06/kWh for an average load
factor of 62% (5,400 hours).
7.       Since the consultants have established the data for Turkey on the
GRETA model the Bank has proposed that extensive sensitivity analysis be
conducted to assess the results against changes in timing of plant, demand
forecast and costs of capital and fuel supply.
1/ 3% at the generation level and 3% at the transmission level.
2/ This recommendation was actually adopted by TEK in May 1984 when
time-of-day tariffs were introduced for high-voltage consumers with a
subscribed demand greater than 1 MW. However, it has not been implemented
yet due to metering constraints.
May 1985



- 77 -AM    3.1
Pag 1 of 2
FOB MRC ltRNRM  PEKlll
Ugal Frmwork of TR and Related Genral Lo%islation
A. TE
_u    Date                   Nle                 Major Featres/Jages              Status
1312  07/15/70   Turkish Electricity Autbority Establishes TK as SE under   Nullified by Low
LOW                         Law 440 with respcnsibility    2705.
for electricity gerwxation
and trane ission and
Construction of temal
plants.
2705  09/11/82   Aiients to Low 1312          - Transfers urban             Nullified by LT
electricity distribution    110.
frm incVipalties to
TE.
- PeiDaits canstrUZtion of
geeratirg plaits by
private coOesimns.
110   10/10/83   Turkish Electricity Axthory - Cablined Lazs 1312 and       Nullified by Law
Law                            2705.                      233, dhen replaced
by Pririple
- Ireeased assistant          Statute of MR.
genral megers fra  five
to six.
- Puts TEK umder SE Li 60.
- only MUiUCpalites  Dt
irtmonnected may build
wn geFrating facilities.
- Irermased lU's capital to
11500 billion.
-     Published  Piriniple Statute of the     - Defines lEU as a Public     Valid.
11/9/84;   Turlish Electricity Authority   Ecnomic Establishueit
effective                                 Ir Law 233 ad ir
1/1/85                                    the jurisdiction of the
Ministry of Energ an!
Natural Fesues.
-  Icreased MN's capital to
1T 1,000 billion.
- PnNides for MN to
caperate with other
entities ard caroratimms
in establishing
electricity pradrxton aix
distribution faeilities.



- 78-                             ARM3.1
Page 2 of 2
B. GIEML
LEW     Date               Nme                  kijor Fetures/Chmqges          Status
233   06/08/O4 Decree regadirg pic          -                  Ste       Valid. Preceld
eoaamic eaterprises            ECXXU3Dc Entrpriss        by Lw 440 (164),
having the fie i  of law.     (CZs) involved in          Ia 60 (1 ) and
cmmercial activities     lw 2929 (1983).
and Public EwiDnic
Estabisbmeis (Ms)
pwDvIdizg basic publi:
services as utilities.
- Clarifies
and qualfcatinXs of
Bd umers.
186    12/13/83 Orgmazation and duties of   -  Defines        s           Valid.
the Ministry of Ener  and      of MM to set policies
Eneg and Nationl        rces   for eneg  pLawirg
(MlR).                         and pricixg and to
review arw al iuvesbimet
programs of mimg
and emergy agenies and
establismnts.
657   07/14165 Persom:il Iaw                Applies tD GovenMeMt         Still valid, but
e5ieyees.                   revisio
anteipated in
Lw 233; may
ocuri by 1986.
2983  02/29184 E wragiig savus ai           - Creates Pblic              ValidL
LaW)                         investnt Of        Participation Pmd.
the pubLic sector.
2983  04/17/84                              - Permits revenze7diai
(Rgla-                                           bixds for infrastrhtre
tion)                                           (icludling power)
fail;ities.
3092/  12/19184 Lw  w=eiug the entrustig - Permits M*idsh and            Valid.
3096            of electricity gerati,          foign cpaes to
ission, distibutn        (a) qperae as fully
ad cmce to istitutions    intgrated electricity
other tban the Thdsh           utilities 'witin a service
Electricity Autuxrity.                 (b) fom a joint
stocik cpany only for
elecrtrcity geeration,
am! (c) tae oa  1l 's
ng  rit for
particular facilities.
- The above rigbts wuld be
valid for u to 99 years.
Ymar 21, 1985



ANNEX 3.2
-79-
'35
I
j  @fE~      ~~~~       ~~~ - _____________
---   - ---- ---r 
X  I II  X ;F#EI L
I  il  ____   ____  _1___
.~~~~ ~~~ ___ ___ ___



-80 -                            hUMILlS
TEK TMTNSSII  Iv PUy  CT
Personnel Statistics of the
Turkish Electricity Authority s of  ct     31  1984
Workers   WEa1n       T                  nitrar         Total
LA   Lb    T
1. General Management                  -        14             -        7      5      5        31
2. Central Services
General Secretariat              21         -             -       31     23     25       100
Defense Secretariat               -         -             -        7      6      5        la
Control and Audit Committee       -         4             -        1      4     4S        54
Procurement Ci_tttee              -         -             -        3      4      1         a
Administrative Services         463         1             2      292     28     21      807
Personnel Department              -         3             -       39     at    40        163
Medical Department                -         -             -        S      a      11       24
AcCOwnting Departwent             4         -             -       30    130     90       254
Legal Department                  -         -             -        5      a     17        30
Procureent Department            26        IS             6       17     30     20       114
Caercial Office and
Warehouses                      -23        .1          _.               .10    _l1        72
Subtotal                                               I 2 fi  440   1M      22    1644
3. Operatims
Thermal Plants                5.404       175           26       311    145       61  6.122
Gas Turbine Plants              246        10             -       29      a       7      300
Geothermal Plants                aS         7             -        6      -      2       100
Central Thermal Services         31        40             6        6     17      4       104
Hydro Plants                    998        87           43       132     62     26    1 348
NV Transmission Networks      3.119       176           23       969    256     30    4.573
Other Services                  297       lOS           26        46     42     10       526
Dispatching                      60        42            19       14     18      9       162
Training Ld                     220       _2Z           ii 5       2 39     _2  .1       335
Subtotal                   10464o                    lit   1L552                    135 7l 13.50
4. Generation Planninc and
Gonstructian
Planning and Coordination         a        50            3         i     17     16       102
Construction management           4         7             -        2      1      -        14
Design and Construction       1.251       299           64       166    122     44    1.946
Nuclear Plant Design i.d
Construction                  --           59            g       _21      7      A 4     15
Subtotal                    132l.       j1i           22       12     1.12    Qi    2.218
5. Transmission Planntno
and Construction
Plannng and Design               33        75            14       10     19      5       159
Construction                  35iI        ZSi           11T      121    122     12    4-229
Subtotal                    352         121           IZI      11    112       2    4 388
Central Distribution
Services                      172        65           Si        42     66     35      431
Regional Oistribution
Enterprises                184722       944        14Q2 Q     .278  3-1.1    MA11   3273r
Subtotal                   18         14l2         1.108    8.320  3-212    a"2   3316If
7. Assigned to ministry
of Energy Le                      -        1Z            3        T7      7      4       43
TOTAL                        345S2    2463         1474   10.668 4.469  11430   55.063
La Up to completion of secondary school.
Lb  So    post-secondary training.
jc University degree.
Lg Includes operating staff of SORA Thermal Plant.
jg  Especially staff of coiuter center.
March 1. 1985



- 81 -
ANNEX 4.1
Page 1 of 2
TURKEY
FUWRrH TEK TRANSKISSION PROJECT
Detailed Project Description
1.       The proposed Project is part of TEK's 1986-1990 construction
program and would provide major links and substations to further
interconnect TEK's power system. In essence the Project would involve seven
components: 380-kV transmission lines; 380/154-kV transformer substations;
154/35-kV transformer substations; line stringing equipment; tower testing
station; training and consulting services. Detailed information on all
project components with a list of equipment and their main characteristics
are available in the Project File; the paragraphs below give some details on
the major components.
Transmsision Lines
2.       The 380-kV transmission system would be extended by the
construction of four main lines and other connections listed below, to
interconnect Altinkaya and Hamitabat power stations under constrnction to
TEK's bulk supply system and to provide two other links for Karakaya power
plant.
Lines                         Length (km)         Charactesristics
Karakaya-Osmaniye                    360               Triple bundle/phase
Karakaya-Dyarbakir                   105              Triple bundletphase
Altinkaya-Carsamba                   100               Twin bundle/phase
Hamitabat-Alibeykoy                  150               Triple bundle/phase
380-kY New Substations                85               in accordance with
Connections                                          the existing lines.
TOTAL                            800 km
All lines are single circuit with steel towers and 954 MCM ACSR conductors.
The twin-bundle/phase lines have a phase-to-phase distance of about 9 m and
the triple-bundle/phase lines have a phase-to-phase distance of 7.5 m and a
bundle spacing of about 50 cm. All the lines are shielded with two
sh1ieldwires grounded at each tower. The construction of the above-listed
380-kV lines would involve about 19,000 tons of steel angles and plates for
the steel towers, 15,000 tons of 954 MCM ACSR conductors, 1,600 tons of
shieldwire, 400,000 insulators, and 11,000 lines hardware assemblies.
380-kV Substations
3.       All the 380-kV substations connecting the 380-kV system with the
154-kV subtransmission system have the same standard design. Therefore, the
380-kV substations which are included in the proposed Project and listed



- 82 -
ANNEX 4.1
Page 2 of 2
below would be based on the same design. The single line diagram is double
bus and transfer bus; all the circuit breakers are SF6 type with an
interrupting capacity of 50 kA. The 380/154 kV auto-transformers are 3-phase
units rated only 150 MVA, with two units per substations.
Extension of Existing            Capacity
Substation Locations           Substation or New            to be Installed
Adapazari                     Extension                  2x150 MVA
Balikesir                     Extension                  2x150 MVA
Adana                         New Substation             2x150 MVA
Diyarbakir                    New Substation             2x150 MVA
Izmir IV                      New Substation             2x150 MWA
Gaziantep                     New Substation             2x150 MVA
Nevishehir (Avanos)           New Substation             2xl5O MVA
Total Installed Capacity                               2,100 MVA
The detailed list of equipment and materials needed for the construction of
these 380-kV substations having an aggregate capacity of about 2,100 MVA is
available in the Project File.
154-kV Substations
4.       The proposed Project includes also the supply, installation and
commissioning of equipment and materials at 154-kV and 35-kV voltage levels
for the construction aud/or extension of about 60 substations at 154 kV with
about 3,300 MVA of new installed capacity to further interconnect TEK's
power system with the load centers at 35-kV level. TEK has standardized
three types of single line diagrams for 154/35-kV substations depending on
the installed capacity and on the number of feeders needed for the area to
be supplied. The 154/35 kV transformers are 3-phase units rated 25 MVA, 50
MVA or 100 MWA.
Line Stringing Equipment
5.       Stringing of conductors and shieldwires related to the Project
would be carried out as follows: one-half by local contractors and the
other half by TEK's force accounts. This is a continuation of past and
present practices and it is acceptable. TEK and local transmission lines
contractors have ample 380-kV line construction capability. However, in
order to give to TEK's available and capable resources adequate equipment to
work more efficiently, the Project includes the supply of specialized line
stringing equipment to be used in the installation of transmission lines.
March 21, 1985



TURXEY
FOURTH TEI T1AI11ISI0N PROJECT
...............................
YEARLY IREAKXO OF THE TOTAL PROJECT COST
..........................................
CUSS 1il1lonl
LOCAL CUMRENCY COSS                                                           FOREISII CURRENCY COSITI
YEAR       1M96         1717         i9le        1999        1990        1991              1986        1917        1999         19i9        1990        1991         LlC         F/C         Wm
COST IIEIIS
A. T:ransission Lines CooponMnt
Kdrataraya-0asan                                           0.23        1.14        1.92         1.75        1.37        1,29              0.63        3.17        5,00        4.5        3.90         3.59           7.60       21.10       21,70
AltinAaya-C!reIlba                                         0.05        0.26          41        0.39         0.31        0.29              0.13        0.63        1.01        0.97        0,76         0,72           1.71        4.22         5.93
9aaltabat-Rliblykoy                                        0.09        0,47        0.75         0,72        0.56        0.53              0.26        1.32        2.11        2.02         1.51        1149           3.12        9.7t        11.91
Kraktly -0yarbikir                                         0.04        0.22        0.36        0,34         0.27        0.25              0,1C        0,90        1.44         1.39        1,01        1.02           1.49        6.00         7.41
Oth0 r ConnectIon, for HNo  380 kv substations             0.02        0.11        0.17        0.16         0.13        0.12              0,Q'        0.30        0.49        0.46        0.16         0.34           0.71        2,00        2.71
Toler Testiln  Station                                    006         0.10        0,09        0.46         0.36        0.14              0,09        0.39        0,60        0.59        0.45         0,43           2.00        2.52         4.52
Line Stringing Construction E4ulpment                      0.00        0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00        0,00              0.13        0.67        1.07         1.02        0.90        0.74           0.00        4.45         4.45
Svb,Total list Lino Cost A IJan, 1915 prices)            0.49        2.50        3.99        3.82         3,00        2.92              1.47        7.37       11.77       11.29        9.93        9.35           16.62       49.08      .65.70
1. Substitions Coopooent
3E0/154-kY SubstitIons                                     0.12        0.61        0.97        0.93         0.713       0,69              0.62        3,07        4,91        4.71        3,69         3.41           4,04       20.47       24.51  *
134/30 tV Substatlons                                      0.32        1.60        2.26        2.45         1,92        1.91             0.90         4.00        6,40        6.14        4.90         4,54          10.66       26.69       37.34  w
Sub.Total list Uns  Cost 6  IJan. 1995 picstil          0,44         2.20        3.53        3.13        2.65         2,50              1.42        7.07       11.31        00.95       9.49        9.02           11.70       417.15      6I.t5
C. Others
Coeputer Softsar,/Hrd"ar,                                  0.00        0.01        0.01        0.01         0.01        0.01              0.07        0.33        0.53        0.51        0.40         0.37           0.06        2.20        2.26
IEI  Adatnistration                                        0.05        0.27        0.42        0,41        0.32         0.30              0,00        0,00        0,00        0,00        0.00         0.00           1.77        0.00        2.77
Consulting Services                                        0.00        0.02        c,O4        0.03         0.03        0.03              0,01        0.06        0.07        0,07        0,06         0.06           0.15        0.35        0.50
Training                                                  00         0.05        0.0        0.09        0.05         0,05              0.02        0,10        0.16        0.15        0.11        0.12            0.31        0.65        0.16
Sub,Totil late Line Cost C IJan, 1915 pricesl           0,06         0.35        0.55        0,53        0,41         0.39             0,10         0,49        0,76        0.73        0.51        0.55            2.29        3.20        5,49
0. total lassling Cost                                        0.99        5.05        9.07         7,73        6.06        5.71              2.99       14.93       23.94       22.96        17.19       16,93          13.61       99.43      133.04
Total Physical Contlngencius                                0,1         0.5        0,91        0.77        0.61         0.5I               0.3         2.5        2.39        2.29        1,79         1.69           3.36        9.96       13.32
Total Price Contingencies                                  0.09        0.91        1.19        2,89         2.97        3.39             0.25          2.4         6.5        9.13        9.75        9.99           12.03       36.61       41.64
TOTAL PROJECT CosT                                         1.12         6.6       20.77       11.39        9.64         9.66              3.54       19,93       32.73       33.99       29,42       28.60           49,00      146.00      195,00
April 15, 9915



a.,.    mu        .me.I
mliii   h             U         eM       u'?       hal          UAI      Zli       0(8          ga        stiii    0011                                                                                                                                                                                  111114 Oki 'aawgt
"If      910        a6ll00                         00              I     1*           I         W         W1   1      0gem 
I0'  W                              toll      till         Ulf                Ulf          0Vill                                                                                                                                                                                                 *MU      I4wLAN i IIIA       1
"It                   vii       wo         ip         lilt      *I       Ulf                    O         til                                                                                                                                                                                   wlidLUl M1MU 16115 Nil 
It,"     l551c    0109          ql'gt     5i'     L5911         "It      ItII      till         u':    It'll    illSt            IL'S    til'       all          fill      tci      oo'*         iii;t    till      ul'S         ti        lill     u'S          041       *6        W1'i                          191,01
__~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ...                                                       ....    ....      ._..        -       ....         ...        ...     .._.         .._.      ...         ....       ....     ...       ....         .....     ...
We       L''          I         toll     IL:       ilNl        tL'S      LI'S      II'S     U     1'       ill      SO'S         W0       US        "It          Il'      lilt      tilt          tll   tilt      tlt          1'S      IS'S      SO's         U't        O'tS    II'S                       5115l411 loll
h1'1    till             U'        l u's  911'      "It         Ul0       "tl     1*            In        till    it, I               01fl          Oi'          0010                            (Isli     till      110o         N'S       fleI lil              01          ' If'S                            v      II   111J
g  "|   *  TC'  nl   |  nl  t    *  "|  U'   *    b*                                                                                                                                                                                  JNllMl NINILS 11 'l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HLlE P N4?lhN  '
1l'f     91.       U'S           9 III             IS           91*0      "I       2*            111      i         122          ill      *t'       Ii           SI'S       0                     fill0ilt'S         150          140                U'           *l'       i'i       Oi                         Im.p llit
anll              'u's          Ni                 till           L                 416          ill                6              'S                             i'S                it           lolS               silo         910                Wo           fil                 IIII              "ilI,
111                tilt         If's                ".I         62t                 lt'S         PI?                "It          Oi                 Oilo         LI s  lo             Ulf         slo                021          91                 01            lifi               114                           shI llf'u"
4111911            61 t         55        ilS      05           it'S               "t'S  0       911  e              0t   e       15     0IS'                    01          01  0  OIl          t16l  t L's                      OIl        *    0  51'1 It' 0ll            5         i' JS                   Il I"J "8 1
tilt     .41       U'lt         till      IN       u'           ttl       Itl      Col           IIIII    tl        it'll              t il         tilt|        til       sil       011          til      til       "It          ct       01       uil          til       fil       til                      It 1 011  1111
loNdIiW '9
t 1   11            IS*)       111144    1510       1112       1l11    1114       II"         1111       ISO)       1112       19114     1103       114        Sills      1101       S3 iu 1wl            1113       0103       111,4     1003       1104        [till     1112      114
5131    diSAi                    FN 03 1  SAj                   JONI   ,itmAj                    11311    shutiI                 4P31    011Ija                  JONI1  *Otaaj                   IFNI    W1ieAj                   IMu      ailrAajFN 31 SOiij
1 t149  liN  ll           11314i144  tIlad               1a301f404   10404                         19404                 SNhii'I"  AI'01  '(I4l           ,IIf1.JIIIS,011        t            hi4a  iio.l'li"o              ogoa001iltIo                      i0 fny,.u4upaz
__ . ______ ~~~~~~~~~~~... ... ... .... ___.....__..   _  . .... .. ___............. _....                       ............ .I............ ....... ........,,...... .,..   ..... ..... . .................. .......... .........._...,,.  .... ..... . .......... _............. .  
lnu   119t0                  lowdoll     zstit z          t 1Nsitls    Imili                                                  witloq%  Al-Ojld "I s    IlImplJIntlf                                                             I  X 11t-1ZX wtI-43I@tels.111jujll w  111115.111VAJa
Atl 1011"t143 1tn1
111(509.,,.,,            914 ll0 n Om  oil ,,,,,,_
4219AA      4 PV  I f 5111 i0l9li Al .ItklJff 13
llk11



IURREV
FOURIH TEK IRANSMISSION FPOJECT
Substations Coeeonnnt
Cost Arrangnd by Nature of goods and Services
lln USI millien)
Physical Contingencies               Price Continqencies                 Contracts kount
-- 420-kY Substitionn ---  ---170-Y Sust                                          TOTAL . - --- -                                                                     ------------------------ .................. . ...-
Fortign    Local                  Foreign       Local                 Foreign      Local                   Foreign   Local                    Foreign      Local                 Foreign      Local
Cost      Colt       Total        Cost        Cost       Total        Cost        Cost       total         Cost       Cost       Total        Cost        Cost      total        Cost        Cost       Total
...~~~~---                   ---.-..--....-... .. ... ... .. .....  ......  .......... ......        ........ .........    .....        ...... .                .....       ..........    .........
A. LAND ACQUISITION                               -      0.50  O050                   -      0.85       0.85              -      1.35       1.35                     0.15       0.13              -      048      0.4               -      1.46       1.96
S. EQUIPRENT
Auto-transforeirs and
poNer transforeers                    8.40           -       .40         15.00                 15.00         23.40          -    23.40            2.34                 2.34          8.52           -      8,52         34.26          -    34,26
Circuit Iraters 3B0 kY                   4.62                4I62                                              4162            -      4i62          0.46           -      0146          1.68                  1.68          6.76          -      6.76
end 154 tY                            068 o                0.68           314                  3.91          4162                  4.62          0.46                  0.46           1.68          -      1.68          6.76          -      6.7l
Circuit BreAkers 35kV                                  -                    0.80                  0.80          oleo                  0.80 0Q.06                          0,8           0.10                 0.30           1.18                 1.18
Disconnecting  Switches                 2.16                  2.16          0,72                  0.12          2.88           -      2.88          0.2?                  0.27          1.05                  1.05          4.22          -      4.22
and Elrthing Ilades
Lightning Arresters                     0.54           -      0.54          0.46           -      0.48          1.02           -      1.02          0.10          -       0.10          0.37          -      0.37           1.44                 1.41
(geisurneent Trdnsforsors                1.35          -      Il35           1.65                 I.s           3.00                  3.00          0.30                  0.30          1.10          -       1.10           4.4                 4.40
Neasuring Protection                     1.40          -      1.40           1,45                 1.45          2.85           -      2.85          0.24                  0.29          1.04                  1.04          4,18                 4.18
Equipment and Aumiliarits
lus Bars and Hardoare                   0.42           *      0.42          0.28                  0.21          0.70                  0.70          0,07                 0.07           0.25                 0.25           1.02          -      1.02
1nsultor S                              0.18 3                0.38          0.08 OE                0            04 b                 0.4b           0,05                 0.05           0.17                 0.17           0.6                  0.68
Others (Line Traps, 11nelil             0.10       0.60       0.70          0.90       0.14       1.09           1,00      0,79       1.79          0.10       0.07       0.17          0.36       0.28       0.64          1.46       1.14      2.60
C. INSTALLAIION AND ERECIION
Civil Works                             0.23       1.07       1.30          0.90       4.10       5.00          1.13       5.17       6.30          0.12      056        06ll          0141       1.85      2,26           1,6       7.56       9.24
Installation and Erection               0.1O       1.17       2.06          0,4l       5.52       6.00          0.67       7.37      8.06           0.07       0.73      0190           0,24      2.62       2.86           0.14    10.74       11.72
....-  ..  ..           .         .     ......    ..... ... .....  -----  .....  .......  .. ....  -----    .......  ....  ....  .....   . .....  ..... ......                     .....    ....... _.
Subtotal                            20.47       4.04    24.51          26,68    10.66        370 34        47,15      14.70      61,85          4,73       1.49       6.22         17.17       5.23      22.0          64.05      21.42     90.47
0. TEI AMiINIITAATION                                                                                                            1.50       1.50                     0,14       0.14             -      0.52       0.52                     2.16       2.16
E. CONSULTING SERVICES                                                                                                0.1O       0.07       0,25          0.02       0.01       0,03          0,06       0.03      0.09           0.26      0.11       0t37
F, TRAININS                                                                                                           0.10       0.06       0.16          0.01                  0.01          0.03          -      0.03           0.14      0.06       0.20
TOTAL BASE COST                                                                                                  47.43      16.33      63.76          4.76       1.14       6.40         17.26       5,78     23,04          64.45     23.75      93.20
(January 1485 Prices)
Physical Contingencies (101                                                                                          4.76       1.64       6.40
Price Continglncies                                                                                                  17.26       5.78      23.04
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                                                                               69.45      23.75      43.20
April 15, 1965



- 86 -
ANNE 4.5
TURKEY
FOURTH TEK TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Estimated ImpemTentation Schedule
Unes Component
v__      1964           1965         19M6          1987          1968         1919          1990
QUARTER   1 2 13 14   12  34   1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4  1  2 3 4                    1234   1234
Route Surveylng  i iP n P twfes        I          IaI s                                -         __
Right- f-Wa 1 Acquiition                        m                                                                      8    2
Design & Tower Plowing                       UU        -IU
Pfepoahotn of Bid Documents
Bids Opening - Contracts A~vrd 
Procurarriont cl ifLvkml   *:iin: momul
Towem Esectsa (Ircluding foundiotn)
Lho Stengrn
'Material wil be delruveed in two ot marxe stage dWenwme
April I. 1985                                                                                                     World Barnk-27379



-87 -                                          AANNEX 4.6
TURKEY
FOURTH TEK TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Estimcated Implewentatlon Schedule
Substations Component
YEAR    1985         1986         1967       1968         t98          1990
__ _ _   sQU   2 3  4  1  2  3 4  1 2  3  4  1 2  3 4  1 2 3  4  1  2  3 4
Lali IACqu..iston                 UUUUUUUU
PresParCtion ofBid Documfents                  =mm UUU        
B.dsOpening-Contwaocts A.ords        _  _   _
Proctefent f MAcl'                         _   _   _       _   _   _   _   _
Chfla Wors                                                _ _ _ T   UT- l
kWctalokn & Erectionmu* im                                                   mm        mU
Test & Cornffssior3ng_l
Material wvA be delmed n t are stoge delieies
Apill 15. 1985                                                                          worid Bonk-27360



- 88-                                                    AMNEX 4.7
TUMMEY
FOURTH TEK TRANSMISSION PROJET
Lines Comonent
Estimted Procuruent Schedule
Sublission             Release of
of Bid                   Bid
Docueents              Docunents
Bid        and                     and                    Bid                  Award
Contracts     Docunents  Procurment  Approval  Procurenent    Bid    Evaluation  Approval         of      Contract   Contract
Description  CEqleted    Notice        by Bank     Notice      Openlw    To Bank    by Bank   Contract  Signing   Completion
Conductors    June/85     July/85      Aug/85     Sept/85      Dec/85    April/86   My/86    May/86    June/86    Feb/87
Shieldkires   June/85     July/85      Aug/85     Sept/85      Dec/85    April/86    May/86    May/86    June/86    Feb/87
Insulators   M4ay/85      May/85       June/85    June/85      Sept/85   Dec/8S      Jan/86    Jan/86    Feb/86      Nov/86
Hardware      May/85      MayJ85       June/85    June/85      Sept/85   Dec/85      Jan/85    Jan/86    Feb/86      April/87
Towers        April/85    April/85    May/85      June/85      Oct/85    Jan/86      Feb/86    Feb/86    March/86   June/89
Fabrication
Towers        June/85     July/85      Aug/85     Sept/85      Dec/5S    April/86    May/86    May/86    June/86    Dec/89
Erection
(Including
Foumdations)
Tower         Jan/86      Jan/86       Feb/86     Feb/86       May/86    Aug/86      Aug/86    Sept/86   Oct/86      July/88
Testing
Station
Line          Dec/85      Jan/86       Feb/86     March/86    June/86   Oct/86       Nov/86    Dec/86    Jan/87      Karch/90
Stringing
Line          Jan/86      Jan/86       Feb/86     Feb/86       may/86    Aug/86     Aug/86    Sept/86   Oct/86       Dec/87
Stringing
Equipment
and Vehicles
April 15. 1985



- 89 -
ANNEX 4.8
TURKET
FOURrH TEK TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Substations Cqsoneat
Estimted Procureent Schedule
Submission              Release of
of Bid Docu-            Bid Docu-
Bid      ments and                ents Nd                   Bid                   Award
Contracts        Documents  Procurement  Approval  Procurement    Bid    Evaluation  Approval            of      Cant ract   Contract
Descriptian      Completed    Notice        by Bank     Notice      Opening   To Bank    by Bank   Contract  Signing    Corpletion
Power            June/85       July/8S    Aug/85       Sept/85      Dec/85    April/86   May/86       May/86    June/86    June/89
Transformers
380/154 kV
and 154/30kV
Cirtuit          May/85        June/85     July/85     Aug/85       Oct/85     Feb/86      Mar/86    Mar/86      April/86   June/89
Breakers
35DkV and
1S4 kV
Circuit          Now/85        Jec/85      Jan/86      Feb/86       May/86    Aug/86       Sept/86    Sept/86    Oct/86     July/89
Breakers
36 kV
Disconnecting    Dec/85        Jan/86      Feb/86      Mar/86       June/86    Sept /86    Oct/86    Oct/86      Nov/86      July/89
Switches and
Earthing Blades
Lightning        Dec/85        Jan/86      Feb/86      Mar/86       June/86    Sept/86    Oct/86      Oct/86     Nov/86     July/89
Arrestors
Current          Jan/86        Jan/86      Feb/86      Mar/86       June/86    Sept/86     Oct/86     Nov/86    Dec/86      Dec/89
Transformers
and Voltage
Transformers
Measuring and    Aug/85        Sept/85     Oct/85      Nov/85       Dec/85    Mar/86       April/86  April/86   May/86      May/89
Protection
Equipment
Bus Bars         July/85       Aug/S85     Sept/85     Oct/85       Nlov/85    Jan/86      Feb/86    Feb/86    Mar/86       Mar/89
and Hardware
Insulators       Aug/85        Sept/85     Oct/85      Nov/85       Dec/85    Mar/86      April/86  April/86   May/86       Mar/89
-Civil Works      May/86        June/86     July/86    Aug/86        Sept/86    Nov/86     Dec/86    Dec/86      Jan/87      Dec/89
Installation     Oct/86        Nov/86      Dec/86      Jan/87       Feb/87    April/87    May/87     May/87    June/87      June/90
and Erection.
Test and
Couu ssioning
April IS. 1985



- 9D -
ANNEX 4.9
TURKEY
FpOURH TEK TIRANSMISSION PROJECT
Estimated Disbursements Schedule
Bank Fiscal Year                 Cumulative Disbursements at       Disbursements
and Semester                          End of Semester           Profile Used
(us$ million)                    F
1986
December 31, 1985                              0
June 30, 1986                                  4.4                         3
1987
December 31, 1986                             12.8                         9
June 30, 1987                                 25.5                        18
1988
Deceuber 31, 1987                             41.2                        29
June 30, 1988                                 59.6                        42
1989
Decenber 31, 1988                             76.7                       54
June 30S, 1989                                92.3                        65
1990
Decenmer 31, 1989                            106.5                        75
June 30, 1990                                116.4                        82
1991
Decemioer 31, 1990                           132.9                       93
June 30, 1991                                142.0                       100
April 10, 1985



- 91 -
ANNEX 4.10
TURKEY
FOURTH TEK TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Comparison of Disbursement Profiles
Year from Date of Board Approval
1     2     3     4      5     6      7     8
Proposed Loan                  3%   18Z  42%   65%   82%   93%  100%
actual TEK Transmission
Project II,
Loan 1194-TU /a              -      -    23%   54%   80Z   95%   99% /b
Typical Power Project
in EMENA Region /c           3%   18%   42%   65%   82%   93Z   99Z  100%
/a  Source-.  Related PCR.
/b About 1% of total loan amDunt was cancelled and loan effectiveness was
delayed.
/c Source-. Updated disbursement profiles for use in appraisal reports -
March 9, 1984.
April 10, 1985



ANNEX 5.1
- 92-
TUMMY
FOURTH TEK TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Bulk (High Voltage) Electricity Tariffs: 1983-1985
Date Effective           06/01/83   11/01184   01101/85   03/01185   04101/85
~~T ~T
1. Double-term a/
A. Power (TL/kUIYear)   5040       10,800      12,000     15,000     18,600
B. Energy (TL/kWh)        6.95      17.00      21.00       25.00      29.15
Time-of-day
Peak                          24.10      28.00       32_00      40.45
Day                           16.10      20.00      23.00       29.15
Night                         14.10      15.00       17.00      19.40
2.  Single-term a! (TL/kWh)
Energy Customers        8.35      19.30      23.00       26.50      32.80
Villages                6.60      L2.10      13.00       15.00      18.85c/
3. Resulting Average Bulk
Tariff (TL/kwh)           8.05      17.15       L9.00      21.80      26.16
Of which: TR  Tax          -          -          -          0.80       0.95
Plus: V.A.T_ (1OZ)         -                    1.90        2.18       2.62
Average Bulk Tariff
paid by consmr           8.05     17.15      20.90       23.98      28.78
a/ Excludes Value Added Tax of 10% effective 1/1/85.
b/  Includes 3.5% charge collected by TEK for Turkish Radio and Television
(TRT)
c/ To be coafirmed.
May 6, 1985



ANC 5.2
- 93 -
TURKEY
FOURrH TEK TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Bulk (High Voltage) Tariffs Compared
with TEK's Average Revenue and Iflation
Average HV Tariff           Average Revenue /a             Inflation     lb
NomIn
Date    TLjkWh       Increase      Tl/kWh          Increase          Increase in WPI
1982                                  7.3%          48%                 25Z
03101       5.82         2Z
05/01       5.95         2Z
08/01       6.19         4Z
11/22       6.99        13Z
1983                                  8.9           22%                 41%
06/01       8.05        15%
1984                                 13.9           56X                 51%
01/01      11.55        43%
02/01      12.05         4%
05/01      13.55        122
08/22      14.20         5%
09/24      14.65         3%
11/01      17.15        17%
1985 c/                             n/a             n/a                 n/a
01/01      20.90        22Z
03/01      23.98        15%
04101      28.78        20Z
a/  Represents average revenue from bulk (high voltage)
sales of electricity during the year.
b/ WPI = wholesale price index
cl  Including V.A.T. of 102 effective l/1/85,
and 3.5% Turkish Radio and Television (TRT) charge
effective 3/1/85.
may 6, 1985



- 94 -
ARM E5.3
FOURTH TK 7lANlHJIN P1OECr
Retail (Lou Voltage) Electdrcity Tariffs. 1983-1985
As Charged by  :'s Distribution Enterprises
Date Effective          06/01/83 01/01/84 05/01/84 11/01/84 01/01/85 03/01/85 04/0185
c/ -VW d          c/ d
Ikxle Tem
A. Poer (l/yr)          5,292    8,004    9,600    12,000       13,200 16,200    20,400
= (7LJJWfUlth       441       667      800      1,000      1,100 1,350      1,705
For cosuptin aver
ccatracted level
(L//IImoth)           650      900    11Xm        1,400      1,400  1,650     2,215
B. Eneigy (1k)
Cam.erce              11.70    15.10    20.80    24.80    27.00    31.00       37.65
Industry             U0.20    13.60    16.80    2D.80    23.00    26.00        32.15
Tine-of-Day
Peak                     -         -    19.50    27.75    30.00    34.00       44.30
Day                      -        -    16.00    19.75    22.00    25.50        32.15
Niglt                    -        -    15.00    17.75    17.00    19.50        22.15
Single Term(a (l,/kDh)
cozrce                  13.15    17.3D    23.50    27.16    29.50    33.75        42.10
Industry                11.65    15.80    19.50    23.50    25.50    29.00        37.65
Residient~s             11.90    11.90
to 16.00 /b
Up to 60 1/r/mtih                        1550    17.85      19.00    21.75      27.70 e/
lext 240 kW/mnth                         21.50    25.50    27.50    31.75       39.90
Over 300 16h/nonth                       31.50    35.50    37.50    43.00       55.40
a/ Tariffs for largest acst   groups oly are shown fo illutration.
Other tariffs apply to rganizations, gcverxmmtal buildirgs, etc.
b/ 11.90 TLk% for first 50 6 on/tx,.
16.00 Wllidh for additional conruptio.
c/ Eocluding ValnP Added Tax of 10%.
d/ Including 3.5Z charge collaeted by ThK and transferred to Erkish Radio and Television
e/ To be cmfirmed. Applies to houseiolds using up to 90 kW/UV th.
Fileamm 6,RI18
M~y 6 1985



- 95 -
TLWRKET                                   ANIE3  5.4
T15K198 BELETRItITY MiTIIRITY %'TEK1
Stategmnt of Inco and ExpEnses (1961-19901
hilions of TL in c-rimt prices
----Actual- -           -Estd-               ca t
1961    1992       193       1994       1995      199        1987       199       19m       1990
=    ==       -39                   u2=                  =2         m -       3M2Zs
Blctricity Sales(GMbl  20,090  22,516    21,291      24,286    25,461    29,602    36,266    42,916    46,916    49,M
Average Yariff(krslkfi)    491     731      1,099     1,692      2,692     3,556      4,566     5,668      6,593     7,35B
OPERATING REYENUES
Tatal Electricity Sales        98,495  164,611   233,614   410,203   685,479  1,052,719  1,655,963 2,412,M86 3,093,097 3,U6,660
OPERATING EXPENSES
Fuel
Coal                  3,858   5,626       5,770     6,770    14,466    18,906       5,647    22,599    31,905    44,954
Lignite               7,932  12,206    25,297      42,792    75,967    124,067    195,997   235,138   371,148   434,602
sas oil               9,512  14,044    21,998       9,962      8,712    11,325     14,156    16,597    19,536    2L,48
Fuel DiI              21,039  33,860    4B,m       64,617   130,566   169,735   212,169    254,603   252,794   322,073
Natural Gas               0        0         0          0          0    15,015    46,457    73,991      8,803    97,683
Total Fuel Costs       44,741  65,738    108,928    124,101   229,710   338,948   474,4i6   653,699   804,095    920,801
Purchased Power         5,BI8  12,059    29,137    37,973    55,783    60,606    69,407    75,248    80,991    B4,931
Materials               2,339   3,024       5,131     5,069      6,319     8,638    12,079     15,990    18,752    20,734
Labor Z Personnel       7,009   9,989    27,477    35,931    44,65    61,057    15,373    112,253   132,551    16,513
i SC. Expen               918   2,149      15,122    15,971     19,784    27,045    37,815    49,721    58,712    64,919
Depreciation            5,635   6,233      17,304    23,394    42,980    64,003    99,722   116,546   148,87       19,369
Indirect Taxes             78       79       268        312       367        422        474       522        561       599
Kuban Payments                                            0    90,192   109,462    143,668    191,022   212,339   238,244
Total Operating Expenses       66,597  79,171    203,266   242,541    399,50    560,917   717,294  1,023,969  1,244,430  1,424,910
-3m    ------  -                 =S =  Z==3 =             _       _n  ===  _ _ 
OPERATING INCOME               31,S08  65,440    30,348   167,662   295,971    491,902  B98,579  1,408,817  1,B48,667 2,201,750
on-operqg Income (Expensesl    11,7321  11,521)    2,013      5,000    11,5001    11,725)   (1,941)   12,1353   (2,295)    12,410)
GROSS INUMPE                   30,176  63,919    32,361    172,662   284,471    490,077   996,638  1,406,612  1,846,372  2,199,341
Income Deductions:
Total Interest Expense     15,223  38,453    59,724    37,300    42,550    105,897    176,08    300,977   413,390   539,502
less:Interat During         4,269   16,645    12,995    27,63f,    25,000    59,244    96,94      165,538   227,364   296,176
Construction
Net Interest Expense       10,954  21,809    46,B29       9,670    17,550    47,654    79,240   135,440   I16,025   242,326
NET INCOME (pre-tax)           19,222  42,111    (14,4691   162,992   266,921   442,423    S07,398  1,271,243  1,660,346  1,957,015
less:Income Taxes             8,52  19,191          0         0    65,197   106,768    176,9t9   322,959   509,497   664430
M= ==     Mc-=  Z=Mz=                    3332ZZZ   3zgma  ft333    Mazaami  33322MI     uz2zzD3AnM
NET INCOME (after tax)         10,640  22,930   (14,4681   162,992   201,724   335,655    630,429   948,293 1,151,949  1,292,876
=23M= SZ==         n-Z       23-:--=  3-- =3=== --       = =_==          =z                  Z
filnaae: i,.come                             Date: 14-May-95



- 96 -
ANNE 5.5
1-IT
TC1W51 ElKLIUIcIT' ilIlSIlTY ii
waIm $bat (1931-1H."
tillim  of TL 1. cmra  prics
tbal               -ErtS-
199     192       199        1934      t915      199t       193       1913      t11        1m
Lmtw ktt
Fiud Out it SDrc,    141,101  170,244   5,431   945,494  104,916 2,15,464 2,1J7,    3,742,459  4,74,52  5,31,737
lo  kAcu  Ubrepr atm   37,95  45,041   120,009   19,392   234,212   2,25   33,9    503,13    52,421                    ,789
l3t Fized fsats in Suvic  110,104  t25,203   410,431   754,102 1,21,314  1,54,0   2,30,331  3,233,914  4,112,434 5,045,"4
grk in P.ogra             21S,619  419,701   M7,29   70,31t        2,37  1,Z11,207 14,391  3,20,293  4,43,716 3,191,45
ethw Lin-moe Arts             114   1,420      2,203     3,000       525      4,93      5,71       1,974     7,905     3,05
Totallg-tar asts          314,749 5 ,=    919,92   1,4,443 2,09,64  1,079,n9 4,10,435  1,461,093 1,9,054 10,141,12
Cub ai auks                 3,242   5,060    15,242    20,742    24,372    n,83    99,184   l07,3n    1m3,5    131,019
Iccuats lcdivable          52,92  222,1 .    170,57    200,49   240,000   317,23   453,11   599,940   762,431   394,245
hat rii t  Splies          1:,573  13,940    24,717     35,029    41,1       53,505    h4,92       0,2S     92,297   I0I,52
Pr ma                         391     52s       444        500       900        900        0        9co        900       900
Tdoal lurrnt Auts          19,27  14MO   210,930    264,759   306,430   443,346   411,047   73,123   9,312  1,132,490
Def arrd Ohits                    41*     444       on       1,000       600       790        915     1,170      1,34      1,4B0
TU. ISSETS                    434,294  49,067 1,131,792  1,313,202 2,403,634  3,524,125 5,142,41 7    5,774  9,54,92 11,910,291
CWITIL L LIAIILITIS
Capital Rnwaa 1 SaurIpl
Captal                     71,370  143,072   23,509   42,59   19,907   042,107 1,0997  1 ,                ,1,2  1,043,991
Ratairn  Evrilop           1,191   3,233    13.765   IB1,757   333,431   719,13   1,34,5i5  2,297,34  3,449,698 4,742,574
iTtal Paid-iw-Capital      92,511  171,305   37,274    305,2U  1,0T7,13  1,561,243 2,440,52  3,674,509 5,051,52   6,SU,444
Iwm                         4,95M  13,061    23,417    13,000    15,000    15,000    15,000    15,000    15,000    11,000
Villag  Eletrifaicea   Fend  19,170  19,911    13,904   17,115    14,M5    15,U04      14,044    13,13      U2,93     11,U72
Ravaluttow aaarvs          54,472  54,46    200,005   357,194   357,194   351,1       3571x 35 7,1,        357,19    357,194
Tou1 capital and Oasvas 173,177  243,U49   417,502  1,193,277  1,44,3   1,949,273 2,327,592  4,042,9 5.434,9   1,9,10,32
Lm.g-trs GIt
Loal hbt                   42,S93   5,541    41,791    9,124   71,79i    94,769    i,502    109,829   116,547   113,7M3
Fw.Ip Debt                112,s00  181,9M    295,412   420,1l2   431,112  1,109,312  1,718,111  2,53,144 3,440,941 4,274,534
155,434  240,494   32,253   47,236   702,900  1,194,595  1,915,143  2,i17,912 3,s57,40   4,390,307
I,.ih  Ie I Tom *11,M4  (14,B11   ( 19,499)   135,000)  (31,0001 1141,593  t212,0M   (30,324)  (425,905)  (300,000)
Total Ul-tw  DM           144,30o  225,451   342,754   443,234   621,90   1,053,002  1,43,140  2,371,149 3,131,04  4,0,307
Carrt Liablities
Aounts Payable             71,965  132,242  232,911    90,000   125,000    132,500   149,043  t1,9    171,266   15,000
Tag. lccrwd                21,554  24,134    10,301    12,374    45,000   274,949   221,211   21,454   305,272   335,79
l.T DOt duo in I ya,       10,52   14,141    19,49      35,000    B1,000   141,593   212,023   304,24   425,95    300s,
Other Currat Liabilities    6,U42   9,545     5,21       4,000    12,050    1,151    15,590    17,149    19,435    19,357
totalW Cantt Lialilitl    100,719  130,314   317,99    133,197i   243,00   44,919   597,303    753,5    2,m7    940,2m
Other Lialilitaio
batosr OepsitAdvances   4,41    1,956    21,330   23,000    30,33    31,339    34,51    34,325    30,141    40,043
SeLf IaermnceMsurm          6,041   4,874     4,239      7,000    11,45      13,03    15,079    26,51       17,931     3,7m
fwrred Credits              2,259   1,059     4,01       7,112    10,440    1l,9       L4,185    15,743    l,9L9     20,453
Total 0h1. Liabilities     14,917  19,749    33,97    42,912    52,419    54.n9 0       3,0       8,674   710,92    79,224
__ _n.                   _           _m        ..         _nm             _             .     Sf
TBTrfL CAPITAL & UILITIES    434,294   1,07  2,131,M   1,313,202 2,403,43   3,524,125 5,142,411  Tp,,77  9,544,932  1,91,29
filrma. balanc                                atr. 14-layK



- 97 -
AMNEX 5.6
iaUsN ELECITy mIiTy 1TEK)
Sw5u ad Uus of Fads 91911-1990
lillis of 1T. in cwrest pricss
1931     l2        i19        1194      1m         1996      1197       1191       1999       1m      1985-90         1)
S#C    OF RMS .   ......-
b(L bil lim)
&M  lum                        30,176  63,919    32,31    I72,U2   284,471    490,017    1U,1   1,406,112  1,B9,37   2,111,341            7,114          711
plea Dpreciatim                  5,13    1,233    17,304    23,334    42,830    64,003         1,1M     111,546   148,878   136,36          647           EL
frss  tderna  Cash Gwrating  35,311   70,152    49,665    196,046   327,3b1    W4,00    15,360  1,523,22  1,Y91,250 2,335,706             7,161          m
leow  Dt Serice
Principal Paymts           3,000   83,13    13,03    90,130    90,323    109,227    141,593    212,03    306,324    625,005          1,276         131
Iutcrt:t Paymets          10,154   21,90E    46,B29      9,670     17,520    47,654    19,240    135,440    131,025    242,326         06 70
TOta Dbt ServicQ          13,954  30,121     59,917      9,Bo00    17,979    5,131    220,332    347,463   492,349   66B,130         1,194         202
Ret lataroal Cash  euratimt    21,657   40,031    110,2521    96,246   229,474   397,1w    754,527  1,175,766  1,02,40! 1,717,571         5,177          5sB
lcres  is Loug-tes Det
LKal                        12,000   15,605     9,556      7,473     15,000    19,500    25,000    35,000    40,250    44,275            179          21
Foreign                     19,000  69,4Y5    125,299    119,640   290,000   32,090    509,704   A3,1I        760,713    370,342       3,459         342
TOt  Borrowing                 31,000   95,060    134,945   206,113   305,000   411,590    534,704    671,111    801,033   914,617        3,633          361
Equity Contribut:nas           39,00o   66,102     64,497   365,000    50,000    67,600    87,330    109,674    131,170    150,059          596          6f
Incr,asa(Decrl ia Other LUail. 37,000   13,403    24,193      12,133)    10,615     3,522     5,15       3,3en      1,213     7,271          32          0?
TOTAL SNCE  WF FLUOS           127,857  205,196   213,273   665,176   595,0       979,901  1,383,049  1,960,376  2,455,907  2,719,524    10,044         100?
uss W FrIDS
Thermal Pwr geratioa           94,000  129,046    173,71B   252,571   279,063   341,191    531,660   707,539    91,7    990,919           3,799         358
Traission                      41,000   36,351     43,99      77,747    134,023   10S,6      193,529   264,901    316,B24   3U,6Y6        1,465          151
Urba  Distribution                  0   2,170      34,494    33,036    7S,433    114,956   152,016   319,903    33,222   424,679          1,479          15l
illaqges I Other                15,000   20,897    20,214    47,562    94,747    130,519   172,572    227,064    171,753   230,271        1,025          10l
Total Capital Expnditures      140,000  197,971   721,424   410,916   571,270   776,254  1,099,577  1,519,306  1,79B,597 2,011,565        7,167          771
IncrlDer) in Other  ssets         275      691      4,136       S9B        125      1,239     1,341      1,341      1,207       925           b          01
Income Taxes                    8,532   19,191          0         0    65,197    106,76E    176,969   322,959   501,497    664,139        1,845         19B
IncrilDcrl in Dkrking Capital  (21,0001  12,6471)   63,797)  253,353    (41,5031   14,3601   105,164    116,769    137,607    112,899       427          41
..__               --ms-  -  *- *-                     s         i               U- s                      3.
TOTAL tEE5  F FPUMD            127,B57 205,1%    213,273    115,176   595,019   B71,901  1,3,041  1,J0,3S76 2,45,907 2,799,524           10,044         1001
...:s    ass..  14sNay-8         m    .i..   se*uas -sasss 
file.m:  source'                              Date: 14-Na7-5



- 98 -
TURKISH ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY                                  ANNEX  5.7
FINANCIIIL RATIOS 11981-19901
- ctual-----    -Estd-                       ---             uorecast--                   --
L98i     1982       1903       1994       1995        1996       1997       191        1989       9I90
=us      3Z3          3         3=        233         Sri=    . X3=         3333      =23M         3Z3
PoF r Subsectwr(TEKI and OSI)
Internal Cah Generation a                201      211         211       -312        36%        43%         482        571        f2i        632
Intenal Cash Generation 40               131       19%         01        16%
Debt Sevice Coverage                    2.6      2.3         0.9        2.0        3.3        3.5         4.4        4.4        4.0        3.6
TEK only
Current Ratio                           0.7      0.9         0.7        2.0        1.2        1.0         1.0        1.0        1.1         1.3
Debt/Debt & Equity                      0.5      0.5         0.4        0.3        0.3        0.4         0.4        0.4        0.4        0.4
Days Receivables                        196      272         266        19o        1213       1I0         100         90         90         90
elacluding cbange in wrking capital(Loan Agreement definition)
#Excluding change in working capitallnore meaningfal in 81-94 due to swings in sic)
:':.__fff
VORKSHEET FCR CALCUATION OF INTERNAL CASH 6ENERAT1ON               L sillion in current prices)
199I    1992        1913       1994       1985        1986       1987       1991       1989        1990
Gross Incoa                     30,176   63,919     32,361    172,662    284,471    490,077    996,639  1,406,682  1,846,372  2,199,341
plus:deprKiation                 5,635    6,233      27,304     23,394     42,U0      64,003     88,722    116,546    148,879    186,368
6ross Internal Cash Gineration       35,811   70,152     49,65    196,046    327,351    554,080    975,360  1,523,229  1,Y95,250 2,385,709
leis:Incr(Dhcrlin non cash Wkg Capl (21,0001  (4,465)   173,969)   247,853    (45,1331   (51,672)    87,243       98,94E    121,479    100,531
les:TEK debt nrvice                  13,951   30,121     59,917      99,900     97,878    156,981    220,932    347,463    492,949    668,130
Imss:DSI debt swvicelpoer only) I       Nla      N/A        %/A      17,000     24,310     34,946     48,225     63,778     90,679      92,780
plusa:cr(DecrCastor Contribn            500    2,239       9,474      6,670      2,323      1,516      2,756       1,730      1,16      1,907
plus:Keban paymts N                                                             62,549     85,380    112,061    141,197    165,624    185,130
Net Internal Cash Generationa   43,357   46,735     73,192   1161,937)   315,169    500,821    733,977  1,156,067  1,467,695  1,712,004
Net Internal Cash Generation** 22,357   42,270         (779)    95,916    270,036    449,149    921,120  1,254,916  1,589,163  1,912,535
TEK Investments                140,000  181,971    272,424    410,916    571,270    776,254  1,099,577  1,519,306  1,788,597  2,011,565
DSI Investmnts                  30,000   45,906      70,966    110,600    293,750    380,039    440,945    516,283    579,721    707,799
Total Pouor lnvestents         170,000  227,877    343,390    521,516    865,020  1,156,293  1,540,422 2,035,599  2,368,318  2,719,364
NOTES: I Estimated. To he confireed.
N TEKs paymnts to the Public Participation Fund, net of interest
paid to holders of tvban rnue-sharing certificates.
*Including change in working capitaliLoan Agreewent definition)
"Excluding change in working capital lnore eaningf al in 91-B4 due to swings in s/c)



ANNEX 5.8
- 99 -                        Page 1 of 4
TURKEY
FOURTH TEK TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Assumptions Used in Financial Forecasts
General Assumptions
1.       Starting in 1983, the financial statements show the situation of
TEK as a consolidated utility selling electricity to customers on both the
wholesale and retail level, therefore, including the eighteen new
distribution companies. However, the value of distribution assets in service
has not been included, because it has not yet been determined by the
concerned authorities.
2.       The forecasts were made in Turkish Lira in current prices applying
the following inflation rates:
1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
Local Inflation                35    30      25     20      15     10
International Inflation         5     7.5     8      8       8      8
The exchange rate prevailing in January 1985 (TL 450 = US$1) was used as a
base rate. In order not to understate the TL cost of the foreign component
of expenditures, however, it was assumed that depreciation of the Turkish
Lira would occur, equivalent to the differential between forecast local and
international inflation rates.
Income Statement
3.       The forecast for sales of electricity was derived from the
mission's forecasts of capacity available for electricity generation. Given
the expectation that an electricity deficit will continue, and that TEK will
not be able to meet forecast demand in 1985-1989. the sales forecast was not
based on the demand forecast in Annex 2.1. Available high voltage supply
would be sold 50% to HV industrial customers, and 50% to TEK's distribution
enterprises for on-sale at the LV level. The resulting growth rates in total
electricity sales (RV and LV) are as follows:
1985     1986     1987     1988      1989
5       16       23        18        9



ANNEX 5.8
- 100 -                     page 2 of 4
4.       Tariffs  were increased as needed to meet financing requirements,
and so as to reach LRMC by 1989. The actual average tariffs effective
1/1/85 are assumed to be TL 19/kWh on the bulk level, and TL 27/kWh on the
retail level, resulting in an average tariff for HV and LV combined of about
TL 23/kWh. Adjustment of tariffs to reflect any real changes in fuel prices
has not been included in the forecasts, but would be assumed to occur
automatically.
5.       The forecast income statements do not reflect the value-added tax
of 10% which was introduced effective Jauary 1, 1985. While TEK's
customers will pay 10% more for electricity, the VAT is expected to have no
net financial impact on TEK, as TEK will transfer to the Government the net
of value added taxes collected and paid. Similarly, the 3.5% charge
collected by TEK on behalf of Turkish Radio and Television starting March 1,
1985 has been omitted from the forecasts.
6.       Fuel expenses were projected by applying the expected price paid by
TEK for fuel to the average specific consumption rates and the number of
kilowatt hours to be generated by thermal plants with each type of fuel as
shown below.
Early 1985 Fuel Prices
(TL/ton)           $/ton
Coal                         36,000            80
Lignite                       6,000            13
Diesel                      175,000           389
Fuel-Oil                    107,000           238
Natural Gas (per '000 m3)   55,000            122
Generation Plan (GWh)
1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
Hydro                          12,262  13,766  17,193  20,503  22,425  23,653
Thermal - Coal                   562      562     135     458     551     708
- Lignite             10,551  13,255  16,751  20,309  22,987  24,470
- Gas oil                131    1.31    131       131     131     131
- Fuel Oil             4,358   4,358   4,358   4,358   4,358   4,358
- Natural Gas              0   1,050   2,599   3,449   3,600   3,600
Total Thermal             15,602  19,356  23,974  28,705  31,627  33,267
Tots:i Gross Generation    27,864  33,122  41,167  49,208  54,052  56,920



- 101 -
ANNEX 5.8
page 3 of 4
7.      The cost of imported power was estimated by applying the early 1985
rate of USt.04/kWh, increasing with domestic inflation, to annual imports
from Bulgaria and the USSR of 2,500 GWh.
8.      Depreciation of fixed assets is calculated at 2.5% for hydro plants,
4.0% for thermal plants, and 3.112 for transmissioc lines and related
assets. The overall average for TEK is 3.52.
9.      Other expenses, including material other than fuel, wages and
salaries and miscelLaneous expenses, are assumed to increase at the same
rate as unit sales growth, plus the local, inflation rate. As a result of
the Power System Operations Assistance Project, a reduction in TEK's
maintenance and operating costs is expected, resulting in financial savings;
however, these benefits would not be apparent until about 1990-91.
10.     Income taxes are 40% of the net income of previous year, after
deducting all operating expenses and net interest expense.
11.     TEK's payments to the PPF in conjunction with the Keban
revenue-sharing certificates are included as an operating expense, based on
annual generation of the Keban Hydro Plant of 5647 GWh multiplied by a price
per kWh which is 60% of the average wholesale electricity tariff. TEK's
present obligations to make these payments cease in 1989, but it is likely
that TEK will continue these payments afterward for additional revenue
sharing certificates.
Balance Sheet
12.     Additions to work in progress and to fixed assets in service are
made at current prices. Assets in service have not been revalued in the
forecast, because of lack of adequate information on age and composition of
assets. However, asset revaluation, and the corresponding additions to the
revaluation reserve, which were included in TEK's past audited financial
statements are reflected.
13.     Transfers from DSI:  Hydroelectric proiects, once completed by DSI,
are transferred to TEK through a government equity contribution and added
directly to fixed assets in service. (The Bank requested under Loan 1844-TU
that the Government consider a change in accounting procedures, such that
the asset value of completed hydroelectric power plants transferred from DSI
to TEK would be offset by a combination of both equity and the related
debt. This change in procedures has not yet occurred, however, and the
forecasts assume the current practices will continue.) The forecast assumes
transfers of DSI assets valued as follows (in billions of TL):
1985      1986      1987       1988      1989
20        81         161       178       92



- 102 -
ANNEX 5.8
page 4 of 4
14.      The interest rate on new borrowings is estimated at 30% for local
credits and 9Z for foreign credits, with repayment periods of 3 and 8 years,
respectively.
15.      Outstanding foreign debt and related debt service have been
restated in line with the expected devaluation of the Turkish Lira. The
counterpart of the adjustment to long-term debt has been added to
work-in-progress.
Internal Cash Generation
16.      The calculation of internal cash generation is shown in Annex 5.6:
(a) Treatment of Taxes
Income taxes payable by TEK out of its profits are added back as
part of sector internal cash generation, according to the definitions
agreed in 1980. Two other types of taxes or charges introduced in early
1985 -- the value added tax (VAT) and the Turkish Radio and Televisiou
(TRT) charge - have not been included in the calculation of internal
cash generation. The Bank's understanding is that both will be passed
through without having a direct financial impact on TEK. In the case of
the TRT charge, these funds are specifically earmarked for use outside
the power subsector. In the case of the VAT, information is not yet
available to estimate the net difference between the amount of VAT
collected by TEK from its customers and the amount paid by TEK on its
purchases.
(b) Treatment of Debt Service
For purooses of estimation of subsector internal cash generation,
the debt service associated with DSI's investments in hydroelectric
plants has been shown as an indicative amount only. (Because these
borrowings foL DSI projects are aggregated with other public borrowing,
and many DSI projects are multi-purpose, it has been difficult to
isolate the amounts related to DSI energy investments only.)
April 10, 1985



ANNEX 6.1
- 103 -                    Page I of 2
TURKEY
FOURTH TEK TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Rate of Return Analysis
Introduction
1.       The economic analysis of the project is set out on page 3 of this
annex and was carried out on the basis that the project forms an integral part
of TEK|DSI's 1985-1990 expansion program. The program is estimated to have an
economic rate of return of 11.23%, compared to an opportunity cost of capital
of 12%. Key assumptions are presented below.
Benefits
2.       Incremental revenues plus net fuel savings derived from investment in
improved efficiency of thermal plants were taken as the benefits of the
program. Electricity tariffs were assumed to increase at regular intervals to
ensure an adequate level of self-financing for the power subsector, reflecting
the Government's commitment to reduce public ex ynditures. Tariffs include
taxes to reflect the prices faced by consumers.!   The average revenue (in
1985 prices) for sales at the bulk supply and retail levels would be as
follows;
cTL/kWh)           1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990 & Onwards
Bulk supply       26.87   28.61   30.40   32.22   32.97           33.69
Distribution      34.90   34.90   34.90   34.90   34.90           34.90
Net fuel savings were calculated on the basis that investment in improve?
efficiency of existing thermal plants (Tuncbilek A and B, Anbarli, Seyitomer,
Soma B and Yatagan) would increase their average efficiency by one percentage
point as a minimum and result in an annual net fuel savings of TL 5.9 billion
starting in 1991. Given the fact that these plants would be retired at
different dates, net fuel savings would progressively diminish over the entire
33-year period considered for the life of the entire program.
Capital and Operating Costs
3.       The capital costs of TEK/DSI's expansion program were taken from the
adjusted 1985-1990 investment program presented in Chapter II (Annex 2.2) and
1/ This included VAT (10%) and a television tax (3.5%). VAT presents some
difficulties for economic analysis since for industries (which use
electricity as an intermediate good) a tax rebate will be given. However,
since such rebates may take upwards of one year, the "effective price"
faced by these consumers is estimated to :nclude VAT. Excluding VAT in
the analysis results in a rate of return of 10.34x.



- 104 -                      ANNEX 6.1
Page 2 of 2
updated to January 1985 prices. Operation and maintenance costs were
estimated at 1% of cumulative capital costs for generation and transmission,
and at 2% for distribution.
Fuel Costs
4.       The incremental generation from thermal plants was taken from the
projected balance of energy and capacity for TEK (Annex 2.1). The cost of
fuel was estimated on the basis of the following assumptions:
(a) specific consumption (ton/GWh):
-  lignite-fired steam plants;  1,450 (for a lignite with an average
calorific value of 1,725 kcal/kg);
-  coal-fired steam plants:  700 (for a coal with an average
calorific value of 4,200 kcal/kg);
-  gas-fired combustion turbines:  302;
-  gas-fired combined cycle plants:  226.
(b) Economic cost of fuels (US$/ton):
- lignite: 20 (equal to the weighted average long-run marginal cost
of lignite in Turkey);
- coal: 60 (equal to the estimated CIF price of imported coal);
- natural gas: 180 (equal to 90% of the border price af fuel oil).
6.       All benefits and costs were expressed in January 1985 prices, with an
exchange rate of TL45O/US$. The life of the program was taken at 30 years.
Hay 1985



- 105 -                                                                       6.1
Fat DK T_enoio Lmjm*
0 6t of moi   s
I. owrau invesb Ilat PZCN                                                                      1
W3     LV       Nl    Tba1               T              0 C-. (- c.t.u  C                           utu-  1'dl    Tow           ub
Yew  s.1es  Sales    Sdzv  Donato Cmeratiam   rminiau    Diou*Atim           L  Cimi.  'jga    Dj                    ct   ct.         bmm
_ _                      -   -_                        __                                               __ _
191S      0  49,279      0.0  49,279  448,824    101,563       9S,15    49,000   4,41          1,016      1,963   23,490  72,468   (679,19)
1986  64,258  115,938    0.0  M0,196  555,548    30,390       118,750    59,091   1,0.4        2,419      2,169  85,637  974,037   (7M,812)
1S87 171973 22k.093      0.0  36,066  506,15    1ZT,309       W3,750    64,7m   15,15          3,693      3,606  151,996 1,016,345   (6W,290)
1990 23.013 322,441      0.0 611.455  505,441    142,165      D1.250    48,90  20,159          5,114      5,419  217,548 1,125,389   (513,93X)
1989 367,681 387,111     0.0  75M,792  463,553    15,76       225,000    51,U LS   ,795        6,972      7.6S9  259,54A 1,21k.430   (469,63)
IM90 450,402 452,932     0.0  9m334  489,048    196,008       237,375    53,941   29,635       8,932     10,013  277,331 1,302,363   4399,024)
1991 450,402 452.932 5,893.1  909,Z17       0          0           0         0  29,685         8,932     10,03  277,311  325,991    583,236
1992 450,402 452,932 5,893.1  909,227       0          0           0         0  29,685         8,532     10,013  277,331  325,991    583,236
193 450,402 452,932 5,893.1  909,227       0          0           0         0  29,685         8,Ml      1X,043  277,331  325,991    583,236
450,42 452,932 5,893.1 909,227             0          0           0         0  29,6S5         8,932     10,013  277,331  325,991    583,236
1995 450.402 452,932 5,893.1 909,227        0          0           0         0  29,685         8,932      8,063  277,331  325,991    513,236
1996 450,402 452,932 5,893.1 909,227        0          0           0         0  29,685         8,932     10013  27,331  325,991    583,236
1997 450,402 452,932 5,736.4  909,020       0          0           0         0  29,6B5         8,932     10,03  277M331  325,991      M,=0
1996 450,402 452,932 5,736A  909,070        0          0           0         0  29',65         8,932     0D.013  27,331  325,991    583,080
1999 45D.402 452,932 5,736A  909,070        0          0           0         0  29,685         8,932     13,0^3  21,331  325.9"91    583,080
2300 450.402 452,932 5.736A  909,070         0         0           0          0  29,685        8,932     ,01043  277,331  325,991    513,0
2301 450,402 452,932 3,367b  906,701        0          0           0          0  29,685        8,932     I,013  277,331  325,991    58D,7U
2302 450,402 452,932 3,367.4  906,701       0          0           0         0  29,605         8,932     10,o01   277331  325,991    580,7J
2003 450,402 452,932 3,367.4  906,701        0         0           0          0  29,605        8,932     30^3  27,331  325,991    580,711
234 450A42 452.932 3.367.4  906.701         0          0           0         o  29,68S         8,932     10,013  277,331  325,991    580,711
203 450.402 452,932 3,367.4  906,701        0          0           0         o  29,685         8,932      0,013  277,331  325,991    580,71U
M0  450.402 452,932 2,2a7.2  90,581         0          0           0         o  29,685         8,932     10,013  277,331  325,991    579,590
2307 450/402 452,932 2,247.2 9(5,581        0          0           0          o  29,685        8,932     I.013  277,11  325,991    579,590
2383 450,402 452,932 2,247.2  915,581       0           0          0          0  29,65         8,932     10,03  277,331  325,991    579,590
2009 450.02 452,932 2,247.2 9(5,581         0          0           0         0  29,665         8,932     18,013  277,331  325,991    579,590
2310 450,402 452,932 2,27.2  903,581        0          0           0         0  29,635         8.932     10,03  277331  325,991    579,590
23U  450,402 452,932  1,546.0 906,880       0          0           0         0  29,68S         8,932     3.013  27,331  325.991    S78,39
M312 450,402 452,9  1,546.0 9v,EaO          0                0          0    o  29,65         8932      10,03  277,331  325,991    578,39
2313 450.402 452,932  1,54.  905,880        0          0           0         0  29,685         8,932     13,013  m,331  325,991    578,39
2114  /43040   452,932  1,546.0 906,880     0          0           0         0  29,685         8,932     10,013  277,331  325,991    578,39
Wlte of raeu CZ): lL2;3
-y1, 195 



- 106 -
AMNEX 7.1
Page 1 of 2
TURKEY
FOURrH TEK TRANSMISSION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Power Subsector
A.1 Detailed data on powier investment program scenarios (1985-1989).
A_2 "Development Report for the Bulk Transmission System of Turkey", TEK
Planning Department, November 25, 1974 (see TEK III Project File).
A.3 "Planning features of the extension of the 420-kV Turkish system",
CIGRE Report 31-12, 1980 Session.
A.4 "Report of Failures due to Ice, Wind and Large Birds Experienced on
the 420-kY Lines of Turkey", CIGRE Report 111-15, Symposium 22-81,
Stockholm L981.
A.5 "Long-Term Planning of the EHV Transmission Network of Turkey.
Integration into the system of four nuclear generating units. Target
year 25,000 MW-140 billion kWh.' Note from TEK's Consultant,
Dr. F. Illiceto, dated May 1984.
A.6 Statistical Data for 1983 (see System Operations Assistance Project
File).
A.7 TEK Annual Reports; 1980, 1981, 1982 and 1983.
A.8  Draft Tariffs Study - ElectricitE de France - 1984 (see EMENA Files
for TEK III).
B. Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Project
B.L Project data prepared by TEK's Transmission Projects Divisions (lines
and substations), list of equipment and main specifications, cost
etc.), February 1, 1985.
B.2 TEK standardized single-line diagrams for 380-kV and 154-kV
substations, January 31, 1985.
B.3 Technical provisions for 380-kV substations - TEK, January 28, 1985.



- 107 -
ANNEX 7.1
Page 2 of 2
C. Selected Working Papers
C.1 Load flow calculations and diagrams for 1985-1989 TEK interconnected
system, January 1985.
C_2 Working draft for TEK network horizon - year 1993.
C.3 TEK's Investment Program - 380/154-kV substations and 380-kV feeders
planned for installation during the period 1986-1993 (February 1985).
C.4 TEK's Investment Program - 154/34.5-kV substations and 154-kV feeders
planned for installation during the period 1986-1989 (February 1985).
C.5 Working papers for financial forecasts, January-February 1985.
D. Other Documents Regarding TEK
D.1  Principle statute of the Turkish Electricity Authority (effective
January 1, 1985).
D.2  Law No. 3096 concerning the entrusting of electricity generation,
transmission, distribution and commerce to institution other than TEK
(December 19, 1984).
March 22, 1985



aULGARIA       \     W'                                                                        a,                                                                              110 lad!
BLACK                         *        SEA                                                 )   S
'1XC    R                                                    --. .,,, -wrc-  -E; -.4."~ L                                                 -w 
o. \'            ''  $"~~ ~~~~~~-+'''"- -'-^''S" --   C..p.Y.J                                                                                          --
A-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
i~~~~~ .                              _      k    ..            2                      '                       -    ,,t.,l     .'...... ~'d ;Se....TRE
-.Imm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
:,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ s-^,{
ECEAN  SYRIANPARABAREPUIILIC                Pl>n                             .5.
Ml  A D I r E R  R  A  N  E  A   N   S E  A                 ,                 I                                     @   _  IX EC@f lF,""        ,  h 6281r1ifA
? 4.
lr~~~~ .    .....                                                                                 cwo!t~~~~~~~~~~~   .
TURKEY
* ..                                        ~~~~~~~~~~TEK TRANSMISSION PROJECT IV
MAIN GENERATION AND TRANSMISSION SYSTEM
MEDITERRANEAN  SEA                        *-                 ~~~~~~~~SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC               zA1
',   C Y P R U S-I ,           I                                                                 * uad* 4sVte
r;: _                                                       -                                 ' .                                  UneSoSnYl n nhl
SA- _,-,__ Inn  1e                                *ee We LftANON ) .>_  Pluli... ...l .  .
A,- .,                                                                                            a                                       ose ,    1   0   ,hm_
*hfLjLn                             !P          LEBANON                                       P.i of ,h. Po....tI
PA                                                                   44~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.'
1,1,11III






