                                                 Documentof
                                              TheWorld Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


                                                                                       ReportNo. 39595-BD




                      INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION

                                        PROGRAMDOCUMENT

                                      FORA PROPOSEDCREDIT

                            INTHE AMOUNT OFSDR 132.2MILLION
                                  (US$200MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                       TO

                        THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OFBANGLADESH

                                                       FORA

                              DEVELOPMENT SUPPORTCREDIT IV


                                                April 27,2007




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
SouthAsia Region

 This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only inthe performance of their official
 duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization

                                   GOVERNMENTFISCALYEAR
                                           July 1-June 30

                                     CURRENTEQUIVALENTS
                                 Currency Unit=Bangladeshi Taka (Tk)
                                    US$1 =Tk 68.90 (March 2007)

                                ACRONYMS ANDABBREVIATIONS

ACC  Anticorruption Commission                        ICT     Information & Communications Technology
ADP  Annual DevelopmentProgram                        IDA     International DevelopmentAgency
AL   Awami League                                     IFC     International Finance Corporation
ATC  Agreement on Textiles and Clothing               IMF     InternationalMonetary Fund
BBS  BangladeshBureau o f Statistics                  IPP     Independent Power Producer
BCIC Bangladesh Chemical Industries                   IPSAS InternationalPublic Sector Accounting
     Corporation                                              Standards
BCS  Bangladesh Civil Service                         LGED Local Government EngineeringDepartment
BDWD BangladeshWater Development Board                LTU     Large Taxpayer Unit
BEPZA BangladeshExport Processing Zones               JAO     Judicial Administrative Officer
     Authority                                        JSAN    Joint Staff Advisory Note
BERC BangladeshEnergy Regulatory Commission           MATT Management at the Top Training
BNP   BangladeshNationalist Party                     MDG MillenniumDevelopmentGoal
BPC   BangladeshPetroleumCorporation                  M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
BPDB BangladeshPower Development Board                MIS     Management Information System
BPSC BangladeshPublic Service Commission              MOU Memorandum ofUnderstanding
BRAC BangladeshRuralAdvancement Committee             MTBF Medium-Tern BudgetaryFramework
BTRC BangladeshTelecom Regulatory                     NBR     National Board o fRevenue
      Commission                                      NCB     Nationalized Commercial Bank
C&AG Comptroller and Auditor General                  NPFP    National Poverty Focal Point
CAS   Country Assistance Strategy                     NPL     Nonperforming Loan
CPI   Consumer Price Index                            PAC     Public Accounts Committee
CPTU Central Procurement Technical Unit               PCB     Private Commercial Bank
CTG   Caretaker Government                            PEDP    Primary Education Development Program
DESA Dhaka Electric Supply Authority                  PFM     Public Financial Management
DESCO Dhaka Electric Supply Company Ltd               PFMIP Public Financial Management Improvement
DPL   Development Policy Loan                                 Plan
DSC   Development Support Credit                      PGCB Power GridCompany o fBangladesh
DFID Department for InternationalDevelopment          PPR     Public Procurement Regulations
EC    Election Commission                             PRGF    Poverty Reduction Grant Facility
EMTAPEconomic Management Technical                    PRS     Poverty Reduction Strategy
     Assistance Project                               QR      Quantitative Restriction
e-GP  E-Government Procurement                        REB     Rural Electrification Board
ERC   Energy Regulatory Commission                    RHD     Roads andHighways Department
FCB  Foreign Commercial Bank                          RMG     Ready-Made Garment
FRP  Financial Recovery andRestructuring Plan         SDR     Special Drawing Right
FY   Fiscal Year                                      SEDF    South Asia Enterprise DevelopmentFacility
GDP   Gross Domestic Product                          SLR     Statutory LiquidityRatio
GOB   Government o fBangladesh                        SOE     State-Owned Enterprise
HIES Household and Income Expenditure Survey          SWAP Sectorwide Approach
HR    Human Resource                                  VAT     Value AddedTax

                                 Vice President: PrahlPatel, SARVP
                              CountryDirector: Xian Zhu, SACBD
                                Sector Director: SadiqAhmed, SASPR
                               Sector Manager: KapilKapoor, SASPR
                            Task TeamLeader: Sandeep Mahajan, SASPR

                                                                                                                                                                                      FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY
                                                                                                                            TABLE OF CONTENTS

      Credit and ProgramSummary                                                                                                                                                                                                                              i
      I. Introduction                                                               ......................................................................................................................................................
                                                                                                         ..................................................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1
      11.   Recent PoliticalDevelopments.                                                                          ........................................................................................................................                 4
      111.  RecentEconomicDevelopments                                                                               .....................................................................................................................                 .5
      IV.   AligningTheBankGroup's Strategywith Bangladesh'sPovertyReductionStrategy                                                                                                                                      .............................     8
      V.    Bangladesh's PolicyandInstitutionalReformsSupported by the DSC Series                                                                                                                       .........................................          10
            A. StrengtheningCore Governance                                                                               ....................                            ....................................................................             10
                   StrengtheningandModernizingRevenueAdministration                                                                                                      ...............             ............................................          11
                   StrengtheningExpenditureManagementandUpgradingFinancial                                                                                                                            ement Systems                ...................     12
                   Toward a MoreResponsive andEfficient PublicAdministration.                                                                                                         ..............................
                   Streamlining andReducingScope for Discretioninthe RegulatoryEnvironment                                                                                                                          .....
                   EstablishingandOperationalizinganIndependentAnti-CorruptionCommission(ACC)                                                                                                                                     ....................     16
                   Reformingthe Civil Justice System.............                                                                                                         .......                    .........................                        ......16
            B. Strengtheningthe InvestmentClimate.......................................................................................................                                                                                                   16
                   EnsuringContinuedMacroeconomicStability
                   Progresson Trade andExchange Liberalization.............................                                                                                                            ..........................................          17
                   ImprovingFinancialSector Accountability,Transparency, and Pe                                                                                                                        ce ......................................           18
                   Addressing InfrastructureConstraints:Emphasis onthe Energy Sector                                                                                                            ......
      VI. TheProposedFourthDevelopmentSupportCredit andPrioritiesfor theNextPhase                                                                                                                                         ...........................      23
                   Prioritiesfor the NextPhase of Reforms                                                                                                           ......................................................................... 28
      VII. ImplementationArrangements                                                                               .....................................................................................................................                  31
                   MonitoringandEvaluation....................................................................................................................                                                                                             31
                   Credit Administration,DisbursementandAuditing...............................................................................                                                                                                            32
                   EnvironmentalIssues ...................................                                                                                                                                                                                 33
      VIII. BenefitsandPovertyandSocialImpactofProposedReforms                                                                                                                                                                                             34
      IX.   KeyRisks...............................................................                                                               ..........................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                            ..................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           35

                                                                                                                                             ANNEXES

      Annex 1:BangladeshMedium-TermStructural ReformPolicyMatrix FYO4-OS                                                                                                                          ..............................................           37
      Annex 2: GoodPracticePrincipleson Conditionality                                                                                         ............................................................................................                44
      Annex 3: Bangladeshat a Glance                                                                ....................................................................................................................................
                                                                                                           .............................................................................................................................                   45
      Annex 4: StatisticalAnnexes                                                                                                                                                                                                                          41
      Annex 5: Letterof Development Policy                                                                            ...................................................................................................................                  53
      Annex 6: Statement of Loans and Credits.....................                                                                                ..........................................................................................               64

      MAPIBRDNo. 33368

                                                                                                                                              Task Team
        SandeepMahajan(Task TeamLeader), ShamsuddinAhmad, SakuntalaAkmeemana, G.M. KhurshidAlam, Oxana
        Bricha, Jose EdwardL.Campos, Adriana Jordanova Damianova,RaihanElahi, SyedMynuddinHussain, Zahid
        Hussain, Md. Iqbal, Zafrul Islam, Bala BhaskarNaiduKalimili, Alma Kanani, MeharAkhter Khan, FarriaNaeem,
        SyedNizamuddin, Zaidi Sattar, KiatchaiSophistienphong,Alan F. Townsend, Kishor Upretyand SuraiyaZannath.

        Vinaya Swaroop(LeadEconomistfor Bangladesh) providedoverallguidance to the Task Team.
        Peer Reviewers: SanjayPradhan(Sector Director,PRMPS) andDavidRosenblatt(LeadEconomistand Sector
        Leader, LCSPR).




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance o f
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.


                          CREDIT AND PROGRAMSUMMARY

                     THE PEOPLE'SREPUBLICOFBANGLADESH
                         DEVELOPMENT SUPPORT CREDIT IV



Borrower:     The People's Republic o f Bangladesh
Amount:       SDR 132.2 million (US$200 million equivalent)
Terms:        StandardIDA terms; 40-year maturity and a 10-year grace period
Description:  The proposed IDA Credit i s the fourth in a planned series o f programmatic
              operations, called the Development Support Credit (DSC) series in the Bangladeshi
              context. The DSC series has complemented a parallel SDR 347 million Poverty
              Reduction Grant Facility (PRGF) program o f the IMF, due to be completed in June
              2007.    The proposed DSC IV operation, just like the previous DSCs, supports
              implementation o f the Government's development strategy as laid out in its Poverty
              Reduction Strategy (PRS). Inparticular, DSC-supported reforms have sought to (a)
              strengthen core governance functions, with emphasis on reforms in public
              procurement, budget formulation and budget execution, and tax administration; and
              (b) improve the investment climate, by maintaining macroeconomic stability,
              deepening domestic deregulation and trade liberalization, and strengthening
              performances o fbanlungand energy sectors and state-owned enterprises.
Benefits:     The economic and social benefits associated with the DSC-supported reform
              program are apparent: the poverty rate fell by 9 percentage points between 2000-
              2005, a roughly 1.8 percentage points annual decline, economic growth at 6.7
              percent i s at historically high levels, and progress on meeting most o f the MDGs i s
              on track. Growth has benefited from macroeconomic stability, trade liberalization,
              regulatory and banlung reforms, and more efficient public expenditure management.
              Broad-based governance reforms targeted at strengthening core governance
              functions are expected-ver        the long-run-to    improve public service delivery,
              reduce systemic corruption, and strengthen the business environment. All o f these
              areas o freforms have been supportedby the DSC series.
Risks and     Political Risks:     The sustainability o f the reform process put in train by the
Mitigation    Caretaker Government (CTG) i s ultimately linked to the smoothness o f the political
Strategy:     transition. The CTG i s malung good efforts to create conditions conducive to free
              and fair parliamentary elections, yet the timing o f the elections remains a bit
              uncertain: the CTG has indicated that elections will be held before the year 2008 i s
              over. The CTG enjoys widespread public support, but it may erode if elections are
              postponed indefinitely. The bilateral development partners are tahng the lead in
              workmg with domestic civic organizations and with the government to help an early
              and smooth retum to democracy. The Bank has also remained in close contact with
              the reform-minded members o f the two major political parties to ensure broader
              political support for the DSC-supported reforms. Both parties agree on the broad
              reform priorities supported by the DSC operation. In addition, to influence the
              sustainability and deepening o f the reforms, the timing, scale, and scope o f future
              budget support operations would be linked to continued commitment o f the
              Government to the reform process.



                                                 i

              Fiduciary Risks: Fungbility o f funds implies that budgetary resources may be
              diverted or misused, which poses a particular risk to operations such as DSC IV.
              The Government, however, has a good record o f allocating public spending to the
              key development sectors. To further mitigate the risk, auditing arrangements and
              financial management within government ministries are being strengthened with
              DFID's assistance.     Implementation o f the new procurement law should further
              reduce the scope for misuse o f budgetary funds.           External oversight by the
              Comptroller and Auditor General's (C&AG's) office i s also being strengthened. To
              enhance the safeguard framework, Bangladesh Bank has started strengthening its
              financial management with support from the IMF and the IDA-supported Central
              Bank Strengthening Project.
              Implementationcapacityrisks: Implementation capacity is a serious bottleneck in
              Bangladesh, suffering from centralized public administration and unsatisfactory
              performance of the civil service.      Ongoing reforms in public administration to
              strengthen civil service incentives and quality, accountability, and training will be
              useful.   The Bank and other development partners are also providing technical
              assistance to strengthen capacity in a number o f core areas o f economic
              management, including banlung, taxation, budget planning, and the energy sector.
              Economic Risks:The main economic risk stems from the weak financial condition
              o f state-owned enterprises (SOEs), especially those in the energy sector. Sustained
              large losses o f the energy sector SOEs have led to a build-up o f outstanding
              liabilities at these SOEs and exacerbated the financial fragilities o f the nationalized
              commercial banks (NCBs) that are directed to finance their losses. The Bank has
              worked closely with the government on this issue, continually encouraging
              depoliticization o f price adjustment, and providing on-demand analytical notes to
              help inform the government's decision. Authorities have already responded by
              implementing power tariff increases in March 2007 and fuel price increases in April
              2007 to stem losses at the Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation (BPC) and the
              BangladeshPower Development Board (BPDB), respectively. However, BPC is still
              unable to service its large outstanding debt burden, mostly to the NCBs, which
              would need to be resolved. Authorities have recently also significantly reduced
              BPDB's payment arrears to independent power producers (IPPs) and stepped up
              efforts to recover power utilities' accounts receivables. They have further expressed
              their commitment to closing the remaining pricing gap and, in the interim, to
              providing explicit support from the budget to BPDB to put the power sector back on
              financial recovery path.         Implementation o f the Financial Recovery and
              Restructuring Plan (FRP), which GOBrecently adopted inprinciple, should also help
              alleviate the financial burden on the power utilities. Finally, the Government i s
              considering divesture o f the loss-making national airline, Biman, through a strategic
              partner or other appropriate means, and has sought technical assistance from its
              development partners to support this move. Another important source o f economic
              vulnerability i s the persistently low tax mobilization. To address this, authorities
              would need to step up implementation o f the tax administration modernization
              program (being supported by DFID and IDA) along with legislative reforms to
              correct major tax policy distortions and strengthening o f customs administration.
Estimated     SDR 132.2 million (US$200 million) disbursedina single tranche upon credit
Disbursement: effectiveness.
ProjectID
Number:       PO74801



                                                11

      INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION PROGRAMDOCUMENT FORA
               PROPOSEDFOURTHDEVELOPMENT SUPPORT CREDIT (DSC-IV)
                        TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH


                                           I. Introduction

1.       Bangladesh, a country of about 150 million people, has made remarkable progress in reducing
poverty over the last 15years. Inearly 1990s, close to 60 percent o f the populationwas living inpoverty;
this number was reduced to 40 percent by 2005. The 1.8 percentage point annual decline inthe poverty
rate from 2000 to 2005 was a significant improvement over the 1 percentage point annual decline during
the 1990s. Moreover, the decline in poverty was accompanied by a modest change in expenditure
inequality.  If the current rate of poverty reduction continues, Bangladesh will meet its Millennium
Development Goal (MDG) o freducingthe poverty rate to 29 percent by 2015.

2.       Progress has also been good toward achievement of several other MDGs.`Bangladesh i s on-
track in meeting its MDG on gender parity, having already achieved the goal in primary and secondary
schooling.   Significant gains have also been achieved in reducing child mortality.        The under-five
mortality rate has fallen from 136 deaths per 1,000 live births in 1990 to 66 today.         This rate is
considerably lower than in neighboring India, even though Bangladesh's per capita gross domestic
product (GDP) i s about half the size o f India's. Attaining the MDGs relating to child malnutrition and
those in education relating to universal net primary enrollment and primary completion remains
challenging but within reach. Bangladesh had also nearly achieved the safe water MDG, with 97 percent
o f its population having access to pathogen-free water, before arsenic contamination posed a new round
o f challenges.

3.       Economic growth has been strong, averaging 5.7 percent from 2001 to 2006. This was one
percentage point higher than inthe 1990s and two percentage points higher than in the 1980s. Per capita
GDP grew at 3.9 percent from 2001 to 2006; it i s more than 70 percent higher today than in 1990. While
GDP growth has benefited from better performances by all major economic sectors, readymade garment
(RMG) exports have playeda crucialrole. A sharp increase inremittances, mainly from the Bangladeshis
living in the Gulf countries, has also been an important growth-enabling factor. It has helped fuel a
construction boom and i s one o f the main reasons for strong growth inthe services sector.

4.       Despite the good record, Bangladesh 's development challenges are significant in their scale
and scope. The first and foremost challenge is o f weak governance. Until recently, many o f the key
public institutions had been captured for private gain, which severely constrained the ability o f the
oversight institutions to hold the executive to account.           Perception-based indicators, including
Transparency International's Corruption Perception Index and the World Bank Institute's Governance
Indicators, have consistently placed Bangladesh at the bottom quartile o f their cross-country rankings.
Fortunately, spurredby growing citizen demand for curbing corruption and the installationo f a competent
caretaker government (CTG), the fight against corruption and weak governance has become the topmost
priority for government policy. Moving swiftly and with determination, the CTG has undertaken some
impressive actions aimed at reducing corruptionand establishing better governance.

5.       The country faces several social and economic development challenges. Bangladesh remains a
low-income country, with per-capita GDP o f about US$460 in 2006. Poverty has fallen but progress has



1 For more information, see Government of the People's,Republic of Bangladesh and United Nations, 2005,
  "MillenniumDevelopment Goals: BangladeshProgress Report," Dhaka; and World Bank, 2007, "To the MDGs
  andBeyond: Accountability and Institutional Innovation inBangladesh," Washington, D.C.

been uneven across geographical regions. Some 60 million people still live in deprivation, two-thirds o f
them caught in extreme poverty. Adult illiteracy i s persistent at about 50 percent and falling slowly,
particularly among women. More than half the children aged one to three years o f age are underweight.
Maternal mortality is high as a result o f inadequate access to health services during pregnancy and
childbirth and the poor nutritional status o f pregnant women. Attainment o f the MDGs on maternal
mortality, sanitation, and environmental sustainability, therefore, appears to be a difficult challenge.

6.       Bangladesh's geographyposes a different set of challenges. One o f the world's most densely
populated countries, Bangladesh i s uniquely vulnerable to natural calamities-devastating tornadoes and
severe floods. Almost half o f the country's dense population lives near sea level and 40 percent o f its
land area i s flooded for three months each year, exposing large parts o f the population and agricultural
land to the threat o f sustained climate change and resulting rise in sea levels: in fact, few other countries
are as imperiled by climate change.2

7.       Bangladesh's development vision and strategic agendafor poverty reduction, outlined in the
Government's Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRsI),3recognize these critical challenges. The PRS was
presented to the Boards o f the International Development Agency (IDA) and the International Monetary
Fund (IMF) in early 2006, and the two Boards agreed that it provided a cohesive policy framework for
implementing a pro-poor growth strategy. Insupporting the implementation o f the PRS, and earlier the
Interim PRS Paper, the World Bank has provided a series o f budget support programmatic operations in
the form o f Development Support Credits (DSCs). The proposed credit for $200 million is the fourth o f
this series. The DSCs have complemented a parallel Special Drawing Right(SDR) 347 million Poverty
Reduction Grant Facility (PRGF) program o f the IMF, due to be completed in June 2007.4 The Bank, in
partnership with other development partners, i s also engaging the Government o f Bangladesh (GOB)on
human development reforms through policy dialogue and lending under other complementary operations
(including the Primary Education Development Program [PEDP], Educationdevelopment policy lending
 [DPL], and Healthsectorwide approach [SWAP]).

8.       There is a wind of change blowing in Bangladesh. The new CTG that came to power on
January 11, 2007, has moved decisively to begin to address the governance problems and aggressively
carry forward the reform agenda. The CTG's main goal is to hold free, fair and credible national
elections. In order to create an enabling environment for these elections, it has moved on two fronts.
First,to remove the influence o fmuscle power, it has started addressing the basic law and order problem.
Those suspected o f involvement in criminal syndicates are being arrested, illegal arms are being seized,
and prosecutions are being initiated. Second, the CTG i s acting to minimize the impact o f black money
and corruption on the political process. Legal provisions with regards to asset disclosure are being
enforced.    The previously controversial Election Commission (EC) has been reconstituted and an
ordinance has beenpassed to bar convicted persons from contesting elections. The EC i s inthe process o f
revising the voter list which reportedly includes a large number o f fraudulent names. The anticorruption
drive and efforts to improve governance fit in well with the electoral reforms because the main
constraining factor on this agenda was the political environment.

9.       The CTG has resuscitated several institutional reforms that were initiated under previous
governments but had not been completed. Notable actions include (a) adoption o f rules relating to the
Judicial Services Commission and amendments to the Code o f Criminal Procedure to separate the
judiciary from the executive, and (b) reconstitution o f the Anti-Conuption Commission (ACC), set-up
under the previous elected government but was yet to become functional. The ACC i s now vigorously

  TheFinancial Times,2007, "Bangladesh Plight Serves As Warning to World," February 1.
3 Government o fPeople's Republic o f Bangladesh, 2005, Unlocking the Potential: National Strategyfor
  Accelerated Poverty Reduction.
  The PRGF was supplemented inFY05 with an SDR 53.3 millionTrade IntegrationMechanismFacility.


                                                       2

carrying out its activities.       The previous government had begun to institutionalize important
improvements in budget planning, tax administration, and public financial management (PFM), all o f
which are being firthered by the CTG. In a particularly significant move, the last Parliament enacted a
Procurement Law, consistent with international good practices, and preparation o f its implementing rules
are now ongoing.

10.     By their very nature, governance reforms have long gestation periods and require patience,
perseverance and full ownership. For these reasons, they face constant threat o fbeing reversed or stalled.
But the risk of reversal can be reduced ifkey elements of institutional reforms can be establishedearly
in the process. For example, more transparent and contestable processes for selecting and appointing
highcourtjudges and the Commissioners o f the EC and the ACC could be established. While this may
not guarantee manipulation o f reforms under elected governments, it will introduce better checks and
balances and thus help contain potential risks. The CTG i s beginning to recognize the importance o f
strategic selectivity and i s seelung advice from the Bank and other development partners on this critical
matter. The Bank can, in turn, be useful in reminding the CTG o f the need to focus on the strategic
elements, providing advice and guidance on the said elements, and helping the CTG manage the public's
expectations, which can easily runfar ahead o freality.

11.     On the economicpolicyfront, theperformance of theprevious electedgovernment was broadly
good. Trade and exchange liberalizationwas deepened with average nominal protection falling from 29.4
percent in FY02 to 24.3 percent in FY07, virtual elimination o f trade related quantitative restrictions
(QRs), and adoption o f a floating exchange rate regime inFY03. Low fiscal deficits since FY02 together
with limited domestic borrowing to cover the deficit ensured a sustainable fiscal situation. Monetary
policy, after some initial laxity, has been tightened since early 2005 to contain exogenous inflationary
pressures. The CTG's commitment to persist with the economic policy reforms, especially by addressing
the key challenges o f weak revenue mobilization, large energy sector losses and outstanding liabilities,
andpersistent inflationary pressures, to keep the economy on a solid footing i s reassuring.

12.     For all thepositive aspects, there are also risks associated with the current political situation.
A key risk has to do with the tenure o f the CTG, which is still uncertain. Even though the CTG enjoys
widespread public support, this may erode if elections are postponed indefinitely, which would, in turn,
weaken the CTG's ability to sustain the reform effort. However, assurancesby the CTG to hold elections
soon after the electoral systemi s fixed are encouraging.

 13.    The budgetary situation has been under pressure from sluggishrevenue mobilization and the need
to cover the large losses and outstanding liabilities o f the energy sector, which has constrained the fiscal
space for the desired level o f development expenditure.        The CTG has, therefore, requested speedy
support from its development partners, including the World Bank Group, who are accordingly gearing
up-financially   and through technical assistance-to      support the CTG in its bold reform efforts. The
CTG has specifically requestedthe Bank to fast-track the proposedDSC IV operation.

 14.    This Program Document lays out the reform program supported by the proposed DSC IV
operation. Inbrief, the proposed credit supports GOB'Songoing policy and institutional reform program
aimed at ensuring overall macroeconomic stability, improving governance through effective institutions
o f accountability and regulatory institutions, strengthening PFM functions, and improving service
delivery in the banlung and power sectors. Support to these programs i s part o f the Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS), which inturn supports the country's PRS.

15.     The structure o f the rest o f the Program Document i s as follows. Section I1summarizes the
recent political developments and the associated risks. Section I11summarizes economic progress and
challenges facing the country.      Section N details Bangladesh's poverty reduction strategy that was
prepared inNovember 2005 and notes how the Bank's CAS, approved in2006, i s alignedto it. Section V


                                                      3

describes the status o f the overall medium-term development reform program supported by the DSC
series. Section VI describes the progress under the proposed DSC IV operation and outlines priorities for
the next phase o f reforms,.     Sections VII, VIII, and IX discuss the issues concerning the operational
implementation o f DSC IV, benefits and social impact o f the DSC-supported reforms, and key risks.

                                    11.       Recent Political Developments

16.     Bangladesh is beginning to emergefrom several months of political turmoil. As mandated by
the Constitution, a CTG took charge on October 29, 2006, after the former Bangladesh Nationalist Party
(BNP)Government stepped down. Under the Constitution, a neutral CTG is appointed three months prior
to each national election, with all political parties removed from the formal power structure.                 The
transition had a difficult start due to controversy over who should head the CTG. The resulting political
stalemate spilled over into the streets inthe form o f violent clashes. It was resolved through a move the
legality o f which was questioned by many observers, when the President (who had hitherto held a largely
ceremonial post) assumed the position o f Chief Advisor o f the CTG on October 29,2006, which gave him
widespread executive power. Sharp disagreements lingered between the two major rival parties-the
BNP and the Awami League (a)-and                their respective alliances over the political neutrality o f the
Election Commissioners and the authenticity o f the voter list. On January 3, 2007, the AL-led alliance
announced its boycott o f the elections scheduled for January 22, and the alliance declared demonstrations
and blockade programs all over the country.            As preconditions for their participation, the alliance
demanded major electoral reforms, especially reconstitution o f the EC and authentication o f the voter list,
including preparation o f voter IDcards. It also wanted the President, who it viewed as not being neutral,
to relinquishhisrole as Chief Adviser. The country was wracked by clashes between political opponents,
protestors, and security forces, and by crippling strikes.            The United States and European Union
announced that they would not field observer missions to oversee a seriously compromised election; the
United Nations also withdrew its assistance to the election process.

17.      The stand-off    and the escalating protests were resolved on January 11, 2007, when the
President, reportedly under pressure from the armed forces and with large-scale public support, declared a
State o f Emergency. He called o f f the elections scheduled for January 22 and stepped down from the
office o f Chief Advisor, while retaining the largely titular position o f President. H e appointed a former
Bangladesh Bank Governor as the Chief Advisor. The new Chief Advisor i s perceived to be politically
neutral and widely respected for his competence. He has assembled a council o f advisers (the cabinet),
with technocrats, former diplomats, and businessmen filling the key positions. The appointment o f a
politically neutral CTG and the imposition o f a state o f emergency has calmed the situation. The new
CTG has been well received by the people o f Bangladesh and the international community. It has
embarked upon the difficult and somewhat cumbersome task o f creating the appropriate enabling
environment for free and fair elections, with the support o f the armed forces. As noted earlier, the CTG i s
moving proactively on a broad anticorruption agenda, while also undertakmg a number o f pending
economic reforms. It has implementeda number o f long-pending economic policy reforms supported by
the DSC series.'

18.     Although a major political crisis has been averted and things are beginning to look positive, a
number of risks remain. The CTG insists that it i s only trying to create a level playing field for all
parties for fair and credible elections, and has expressed its commitment to holding them as soon as that
environment i s created. But the length o f its tenure and, therefore, the timing o f the general elections

'For example, the CTGhas taken the legal step to corporatize the three loss-making nationalizedcommercial banks.
  Ithas also moved aggressively on a number of long-pending governance reforms, and has taken important policy
  decisions to begin tackling the power sector crisis. All in all, it has reaffirmed the country's poverty reduction
  strategy and taken actions consistent with it.


                                                        4

remains a bit uncertain. The High Court recently instructed the EC to assess a new voter roll, voter ID
cards, and transparent ballot boxes before organizing the elections. The EC, on its part, announced on
April 5,2007, that itwouldneedat least 18monthsto implementthe measures recommendedby the High
Court, and did not provide any specific timeline for the elections beyond the 18-month period.
Furthermore, the CTG also draws its support from the armed forces, and the risk o f their deeper and
prolongedinvolvement is present and it womes many observers.

                                   111.     RecentEconomic Developments

19.      Economic growth remains strong. The economy grew by 6.7 percent inFY06, the highest rate
inover two decadesandthe thirdconsecutive year ofat least 6 percent growth (Table 1). Despite several
months o f political turmoil, forecasts suggest 6.7 percent growth in FY07 as well. Growth has been
broad-based, cutting across all major economic sectors and benefiting from robust demand in both
domestic and export markets. The manufacturing sector grew at an impressive 10.4 percent in FY06, its
strongest performance in over a decade.           Garment exports, which account for about 75 percent o f
manufacturing exports, grew by 23 percent (innominal dollar terms) inFY06. This was despite enhanced
competition from other low-cost producers after the dismantling o f the Agreement on Textiles and
Clothing (ATC) on January 1, 2005. Construction, fueled by strong manufacturing growth as well as
large amounts o f remittance inflows, grew by an estimated 8.4 percent, maintaining its 8-plus percent
growth record since FY94. Remittances through formal channels were recorded at nearly US$5 billion,
which i s about 8 percent o f GDP and half o f merchandize exports, compared with US$1.9 billion in
FYO1.

                                  Table 1: Summary Macroeconomic Indicators
                                                                  Actual                        Projections
 Indicators                               N O 2     N O 3    FY04     N O 5     FY06    FY07   FYOS    FY09
 Output and Prices                                               Annual percentage changes
  Real GDP Growth                           4.4      5.3       6.3      6.0      6.7     6.7    7.0     7.0
  CPI                                       2.8      4.4       5.8      6.5      7.2     7.2    6.5      5.0
 External Outlook
  Exports (billion US$)                     6.0      6.5       7.0      8.6      10.4    12.5   15.0    17.1
   Annual % change                          4.6      9.5       15.8    23.2      21.6    19.9   19.9    14.1
  Imports (billion US$)                    (7.7)    (8.7)     (9.8)   (11.9)    (13.3)  (16.0) (19.3)  (21.8)
   Annual % change                         (2.5)    (13.1)    (13)    (20.6)    (12.1)  (20.0) (21.2)  (12.7)
 Current account balance (% of GDP)         0.5      0.1      -0.5     -0.9      0.6     0.5    0.2     -0.1
 Gross official reserves (billion US$)      1.5      2.5       2.7     2.9       3.5     5.0    5.7     6.9
   Inmonths ofGNFS imports                  1.8      2.9       2.8     2.5       2.7     3.0    2.7     3.2
 Public Finance                                                       Percent of GDP
  Total Revenue                            10.1      10.3      10.2    10.5      10.6    10.4  10.6     11.0
  Total Expenditures                       14.8      13.7      13.3    13.8      13.8   13.8   15.8     14.3
  Overallbalance (excluding grants)        -4.6      -3.4     -3.1     -3.3      -3.2   -3.5   -5.2     -3.2
  Domestic financing"                       2.5      1.2       1.8      1.7      2.1     2.3   3.7      1.7
  Public debt                              53.0      51.1     48.7     47.5     46.8    44.3   43.9    42.2
 Money and Credit                                              End ofyear; percentage change
 Net Domestic assets                       11.6      12.2      13.5    17.1      19.6   13.4   14.2     16.0
  Private sector                           13.6      12.6      17.5    17.0      18.3   15.1   14.5     14.2
  Broad money (M2)                         16.1      15.6      13.8    16.7      19.3   17.5   15.0     17.7
 Source: IMF and GOB.
 GNFS = Goods and nonfactor services.
 1/ Includes estimated privatizationreceipts of 0.2 percent of GDPinFY07



                                                          5

20.      Macroeconomic stability has been broadly maintained.             The fiscal, monetary, and external
indicators have remained within the thresholds o f the macroeconomic framework agreed with the IMF
under the PRGFprogram, although there have been some temporary deviations and revenue mobilization
has persistently fallen short o f its targets. This i s all the more impressive given the pressures emanating
from sustained high global oil prices and rising food costs. Recognizing this achievement, the IMF's
Executive Board approved the fifth and penultimate review o fthe PRGFinOctober 2006.


        Growth Trends In GDPand Per Capita Income                  kcent Trends in Sectoral Growth
                                                                          (annual %change)
     5
     4
 $  3
     2
     1
     0




           mGDP Growth   EGDP Growth Per Capita


21.      Robustperformances of exports and remittances havefurther strengthened the external sector.
This, together with the floating exchange regime that was adopted inMay 2003, has allowed Bangladesh
Bank to stabilize foreign exchange markets and build up international reserves to more comfortable
levels. In a significant turnaround, the current account balance moved from a US$518 million deficit in
FY05 to a US$572million (0.9 percent o f GDP) surplus inFY06. Inaddition to strong growth o f exports
(22 percent) and remittances (25 percent), this was also enabled by a slowdown in import growth (10
percent), as authorities further tightened monetary management and refrained from intervening in
currency markets to prevent depreciation o f the taka (Tk). The exchange rate has currently stabilized at
just under Tk 70/US$, after depreciating against the U S dollar from Tk 63.7/US$ on June 30,2005, to Tk
72.0/US$ in November, 2006. Despite a sharp decline in the capital and financial account balance
because o f repayments o f trade credits (mostly oil import related), the balance-of-payments account
recorded a surplus in FY06. This, inturn, allowed the foreign exchange reserves to buildup to US$3.4
billion by end-FY06. More recently, as o fearly March, 2007, the reserve position hadreached an all-time
recordlevel o f US$4 billion (2.6 months o fimports cover).

22.      Fiscal discipline was maintained with the budget deficit kept at 3.3 percent of GDP in FY06.
This was the fourth straight year inwhich the deficit-to-GDP ratio was kept under 4 percent. Slower than
programmed implementation o f the Annual Development Program (ADP), in common with previous
budgets, caused the ratio o f budget deficit to GDP to undershoot the programmed 4.0 percent. Tax
revenues increased byjust 13 percent, well short o f the 19percent target. As a ratio o f GDP, tax revenues
remained unchanged at 8.5 percent-one o f the lowest collection rates in the world. A redeeming factor
was the sharp increases indomestic Value-Added Tax (VAT) and income tax collections, both benefiting
from the good performance o f the recently set-up large taxpayers unit (LTUs). But these gains were
erased by a decline in customs revenues, as authorities were unable to improve efficiency in customs
administration. A plethora o f tax exemptions that are in place prevented even more robust responses o f
the income tax and VAT. Domestic financing o f the deficit was kept at 2 percent o f GDP, allowing the
ratio o f public debt to GDP to fall for the fourth straight year, from 51 percent in FY03 to 47 percent.
However, the budget deficit masks the overall fiscal situation because there are several state-owned
enterprises (SOEs) with deteriorating financial situation.




                                                         6

     6 -

     5 -                                                                  (%of GDP)

  a 4 -
  0
  !? 3 -
  s 2 -
     1 -                                                 2

     0 , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , ,




23.      The main source of risk to medium- to long-termfiscal sustainability is thefinancial losses of
SOEs, especiallythose in the energy sector, although recent measures by GOBhave sought to contain
these. The losses o f the energy sector SOEs for FY06 are estimated at about Tk 45 billion (US$670
million), or 1.1 percent o f GDP. These losses stood at Tk 27 billion (0.7 percent o f GDP) in FY05, and
just Tk 6 billion inFY04. The increase in losses was mainly due to underpricingo f energy products in
domestic markets. The Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation (BPC) alone accounted for more than 80
percent of the losses because o f inadequate pass-through o f the higher global energy prices to domestic
consumers (see para 73), although this was corrected by the fuel price adjustment recently announced by
the CTG. Furthermore, failure to adjust electricity tariffs between September 2003 and March 2007
caused losses at the Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB) to soar from Tk 1.2 billion in FY04
to an estimated Tk 9.9 billion (0.2 percent of GDP) in FY06. The March 2007 increase o f 5 percent on
urban electricity retail supply and 10percent on bulk supply i s expected to lower annual BPDB losses by
about Tk 3.5 billion. Furthermore, recent efforts to recover accounts receivables o f power utilities and to
significantly reduce BPDB's payment arrears to Independent Power Producers (IPPs) through budgetary
transfers have also strengthened the power sector's financial situation. Biman, the national airlines, and
Bangladesh Chemical Industries Corporation (BCIC), the public sector chemicals corporation, were the
other main loss-makers.      To tackle the growing problem in Biman, the Government i s considering
divestiture through a strategic partner or other appropriate means. It has also sought technical assistance
from the Bank and other development partners to support this move.

24.     The losses o f the SOEs have exacerbated the fi-agilities at the Nationalized Commercial Banks
(NCBs), which are directed to provide loans to these agencies. The capital shortfall inthe NCBs amounts
to about Tk 68 billion (around 1.5 percent o f GDP), which adds to the fiscal risk and makes future
divestment o fthese banks more expensive for the Government.

25.      The need to tackle the large SOE losses and outstandingliabilities and continued sluggishness
of revenue mobilization are putting a strain on thefiscal situation, thereby constraining the GOB'S
ability to finance its strategic developmental priorities such as health, education, and infrastructure.



                                                     7

Faced with this, the CTG has requested the Bank to fast-track the proposed DSC IV budget-support
operation to support its ambitious reform program.

26.      Bangladesh Bank has prudently tightened monetarypolicy since early 2005, and is committed
tofurther tightening as needed to ward off inflationary pressures. Some inflationary pressures have
built up since 2004 because o f strong domestic demand, high commodity prices in world markets, and
rising food prices. After a sluggish initial policy response, authorities have been tightening monetary
policy since early 2005. Since March 2005, the cash reserve ratio and the statutory liquidity requirement
(SLR) have been increased from 4.5 and 16 percent, respectively, o f time and demand liabilities o f
commercial banks to 5 and 18 percent. Similarly, rep0 and reverse rep0 rates, and treasury bill yields
have each sustained an upward trend since early 2005, although the rate on the 28-day treasury bill i s still
only barely keeping pace with the rate o f inflation. The commercial bank lending rate increased from a
10.5 percent average in June 2005 to 12.1 percent in December 2006. Despite tightening o f monetary
management, private credit growth remains strong, reflecting underlying economic dynamism, while
credit to the public sector has expanded even faster in order to finance the fiscal deficit and import o f
petroleumproducts. The IMF has recommended M e r tightening o f the monetary policy to contain the
rapid growth o f the monetary aggregates, and thus avoid overheating o f the economy.

27.      I n sum, Bangladesh's macroeconomicmanagement has been broadly sound, enabling strong
economic growth while partially taming inflationary pressures. Looking ahead, authorities would be
well served by further containing inflation with continued monetary discipline and measures to ease food
supply chains, addressing the emerging fiscal stresses by regularly adjusting energy prices to eliminate
SOE losses, and deepening the reform efforts to strengthen revenue mobilization.                    The CTG has
acknowledged these issues and i s taking a number o f corrective policy actions.

     IV.      Aligning The Bank Group's Strategy with Bangladesh's Poverty Reduction Strategy

28.      Bangladesh's development vision has been detailed in its PRS that was released in November
2005. The PRS stresses the links between investment, growth, job creation, and poverty reduction. It
identifies key areas where reforms are needed, public investments are required, and public policies merit
improvement. It builds on past achievements, aims to prevent slippages in areas where progress has been
made, and addresses weaknesses inimplementation.

29.      To generate broad-based growth and reduce poverty, the PRS focuses on (a) employment
generation, (b) nutrition, (c) maternal health, (d) quality o f education, (e) sanitation and safe water, (0the
criminal justice system, and (g) local governance. It acknowledges that progress in these areas requires
creating an open and competitive environment conducive to private investment. With 85 percent o f the
poor living inrural areas, needful recognition i s given to the rural sector.6 Other priority areas outlined in
the PRS are (a) improving the ability o f poor people to participate fully in the growth process through
access to better-quality education, health, water, and nutrition; and (b) ensuring that the Government
addresses governance issues by, among other things, tackling corruption, enhancing access to justice for
the poor, and improving security and public order.'

30.      As indicated inthe Joint StaffAdvisory Note (JSAN),* the PRS vision appropriately builds on the
policy triangle o f growth, human development, and governance. However, the JSAN also notes that the
PRS lacks a well thought out process o f growth acceleration, and that despite the focus on a growth


'RoughlyGovernment's
           three-fourths o f the country's 140millionpopulationlives inrural areas.
  As the                  PRS puts it, "A major thrust of the PRS i s on ensuring good governance because everythmg
   else inthe nation's life depends on it."
* IDA and  IMF, 2005, "Joint IDA-IMF StaffAdvisory Note onthe Poverty Reduction Strategy," December.



                                                            8

agenda driven by the private sector, there i s too muchreliance on public rather than private investments.
Further, a more comprehensive review o f the trade policy regime i s needed. The omission o f a strategic
vision for the development o f the financial sector also weakens the pro-poor growth agenda presented in
the PRS. While infrastructureisrecognized as animportantimpedimentto growth and povertyreduction,
a greater focus i s needed on improving governance inthe sector, especially regardingpower. The lack o f
specificity on sectoral governance reforms, despite the welcome strong focus on governance overall,
suggests the need to broaden ownership for governance reforms withinthe government. Finally, in order
to be a credible instrument, future PRSs will require a clearer plan for implementation and monitoring.
The authorities have acknowledged these gaps and are seeking to address them as part o f their efforts to
update the poverty reduction strategy and its implementation.

31.      The new CTG has expressed full commitment to implementing the PRS. Inparticular, its actions
have been targeted at solving core governance problems. It i s also embarlung on a broad set o f major
policy and institutionalreforms to strengthen economic management.

32.      Puttinggovernance at center stage, the World Bank Group's most recent CAS' aligns itself with
the Poverty Reduction Strategy. In particular, in the FY06-09 CAS, governance cuts across the two
pillars o f the PRS-improving    the investment climate and empowering the poor-while        addressing the
core governance issues common to these two pillars. Under pillar 1, improving the investment climate,
the Bank Group proposes to build on Bangladesh's strengths by continuing to help maintain
macroeconomic stability and accelerating its progress toward an open, market-based economy. At the
same time, it offers to help the Government address weaknesses in the investment climate by removing
policy and institutional constraints to infrastructure provision and improving its weak regulatory quality.
Under pillar 2, empowering thepoor, the Bank Group will continue to buildon Bangladesh's impressive
social gains by helpingthe Government meet the MDGs relating to human development. It also proposes
to help improve the quality and efficiency o f service provision to the poor by strengthening sector
governance, and enhancing voice and participation.

33.      The CAS notes that progress under both pillars will depend on successful reforms in
Bangladesh's core governance. The Bank Group i s already assisting in strengthening PFM functions
through (a) increases in tax and nontax revenues, (b) better use o f public funds, and (c) revitalizing
institutions that enhance public sector accountability.        The Bank Group will also join the other
development partners in helping to strengthen civil society and provide access to information, both o f
which are critical if citizens are to hold their government to account. This approach o f mainstreaming
governance in the Bank Group's program means that its operations, whether in infrastructure, health,
education, financial services, or any other sector, will be as much about improving governance as they are
about improving sector performance and service delivery.

34.      Heeding the sensible advice in the PRS to avoid dissipating resources for governance across too
wide a front, the Bank Group i s focusing its energies andresources on four key areas: (i) improving PFM,
including malung procurement more competitive and transparent; (ii)strengthening tax and revenue
efforts; (iii)improving governance and efficiency in infrastructure, especially power; and (iv) supporting
local governance and community-driven development initiatives that empower the poor by bringing
governments closer to the people or involving beneficiaries in the design and implementation o f
programs. The Bank Group i s maintaining a modest level o f policy dialogue and lending engagement
across a broader front, enabling it to respond quickly to opportunities for reform that may arise in other
areas and to support the work o f its development partners.


'World   Bank, 2006, Country Assistance Strategyfor the People's Republic of Bangladesh-FY06-09,Report No.
  35193, Washington, DC.



                                                      9

         V.        Bangladesh's Policy and Institutional Reforms Supported by the DSC Series

35.      The DSC series" has supported Bangladesh's reform efforts to (a) strengthen core governance
functions, with emphasis on reforms in public procurement, budget formulation and budget execution,
tax administration, and public administration; and (b) improve the investment climate, by maintaining
macroeconomic stability, deepening domestic deregulation and trade liberalization, and strengthening
performance o f the banlung and energy sectors and o f SOEs. A description o f reform efforts-past,
ongoing and those needed inthe futurethat underpinthe country's development vision follows.

                                  A.       Strengthening Core Governance

36.      As noted earlier, Bangladesh's relatively good developmentoutcomes are in sharp contrast to
the country's record of weak governance. As discussed in the Bank's CAS, resolution to this apparent
dichotomy, often viewed as the "Bangladesh paradox," can be found inthe following two factors :

         First, there are afew areas of strength in Bangladesh. These include a free and vibrant press
         and reform orientation at key ministries such as Finance and Commerce and at BangladeshBank.
         These inherent strengths have underpinned many o f the reforms aimed at improving the
         investment climate, including macro stability, trade liberalization, banking reforms, domestic
         deregulation, and improvements indisaster management.

         Successivegovernments haveplayed an important part in Bangladesh's social advancement.'                `
         For one, and in contrast with many developing countries, they have allowed sufficient space to
         social organizations to evolve and flourish.       Moreover, governments have often successfully
         forged partnerships with social organizations and the private sector to deliver essential social
         services in areas where public sector capacity i s lacking (such as primary and secondary
         education, family planning, primary healthcare, and micro-credit). h o r i t y has also been given to
         allocating enough budgetary resources to the social sectors.

Another importantfactor behind the developmentachievementsof Bangladesh is the excellent work of
its indigenous community-based organizations. Among the most noted ones are the Grameen Bank,
which won the 2006 Nobel Peace h z e together with its founder Dr. Md. Yunus, and the Bangladesh
Rural Advancement Committee (BRAC).

37.      Reconciling Bangladesh's good development outcomes and weak governance records i s useful as
it emphasizes country specificity. It does not, however, detract fiom the fact that many governance-
related areas are extremely weak in Bangladesh, and, unless adequately addressed, risk jeopardizing
the sustainability of the development outcomes. Of particular concern are shortfalls in the core
governance functions related to the nature o f political competition, the quality o f PFM and accountability
mechanisms that provide an effective check on executive power. These shortfalls have been firther
confirmed by the events o f the past several months, which led to the imposition o f a state o f emergency
and postponement o f the January 22 parliamentary elections. Recognizingthese challenges, the CTG has
initiated reform efforts to increase transparency and accountability in decision making process and
reducing systemic opportunities for corruption.



I OAs part o f the DSC series, three development policy credits totaling US$700 million have been provided to
   Bangladesh since 2003; the proposed operation is the fourth in the series. In support o f the country's reform
   program, DSC Iwas approved inJune 2003, with a credit amount o f US$300 million. Inrecognition o f sustained
   reform efforts, DSC I1and DSC 111, each o f US$200 million, were approved in July 2004 and December 2005,
''respectively.  DSC IV is also proposed to be a US$200 million operation.
   World Bank, 2005, "IEG Impact Evaluations: BangladeshMaternal and ChildHealth," Washington, DC.


                                                       10

Strengtheningand Modernizing RevenueAdministration

38.     Governmentrevenuesfrom tax and nontax sources are extreme& low in Bangladesh compared
to other countries in South Asia and elsewhere (Table 2). L o w revenue severely restricts the
Government's ability to provide public goods and services. The major shortcomings in the tax system
include (a) a heavy dependence on import taxes (45 percent o f total tax collections); (b) numerous
exemptions, tax holidays, and preferences; and (c) a poorly functioning tax administration. The tax
administration problems are reflected in poor taxpayer services, lack o f transparency in collection,
inadequate audit and enforcement, and protracted taxpayer disputes, all o f which have hampered revenue
collection. The National Board o f Revenue (NBR) also suffers from ineffective human resource (HR)
policies and lacks authority and autonomy to tackle them. Modernization o f the NBR and closing the
loopholes inthe tax policy are a priority area for the Government."

                        Table 2: Tax and Nontax Revenues(as percent of GDP)
                                            FY99      N O 0       F Y O l   FY02       FY03  FY04       FY05
 Bangladesh
    Tax Revenue                              7.2       6.7         7.6        7.7       8.3    8.2       8.5
    Nontax Revenue                           1.8         1.7        1.4       2.4       2.0    1.9       2.0
    Total Revenue                            9.0       8.4         9.0       10.1       10.3   10.2      10.6
 Taxrevenues of comparator countries
 India                                      12.0       12.0        11.4      12.0       12.1   12.7      d a
 Pakistan                                   15.8       16.0       15.1       18.2       16.6   15        13.5
 Sri Lanka                                  18.9       17.6       17.4       17.3       16.4   16.4      d a
 Thailand                                   16.0       16.0        17.5       d a       19.6   19.6      d a
 Source: WorldDevelopment Indicators, NBR, and Ministv of Finance and Planning, Bangladesh

39.      GOB has developed a comprehensive tax administration modernization program, which the
Bank, the United Kingdom's Department for International Development (DFID), and the IMF have
actively s~pported.'~Key reformmeasures under this program include the following:

        Adoption o f an NBR Strategic Development Plan aimed at raising revenues through
         organizational improvements, automation, enhanced voluntary compliance, and strengthened
        monitoring.

        Reorganization o f the NBR along functional lines (as opposed to the current tax-by-tax
         organization).  Inan important first step toward this, key cross-cutting functions such as HR,
         information and communications technology (ICT), and audit for VAT and Income Tax were
        placedunder existingNBRBoard members inFY07.
         Establishment o f L T U s for VAT and income tax. Organized along functional lines, the LTUs are
         focused on full automation, universal self-assessment, and strengthened audit.
        Introductiono f a Central Intelligence Cell and an Audit Cell within the NBR.
        Phased radicalimprovements inVAT and income tax laws.




12Tax policy reforms are being supportedby the IMF, insync with the tax administrationreforms that the Bank and
  DFIDare supporting.
13An IDA grant o f $4 million has been placed with NBR under the Economic Management Technical Assistance
  Program (EMTAP) project.



                                                         11

    0   Ongoing implementation o f an integrated ICT development program for all three wings o f the
        NBR, along with business process changes consistent with comprehensive automation o f NBR
        operations.

40.     Overall, progress on tax reforms has been slower and more uneven than envisaged, resulting
in the weak revenue mobilization response. Tax administration reforms that have been implemented are
expected to have long gestation before tangibly impacting revenue mobilization. Moreover, progress on
tackling tax policy loopholes and improving customs administration (especially on the HR side) has been
lacking. Tax reforms, therefore, will require closer and more sustained attention o f policy makers for
quite some time to come.

StrengtheningExpenditureManagementandUpgradingFinancialManagementSystems

41.     Bangladesh is making progress in improving the quality of its PFM functions, notably by
maintaining aggregate fiscal discipline, improving institutions for revenue (discussed above) and
expenditure management and strengthening key institutions o f financial accountability, such as the
Comptroller and Auditor General (C&AG) and the Public Accounts Committee (PAC).

42.     Bangladesh has a good record of maintaining fiscal balances and broadly allocating
expenditures to priority sectors such as education, health, infrastructure, and rural development
(Table 3). This has been complemented by credible efforts to contain unproductive expenditure-for
instance, the continuance o f the selective freeze on the hiringo f lower-class (Class I11and IV) employees.
Nonetheless, weak revenue mobilization and severe capacity constraints have kept spending on the
priority sectors at relatively low levels.

                             Table 3: Total Expenditure by FunctiodMinistry'
                                             (percentage of GDP)
   Ministrymivision        FY98     FY99   FYOO FYOl FY02            FY03    FY04      FY05     FY06     FY07
                                                                                                          (B)
Interest                    1.2       1.3    1.5        1.6    1.7    1.9      1.8      1.8      1.8       1.6
Generalpublic Services      1.4       1.2    1.3        1.5    1.4    1.5      1.5      1.6      1.3       1.8
Defense and Public          2.0      2.0     2.1        2.1    1.9    1.8      1.9      1.9      1.9       1.8
Order and Safety
Education                   2.1      2.1     2.2        2.3    2.2    2.2     2.0       1.9      2.2       2.3
Health                      1.0      0.9     1.0        1.0    1.0    0.9      1.0      0.9      1.0       1.0
Social Security and         0.8       1.0     1.0       0.8    0.6    0.6      0.6      0.7      0.7       0.7
Welfare
Agriculture and Rural       1.2       1.3     1.3        1.3   1.0    0.9      2.2      2.7      2.6       2.6
Development
Fuel and Energy             0.9      0.9      1.1       1.0    0.9     1.0     1.2      1.2      0.9       0.9
Transport and               1.4       1.5    1.5        1.8    1.9    1.8      1.7      1.8      1.5       1.6
Communication
Housing and                 1.1       1.3    1.6        1.6    1.4    1.3     0.2       0.2      0.2       0.1
Community Services

Total Expenditure          13.4     14.1     15.0      15.5    14.4   14.3    14.5     15.0      14.5     15.0
* Expenditures for FY98 through FY06 are as per the revised budget. Actual expenditure data are not available.
Note: Discrepancy with total due to a number o f small items. B=budgeted
Source: Ministry of Finance and Planning

43.      The Government has strengthened strategic budget planning by expanding the medium-term
budgetframework (MTBF) approach. The MTBF approach has been introduced on a pilot basis inten



                                                          12

ministries (6 in FY06 and 4 in FY07), and there are plans to cover another four ministries in the FY08
budget. This will bring MTBF coverage to more than 65 percent o f total budgetary expenditure. The
emphasis at this initial stage has been on better integration o f the revenue (recurrent) and development
(investment) budget planning processes at the center and line ministries, by unifylng the budget
preparation process and issuingan integrated budget ceiling for line ministries. The MTBF approach has
also given more flexibility to the line ministriesintheir spending allocation decisions, and has encouraged
the substantive involvement o f senior officials in the budget formulation process, which otherwise was
considered routine work and typically undertaken by lower-level officials. Despite such progress, the
process i s still in its infancy, and needs to be significantly deepened before it can produce tangible gains
inlinkingpoliciesandbudgets andcontribute to betterbudget andservice delivery outcomes.

44.      To strengthen budget execution, serious efforts are being made to improve the accuracy and
timelines of expenditure and public debt information, notably by computerizing accounting
transactions. GOBhas rolled out a transaction accounting system to 60 district accounts offices and 49
chief accounts offices. This has considerably increased the speed with which accounts are generated and
allowed production o f monthly fiscal reports for each ministry. Adoption o f a new law on public
procurement in July 2006 has strengthened the legal and regulatory framework of public expenditure
management.        In early FY07, the Ministry o f Finance and Planning issued a circular notifying the
Government's decision to adopt the International Public Sector Accounting Standards (PSAS) cash
standards for accounting. Several government agencies have started implementingthis circular, with help
from the C&AG. In addition, a Resource and Debt Management Wing was established in the Finance
Division o f the Ministry o f Finance and Planning in 2004 to put together a comprehensive database
covering both domestic and external debt and provide analytical inputs on debt policy for annual budget
preparation. The unit, now fully staffed, has made good progress in developing the debt database and
helpingupdate the MTBFfor the FY08 budget.

45.      A number of measures have sought to strengthen internal and external accountability, audit
and scrutiny.       To strengthen the internal audit function, the Government has prepared a Public
Expenditure Management Manual and the Internal Control Manual, and taken steps consistent with the
manuals, including separation o f cash management from debt management. The time lag for final audited
accounts has been reduced from two to one year. The C&AG has introduced performance and entity
based audits on a pilot basis and i s planning to roll them out across various government units. Audit
committees are being formed in ministries, and GOB remains committed to malung the C&AG
functionally and administratively independent.

46.      Reform efforts have also sought to strengthen the transparency of fiscal information and key
institutions of accountability in PFM. To this end, GOBdeveloped baseline ratings o f the core PFM
functions in early 2006 and more recently prepared a comprehensive, medium-term, rolling Public
Financial Management Improvement Plan (PFMIP) that lays out a series o f second-generation PFM
reforms. Among the initial implementation measures, the FY07 Budget Summary, for the first time,
included an explanatory note that listed all explicit and counter guarantees provided by the Government
against liabilities o f SOEs; these amounted to US$2.5 billion (4 percent o f GDP). Furthermore, inFY07,
GOBbegan setting up a technical support unit for the PAC inthe Legislature and developing a system o f
information that would increase the transparency o f its decision malung, once the elected Parliament
returns. The PAC, reestablishedwith IDA support under DSC 11, had made good progress inreducing the
backlog o f audited accounts for discussion, and its deliberations were beginning to be followed by the
press inDhaka, untilthe Parliament was dissolved at the expiration o fthe last elected government's term.

47.      Notwithstanding these gains on strengthening the PFM system and institutions, the reform
agenda is far from over. Accounting and reporting mechanism are not fully aligned with the MTBF
framework. The computerized accounting system currently deals with recording transactions rather than



                                                       13

providing management with useful information on budget and actual expenditure.                The accounting
information i s not available in the ministries due to lack o f clarity on which agency within the ministries
i s responsible for the function.        External audits are excessively detailed and focus on financial
transactions only. The key challenge for the Government i s to design a single umbrella PFM program and
monitor progress towards reforms, with necessary support from the key development partners. The
mentioned PFMIP in particular provides an opportunity for the development partners to harmonize their
development assistance.

48.      Bangladesh has made steady progress in improving the transparency and competitiveness in
public procurement-an area typically rife with corruption. Despite strong resistance from powerful
vested interests, the Parliament adopted a new law on public procurement in July 2006, with many
provisions that are in line with well-accepted international practices. GOBi s now finalizing the rules to
implement the law, and in the interim is using the regulations that were the precursor for the law. The
regulations have introduced new standard bidding documents that significantly reduce the layers in the
procurement approval processes.          The Government has also put into place a unique procurement
performance tracking and monitoring system, which i s being piloted in a few agencies. This progress has
enabledBangladeshto secure B ratings inthree o f the four PFMindicators on procurement.

49.       while these reform have laid thefoundations for a more effective publicprocurement system, a
number of cross-cutting concernsremain. These issues relate to inadequate enforcement o f regulations,
delays in award, allegations o f fraud and corruption, and political interference. In order to further
strengthen the system, GOBi s preparing a second procurement reform project, to be funded by IDA, with
proposed interventions        in institutionalizing procurement       capacity development,      strengthening
implementation and monitoring at the sectoral level, piloting e-government procurement (e-GP) to
increase transparency and competition, and engaging the business bodies and civil society in the
monitoring o fthe contracting process and procurement outcomes.

50.       The Government has also taken some initial steps in FY07 to strengthen sub-national
governance. While public administration and governance remain highly centralized in Bangladesh, the
Government has begun to increase the fiscal discretion available to the lowest tier o f rural local
government, the Union Parishad, through introducing an untied block grant. More recently, the Local
Governance Support Project, financed by the IDA, has begun to streamline and expand the block grant as
the foundation o f an emerging fiscal fkamework for local governance

Toward a More Responsive and Efficient Public Administration

5 1.      Concerns about the unsatisfactory performance of the civil service are being addressed by a
number of recentpublic administration reforms. The quality problem begins at the entry level, with
recruitment into the Bangladesh Civil Service (BCS) beingpartly based on nonmerit considerations such
as regional and other quotas. While on paper the Bangladesh Public Service Commission (BPSC) i s an
independent institution, in practice this has not been the case, which further affects quality. Modest
reforms are being initiated to address the situation. A large number o f Class Iofficers have been
promoted to Deputy Secretary and higher levels under the revised Promotion Rules (2002), which
mandates more emphasis on merit inpromotion decisions, helping improve staff motivation at the senior
1e~els.l~ An improvedtraining policy was adopted in2003, and a Career Planning and Training Wing was
created in the Ministry o f Establishment for planning and implementing the training policy. Completion
o f training in some essential courses has been made a requirement for promotion. Still, considerable
scope remains for improving the content and relevance o f the training courses. As part o f the effort to


 l4A gazette notification issued in early December 2006 announced the promotion of 361 civil servants to various
   ranks, ranging fiom Deputy Secretary to Secretary.



                                                       14

address this, training o f mid-level officers i s being supported under the DFID-funded Management at the
Top Training (MATT) project. The BPSC recently prepared a project proposal to support institutional
strengthening, and has sought technical assistance from the Bank.           The project envisages systemic
improvements in the BCS examination system and HR development.                 In addition, the Ministry of
Establishment has prepared a project proposal for strengthening foreign training and has approached the
Bank for support through technical assistance.

52.     Implementationo f across-the-board salary increases inline with the recommendations o f the most
recent Pay Commission (2006) has helped offset a small part o f the real decline in officer-class cash
compensation since independence. However, the more vexing and pertinent issue o f moving away from
cash wage compression (between higher and lower-level staff) still remains. Compensation o f the higher-
level staff needs to be adjusted to more competitive levels to address incentives issues and promote
probity among the staff.      In addition to the existing provisions of the 1979 Government Servants
(Conduct) Rules, the introduction of legal requirements for mandatory submission by civil servants o f
income tax returns and statements o f assets and liabilities has been a step toward providing a basis for
improving transparency and accountability o f government officials. Nevertheless, implementation o f the
new regulatory framework and its effectiveness need to be evaluated.          Compliance and enforcement
remainthe main challenges.

StreamliningandReducingScopefor Discretioninthe RegulatoryEnvironment

53.     A number of measures have been initiated to streamline the domestic regulatory environment
and reduce the scopefor corruption arisingfrom it. Specifically:

        Customs and port clearance. A noteworthy step has been the introduction o f the Automated
        System for CUstoms Data (ASYCUDA++),               involving electronic processing and clearance o f
        cargo. A one-stop service for clearing RMG export cargo was introduced at the Chittagong port
        to facilitate port and customs related paperwork, shortening the time taken for clearing exports
        and also improving the turn-around time for ships. Handling and operation o f the Chittagong
        Container terminal was handed over to a private operator inFY07 by the CTG, which is expected
        to improve efficiency and lower cost.

        Investment facilitation. The e-government processes implemented by the Board o f Investment
        and the Bangladesh Export Processing Zones Authority (BEPZA) have helped streamline the
        business registration process and other investor services.       Further progress i s expected from
        automation at the Registrar o f Joint Stock Companies, work on which has already started with
        support from IFC's South Asia Enterprise Development Facility (SEDF) and the Australian
        Government's overseas aidprogram, AusAid.
        Land registration. A Land Registration Act came into force from July 1, 2005. The new act
        makes registration mandatory for all transfers o f immovable property, bequeaths, mortgage deeds,
        distribution deeds o f inheritedproperty and contracts for sale. This will help reduce the scope for
        false and multiple registration o f land. A pilot project to computerize land records has been
        initiated in the Demra thana o f Dhaka district. This project aims at simplifying the title deed
        requirements by putting the title, the location o f the land, and a map on a single page with all
        other documents ina back-up data base. The pilot project follows the completion o fthe survey o f
        greater Dhaka by the Land Department.

        Utilitv regulation. The Bangladesh Telecom Regulatory Commission (BTRC) has been set up,
        leading to rapid growth in the private telephone sector. Titas Gas Transmission & Distribution
        Company, the largest natural gas marketing company in the country, began a program in May
        2006 to use e-governance in its processes.            This program will substantially reduce the



                                                        15

         bureaucratic burden on customers seeking new connections and enhance transparency and
         accountability inthe billing system.

     0   Microcredit regulation. A Micro-credit Regulatory Authority Act was adopted in2006. The Act
         places all microcredit institutions under a Micro-Credit Regulatory Authority for more effective
         governance and supervision o fthe sector.

         Bangladesh Investment Climate Facility (BICF). BICF i s a new US$55 million investment
         climate reform facility, funded by the European Union and managed by the IFC, with the
         Government as a key partner. The facility will provide technical assistance and advisory services
         to government and nongovernmental entities. The BICFhas three major objectives: (i)    improving
         the quality o f overall business regulations; (ii)
                                                          improving the regulatory framework for private
         participation and environmental and social compliance practices in economic zones; and (iii)
         strengthening institutional and civil service capacity to promote private sector development
         reforms.

EstablishingandOperationalizing anIndependentAnti-CorruptionCommission(ACC)

54.      An Anti-Corruption Commission Act was passed by the Parliament in February 2004,
establishing the Commission and providing it a mandate to prevent corrupt practices by public officials
and investigate specific offenses.     The operationalization o f the ACC has proven more intractable,
however. Three Commissioners, including the Chairman, were selected for the ACC inNovember 2004,
but were provided limited initial staff and resources to begin operations. Inaddition, the ACC has had
weak political support. Renewed efforts are being made to revive the ACC. In particular, the CTG
recently replaced the Chairman and the two other Commissioners because o f poor performance. An
interim organogram o f the ACC and rules relating to recruitment and prosecution have been approved by
the Government. Reconstituted and energized, the ACC i s now vigorously pursuing its mandate by
initiating quick actions against high-profile suspects.

Reformingthe CivilJustice System

55.      The recent measures by the CTG to separate the judiciary from the executive herald a major and
long-pending push toward an independent and functioning judiciary.            The Government has also
acknowledged the weak capacity o f the Attorney General's office to carry out prosecutions. A new
Attorney General has been appointed, and panels o f senior lawyers from the private bar will be formed in
order to carry out prosecutions. Amendments to the Civil Procedure Code adopted in 2003, introducing
mediation and the impositiono f heavy costs orders on parties seelung more than three adjournments, have
helpedreduce the number o f cases going to trial and case processing times. Inseveral pilot districts, court
administration has been strengthened through case management reforms, automation and upgrading o f
facilities.  Training o f the subordinate judiciary has been ongoing.         The post o f one Judicial
Administrative Officer (JAO) has been created for each pilot district. The JAO will be in charge o f the
Central Filing Office and will distribute the cases among judges: the reform will help improve the
efficiency o fthe courts.

                             B.       Strengtheningthe InvestmentClimate

56.      An array of structural policy and institutional reforms-relating       to macro stability, trade
liberalization, domesticmarket deregulation, and banking sector reforms-have       underpinned the good
growthperformance thusfar. Authorities recognize the need now for deeper and more complex reforms
in order to sustain and further accelerate growth: in particular, by deepening trade liberalization and
financial sector development; improving provision o f infrastructure (especially power, ports, and
transportation); strengthening the regulatory environment; and improving agriculture sector performance.



                                                     16

In addition, continued emphasis on macroeconomic stability remains essential.        The DSC series has
supported a number o freforms inthese areas.

EnsuringContinuedMacroeconomicStability

57.     Macroeconomic stability, characterizedby low and stable inflation, sustainable fiscal and external
balances, and sound public expenditure allocations, remains essential to achieving GOB'Sambitious
growth objectives. The recently updated macroeconomic framework, agreed between the authorities and
IMF under the PRGF program, reflects the Government's continued commitment to macroeconomic
stability and sustainability.    DSC IV, as in the case o f the previous DSCs, would support the
implementation o fthis medium-term macroeconomic framework.

Main Features of the GovernmentSMacroeconomic Framework (summarized in Table1)

58.      GOB'Smedium-term fiscal strategy aims to boost revenue mobilization while continuing to
direct expenditure towards the social sectors. The budget deficit i s projected to be contained at around
3.5 percent o f GDP, except in FY08 when the ratio would reach 5.2 percent under the assumption that
BPC's liabilities o f 1.6 percent o f GDP will be covered by the budget. The ratio o f revenue to GDP is
projected to rise from an estimated 10.6 percent in FY06 to 11.0 percent in FY09, as benefits o f tax
administration modernization measures (para 39) begin to kick in. It would be important, however, to
also expand the tax base and simplify the tax system. Inparticular, removal o f the income tax holidays
and VAT exemptions-identified       in a recent GOBsponsored study-can yield extra revenues o f about 2
percent o f GDP. The expenditure-GDP ratio i s envisaged to increase from an estimated 13.8 percent in
FY06 to 14.3 percent in FY09. The efficiency o f ADP spending i s expected to improve, benefiting from
recent reform measures mentioned inpara 43.

59.     Bangladesh Bank intends to maintain its policy of gradual monetary tightening to correct the
overshootingof some of its monetaryprogram targets lastyear and avoid overheating of the economy.
Inparticular, authorities aim to keep reserve money growth close to the nominal GDP growth rate and
decelerate private credit growth to under 15 percent a year. Bangladesh Bank i s also committed to relying
on market-based mechanisms to counter disorderly conditions in the foreign exchange market, continuing
with its flexible exchange rate policy while gradually building up the foreign exchange reserve cover.
The monetary program agreed under the IMF-supported PRGF should allow authorities to meet their
inflation and international reserve objectives.

60.     Bangladesh's risk of external debt distress is "low" and risk of total public debt distress is
"moderate," as concluded by the recent joint World Bank-IMF Debt Sustainability Analysis. The
analysis assumes a macroeconomic policy framework that i s broadly consistent with the one adopted by
authorities under the IMF-supported PRGF program. Bangladesh's external debt burden indicators are
fairly benign, with the ratio o f external debt to GDP at around 30 percent (mostly concessional) and the
debt servicing ratio o f only 5 percent. The external debt indicators do not breach the relevant policy-
dependent thresholds under various scenarios. However, risks to domestic revenue mobilization and
domestic debt accumulation, particularly contingent liabilities, raise some concerns about public debt.
Efforts to ensure that the domestic revenues targets are met and increasing energy prices to their full cost
recovery levels would be key to ensuring continued sustainability o fpublic debt.

ProgressonTrade andExchangeLiberalization

61.     Afler several years of reform hiatus, steady progress has been made on trade liberalization
since 2002. Over the period FY02-07, the average customs duty has been lowered from 21.0 to 14.9
percent, the top customs duty rate from 37.5 to 25 percent, and the number o f nonzero customs duties
from four to three. This progress, however, was partly offset by an increase inthe use o f other protective


                                                     17

tariffs (para-tariffs), which now account for about 40 percent o f total protection, compared to only 12
percent inthe mid-1990s.I5 Even so, the total nominal protection fell from 29.4 percent inFY02 to 26.5 in
FY06, and further to 24.3 percent in FY07. The reduction innominal protection was accompanied by a
90 percent cut in the number o f QRs, including virtual elimination o f trade-related QRs in the FY06
budget.16 Removal o f longstanding ban on a wide range o f textile imports in the FY06 budget was
particularly significant. In addition, authorities further liberalized the exchange regime by free floating
the Taka/US$ rate in May 2003. Benefiting from these liberalization measures, the ratio o f trade to GDP
increased from 28 percent inFYOO to 38 percent inFY06.

62.      Notwithstanding this progress, the remaining trade liberalizing agenda remains substantial.
Despite the declining trend, average nominal protection in Bangladesh i s the highest in the region and
among the highest in the world.           This, together with cumbersome trade facilitation procedures, an
inefficient duty drawback system, and severe infrastructure bottlenecks at the port, has resulted in the
anti-export bias leveling o f f at relatively high levels since the late 1990s. This works against the
emergence o f new export activities and expansion o f the export activities to non-enclave areas.
Bangladesh's export orientation compares unfavorably with other Asian economies, and its export base i s
heavily concentrated in the garments sector-RMG             exports account for about 75 percent o f merchandise
exports-where      the extent o f the anti-export bias is muchlower.

63.      I n order to diversify its trade base and improve export competitiveness in general, a well
thought out sequence of trade liberalization measures needs to be developed. Key elements o f the
reform strategy to further liberalize the trade regime include:

     0   A continued emphasis on unilateral trade liberalization and a somewhat cautious approach to the
         current fashion o fregional and bilateraltrade agreements.

     0   Establishment o f a low and uniform tariffrate inthe near future.

     0   Merger o fpara-tariffs with the customs duty, in order to have one tariffrate for each tariff line.

     0   Elimination o f all end-user tariffexemptions and concessionaltariffs.
         Discontinuation o f the protective use o f VAT and Special Duties by ensuring that they are levied
         both on domestic production and imports o f the same product.

     0   Ensuringa well-functioning duty drawback system such that rebates are paid quickly.

ImprovingFinancial Sector Accountability,Transparency,and Performance

64.      Bangladesh has embarked on bold banking reforms since 2001.                        Key actions include
strengthening competitivepressure on the NCBs, loosening government control, and tighteningprudential
regulations and regulatory quality. GOBi s restructuring the sickly NCBs and preparing three o f them for
divestment: it favors keeping control o f one (Sonali Bank), since it handles its treasury functions. One o f
the NCBs, Rupali Bank, i s on the verge o fbeingsold to a strategic investor. Successful completion o fthe
sale will mark a major milestone in the banking sector reform process and will set a powerful precedent
for dealing with the other NCBs. Agrani Bank and Janata Bank, two other NCBs, are scheduled to be
privatized in the coming years. GOB'Sdecision to keep majority control in Sonali Bank would deprive
the bank o f the potential efficiency gains from private ownership and may benefit from reevaluation.
Efforts to restructure the three NCBs other than Rupali Bank receiveda major boost by the CTG's recent


l5Four kinds o fpara-tariffs have been put to use: the Infrastructure Development Surcharge, Regulatory Duty, VAT,
  and Supplementary Duty. The Regulatory Duty, introduced inFYOI, was later removedinFY05.
l6Three trade-related QRs remain-on poultry, eggs, and salt-on which GOBhas received waivers until2009 from
  WTO under Article XVIII.


                                                           18

decision to corporatize them, to enhance their operational autonomy and accountability and, for the first
time, to bring them directly under Bangladesh Bank's supervisory and regulatory control. GOBhas
expressed its commitment to completing the remaining steps in the corporatization process.               The
Memorandum o f Understanding (MOUs) signed between Bangladesh Bank and the NCBs remain
effective, capping new lending by each NCB, restricting single borrower exposure, and setting
monitorable targets on cash recoveries and cost reductions.

65.     BangladeshBank has continuedto align itsprudential norms with international standardsand
enforce them more strictly. Key measures include:

    0   Increase in the minimumrisk-weighted capital adequacy requirements for banks from 8 percent
        to 9 percent and in the minimum capital requirements from Tk 400 million (US$6 million) to Tk
         1billion(USSl5 million).

    0   Tightening o f loan classification, rescheduling, andprovisioning rules.

    0   Introduction o f loan write-off guidelines.

    0   Creation o f an early warning system.

    0   Issuance o f risk management guidelines in the areas o f credit, foreign exchange, asset-liability
        management, internal control, and anti-money laundering.

    0   Introduction o f measures to improve corporate governance, including limiting: the number o f
        board members ina financial institution to a maximum o f 13; the tenure of a director to six years;
        shareholding by a single shareholder to 10 percent o f capital; and the number o f shareholding
        family members on the board to one. Furthermore, these measures require banks to establish
        audit committees, impose limitations on divided payouts by a financial institution and even limit
        expenditures for automobiles and travel expenses for executives.

66.     The banking sector overall has responded well to the reform measures. Responses o f private
commercial banks (PCBs) and foreign commercial banks (FCBs) have been especially positive. These
have turned around their operational and financial performances and increased their combined market
share to over one-halc while the market share o f the NCBs fell from 54 percent in 1998 to 37 percent in
2005. Similar trends are seen for bank deposits and loans: with PCBs and FCBs gaining market share at
the expense o f the NCBs and development financial institutions (DFIs). Furthermore, the nonperforming
loan (NPL) ratios in public and private banks have declined markedly since 2001, and capital adequacy
ratios exceed the 9 percent mark for the PCBs, FCBs, and DFIs although not the NCBs (Table 4).
Nonetheless, NPLs o f the NCBs remain precariously high and provisioning and capital shortfalls are
significant.

                          Table 4: Key Performance Measures inthe Banking Sector
                       Capital-to-risk weighted assets ratio            Ratio of gross NPL to total loans
   BankType       2000     2001    2002     2003   2004     2005  2000     2001 2002     2003   2004     2005
   NCBs             4.4     4.2      4.1      4.3   4.1     -0.4*  38.6       37   33.7    29    25.3    21.3
   DFIs             3.2     3.9      6.9      7.7   9.1      9.2   62.6     61.8   56.2  47.4    42.9    34.9
   PCBs            10.9     9.9      9.7     10.5  10.3      9.2     22       17    16.4 12.4     8.5     5.6
   FCBs            18.4    16.8     21.4     22.9  24.2     25.1     3.4      3.3   2.6   2.7     1.5     1.3
   Total            6.7     6.7      7.5      8.4   8.7      7.3   34.9     31.5   28.0  22.1    17.6    13.5
   Source: Bangladesh Bank Quarterly, April -June 2006.
   Note: NPLnumbers are without adjustment for actual provision and interest suspense.
    * NegativeCARfor NCBs in2005 because o fnegative capital o fAgrani bank.




                                                      19

67.     Progress has been slow in a number of restructuring areas and major challenges remain. In
particular, some o f the key restructuring measures-branch             closures, staff rationalization, improved
mechanisms for credit allocations, stronger management and boards-are                 still pending. Furthermore,
while lending to the private sector has stayed within the limits specified by the MOUs signed with
Bangladesh Bank, state-directed lending to loss-malung SOEs (not covered under the MOUs), especially
BPC, has shot up. Together with slow recovery from the largest defaulters and insufficient progress
(relative to the MOU targets) on cost reductions, this has undermined authorities' efforts to significantly
improve the NCBs' financial situation, before divesting them. To pick up pace, Sonali and Janata banks
need to expedite implementation o f the remaining restructuring measures, malung better use o f the
services o f the advisory teams," and GOBneeds to provide more operational autonomy to the NCBs,
especially in HR matters. Inaddition, a mechanism needs to be developed at the NCBs to monitor their
performance, and the terms o f reference for the senior managers o f the NCBs need to modified to make
the managers more directly accountable for the banks' performance.

AddressingInfrastructureConstraints: Emphasison the Energy Sector

Power SectorReforms

68.      Progress has been slow in tackling the increasingly binding infrastructure constraints. The
most severe constraints are in energy, particularly the power sector. Banngladesh today i s inthe gnps o f
a power crisis, with weaknesses in service provision, finances, and generation, each contributing to the
situation.
     .   Service Provision.      There i s a major shortfall in supply relative to demand for electricity. The
         installed capacity o f electric power in the country i s about 5,350 MW, including 1,260 MW that
         i s privately owned and operated. However, largely because o f unreliable state-owned power
         plants, it has been difficult to generate more than 3,700 MW at any given time. Meanwhile, peak
     .   demand i s estimated to be about 5,000 MW. The country i s likely to see daily load shedding o f
         1,200 to 1,500 MW inthe coming summer months.
         Financial. The Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB) is in the midst o f a significant
         cash crunch. Its weighted average cost o f supply from own generation and IPPs, i s about Tk 2.5
         per kWh. Even after the recently implemented tariff increase BPDB's bulk tariff rate'is Tk 2.1,
         and it will still lose, heavily, on each bulk sale unit. Losses inBPDB's bulk supply business have
     .   been runningat about Tk 12 billion per year; the recent tariff increase i s likely to reduce this loss
         by about Tk 3.5 billion over the course o fan entire year.
         Generation. Bangladesh has underinvested in generation and transmission, while expanding its
         distribution network in rural areas. N o new private sector generation capacity has been added
         over the last 5 years, in large part because o f the opaque unsolicited tenders initiated by GOBto
         procure large power plants. While the number o f customers has increased sharply-estimated at
         over 10 million countrywide, for a household connection rate o f about 38 percent-the           shortage
         o f generation i s now so severe that a moratorium has been placed on new lines inrural areas. To
         improve access in remote rural areas, the Government has embarked on a renewable energy
         project, supported by the Bank's Rural Electricity and Renewable. Energy Development project,
         through which it has connected more than 100,000 consumers using solar home systems, with
         4,000 new consumers beingaddedeachmonth.

69.      As part o f the slow-moving reform process, power prices were raised inMarch 2007, partially in
line with the pricing framework adopted by GOBin September 2003. Inother recent measures, GOBhas


"AgraniBankhasmovedrelativelyfaster,allowingitturn-aroundanoperatinglossofTk20billionin2004intoan
  operating profit o f Tk 2.1 billion in2005 and Tk 1.8 billionduring the first six months o f 2006.


                                                          20

further reduced arrears of the power utilities, adopted a Captive Power Policy, adopted in principle a
timebound financial restructuring plan for the power sector, and recruited a reputable international
transaction adviser to boost the chances o f attracting private invesment for a new baseloadpower plant.

70.      The power utilities have improved operating efficiency and reduced arrears in recent years,
although the effort needs to be sustained and accelerated. As seen inTable 5, system losses have fallen
and collection efficiency has improved to 99 percent, resulting in an improvement in the ratio o f
collection to generation, from 66.5 percent in FYOl to 74 percent in FY06. Arrears to major power
utilities have been reduced, from an equivalent o f 9.2 months in June 2001 to 3.8 months in June 2006.
This reflects a major drive by the Government to ensure that ministries pay their electricity bills, coupled
with more aggressive efforts by the utilities to collect from private customers. GOBhas been less
successful in recovering arrears from the semi-autonomous public entities-city corporations,
municipalities, the Ministry o f Disaster Management and various government-owned jute and textile
corporations. Recently the Finance Division has made special arrangements for recovering arrears from
the semi-autonomous entities. It has made provision for Tk 4.5 billion for power utilities to clear their
outstanding bills up to December 2006, in addition to withholding block grants from some semi-
autonomous entities that had accumulated large arrears.

                              Table 5: Bangladesh Power Sector Performance Indicators

                                    b,   FY99    F Y O O N O 1   FY 02  FY03    FY04   FY05    FYO6
           System Loss                   30.3%   29.0%   28.4%   28.1%  25.4%   23.6%  23.2%   25.0%
           Collection Eficiency          84.3%   90.6%   93.0%   97.8%  97.2%   98.6%  98.4%   99.1%
           Collection GenerationRatio    58.8%   64.3%   66.5%   70.3%  72.5%   75.4%  75.5%   74.3%     .
           Profit (Loss) inTk Billion
                 BPDB                    (3.74)  (5.19)  (4.63)  (4.34)  1.75   (2.14) (5.79)  (7.82)
                 DESA                    (2.11)  (2.31)  (3.69)  (4.59) (2.6)   (1.72) (0.80)    ..
                 REB                      0.23   (0.02)   0.14    0.57  0.62     0.75    1.18   0.76
                 DESCO                                                           0.34   0.54    0.65
           Arrears (Tk Billion)          20.72   23.74   26.23   28.26  30.05   30.06  33.65   33.50
           Arrear(Months equivalent)      9.34    9.48    9.16    8.86  8.07     6.95   4.03    3.88
         Source: GOB.
         BPDB = Bangladesh Power Development Board; DESA = Dhaka Electric Supply Authority; DESCO =
         Dhaka Electric Supply Company Ltd; REB = Rural ElectrificationBoard

71.       The Government is also beginning to address some of the major structural constraints in the
power sector, although thepace of reforms has been uneven and slow. Key measures have included:

     0   Establishment of BERC in 2004 under a new Enerw Regulatory Commission Act 2003. Once
          fully operational, BERC is expected to play the lead role in setting tariffs, issuinglicenses, and
         providing regulatory oversight.

         Restructuring. o f the power sector: The industry structure has changed noticeably since the late
          1 9 9 0 leaving BPDB with about 60 percent o f generation (compared to 86 percent inFY99) and
                   ~ ~
         just 22 percent o fdistribution. Major restructuring steps have included:
              o horizontal unbundlingo f BPDB's distribution activities into four regional entities: one
                    each for the West Zone, Northwest Zone, South Zone, and Central Zone;
              o creation o f the Dhaka Electric Supply Company Ltd (DESCO) out o f DESA assets to
                    cover parts o f the key Dhaka market;
              o creation o f the Dhaka Power Distribution Company as a corporatize entity to take over
                    the distributionoperations o fDESA



                                                        21

             o creation o f the Power Grid Company o f Bangladesh (PGCB) to handle all o f BPDB's
                 transmission assets;
             o transfer o f more than 9,000 lulometers o f distribution lines from BPDB to the more-
                 efficient Rural Electrification Board (REB) between FY03-06.          The 70 rural electric
                 cooperatives under the REB now handle distribution in most rural areas, and, with
                 prudent investments, accountable management, and better incentive structures have
                 improved the operational efficiency o f their business.

    0    Corporatization o f some power utilities. Three distribution companies-DESCO,           West Zone,
        Northwest Zone-have        been corporatized.     Corporatization o f the remaining three-DESA,
         South Zone, and Central Zone-is     plannedover the course o f the next three years.

    0    Adoption o f guidelines inFY07 to procure power from captive power plants. The objective i s to
         tap potential captive capacity into the public grid.

    0    Onnoinn work to prepare a financial recovery and restructuring (FRP). Based on technical work
         by international consultants, GOBadopted in principle the FRP, which it has shared with IDA.
         Debt restructuring, a key proposal under the FRP, would not only make the sector more appealing
         for private investors, it would also allow a more gradual adjustment o f tariffs-something         o f
         considerable political appeal.

     0   Recruitment o f reputable international transaction advisers. To overcome the major governance
         problems in generation financing and procurement, recent recruitment o f the international
         transaction advisor for a new IPP plant i s a positive move. This will not only help ensure a
         transparent procurement process but also will spotlight broader sector governance and financial
         issues, environmental and social impact aspects, and public-private risk allocation factors.
         Furthermore, the financing structure developed for this IPP plant would provide a key input to the
         Generation Financing Plan. GOBhas also requested the Asian Development Bank (ADB) to
         support the recruitment o f reputable transaction advisers to support procurement o f other IPPs
         that are being considered under its least-cost generation expansion plan.

72.      Recent government-commissioned studies indicate that Bangladesh would need at least one
utility-scaleplant in the 500 to 700 M W range every year to catch up with demand, requiring new
investmentof about US$1.0-1.5 billion annually. Clearly, the public sector alone i s not in a position to
undertake investment o f this magnitude, and attracting large-scale private investment in gas exploration
and production and in gas-fired power generation will be essential. But that will require GOBto move
forward on three interlinked fronts: addressing the critical issue o f efficient pricing as a priority item;
urgently tackling the governance problems (including corruption) plaguing the sector; and implementing
complementary reforms such as full operationalization o f BERC, corporatization o f the remaining
companies, and financial restructuring o f the public companies. GOBi s beginning to address each o f
these priority areas, although the pace o f reforms needs to pick up considerably. The recent proactive
stance o fthe CTG inthe power sector signals strong support, lack o f which has been a major hindrance in
the past.

Oil and Gas SectorReforms

73.      The Governmentrecently announced signifcant increases in theprices of petroleum products,
which should stem the large losses at the BPC. OnApril 2,2007, GOBannounced a 21 percent increase
in the prices of diesel and kerosene and a 16percent increase in the prices of octane and petrol. The
diesel and kerosene prices still remain about 10 percent short o f their tax-inclusive costs, but the shortfall
is covered by the trading surplus from the sale o f petrol and octane. GOBi s considering formation o f a
committee to review prices o f petroleum products monthly to keep them in line with changes in
international prices. The recent bold move on fuel price adjustment notwithstanding, because o fdelays in



                                                      22

recent years in responding to the sharply rising international crude oil prices, the BPC suffered major
losses and has accumulated outstanding liabilities o f about Tk 120 billion. BPC's interest payments on
these liabilities totaled about Tk 4.7 billion in FY06. It would be important to address these outstanding
obligations to put BPC on sounder financial footing.

74.     I n the gas sector, the Government recently approved a Gas Sector Master Plan and Strategy.
This lays out the long-term strategic vision for the sector and would be the basis for Petrobangla, the
state-owned corporation, to develop its investment program. At present, the retail price o f gas does not
cover the cost o f production, operation and maintenance, and future capital investment requirement o f the
sector. This leaves large financing gaps at the gas utilities, undercutting their efforts to improve their
financial viability and generate self financing to support their investment programs. Implementation o f
the pricing policy adopted inFY03 to fully recover costs and capital investment needs i s a necessary first
step to strengthen the sector's performance. In addition, the Government would need to revise the
upstreamnatural gas explorationand production terms andlaunch a marketing campaign to solicit interest
among oil and gas explorationcompanies and attract the desirednew investment into the sector.

    VI.       The ProposedFourthDevelopmentSupport Creditand Priorities for the NextPhase

75.      The proposed credit, the fourth in a programmatic series o f budget support operations, would
support GoB's ongoing policies and institutional reforms, with a view to accelerating growth, reducing
poverty, and improving the quality o f service delivery.          Building on the reform progress in core
governance under the previous DSCs, DSC IV proposes to support GoB's reforms in procurement, PFM
functions, tax administration, and checks and balances on public entities. DSC IV would also support
deepening o f reforms to improve the investment climate, particularly continued macroeconomic stability,
trade liberalization, and better performance o f the bankingand energy sectors and SOEs.

76.      DSC IIIwas presented to the Bank's Executive Board in December 2005.                  The Program
Document laid out 12 indicative triggers for DSC IV, which were designed to support further reforms that
GOBhad planned to improve governance and investment climate. After assessing the performance
against the 12 indicative triggers in light o fthe prevailing ground realities, the Bank and GOBagreed on a
set o f prior actions that constitute sufficient progress in the reform areas supported by the indicative
triggers. The overall assessment o f the reform program and the progress on each o f the indicative triggers
are describedbelow.

77.      Overall Assessment. Implementation o f the reform program supported by the past DSCs and
progress toward DSC IV triggers have been satisfactory, but uneven. As mentioned before, since coming
to power on January 11,2007, the CTGhas taken significant steps to reduce corruption and strengthenthe
governance situation.      Reform efforts have sought to improve the functioning o f core institutions,
including the EC, the ACC, the Judiciary, and a number o f public regulatory bodies. Progress has also
been good under successive governments in maintaining macroeconomic stability, liberalizing the trade
regime, and strengthening the banlung sector and the quality o f PFM. Tax administration has been
strengthened in some areas, although the pace o f reforms has been gradual and i s yet to translate into
tangible results interms o f revenue mobilization. The record on power sector reforms, particularly in the
areas o f generation and financial viability o f the sector, has been moderately satisfactory. Inview o f the
changed country situation and the current window o f reform opportunity, the overall assessment favors
continued support to the CTG.

    Indicative Trimer (1 of 12): Satisfactory implementation of an adequate macroeconomic policy
    framework,




                                                      23

Prior Action 1: An adequate macroeconomic policy framework, conducive to growth and poverty
reduction, maintained.

Prior Action 1 has been comuleted.        GOBhas maintained an adequate macroeconomic policy
framework4espite persistent exogenous pressures from highglobal commodity prices and political
pressures o f an election year-conducive to growth and poverty reduction. The fiscal deficit for
FY07 i s expected at around 3.5 percent o f GDP, although continued sluggishness intax mobilization
remains a concern. The consumer price index (CPI) inflation rate for FY07 i s expected to remain at
the FY06 level o f around 7.0 percent, having picked up from 4.4 percent in FY04 and 5.8 percent in
FY05, largely part because o f pressures from higher food prices. Continued strong growth o f exports
and remittances have kept external balances in check and have led to an increase in foreign exchange
reserves to a record level of US$4 billion. The exchange rate, which i s market-determined, has
stabilized at around Tk70/US$ since early FY06. Loolung forward, financial losses and outstanding
liabilities o f the energy sector SOEs, expected at over 1percent o f GDP inFY07, are a major source
o f fiscal concern. They need to be controlled through more efficient domestic pricing and explicit
mechanism o fbudget support as necessary to cover remaining losses, and the recently announced fuel
price hike i s an important step toward that. Continuedmacro stability will also require better revenue
performance, easing o f food supply chains, and further tighteningo f the monetary policy.

The last tranche o f the IMF-supportedPRGF, approved inOctober 2006, was a reduced one reflecting
incomplete reform progress, in particular the delay in corporatizing the NCBs and continued weak
revenue performance. The CTG has since taken the legal decision to corporatize the NCBs and i s
moving forward with the process. The IMFrecently concluded a mission to conduct the Article IV
consultations. The IMFteam i s inthe process o fputtingtogether its findings of the consultations.

Indicative Trimer (2 of 12): Deepen trade liberalization by phasing out supplementary duties to
reduce average nominal protection by at least 2percentage points subject to revenue neutrality of the
proposed action, to be confirmed by aproposedjoint study by the Bank and the Government.

Prior Action 2: Trade liberalization deepened with a reduction o f at least 2 percentage points in the
average nominal protection.

Prior action 2 has been comuleted. The average nominal protection was reduced by 2.2 percentage
points in the FY07 budget, with a 1.7 percentage point reduction achieved by cutting supplementary
duties and a 0.5 percentage point reductionby cutting customs duties.

Indicative Trimer (3 of 12): Strengthen the effectiveness and accountability of the National Board of
Revenue by moving it toward a more functional organization structure, consistent with the NBR
Strategic Development Plan. Toward this, create and approve a new Board and senior management
structure, consistent with NBR 's Strategic Development Plan. NBR will have hiring flexibility to
recruitfrom theprivate sector, ifnecessary. Initiate theprocess offilling each identified position.

Prior Action 3: Effectiveness and accountability o f the NBR strengthened by moving it toward a
more functional organization structure, consistent with the NBR Strategic Development Plan, and,
toward that, human resources, information and communication technology, and audit functions
introduced at the NBR Board level, with follow-up plans to create three new Board positions for the
three new functions.

Prior Action 3 has been comuleted. GOBhas pursued a two-phased approach in this context. Inthe
first phase, it has introduced HR, ICT, and audit functions at the Board level, allocating these




                                                 24

functions amongst Board members and the NBR Chairman. Inthe next phase, it will create separate
positions for these three functions.

Indicative Trimer (4 of 12): Develop and agree specific Terms of Reference for the Managing
Directors of the NCBs, and specij) a fixed tenure for them, keeping in view their prospective
corporatization.

Prior Action 4: Managing director positions for Janata and Sonali banks advertised, based on specific
terms o f reference that include performance indicators for which the managing directors will be held
accountable.

Prior Action 4 has been completed. Inaddition, GOBhas also committed to advertising the managing
director position for Agrani bank by June 30, 2007, which would similarly include performance
indicators for which the managing director will be held accountable.

Indicative Trimer (5 of 12):Implement an NCB restructuring action plan, acceptable to IDA and in
accordance with the timeline agreed with IDA.

Prior Action 5: Significant progress made in implementing an NCB restructuring action plan, in
particular with the legal decision taken to corporatize the Agrani, Janata, and Sonali banks-a        key
component o f the NCB restructuring action plan.

Prior Action 5 has been comdeted.         The key component o f the N C B restructuring plan was
completiono f legal steps to corporatize the Agrani, Janata, and Sonali banks, which, for the first time,
bringsthem fully under the supervisory and regulatory control o f BangladeshBank. On February 4,
2007, the CTG approved a draft regulation that required to turn the Sonali, Janata and Agrani banks
into public companies. The Government i s committed to completing the remaining steps by July
2007 to implement the decision and complete the corporatization process. The operations o f these
banks will be runby an autonomous board o f directors, and the banks, which previously fell under the
Bangladesh Bank's (Nationalization) Order 1972, will now fall under the Banlung Companies Act
 1991. This will enable the Bangladesh Bank to exercise fully its regulatory and supervisory powers
over these newly corporatized state-owned banks.

Indicative Trimer (6 of 12): Develop and initiate implementation of an agreed Public Financial
Management Improvement Plan (PFMIP), satisfactoly to IDA, with measures and timetable to
address gaps, including those identified in the recently developed Public Financial Management
(PFM) indicators. Among others, actions will include Government proposing to the Parliament
Secretariat for approval: (i) steps to improve media access to the PAC proceedings; (ii)
establishment of a technical support unitfor PAC.

Prior Action 6: A public financial management improvement plan developed and its implementation
initiated with measures and timetable to address gaps, including those identified in the recently
developed public financial management indicators.

Pnor Action 6 has been completed. A PFMIP has beenprepared; it was endorsed by the development
partners and approved by the Finance Division. Future development assistance in the P F M reform
'area will be guided by the PFMIP. Key initial implementation measures have included: listing inthe
FY07 budget o f all explicit guarantees and counter guarantees provided by the government against
loans negotiated by various state-owned financial and non-financial enterprises; and reconciliation o f
government-wide transactions on a monthly basis starting from July 2006. GOBhas also approved a
technical assistance project by the Parliamentary Secretariat to strengthen the PAC, which, among



                                                25

other things, would enable media access to PAC proceedings and establishment o f a technical support
unitfor PAC, after the nextParliamentis electedandbegins itswork.

Indicative Triaaer (7 of 12): Operationalize and make functional the complaints mechanismfor
procurement, including the establishment of independent review panels, meeting the standard
stipulated in the procurement regulations. Publish quarterly procurement MIS results on CPTU's
website with peformance indicators for key implementing agencies in the infrastructure and power
sector (REB, LGED, RHD, and BEDB).

Prior Action 7: Effectiveness and transparency o f public procurement enhanced with (i)
establishment o f a complaints mechanism for procurement, including independent review panels,
meeting the standards stipulated inthe procurement regulations; and (ii)   publishing,on a pilot basis,
o f quarterly procurement management information systems results on CPTU's website with
performance indicators for key implementing agencies inthe infrastructure and power sectors.

Prior Action 7 has been completed. (a) The complaint mechanism appears to have been functional for
most o f the 12 cases handled so far. GOB formed four review panels, each with three members as per
the provisions o f the Public Procurement Regulations (PPR) 2003 (one senior retired person, one
legal person, one business chamber person). The review panels have resolved the cases before them,
and now appear to be operating independently with improved adherence to the PPR 2003.              No
complaint was pending for review as o f November 8, 2006. (b) Four agencies (REB, LGED, RHD,
and BWDB) were initially selected for integration with the Central Procurement Technical Unit
(CPTU) for data transmission. Later, in consultation with the Bank, GOBdecided to start with REB
and LGED on a pilot basis. Data from those two agencies on procurements valued above Tk 10
million during FY05-06 have been received and are beingprocessed for publication o f an MIS report
on a trial basis on CPTU's website.

Indicative Trimer (8 of 12): Take appropriate steps to strengthen the Anti-Corruption Commission
and its management.

Prior Action 8: Appropriate steps carried out to strengthen the Anti-Comption Commission and its
management.

Prior Action 8 has been completed. GOBhas strengthened the effectiveness o f the ACC with the
following key actions: (a) The ACC was recently reconstituted with far more effective personnel,
replacing the Chairman and the two other Commissioners because o f poor performance; (b) an
interim organogram for the ACC has been approved and gazetted; and (c) rules relating to (i)   service
and recruitment and (ii) prosecutionhave been approved.

Indicative Tripper (9 of 12): Formulate and adopt a least cost generation development plan for
generation investments in the power sector and ensure that all proposed generation investments,
extant and in thefuture, are consistent with this plan. To complement this plan, alsoformulate and
adopt a Generation Financing Plan which will defne the Government's financing strategy for
generation investments including, inter alia, the proportion of generating capacity and the specijk
generation investments to be procured under private and public fnancing and ownership,
respectively. All procurement of generation capacity will be in line with the Public Procurement
Regulations and, as applicable, the Private Power Generation Policy and the Private Sector
Infrastructure Guidelines. I n the event of any deviation IDA will be informed.

Prior Action 9: Policy environment for expanding generation capacity strengthened with (i)   adoption
o f a least cost generation development plan for generation investments in the power sector; and (ii)



                                                 26

selection o f expert consultants to help formulate a generation financing plan including, inter alia, the
proportion o f generation capacity and the specific generation investments to be procured under
private and public financing and ownership, respectively.

Prior Action 9 has been comuleted. The least cost generation development plan has been adopted
with the understanding that all proposed generation investments, extant and in the future, would be
consistent with said development plan. The consultants selected for formulating the generation
financingplan are expected to complete the task inFY08.

Indicative Triwer ( I O of 12):Issue a bidpackage topre- qualifiedprivate investorsfor at least one
new, baseloadpower plant, consistent with the above referenced regulations andpolicies.

Prior Action 10: Prospects for developing a fair, transparent and competitive procurement process for
procuring a new, baseload, gas-fired combined-cycle power plant inthe power sector, consistent with
the Recipient's regulations and procurement policies enhanced with the appointment o f a reputable
international transaction adviser for the process.

Prior Action 10 has been completed.          It also is noteworthy that in addition to recruiting the
international transaction adviser the Government has avoided instances o f flawed procurement o f
large power plants, a key concern at the time the indicative trigger was negotiated with GOB. These
steps, in the overall context o f the strong anti-corruption measures being taken by the CTG, signal
significant improvement in the prospects o f establishing a fair, transparent, competitive procurement
process for large power plants.

Indicative Trimer (IIof 12):For the Small Power Plant program (to mitigate load shedding in the
interim to bringing suppry and demand of generating capacity into balance) make all procurement of
power on the basis of transparent and competitive procedures including the issue of model security
packages (PPA, FSA) and licensing agreements and selection criteria based on technical
competence,jnancial capabilities and tangs ofered by competing bidders, with relative weights
consistent with internationalgoodpractices.

Prior Action II: All possible steps taken to ensure that the process o f procuring power under its
Small Power Plant Programi s transparent and i s based on competitive procedures, including the issue
o f model security packages and licensing agreements, and selection criteria based on technical
competence, financial capabilities and tariffs offered by competing bidders, with relative weights
consistent with international good practices

Prior Action 11has been comuleted.

Indicative Trimer (I2 of 12):Initiate implementation of the Power Sector Financial Recovely and
Restructuring Plan (covering specific actions on asset re-valuation, debt restructuring, pension
liabilities, targs, arrears).

Prior Action 12: Financial situation in the power sector improved with (i)adoption o f a financial
recovery and restructuring plan (covering specific actions on asset re-valuation, debt restructuring,
pension liabilities, tariffs, arrears), and initial implementation o f the plan with the adjustment o f
power tariffs and collection o f payment arrears to power utilities; (ii) reduction in BPDB's average
payment arrears to IPPs to less than 45 days; and (iii)    submission to the Council o f Advisers o f a
financing plan, including a combination o f budgetary support and tariff increases, to put the sector on
financial recovery path




                                                   27

     Prior Action 12 has been completed. The Government has adopted the FRP, in principle, and has
     further agreed to start restructuring the balance sheets o f all power utilities from July 2007. It has
     also initiated implementation o f the plan by adjusting power tariffs and collecting payment arrears to
    power utilities, and has further agreed to start restructuring the balance sheets o f all power utilities
     from July 2007. Recognizingthe fragile financial position o f the BPDB, which i s causing it to not be
     current on its payments to the IPPs and other creditors, the Government has: (a) reduced BPDB's
     average payment arrears to IPPs to less than 45 days; and (b) submitted to the Council o f Advisers a
     financing plan, including a combination o f budgetary support and tariff increases, to put the sector on
     financialrecovery path.

Priorities for the Next Phase o f Reforms

78.      The Government's PRS proposes a wide-ranging development agenda, which the CTG has
adopted inits entirety. Appropriately under the current conditions, and also consistent with the emphasis
inthe PRS, the CTG has accorded its highest priority to strengthening governance, and, within that, to
mending the electoral system, restoring essential law and order conditions, and strengthening key
institutions o f accountability such as the EC, the ACC, and the judiciary. Moreover, the CTG remains
committed to deepening the reforms initiated by the last elected government inthe core governance areas
o f public expenditure and financial management, public procurement, tax administration, economic
deregulation, and public administration. To further strengthen the investment climate, the CTG proposes
to ensure continued macroeconomic stability, deepen trade liberalizationand banking sector reforms, and
address the burgeoning concerns inthe power sector, hitherto an area o f slow reforms.

79.      Inthe arena o f political governance, the CTG, having reconstituted the EC with competent and
neutral appointees, wants to implement further electoral reforms to create the necessary enabling
environment for the conduct o f free and fair elections. The EC has commenced revising the voter list,
which reportedly includes a large number o f fraudulent names, in accordance with the Supreme Court
verdicts on the matter. It will enforce existing legislation, regulations and court decisions relating to the
disclosure o f election finance costs; the submission and publication o f candidate information (disclosure
o f assets and liabilities, criminal records, sources o f funding, business interests and so forth); and election
funding costs, in addition to sanctions for failing to comply with the requirements o f the Representation
o f People Order. It will also impose registration requirements on the political parties, and take further
actions to minimize the influence o f money and muscle power on the political system. The dnve to bring
tojustice politicians and government officials suspected o f large-scale corruption will continue, within the
bounds o f the constitutional legal system. Legal provisions with respect to asset disclosure are to be
enforced and convicted persons will be barred from contesting elections. Finally, the EC is considering
the possibility o f issuingvoter IDcards. This will need to evaluated against the delay it will likely cause
inholdingthe elections.

80.      Curbing corruption and improving governance will need to go beyond investigations,
prosecutions, and convictions. The emphasis over the longer term will have to be on prevention. The
CTG has begun exploring the possibility o f overhauling the Public Services Commission as the first step
in revitalizing the civil service. Given Bangladesh's experience o f recent years, more effective checks
and balances will be needed to restore the confidence o f citizens inthe government. The reconstitution of
the ACC and the EC and the separation o f the judiciary from the executive are all important steps in the
right direction. Efforts to strengthen these and all other institutions are underway and will be helpfulin
restoring citizens' confidence. The appointment o f persons o f integnty and competence to key positions
o f statutory office has already been evident inthe manner inwhich these institutionshave started robustly
to pursue their constitutional or statutory mandates.




                                                        28

81.      GOBrecognizes the importance o f improving the quality o f PFM for achieving the development
goals set forth in the PRS. It aims to reinforce the envisaged improvements inbudget procedures with
enhancements in financial management, procurement, and public administration.             GOBalso remains
committed to time-bound implementation o f the PFMIP to boost performance o f the core financial
management functions. Building on the tremendous improvements to the regulatory framework o f the
public procurement system, GOBplans to strengthen the enforcement o f the recently adopted landmark
Procurement Law.       The proposed interventions under the second procurement reform project, as
mentioned in para 49, constitute important next steps.        Furthermore, in addition to earlier steps o f
eliminating a major conflict o f interest by separating the external audit and internal accounting functions,
GOBis committed to making the C&AG functionally and administratively independent including by
earmarking for it nondiscretionarybudgetary allocation.

82.      The Government also recognizes that, in addition to more efficient public spending, progress in
key development areas such as health, education, infrastructure, and social protection will require higher
levels of public expenditure, for which revenue mobilization needs to be significantly improved.
Implementation o f the tax administration modernization program recently developed by GOB(para 39)
would be essential for better revenue mobilization, with special emphasis on organizing the NBR along
functional lines (rather than the current tax-by-tax structure); improving taxpayer services, HR policies
and procedures; and developing ICT capacity.          These actions would need to be supported by a
comprehensive review o f tax policy and necessary legslative reforms to correct major tax policy
distortions, and strengthening of customs administration.

83.      Continued macroeconomic stability and sustainability will remain essential for an investment
climate conducive to efficient private investment and growth.         Sustainability of public sector debt,
necessary for macroeconomic stability, would require stronger revenue mobilization efforts and
containment o f the recent increase in the losses o f the energy sector SOEs. The latter can only be
achieved by implementing a more efficient pricing mechanism for energy products, which automatically
adjusts prices on a regular basis in response to changes on the cost side. Inthe interim, as energy prices
are adjustedto their cost recovery levels, the energy companies would need explicit liquidity support from
the budget to keep them operational and prevent further bleeding o f the already fragile public sector
banks. Bangladesh Bank intends to implement policies that seem quite judicious: further tightening
monetary policy to ward off nascent inflationary pressures, malung flexible use o f the interest rate, and
continuing the reliance on market mechanismsto determine the exchange rates.

84.      A stronger investment climate will also require deepening o f financial sector and trade reforms, a
renewed focus on overcoming the infrastructure challenges, and further deregulation o f the domestic
economy to lower the cost o f doing business. The recent success indivesting Rupali Bank would need to
be replicated next for Agrani Bank and then Janata Bank. Inaddition, banlung regulationwould need to
be strengthened by further tightening prudential regulations in line with international practices and
enhancing the monitoring capacity at the Bangladesh Bank. Inthe area o f trade liberalization, authorities
would benefit from continued reduction in the nominal protection levels, with emphasis on phasing out
the plethora o f para-tariffs that not only increase protection levels but also generate rent-seelung
opportunities. This would need to be supplemented with a well-functioning duty drawback system. The
CTG's decision to make power sector reform a high priority area i s a welcome move. Its focus on
attracting private investors in power generation (through a fair, transparent, and competitive bidding
process), adhering to least-cost principles, preparinga Generation Financing Strategy, and implementing
the recently adoptedFRPalso seems quite appropriate.

85.      The CTG rightly views the current situation as a major and unique opportunity for implementing
bold reforms and turning around weak governance. At the same time, it feels that this ambitious reform
program will need flexible concessional financing, and has requested continued support from the Bank in



                                                      29

the form o fa budget support operation inFY08, similar innature to the DSCs. Inview o fthe strong track
recordo fthe CTG thus far, the Bank would be open to the idea, provided the reform efforts inthe priority
areas continue to be satisfactorily implemented. Under appropriate conditions, the exact form, timing,
and scope o f the operation will be negotiatedwith the Government later this year.

86.     While the exact indicative triggers for the next budget support operation will be identified at the
time the operation is negotiated with GOB,continued macroeconomic stability and substantial reform
progress in the areas o f trade liberalization, tax administration, public expenditure and financial
management, procurement, and power and banking sectors would be considered essential. Key reform
actions inthe Government's medium-term policy matrix that could be considered for support under such
an operation include the following:

        0   Trade liberalization. (i) Substantial progress on merger o f remaining supplementary duties
            with existing customs duty rates, ensuring one tariff rate for each tariff line. (ii)
                                                                                                Substantial
            progress on elimination o f protective use o f VAT. (iii)Continued phased reduction in
            average nominal protectionrates.

        0   Banlung Sector Reforms. (i)     Bringingthe Agrani Bank to the point o f sale, a process that
            would be facilitated by appointment o f a competent sales adviser, as in the case o f Rupali
            Bank. (ii)   Agreement between managing directors o f the Agrani, Janata, and Sonali Banks
            and GOB on key performance targets for the respective banks and implementation o f
            mechanismsto hold the managing directors accountable for achievement o fthose targets.

        0   Public Expenditure Management. (i)      Extension o f the pilot MTBF approach to at least four
            more ministries. (ii) Increasedrole o f high-level decision makers inbudget planning through
            the operationalizationo f the Budget Management Committees.

        0   Public Financial Management. (i)    Phased implementation o f the PFMIP. (ii)    Establishment
            inline ministriesofplanningandbudgetingwings and functional financial managementunits
            withinthem.

        0   Procurement Reforms. (i)   Establishment o f an electronic government procurement system at
            CPTU, and piloting o f the system at key agencies such as RHD, LGED, REB, BWDB. (ii)
            Strengthening o f CPTUwith appropriate staffing and infrastructure.

        0   Tax Administration. (i)   Creation o f three new member positions at the NBR Board, to take
            charge o f the functional responsibilities o f audit, ICT, and HR that have temporarily been
            assigned to existing members. (ii)   Establishment o f a unique taxpayer identification number
            for both Income Tax andVAT.

            Macroeconomic Stability.      Adherence to the macroeconomic framework agreed with the
            IMF. Further monetary tightening to ward off inflationary pressures, full adjustment o f
            energy prices to their cost recovery levels to bring energy companies to at least to a break
            even point, and continued flexible use o f exchange rates to cope with external pressures.

        0   Power Sector Reforms. (i)     Implementation o f the FRP, including by completing financial
            restruc&ng    o f power sector companies and ensuring BPDB's full financial recovery. (ii)
            Enabling private investment in power generation though a fair, transparent, and competitive
            bidding process, adhering to least-cost principles. (iii)Completion o f the Generation
            Financing Strategy.




                                                     30

                                 VII.    ImplementationArrangements

Monitoringand Evaluation

87.      Improving the quality and effectiveness of policies will require more timely and reliable
information for policy analysis and assessing outcomes. The PRS outlines a monitoring framework,
which includes monitoring indicators, data sources, and institutional arrangements for monitoring and
providing feedback to policy makers. Sources include existing data as well as plannedannual surveys for
traclung intermediate indicators relatedto access, usage, and satisfaction with public services.

88.      Repeated rounds o f Household and Income Expenditure Survey (HIES) conducted by the
Bangladesh Bureau o f Statistics (BBS) are the single most important basis for poverty monitoring and
analysis. The HIES o f 2000 provided baseline information for most outcome indicators identified in the
PRS, and the 2005 round o f HIES updated information on these indicators. The recently publishedHIES
2005 report incorporates poverty trends and patterns based on a revised poverty line, reflecting the latest
sampling design and consumption pattern. These provide a solid basis for consistent poverty monitoring
from future rounds o f HIES. Additional information on MDG indicators is provided by other surveys
such as the Demographic and Health Surveys and Child Nutrition Surveys.            A Labor Force Survey
conducted by the BBS (the latest round was conducted in 2005-06) provides information on indicators
related to employment and characteristics o fthe labor force.

89.      Efforts are also underway to improve monitoring o f performance in PFM. A s noted, GOBhas
developed baseline ratings o f the core PFM functions and has instituted a PFMIP to improve
performance.

90.      Successful monitoring depends critically on institutional arrangements and their capacity. A
National Poverty Focal Point (NPFP) has been created inthe General EconomicsDivision of the Planning
Commission to monitor poverty and track progress in implementing the national strategy for economic
growth and poverty reduction.      The NPFP i s expected to evolve into an effective and technically
competent Poverty Monitoring Unit with strong linkages across ministries and with various stakeholders
outside the Government. The BBS and the Planning Division also intend to develop an integrated
National Databank accessible to all government departments.

91.      As noted by the PRS, improving the capacity o f the key monitoring institutions i s critical to
improving the quality o f information systems. Inrecent years, capacity improvement inmonitoring and
evaluation (M&E) has occurred along multiple dimensions. Technical assistance from the World Bank,
including an ongoing Institutional Development Facility grant, has helped BBS improve the survey
quality and speed o f data processing over successive rounds o f HIES. The capacity o f BBS to measure
and analyze poverty has benefited from close on-the-job collaboration with the Bank. A number o f
training courses and workshops-some      administeredby the World Bank Institute-have      hrther enhanced
the analytical capacity at BBS as well as other government departments and nongovernment think tanks.
The Government wishes to continue upgrading the capacity for M&E, with necessary support from
development partners. While continuing with the current technical support on poverty monitoring and
analysis, the Bank i s also expanding its assistance to BBS. A new subproject for BBS under EMTAP
proposes to help design systems to monitor (a) welfare indicators and correlates o f consumption poverty
more frequently than currently possible, and (b) labor market indicators annually rather than the current
practice o f every 3-4 years through the Labor Force Survey.

92.      Loolung ahead, the M&E agenda will benefit from improving the policy linkages with poverty
diagnostics, for which the NPFPPoverty Monitoring Unit would play a key coordinating role. The
outcome indicators available from the HIESs can be used to better define longer-term targets, align policy
priorities to these targets, and monitor progress. Selecting and consistently tracking a set o f output or


                                                    31

intermediate indicators will improve the feedback from monitoring to implementation o f specific policies
or programs.

93.       Overall, the mentioned efforts to strengthen monitoring and evaluation systems provide an
excellent opportunity to evaluate the various reforms supported under the DSCs.                If implemented
successfully, they should further improve the quality o f information and analyses to underpin policy
making and establish a stronger focus on results within the Government.

CreditAdministration, DisbursementandAuditing

94.       Borrower, Credit Amount, Terms and Tranchinq. The borrower is the People's Republic o f
Bangladesh. A single tranche Credit o f about SDR 132.2 million (US$200 million equivalent) would be
made available upon credit effectiveness, anticipated for June 2007. The closing date o f the Credit i s
December 31,2007.

95.       Disbursement. Proceeds o f the Credit will be disbursed to a specific deposit account o f the
MinistryofFinance and Planningestablished at BangladeshBankfor thispurpose; the deposit account is
part o f the country's official foreign exchange reserves. An amount equivalent to the Credit proceeds will
then be credited to an account o f the Government to finance budgeted expenditures. Transactions and
balances o f the Government account will be fully incorporated into the Government's accounting records
and financial statements. Disbursement will not be linkedto any specific purchases and no procurement
requirements will be needed. If any portion o f the Credit proceeds i s used for ineligible purposes as
defined by the Financing Agreement, IDA will require the Borrower either to return that amount to the
deposit account or refundthe amount directly to IDA.

96.       Fiduciarv Risk and Audit. Fiduciary arrangements for this operation are no different from the
fiduciary arrangements used for managmg the Government's own foreign exchange reserves at the
Central Bank and budgetary resources through the treasury system. While recent assessments o f these
fiduciary arrangements continue to highlighta weak environment, efforts have been made inrecent years
to improve the systems, with significant results.

    0     First,a comprehensivereformeffort to improve PFMinstitutions, supportedbythis operation and
          parallel technical assistance activities i s ongoing (paras 41-49). This includes reforms to improve
          budget planning, accounting and auditing o f government transactions, financial reporting and
          procurement. More recently, accounting transactions are being computerized, improving the
          accuracy and timeliness o f public financial information. Reconciliation o f budget accounts and
          corresponding bank accounts has been improving and computerization i s also being extended to
          capture these transactions, extending computerization to beyond the treasury system.

          Second, on the foreign exchange side, the recent IMF safeguard assessment confirms that
          progress has been made on strengthening Bangladesh Bank's safeguards framework in a number
          o f areas, including through the publication o f Bangladesh Bank's financial accounts (according to
          International Financial Reporting Standards), reconciliation o f monetary data reportedto the IMF
          with the audited accounts and improvements in foreign exchange management. Starting from
          FY03, the Bangladesh Bank has had its financial statements audited by internationally affiliated
          audit firms in full compliance with international standards on auditing. The entries o f the deposit
          account will, upon request from IDA, be audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA
          under terms o freference inaccordance with international standardson auditing.




                                                         32

EnvironmentalIssues

97.      Overall, the policies supported by DSC IV will not have significant negative effects on the
environment, natural resources, or forests. Many o f the policy actions may, in fact, indirectly generate
environmental benefits by reducing pressures on the natural resources and may facilitate the adoption o f
cleaner technologies inproduction sectors, thus leadingto better environmental outcomes.

98.      The effects o f the policies supported by the proposed DSC IV are sector specific. Deepening
trade liberalizationandreducingaverage nominal protectionmay generate indirect environmental benefits
byreducingpressures on natural resources which arebeingoverexploited. A reductionintariffs will tend
to increase imports and reduce the domestic price, thereby easing pressures on these resources.
Bangladesh i s a net importer o f wood products because o f its limited and degraded forest cover. Lower
tariffs on wood products can also be expected to ease pressures on felling for commercial purposes. In
the industrial sector, there i s cross-country evidence that import competitiontends to improve compliance
with environmental regulations.         However, given the weak regulatory environment, in the interim,
negative impacts may arise if increased competition encourages the use o f cheaper pollution-intensive
technologies. The net impact remains uncertain and will vary by sector, the degree o f competition, and
the access to cleaner technology. The limited evidence based on cross-country analysis indicates that in
most cases access to international markets and import competition has no detrimental environmental
impact. While it i s likely that this i s the case inBangladesh, the issues need further study.

99.      Strategic private investors are usually more responsive than the public sector to environmental
regulations.   Therefore the proposed reforms to divest public enterprises could potentially yield
environmental improvements. But there are risks associated with contaminated sites and future liabilities
from the legacy o f pollution. Policies to address issues o f environmental liability for past contamination
and continuingpollution by SOEs undergoing privatization have been agreed withthe Government as part
o f the Enterprise Growth and Bank Modernization Project. These policies include provision for the
environmental audit o f potentially contaminated sites prior to sale, although greater attention to the
application o f these measures i s warranted. The Bank will continue to monitor implementation o f these
policies.

100.     The adoption o f least-cost generation development plan for generation investments in the power
sector will open the sector to private investment which could lead to more effective utilities operation and
adoption o f cleaner technologies. While these efforts may improve operational efficiency, they are not
expected to lead to significant impacts on natural resources or forests. The analysis increases concern
about the issue o f indoor air pollution. The majority o f poor households currently rely on biomass fuels
for cooking purposes. A limited survey o f household fuel consumption inBangladeshhas found that it i s
too expensive for most households to use electricity for coolung. Therefore, the effect o f the approved
increase in power tariff o f 5 percent o f urban retail supply and 10 percent on bulk supply i s unlikely to
have significant negative impact but will be studied further.          The Bank has launched a nonlending
technical assistance to addressing the health impacts o f indoor air pollution caused by cooking fuels and
opportunities for using improved stoves that may improve fuel efficiency as well as reduce exposure to
indoor air pollution. Conversely, inthe commercial sector price reform may lead to conversion to energy
efficient technologies that may yield environmental benefits.

101.     While the proposed operation does not have any significant environmental implications, the
extent o f environmental degradation poses a substantial social and economic concern. Analysis in the
recently completed Bangladesh Country Environmental Analysis suggests that policy initiatives to reduce
environmental health risks associated with poor water quality and urban and indoor air pollution could
result in economic savings o f as much as 3.5 percent o f GDP. A number o f critical issues regarding
environmental health, natural resource productivity, and urban and industrial pollution have been at the



                                                       33

center o f Bank's policy dialogue with GOBand will remain a strategic challenge o f utmost importance.
The Strategic Environmental Assessment o f Dhaka Area Development Plans is in progress and will
support the institutional coordination for better management o f Dhaka area and will respond to the
increasing environmental and governance challenges. Equally important i s to continue the institutional
capacity building support to the Department o f Environment (DOE)to better control the rapidly escalating
urban and industrial environmental challenges facing Bangladesh. Priority actions are being taken for
updating the DOEStrategic Plan prior to submitting for approval by the Ministry o f Environment and
Economic Relations Division. Strengthening environmental institutions and transparency should improve
the capacity o f regulating bodies and lead to better environmental compliance.        Improved access to
environmental information will increase the awareness o f the public and engage civil society in
formulation o f environmental policies and protectiono f environmental resources.

                 VIII. Benefits andPoverty and Social Impact ofProposed Reforms

102.    The DSC series has sought to support reforms aimed at strengthening prospects for stronger
economic growth, improved governance, and faster poverty reduction. By most measures, Bangladesh's
recent development recordjustifies this support. Economic growth i s at historically high levels, poverty
fell by 9 percentage points between 2000-05, and most o f the MDGs seem attainable.             Growth has
benefited from macroeconomic stability, trade liberalization, regulatory reforms, banking reforms, some
improvements in infrastructure provisioning, and more efficient public expenditure management. These
are all areas that the DSCs have explicitly supported. The institutional reforms supported by the DSCs
have a longer gestation period and therefore it i s too soon to judge their efficacy. Nonetheless, broad-
based governance reforms targeted at strengthening core governance functions-such             as PFM, tax
administration, public administration, and checks and balances on public entities-are    expected over the
longer term to improve public service delivery, reduce systemic corruption, and strengthen the business
environment.

103.    The specific reforms supported by DSC IV are expected to have a positive net income and social
impact on the poor. Core governance reforms such as making the ACC more effective and improving the
PFM functions, including public procurement, are expected to deter and reduce future misuse o f public
resources, and the saving from this can be used for pro-poor spending. Measures to improve budgetary
planning and execution would help strengthen the targeting o f pro-poor public expenditure toward the
needy and improve the quality o f projects under the ADP which would enhance prospects for rural and
urban growth. Improvements in tax administration being sought by the DSC-supported reforms would
create the fiscal space for expanding pro-poor policies and programs and pro-growth capital expenditure,
particularly in the critical area o f power and other infrastructure. Insufficient trade openness has been
identified as a key contributor to weak export competitiveness environment and lack o f export
diversification in Bangladesh." Trade liberalization measures accordingly would improve prospects for
export diversification into labor-intensive manufacturing in areas other than RMG, which would create
job opportunities for the population, including the poor, just as the RMG boom generated close to 2
millionjobs-90    percent o f them for women from poor households.

104.    Reforms in the energy sector are designed to improve access and reliability o f power supply,
especially to the poor. While a significant proportion o fthe poor have electricity connections, the number
o f hours per day that they actually get the electricity i s very limited because o f generation shortfalls.
Financial sector reforms will improve the efficiency o f state owned banks, which i s likely to improve
access to finance for the poor and the non-poor. Moreover improved efficiency o f banks would lead to
reduced interest spreads, thereby reducing borrowing rates for the poor.



''WorldBank,   2005, Bangladesh: Growth and Export Competitiveness,ReportNo. 31394-BD, Washington, DC.


                                                     34

105.    Recent analysis by the Bank using HIES 2000 and HIES 2005 data shows that the direct social
impact o f energy price increases-in   terms o f the effect onhousehold consumption and welfare-is    likely
to be quite small for the p00r.l~This i s because expenditure on petroleum products, electricity, and
natural gas, and on public transport accounts for only about 5 percent o f the average household budget o f
the poor. The analysis further finds that the indirect (second and third round) impact o f fuel prices
increases on the poor i s also expected to be marginal.

                                             IX.      KeyRisks

106.    PoliticalRisks. The sustainability o f the reform process put in train by the CTG i s ultimately
linked to the smoothness o f the political transition. The CTG is making good efforts to create conditions
conducive to free and fair parliamentary elections, yet the timing o f the elections remains a bit uncertain:
the CTG has indicated that elections will be held before the year 2008 i s over.            The CTG enjoys
widespread public support, but it may erode if elections are postponed indefinitely.           The bilateral
development partners are taking the lead in worhng with domestic civic organizations and the
government to help an early and smooth return to democracy. The Bank has also remained in close
contact with the reform-minded members o f the two major political parties to ensure broader political
support for the DSC-supported reforms. Fortunately, both parties agree on the broad reform priorities. In
addition, to influence the sustainability and deepening o f the reforms, the timing, scale, and scope o f
future budget support operations would be linked to continued commitment o f the Government to the
reform process.

107.    Fiduciary Risks.      Fungbility o f hnds implies that budgetary resources may be diverted or
misused, which poses a particular risk to operations, such as DSC IV. The Government, however, has a
good record o f allocating public spending to key development sectors, including social spending and
infrastructure. To further mitigate the risk, auditing arrangements and financial management within
government ministries are being strengthened with DFID's assistance. The new procurement law and,
once in place, its implementation rules should further reduce the scope for misuse o f budgetary funds in
contracting. External oversight by the C&AG's office i s also being strengthened. These measures should
mitigate the overall fiduciary risks associated with the performance o f the PFM systems. To enhance the
safeguard framework, Bangladesh Bank has started strengthening its financial management with support
from the IMF and the IDA-financed Central Bank Strengthening Project.

108.    Implementationcapacity risks. Implementationcapacity is a serious bottleneck inBangladesh,
suffering from centralized public administration and unsatisfactory performance o f the civil service.
Decentralization o f responsibilities to local governments could help, but unfortunately, there i s no
political ownership. Ongoing reforms in public administration to strengthen civil service incentives and
quality, accountability and training will be useful. The Bank and other development partners are also
providing technical assistance to strengthen capacities in a number o f core areas o f economic
management includingbanlung, taxation, the budgetary process, and the energy sector.

109.    Economic Risks. The main economic risk stems from the weak financial condition o f SOEs,
especially those inthe energy sector. Sustained large losses at the energy sector SOEshave ledto a build-
up o f outstanding liabilities at these SOEs and exacerbated the financial fragilities o f the NCBs that are
directed to finance their losses. The Bank has worked closely with GOBon this issue, continually
encouraging depoliticization of price adjustment, and providing on-demand analytical notes to help
inform GOB'Sdecision. Authorities have already responded by implementing power tariff increases in
March 2007 and fuel price increases in April 2007 to stem losses at BPC and BPDB, respectively.



l 9WorldBankmimeo, 2007, "Petroleum PricesinBangladesh:A Needfor RegularandAppropriate Adjustments."
   Washington,DC.


                                                      35

However, BPC i s still unable to service its large outstanding debt burden, mostly to the NCBs, which
would need to be resolved. Authorities have recently also significantly reduced BPDB's payment arrears
to lPPs and stepped up efforts to recover power utilities' accounts receivables. They have further
expressed their commitment to closing the remainingpricing gap and, inthe interim, to providing explicit
support from the budget to BPDB to put the sector back on financial recovery path. Implementation o f
the FRP, which GOBrecently adopted in principle, should also help alleviate the financial burden on the
power utilities. Finally, the Government i s considering divesture o f the loss-malung national airline,
Biman, through a strategic partner or other appropriate means, and has sought technical assistance from
the Bank and the IFC to support this move. Another important source o f economic vulnerability i s the
persistently low tax mobilization, which severely curtains GOB'Sability to provide public goods and
services and is a source o f risk to long-term fiscal sustainability. To address this, authorities would need
to step up implementation o f the tax administration modernizationprogram (being supported by IDA and
other development partners) along with legislative reforms to correct major tax policy distortions and
strengthening o f customs administration.




                                                      36

I


cr,
m


r

N    c

s

                                                                                                            Annex 2


                         Annex Box 1: GoodPracticePrincipleson Conditionality

Principle1:Reinforce Ownership

The proposed DSC IV operation, just like the previous DSCs, supports implementation o f the government's PRS
that was finalized in November 2005 following broad-based consultations across the country and social
spectrums. As noted in the JSAN, the PRS vision appropriately builds on the policy triangle o f growth, human
development and governance. DSC IV supports the government's reform actions in two o f the PRS pillars -
developing an enabling environment for growth and strengthening core governance functions. The Bank, in
partnership with other development partners, is also engaging the government on human development reforms
through policy dialogue and lending under complementary operations.           A major window o f opportunity has
opened up with the installation o f a popular CTG. The CTG has expressed its full commitment to implementing
the PRS. While its focus has been on governance reforms, it i s also embarking on a broad set o f major policy and
institutional reforms to strengthen economic management. These measures have widespread public support.

Principle2: Agree upfront with thegovernment and otherfinancialpartners on a coordinated accountability
framework

The Bank's support under the DSCs is centered on the attached policy matrix that summarizes the key reforms in
the areas o f governance and enabling investment climate that are part o f the government's overall reformagenda.
The policy matrix is very much consistent with the medium-term matrix ofreforms inthe FY06-09 CAS that was
jointly preparedwith ADB, DFID, and Japan -the major developmentpartners inBangladesh.

Principle3: Customizethe accountabilityframework and modalities of Bank support to country circumstances

The foremost development challenge facing Bangladesh today is o f weak governance.                Perception-based
indicators, including the Transparency International's CorruptionPerception Index and the World Bank Institute's
Governance Indicators, have consistently placed Bangladesh at the bottom quartile o f their cross-country ratings.
Fortunately, spurred by growing citizen demand for curbing corruption and the new CTG has made the fight
against corruption and weak governance its topmost policy priority and has undertaken important measures
toward this. These measures have widespread public support. The CTG i s also carrying forward the economic
policy reform agenda o f the previous elected government. While sensitive reforms such as trade liberalization
and increases in energy prices have faced resistance from various pressure groups, the general public has not
actively opposed them.      Analytical work by the Bank shows clear benefits o f these economic reforms on
economic growth and macroeconomic sustainability and finds minimal adverse impact o f these o n the poor.

Principle4: Chooseonly actions criticalfor achieving results as conditionsfor disbursement

The twelve prior actions (indicative triggers) that underpin the DSC IV were chosen from the agreed policy
matrix.   Reforms supported by the proposed Credit involve critical steps aimed at (a) strengthening core
governance functions, with emphasis o n reforms inpublic procurement, budget formulation and budget execution,
and tax administration; and (b) improving the investment climate, by maintaining macroeconomic stability,
deepening trade liberalization, and strengthening performances o fbanking and energy sectors and SOEs.

Principle5: Conducttransparentprogress reviews conducivetopredictable andperformance-basedfinancial
support

The indicative triggers underpinning the DSC IV operation were agreed with the government during DSC I11
negotiations inOctober 2005. At that time, the government had expressed its desire to receive DSC IV financing
inthe first quarter of FY07 (July 2006 -June 2007). The delay inthe DSC IV was caused by the delays in
implementation o f prior actions in power, banking, and anti-corruption reform, and several months o f political
upheaval. Nonetheless, the DSC IV financing was included by the government in its FY07 budget. The policy
matrix contains a limitednumber o f outcome indicators which are closely linked to the supported policy actions
and will be assessed as part o f the operation implementation.




                                                          44

                                                                                                                                             Annex 3
                                      Bangladesh at a glance

POVERTYand SOCIAL                                                      South         LOW-
                                                     Bangladesh         Asia      Income        Developmentdiamond'
2006
~

Population,mid-year (millions)                               144.4     1,470        2,353
GNI percapita (Atlas method, US$)                               480      684          580                      Lifeexpectancy
GNI (Atlas method, US$billions)                                69.9    1,005         1,364                           T
Average annual growth, 2000.06
Population(%)                                                   1.9       1.7          1.9
Laborforce (%)                                                  2.2       2.1          2.3                                              Gross
                                                                                                                                       primary
 Most recent estimate (latestyear available, 2000.06)                                           capita                              enrollment
Poverty (% ofpopulationbelownabonalpoverlyline)                  50
 Urbanpopulation (% of totalpopulation)                          25        29          31
 Lifeexpectancyat birth(years)                                   63        63          59                            L
 Infant mortality (per f.OO0 livebirths)                         56        66          80
 Child malnutntion (% of childrenunder5)                         48        45          39            Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improvedwater source (% ofpopulation)               74        84           75
 Literacy(% ofpopulationage 1%)                                  41        60          62
 Grossprimaryenrollment (% ofschool-agepopulation)              109       110          104             -Bangladesh
    Male                                                        107       116          110                      Low-income group
                                                                                                         ~

    Female                                                      111       105          99

 KEYECONOMICRATIOSand LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                   1986       I996     2005          2006    I  Economic ratios'
 GDP (US$ billions)                                21.2        40.7      60.0         62.0
 Gross capitalformationlGDP                        16.7        20.0      24.5         25.0
 Exportsofgoodsand services/GDP                     5.4        11.1      16.6         17.8   I                     Trade
 Gross domestic savingdGDP                          9.8        12.4      20.0         20.3
 Gross nationalsavings/GDP                         16.9        20.0      258          26.6
 Currentaccount balance/GDP                         -5.1        -3.2      -0.9         09
 InterestpaymentdGDP                                0 7         0.5       0.4                   Domestic                           Capital

TotaldebtlGDP                                      38 1        37.7      30.6                   savings                            formation

Total debt service/exports      *                  28 4        11.4       5.8                I                        1
 Presentvalue of debt/GDP                                                22.0                                        L

 Present valueof debffexports                                            96.5
                                                                                                                Indebtedness
                                                                                                          -
                                        1986-96 1m.08         2005     2006       2006-10
 (average annualgrowth)
 GDP                                       4.2       5.4        6.0       6 7          6.3                       Bangladesh
 GDP percapita                              1.8      3.4        4.0       4.8          4.5                     - Low-incomegroup
 Exportsof goodsand services               117       9.6       15.6      15.7         12.5


 STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                   1986        I996     2005         2006
 (% of GDP)                                                                                     Growthof capitaland GDP (%)

 Agriculture                                       31.9        25.7      20.1         19.5        T
 Industry                                          21.5        24.9      27.2         28.1     10
   Manufacturing                                   14.0        15.4      16.5         17.2
 Services                                          46.5        49.5      52.6         52.4      5


 Householdfinal consumption expenditure            85.6        83.2      76.4         76.1                01    02    03     04     05     OB
 Generalgov't final consumption expenditure          4.3        4.4       5.5          5.6
 Importsof goods and services                      12.2        18.7      23.0         24.4                  -GCF            *GDP



                                                1986-96 1996.08        2005
 (average annualgrowth)                                                                        Growthof exportsand imports(%)                 1
 Agriculture                                         2.3        3.6       2.2          4.5     30T
 Industry                                            6.5        7.0       8.3
   Manufacturing                                     6.7        6.3       8.2
 Services                                            3.8        5.5       6.4         lili
 Householdfinal consumptionexpenditure               3.2        3.6       5.1          6.0    -lo
 Generalgov't final consumption expenditure         4.0         8.3       7.8          7.9    - 2 0 1
 Grosscapitalformation                              6.7         8.6      10.7          8.0                -~xports         *imports
 Importsof goods and services                        7.5        5.8      19.1         14.1

 Note: 2006 data are preliminaryestimates.Group data are for 2005.
  The diamondsshow four key indicatorsin the country (in bold) comparedwith its incorneqroup average. If data are missing, the diamond will
    be incomplete.

                                                                      45

                                                                                                                           Annex 3


                                                                                                             Bangladesh

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                             1986   1996    2005   2006
Domestic prices                                                             Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                  8 7

Consumer prices                                       6.7     6.5    7.0
ImplicitGDP deflator                           8.0    4.2     5.1    5.2

Government flnance
(% of GDP,includescurrentgrants)                                            0 4                                            I
Current revenue                                9.5    9.0   10.5   10.7             01     02    03         w     05       OB
Current budget balance                         4.1    2.2     2.1    2.2
Overallsurplusfdeficit                        -3.1   -4.5    -3.8   -3.3              -GDP      deflatw     "O'CPI


TRADE
                                             1986   1996    2005   2006    1
(US$ millions)                                                              Exportand import levels (US$ mill.)

Total exports (fob)                           819  3,884   8,573  10,422    14,000
 Rawjute                                       124     91      96    117    12,000
 Leatherand leatherproducts                    61    241     221    269     10,000
 Manufactures                                 486  3,205    7,819  9,506     8,000
Total imports(cif)                           2,364 6,947   11,870 13,301     0.000
 Food                                         356    570    1,607  1,801     4.000
 Fueland energy                                342   274    1,602  1,795     2.000
 Capitalgoods                                1,003  1,918   1,794  2,010         0

Exportpriceindex (2000=100)                    46      85     119    122            W     01   02     03     04   05     OB

Importpriceindex (2000=100)                    48      79     134    141                 mExports         DlmpOrtS
Terms of trade (2000=100)                       96    108      89     87

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                             1986   1996    2005   2006
(US$ millions)                                                              Currentaccount balance to GDP (%)

Exportsof goods and services                 1,043 4,437   9,750  11,718     2 T
Importsof goods and services                 2,587  7,604  13,917 15,707
Resourcebalance                             -1,544 -3,167  -4,167 -3,989

Net income                                   -126      55   580    -786
Net currenttransfers                          586   1,821  4,290   5,347

Currentaccountbalance                       -1,084 -1,291   -557    572

Financingitems (net)                         1,212   274     624   -207
Changesin net reserves                       -128   1,017     5 7  -365     -31
Memo:
Reservesincludinggold (US$ millions)                1,878  2,929   3,488
Conversionrate (DC, localNS$)                29.9   40.9    61.8   67.2

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                             1986   1996    2004   2005
(US$ millions)                                                              Compositionof 2005 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         8,062 15,341  20,129 18,935
  IBRD                                         61      46       0      0
  IDA                                        2,450 5,713   8,895   8,688                F:528 G:688


Total debt service                            448    672     671    791
  IBRD                                           5      8       8      0
  IDA                                          28      92    208    223
Compositionof net resourceflows
  Officialgrants                              553    596     822    671
  Officialcreditors                           843    548     557    339
  Privatecreditors                             55     -30     -16     -9
  Foreign direct investment (net inflows)        2     14    449    802
  Potlfolio equity (netinflows)                  0  -117       4       1                              C: 308
World Bank program
  Commitments                                 383     168    707    500      A - IBRD                         E- Bilateral
  Disbursements                               337    279     615    547      B IDA      D Other multilateral
                                                                                         -                    F Private
                                                                                                               -
  Principalrepayments                            8     54     148    153     C IMF
                                                                               --                             G -Short-term
  Net flows                                   330    225     467    394
  Interestpayments                             25     45      68      70
  Net transfers                               305     180    399    325


DevelopmentEconomics



                                                          46

                                                                                                                                                                  Annex 4



                                                                                              Statistical Annexes
                                                                      Table 1: Government of BangladeshFiscalTrends


                 (BillionTakas)                                                                                                             Estimate      Projections
                                                              1998-99      1999-2000        2000-01    2001-02   2002-03  2003-04  2004-05  2005-06  2006-07     2007-08
Total Revenue                                                  185.0          198.0          229.0      276.8     309.8    339.0    389.2    443.7    512.7       595.2
   Tax                                                         153.0          158.0          193.0      210.3     248.3    274.3    314.1    354.2    412.6         493
   Non-Tax                                                      32.0           40.0           36.0       66.5      61.5    64.7     75.1     89.5     100.1       102.2

Total Expenditure                                              -280.0        -320.0          -358.0    -403.6    -411.5   -434.7   -513.9   -579.4   -691.2       -781.3
   Currentexpenditure                                          -158.0        -178.0          -194.0    -218.2    -244.5   -258.6   -312.5   -350.4   -428.2       -435.5
   FoodAccount Surplus                                          -7.0           0.0            -2.0       -2.1      2.7      -3.5     -0.6     1.2      -2.5         -5.2
   AnnualDevelopmentProgram                                    -90.0         -127.0          -166.0    -152.3    -163.0   -167.9   -185.8   -194.7   -227.6       -299.8
   Non-ADP &Net Lending                                         -1.0           -9.0          -12.0      -17.2      -6.6    -16.0    -24.2    -41.3    -32.9        -40.8
   StructuralAdjustmentExpenditures                              ...            ...            ...       0.0      -12.3     -7.8     -1.9     0.0      0.0           0

Residual                                                       -24.0           -6.0           16.0      -13.8      12.2     19.1    11.1      5.8      0.0          0.0

Overall budgetdeficit*                                          95.0          122.0          129.0      126.8     101.7    95.7     124.7    135.7    178.5       186.1

Net foreign financing                                           56.0           57.0           50.0       58.1     64.2     35.9     60.9     49.3     55.2         90.6

Net domestictinancing                                           39.0           65.0           79.0       68.1     37.5     59.8     63.8     86.4     111.7        95.6
   Bankingsystem                                                21.0           32.0           37.0       21.7     -10.7     13.4    35.0     58.8     64.0         63.7
   Other domestic                                               18.0           33.0           43.0      46.4      48.2     46.4     28.8     27.6     47.7         31.9

PrivitazationReceipts                                           0.0            0.0            0.0        0.6       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     11.6          0.0

Total Debt (Outstanding& Disbursed)                           1004.0         1135.7          1287.8    1448.0    1.536.1  1,621.7  1.764.5  1,953.9  2.119.1      2.044.9

GDP at current market prices                                  2197.0         2371.0         2535.0     2732.0    3,006.0  3,330.0  3,707.0  4,166.0   4,682        5235

                                                                                               (As percentof GDP)

Total Revenue                                                   8.4            8.4            9.0        10.1     10.3     10.2     10.5     10.7     11.0         11.4
   Tax                                                          7.0            6.7            7.6        7.7       8.3      8.2      8.5      8.5      8.8          9.4
   Non-Tax                                                      1.5            1.7            1.4        2.4       2.0      1.9      2.0      2.1      2.1          2.0

Total Expenditure                                               12.7           13.5           14.1       14.8     13.7     13.1     13.9     13.9     14.8         14.9
   Currentexpenditure                                           7.2            7.5            7.7        8.0       8.1      7.8      8.4      8.4      9.1          8.3
   FoodAccount Surplus                                          0.3            0.0            0.1        0.1      -0.1      0.1      0.0      0.0      0.1          0.1
   AnnualDevelopmentProgram                                     4.1            5.4            6.5        5.6       5.4      5.0      5.0      4.7      4.9          5.7
   Non-ADP &Net Lending                                         0.0            0.4            0.5        0.6       0.2      0.5      0.7      1.o      0.7          0.8
   StructuralAdjustmentExpenditures                             ...             ...            ...        ...      0.4      0.2      0.1      0.0      0.0          0.0

Residual                                                        1.1            0.3            0.6        0.5       0.4      0.6     -0.3      0.1      0.0          0.0

Overall budget deficit                                          4.3            5.1            5.1        4.6       3.4      2.9      3.4      3.3      3.8          3.6

Net foreignfinancing                                            2.5            2.4            2.0        2.1       2.1      1.1      1.6      1.2      1.2          1.7

Net domesticfinancing                                           1.8            2.7            3.2        2.5       1.2      1.8      1.7      2.1      2.4          1.8
   Bankingsystem                                                1.o            1.3            1.5        0.8      -0.4      0.4      0.9      1.4      1.4          1.2
   Otherdomestic                                                0.8            1.4            1.7        1.7       1.6      1.4      0.8      0.7      1.0          0.6

PrivitazationReceipts                                           0.0            0.0            0.0        0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.2          0.0

Total Debt (Outstanding& Disbursed)                            43.2           48.9           50.8       53.0      51.1     48.7     47.6     46.9     45.7         44.1
Source: IMFandSaffestimates
*The overall budget deflcit for 2004/05 includes externally financedflood-related expenditure




                                                                                                      47

                                                                                                                                   A n n a 4




                                                             StatisticalAnnexes
                                             Table 2: Bangladesh     - Ke y Economic Indicators

                                                                                                                       Estimate
Indicator                                             1998     1999      2000     2001     2002   2003   2004    2005    2006
NationalAccounts (as "h of GDP)
Gross DomesticProduct'                                1000     IO00      100.0    IO00    100.0   1000   IO00    1000     100
   Agricdtwc                                           245     253       24.6     233      219    210    202     193     187
   Indusuy                                             248     243       1 4 4    25 I 255        253    255     26 I 270
   Services                                            507     504        510     483      49.1   501    502     505     504

Total Consumption                                      82.6    82.3       82 I 820         81 8   81 4   805     80.0    79.7
GrossDomesticFixedinvcsment                            21.7    22.2      23 0     23 1     23.2   23.4   24 0    24.5    25.0
   GovernmentInvesment                                 6 4      6.7       7 4     725      6.37   620    6 I 9   6.21    630
   private Invesment                                   15.3     15.5      156     1584    1678    1721   1783    1832    1867

E X ~ (GNFS)~
         O ~                                           13.3     13.2      14.0    153      144     142    140    162     18 9
Imparts (GNFS)                                         183      187       192     215      190    200    206     23.1    253

Gross DomesticSavings                                  174      177       179      180     182     186    195    200     203

GrossNationalSavings                                   21.8    223       23 1     224      234    249    25.4    25 8    266

Memorondum Irenu.
GrossDomesticProduct                                 44,096   45,697    47,101   46,998   47,303 51,744 56,842  60,314 62,033
(USS millionat currentpriccs)
GDPp acapita(USS, Atlas Method)                       3507    354 1     3673     371 1    3869    395 I 4183    447.7   4623

RealAnnual GrowthRates (%)
   GDP at constant marketprices                        5.2      4.9       5 9      5.3      4.4    5 3    6.3     6 0     6.7
   GrossNatioMllncomeatconstantmarkctprices            5 2      5 I       6.2      5 I      5.5    6 2    6 0     5 8     7 2

Balance of Payments (US0 millions)

Expow (GNFS)                                         5,810    5,990     6,550    7,178    6,793  7,379   8,445  9750    11718
   Merchandisef o b                                  5,103    5,283     5,701    6,419    5,929  6,492   7,521  8,573   10422

lmpow (GNFS)                                         8,049    8,527     9,060    10,103   9,061  10,285 11,638  13,917  15707
   Merchandise e  i/                                 6,772    7,217     7,566    8,430    7,697  8,707   9,840  11,870  13301

ResourceBalance                                      -2,239   -2,537    -2,510   -2,925   -2,268 -2,906 -3,193  -4,167  -3,989
Net CurrentTransfm                                    1,876   2,195     2,394    2,171    2,826  3,440   3,743  4,290   5347
CurrentAccount Balance                                -463     -477      -337    -1,018    237     76     I76    -518    572
Net Private ForeignDirect lnvcsbnent                   249      198       194      174      65    376    385     540     675
Long T m Loans                                         560     787        698     729      921    614    20 I    886     863
   Official                                            607     828        57 I 742         963    634    242     931     921
   private                                             -47      -41       127      -13     -42     -20    -41    -45     -58
Other Capital'                                        -395     -965      -640     -242     -514   -482   -433    -41    -1306

ChangeinReserves                                       151     -278       98      -384     -329   -811   -313    -67     -365

Memorandum /rems
ResourceBalance(Yhof GDP)                              -5 I -5.6         -5 3     -6.2     -4 8   -5.6   -5.6    -6 9    -64
RealAnnul GrowthRdtm
   MerchandiseExpaw ( f o b )                          153      3 5       7 9     124      -74     9 3   161     139     216
    Manufactures                                       197      5 0       8 0     132      5 5    118    124     119     145
   MerchandiseImpow (c if )                            -54      6 6       4.8     114      -87    131    130     206     121

                                                                                                                       Estimate
Indicator                                             1998     1999     2000     2001     2002    1003   2004   2005    2006

Public Finance(as "hof GDP at mkt prices)
TotalRcvcnues                                          9 3      8.4       8 4      9 0     101    103    102     105     107
Cwrent Expenditure                                    -7.1      7.2       7 5      7 7     8.0     8 1    7 8    8.4     8.4
Overall Budget Deficit                                -4.0      4.3       5 I 5 1          4 6     3 4    2.9    3 4     3 3
Capital Expenditure                                    5 6      5 6       6 5      6 5     6.2     5 6    5 5    5.7     5.7
Net ForeignFinancing                                   2.5     2.5        2 4      2 0     2 1     2.1    1.1     1.6     1.2

Monetary Indicators
MZIGDP                                                27.9     287       31.5     344      36 I 37.9     389    409     435
Growthof M 2 ("A)                                     104      128       186      166      131    15.6   137     169     195
PrivateScctor Credit Growth                           126      138       10.5     163      144    14.9   219     170     183
Total DomesticCredit Growth'                          13.3     13 I 13 7          17 7     12 9    9.5   20.7    17.5    20 5

Prices Indices (FY96 = 100)
MerchandiseExponPriceIndex                           110.6    1175      1175     120.3    1232   1262    135.2  1396   145.07
McrchandircImport PriceIndex                         1146     1255      1266     1362     146.4  1578   1642    1700   176.88
McichandircT e r n ofTrade Index                     1017      93.6     928       884     84.1    800    824    82.1    820

NominalExchangeRate (USSlLCU)*                        454     48.1      503      54.0     574     579    58.9   615     672

ConsumerPrice index (?hchange)                         7.0     8 9        2 8      1 9     2 8    4 4    5 8     6 5     7.2
GDP Deflator(?Achange)                                 5.3     4.7        1 9      1 6     3.2    4 5    4 2     5 1     5 2

Source Bonglodesh Bureou ofSiorisrics, Bonglodesh Bonkond IMF
a/ GDP at current market price
bl "GNFS" dcnotcs "goods and"on-factor services"
d Othershon-term loans +other assets+ made credit inthe BOP
d/ "LCU" denotcs "local currencyUnits'' An increase m USSRCU denotes appreciation
ei Total domesticcredit growth in2004105 is for lhc July-Febwry period




                                                                                                      48

                                                                                                                                       Annex 4


                                                               Statistical Annexes
                                                   Table 3: Bangladesh Social Indicators

                                                                          Latest Single Year                         Same Region/IncomeGroup
                                                    1991-92 1995-96 1999-2000 2002-03'            2003-04    2004-05 SouthAsia   Low-Income
Pooulation
Total populationend o f the year (millions)          113.3      122.1      128.1      133.4         135.2     137.0    1,425        2,312
   Growth rate (% annual averageforperiod)            2.1        1.8        1.4         1.4          1.3       1.3      1.8          1.9
Urbanpopulation(% ofpopulation)                       18.0      19.0       25.0       27.0                     ...     28.0          30.0
Total fertility rate (births per woman)               4.2       3.4         3.1       2.9                      3.0     3.1           3.7
Poverty (Lower poverty line)
(% ofpopulation)
National HeadcountIndex                               42.7      34.4       33.7         ...                   25.5      ...          ...
   Urban Headcount Index                              23.3      13.7       19.1         ...                   13.7      ...          ...
   Rural Headcount Index                              46.0      38.5       37.4         ...                   29.3      ...          ...
Income
GNIper capita (US$)at costant prices                 283.0     343.5      381.0      400.0         420.0      440.0    510.0        440.0
Consumer PriceIndex (1995/96=100)                              100.0       124.3      136.0         143.9     153.2    136.0        142.0
Food PriceIndex (1995/96=100)                                   100.0      128.5      137.0         146.5     158.1     ...          ...
Income/ConsumptionDistribution
GiniCo-efficient                                      0.39      0.43       0.45         ...                   0.47      ...          ...
Lowest Quintile (% o f income or consumption)         6.5       5.7        6.2          ...                   5.30      ...          ...
Highest Quintile (% o f income or consumption)       44.8       50.1       52.0         ...                   52.70     ...          ...
Public Expenditures
   Health (!?Aof GDP)                                 0.6       0.7         1.o        1.o           1.o       1.9     0.9           1.2
   Education(% of GDP)                                1.7       2.1        2.2        2.2           2.1        0.9     3.1           3.3
   Social Security and Welfare (77 of GDP)            ...        ...        1.o       0.6            0.6       0.7      ...          ...
Gross Primary School EnrolmentRate
(% of age group)
Total                                                76.0       95.0       96.6       97.3                    97.0      97           95
   Male                                               ...       97.0       97.0       97.0                    97.0     108           103
   Female                                            70.0       93.0       97.0       98.0                    98.0      89           87
Access to an ImprovedWater Source
(% ofpopulation)
Total                                                 ...        ...       97.0       97.0                    97.0      84           76
   Urban                                              ...        ...        ...         ...                    ...      92           88
   Rural                                              ...        ...        ...         ...                    ...      85           70
ImmunizationRate
(% under 12 months)     e
   Measles                                            68        69          71        76             76        77      63            64
   DPT                                                ...       77          ...       83             87                75            70
Chlld Malnutrition (% of under 5years)                73        66         49         48             48                47            ...
Life Expectancy at Birth (years)
Total                                                56.3       58.9       62         62                       64      63            59
   Male                                               55        57         61                                          62            58
   Female                                             56        59         62          ..... .                         63            60
Mortality
   Infant (per thousand live births)                  88        77          ...       67             65        56      74            77
   Under 5 (per thousand live births)                 ...       112         ...       85            88         77      99            116
 Adult (15-69)
   Male (per 1000population)                          ...       ...        278        262                              ...           ...
   Female (per IO00population)                        ...       ...        272        252                              ...           ...
   Maternal her 1000 live births)                     4.7       4.4         ...         3            3                 ...           ...
 Births attended by skilled healthstaff (!?A)         7.0       ...         14        12             13        13      ...           ...
Source:Unlockingthe Potential-ProvertyReductionStrategV Paper (GOB) ,BangladeshBureau of Statistics and WorldBank
a/ Some data correspond to 2000-01 and 2001-02
c/ The immunizationrates in2003104 are for children 12-23 months old.




                                                                         49

                                                                                                                   Annex 4


                                            StatisticalAnnexes
                          Table 4: Bangladesh:KeyExposureIndicators
                                     (inUS$ millionunless otherwisestated)

                                                 Actual                   Estimate              Projection
                                        2001      2002      2003        2004    2005        2006       2007
Total debt outstandingand
disbursed(TDO)                          15,255   17,061     18,778    19,321   20,364      21,379     22,354


Net disbursements                        557       217      337         543     1,010       1,015       975

Total debt service (TDS)a                676       727      672         958     1,018       1,039      1,107

Debt and debt serviceindicators
("/)
    TDO/XGS~                            166.6     182.6     178.8       162.6   160.9       161.1      158.9
    TDOiGDP                             32.5      35.9      36.2        34.0    33.5        34.0        33.3
    TDS/XGS                              7.4        7.8      6.4        8.1      8.0         7.8         7.9
    ConcessionaUTDO                     93.4      92.8      93.2         ...      ...         ...        ...

IBRDexposure indicators(%)
    IBRDDSiPublicDS                      1.o       0.9       1.1        0.8      0.0         0.0         0.0
    Preferredcreditor DSPublic
DSC                                     51.9      55.2      63.9        39.5    41.7        45.0        48.6

    IBRDDSiXGS                           0.1       0.1       0.1        0.1      0.0         0.0         0.0
    IBRD TDO~(us$miii)                   17         13        7          0        0          0.0         0.0
    Share of IBRDportfolio               0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0         0.0         0.0
    IDA TDO~(us$miii)                   6,439     7,063     8,062      8,208    8,805       9,480     10,099

IFC
    Loans                                91         88       94         116      98          ...         ...
    Equity andquasi-equitye              13         13       13          12      12          ...         ...

MIGA
                                         64         64       61


a/ Includespublic and publicly-guaranteeddebt, privatenon-guaranteed,use of IMF credits and net short-termcapital
bi "XGS" denotes exports of goods and services,includingworkers' remittances
c/ Preferredcreditors are defined as IBRD, IDA, the regionalmultilateraldevelopment banks, the IMF, and the Bank
for InternationalSettlements
di Includespresentvalue of guarantees
e/ Includes equityand quasi-equitytypes o f bothloanand equityinstruments




                                                                  50

                                                                                                                 Annex 4


                                                   StatisticalAnnexes
                                  Table 5: Bangladesh ProgressTowards MDGs
                                                           -

                                           1980         1990      2o0oa       2002     2004-05               2015
                                                                                                       PRSP      MDG
                                                                                                      targetb    target
PovertyHeadcountRate'                       ...         58.8       49.8        I . .     40.8          25.0       29.4
FertilityRate(childrenper woman)           5.0          4.3        3.0         3.0        3.0
InfantMortality(per 1,000 livebirths)      101.4        94.0       66.3       53.0       56.0          18.0       31.0
Crude BirthRate(per 1,000 population)      33.4         32.8       19.9       20.1        ...
Crude DeathRate (per 1,000 population)     10.2         11.3       4.8         5.1        ...
Life Expectancy(years)                     56.9         56.0       60.6       62.0       63.5          73.0       73.0
Gross PrimaryEnrollment(%)                 61.0         72.0       96.6       86.7       97.0          100.0     100.0
Gross SecondaryEnrollment(%)               18.0         19.0       42.0       52.8       44.0          95.0
Adult Illiteracy(%)                        71.0         65.0       55.0       50.4       41.1          10.0
Source:Unlocking the Potential-Proverty Reduction Strategy Paper (GOB) ,Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics
a/ Somedata are for 1999
bl Basedonthe progressrate of 1990-02
c l The povertyheadcountraterefersto the upperpovertyline




                                                             51


                                                                                                                        Annex 5

                                                                                  Dr. A.B. Mirza Md. Atizul Islam
                                                                                                 Adviser
    Ministry of Finance, Planning,                                                     Government of the People's
Commerce, Posts & Telecommunications                                                     Republic of Bangladesh




                                                                                                               1 I April, 2007

    Mr. Paul Wolfow it;..,
    President,
    InternatioinaI DCLeIopment Association.
    Washington 1)C 20.133.
    USA

                                                  Letter of llevclopmcnt Policy

    1.         Introclurtion

     1 . I     13ungladesh recently passed throtigli a very difficult phase. Political confrontation escalated to
    prccariotis Ieve1s. and asstimud violent forms tlireatcning p ~ otictive econoinic activity and continiied
                                                                                  d
    strong progress on ecoiioinic and social dc\elopment. In tlne run-up to tlie transfer o f power froin tlie
    otitgoiiig Banglaclcsli Nationalist Party (BNP)-led 4-pat-ty coalition to the caretaker government (CTG) at
    the end ot'Octobcr 2006. tlie two ma.jor alliiinces Fdiled to agree on the choice o f key piiblic officials and
    t 11c i11s ittit io11ii I arrangeinent tinderpin11ing t11 c expected eIection to Bangladesh's 9"' ParIiainent. The
    coiiscquent standoff bet\\een the two alliances manifested in several country-wide blockades and general
    strikes. causing a niiinber o f deaths and hundreds o f injuries. A change in the caretaker government
    (C1G )~ i i t lthe declaration o f a state o f emergency on January 1 I , 2007 averted what could have been an
                      i
    itinmitigated disaster. 'The necv CTG is committed to transferring power to an elected government at the
    earliest. once the conditions for a free, fair and credible election are in place.

    1.2        h'ot~\.itlistatidiiigthe political instability. Bangladesh has made signiticant progress during the
    past !cars        ~ v i t hthe wide-ranging reforin program that has been supported b j the World Bank's
    llcvclop,~ncntSupport Credit (DSC) series since 2003. According to the latest Household Income and
    I:spciiclitiirc Survey (Illl:,S), the proportion ol'peoplc li\,ing in povertj' fell from 49 percent in 3,000 to 40
    pcrccnt iii 2005. with the proportion 01'          tliosc in Iiardcore povei-tq falling froin 3 4 percent to 25 percent.
    Rural po\.ertc fell lioiii 5.3 percent to 44 percent and uiban poverty froin 37 percent to 39 percent. There
    \vas a modest increase in economic inequality. as measured by the Gini coefficient o f consumption
    expendittire.

    1 .i I.:conoinic gromth in I'Y06 reached a historic high o f 6.7 percent, reflecting strong growth in
    industry and agriculture. Ilomestic dcmand and investment have remained buoyant. Exports and
    remittances have gro\vn strongly, contributing to a siirpliis in the current account in FYO6. Iieserves
    incrcased slightly to $3.1 billion at cnd-June 3006 from their end-FYOS level of$3 billion. By mid-March
    9007. thew reached bnck to $-I          billion even aftor ;in ACU payment of$370 million. Monetary policy has
    responded priidcntl) to exchniigc rate Iluctuatioiis and inflationary prcssurcs. We have taltcn fiirther steps
    to strengtlicn the structure o f the economy and to improve economic governance. 'l'he steady and
    dotcrinincd pursuit o f reforms       - -in di fficiilt domestic and external circumstances -. is I i j i n g the basis for
    our longcr-term goal o f accelerating economic growth to reduce poverty more rapidly and improve tlne
    social conditions o f the poorest members o f our society, particularly in rural areas where most of the
    population livcs. and especially for women.


                                                             53

                                                                                                            Annex 5


                                                c


 1 .-I    The Government prepared tlie national poverty reduction strategy, titled "Unlocking tlie Potential:
National Stratcg) for Accelerated Povert! Reduction" (NSAPR), in consultation with all segments o f
socict). -1 his I ctter o f L)c\clopmcnt Polic) lajs out our achievements in the past year and Iiighliglits tlie
he! icforiiis planned for the years ahead. for \chic11 \\e would seck continued bucigctary support froin tlie
World Bank. Our reform prograin \vi11 cmphasiie prudent macrocconoinic policies and steady structural
rcforins to improve tlie climate I1)r privotc investinelit to create jobs, raise incomes and accelerate growth
and pobert) reduction. V i e Govcrnment's oun spending will be based on a three-year Mediiiin Term
Expenditure Plan, designed to translate the priorities o f tlie NSAPR into improved inli-astructiire
provision and better services for the poor.

2.        Nhintaining Macroeconomic Stability

2.1       The Bangladeshi economy continlies to grow stronglq.           From 6 percent in FY05, economic
gro\\tli incrcascd to 6.7 percent in FY06. notwithstanding tlic impact o f higher oil prices and increasing
political confrontation in tlie run up to the political transition. Strong domestic and external demand
encouraged rapid expansion in industrq. construction, services and exports. Demand pressures, gradual
depreciation o f tlic taka, rising prices of imported food and the pass-through o f liiglicr world petroleum
prices contributed to an incrcasc in inflation in FY06. Consumer prices were 7.2 percent higher in FY06
than a )ear earlier. Strong rise in external demand, coupled with tlie sharp rise in remittances and a
sIoL\clocvn in import growth, led to an over $1      billion turnaroufid in the current account balance, froin
$518 million deficit in FY05 to $572 million surplus in FY06. Deficit in the financial account largely
offset tlie siirpILis. leading to a modest increase in foreign exchange reserves.

2.3       Responding to tlic dcinand and intlntion pressures. I3angladesli Bank continued to gradually
tighten monetary policy during 17Y06. Interest rates on treasury securities have increased by nearly 3
pcrccntagc points since tY05 and lending and deposit rates have increased by about 2 percentage points.
llonevcr. private scctor credit growth still increased froin 17 percent in FY05 to 18.3 percent in FY06
and ttirthcr to 19.4 percent through December 2006. The taka, which eased against the dollar in early-
3005 and again in late-summer, depreciated by 9.2 percent in nominal terms in FY06 and fiirther by 2.7
percent through February 2007. Tighter monetary stance has been accompanied by prudent fiscal
management. The overall fiscal deficit in FY06 was kept below tlie budget target despite sizable revenue
slippages. Revenue collections remained tinchanged at 10.5 percent of GDP. Yet the overall budget
deticit declined from 3.4 percent of GDP in FY05 to 3.3 percent in FY06. However, net domestic
linancing increased significantly from 1.7 percent o f GDP in FYO5 to 2.1 percent in FY06, reflecting
shortfall in the inlloL\' ofestcrnal assistance and Linanticipiited financing for state-owned enterprises.

2.3       Economic performance has remained notably strong in the current fiscal year. Economic growth
in I'Y07 is likely to be around 6.5%. notwithstanding strikes and blockades and unfavorable neather
conditions for tlic    LISand ainan rice crops. Growth this year is being drivcn by exports, which in tlie first
seven months grew by 21% relative to the first seven months o f FY06; remittances, wliicli grew by 27%
in the Iirst eight months relative to tlie corresponding period o f FY06; and domestic private investments,
as indicated by iiearly 21Y0 growth in LC settlements for capital machinery and 15% growth in LC
settlements for machinery for miscellaneous industry in the first hall' of FY07 relative to the first half o f
I,'YOO. Credit to the private sector throttgli December 2006 g r w at an annualized rate o f 19%. Inflation,
after reaching a six year high of7.2Y0 in I'Y06, appears to be moderating. The twelve-monthly moving-
a\ clage inflation throiigh January 2007 edged down to 5.9%. coinpared with 7.1% in January, 2006.
t3aiigladcsli Bank's monetary policy will remain cautious and restrained in order to counter inflationary
presstires.

2.4      Tlic tiscal stance remains prudent, altlioiigh revenue collections and external financing continue
to fall short o f tlie target. The growth o f tax collection by the National Board o f Revenue (NBR) was


                                                        54

                                                                                                                  Annex 5


                                                                                                                          .-

9.5% in the first eight months o f FY07 rclative to the corresponding period o f FY06, largely due to a
disinal 2.7% growth in foreign trade-based taxes. Non-NL3R taxes and non-tax revenues, however, have
slio\\n faster growth than NUR taxes. We expect revenue collection to improve somewhat during the rest
of F'1'07.     but it will most likely still remain well below tlie original budget target, which was rather over-
ambitious by historical standards. Non-development expenditiires in the first half o f FY07 increased due
to interest expenditure overshooting. carryover o f the Pay Commission award, and increase in teacher
suhcntions froin 90%1to 1OO'XI.               Annual Dcvelopnient Program (ADP) expenditure in tlie first seven
   inunths 01' 1:Y07 amounted to about 'fk 7-1.3 billion. compared \vitli 'T'k 81.8 billion in the first seven
   months ol'FYO6: c.spcniiiturc sliarplj dropped dtiring Novcmber-I)ccembcr 2006. The fund disbursement
   t'or lo\\ priority politicall), motivated pro.jccts \vcre suspended. Notwithstanding revenue shortfall, we
cspcct to contain [lie overiill FY07 budget deticit at around 4 percent o f GDP. Domestic financing would
   be contained at around 3, percent ofGU1' it'tlie proceeds from tlie sale o f Riipali are realized and the DSC-
   IV and l<SDSC-llldisbursements take place this year.

3.           Struct11ra1 Rcl'or rns

   3 . I     'I'lie present ("I'G has tbiyd ahead \vitli impleincnting ma.jor structural and institutional reforms
   to siipport vibrant private sector grontli and for poverty reduction. 'rllese reforms cover tlic banking
   sector state-oLLncti cnterpriscs (S0l i s), tlie energy sector. te1ccoinin11nications, tlie governinent's own
          .
   liscal operations. and broad-based governance measures.                    -

---L3ankinc sector         Our ob.jective is to strengthen thc banking sector so that financial resources can be
   interincdiatcd efticicntly and mobilized to creditworthy borrowers. and the country's savings can be used
   for productive investment. In particular. we have contintred the process o f reforming nationalized
conimercial banks (NCBs). We are very close to completing the divestment o f 93 percent o f Government
o\vncrship in tlie Rupali Bank to a t'orcign 'strategic investor; tlie process is expected to be coinpleted
   before end-April. 2007. At the point o f sale. tlie government will remove froin Rupali's books. and
;issLiinc t'iill rcspcinsihilit! for the liabilities of existing pensioners and for the accrued rights o f current
cinplojecs.           it11 cash piynictits liom [lit Goccrnnicnt's budget as these payments beconic due. The
govcrniiicnt uill ;tlso issue bonds to Iltipnli to cover tlie capital shortfall (bringing tlie bank LIP to a zero
capital position) and tiiider-provisionii~~in private loans in tlie statutory accounts. All nonperforining
   S O L loans and other clearly dctined liabilities that are tlie responsibility o f the Government will be
   replaced   L\  ith a single loan lioin Iliipali to the Govcrnment bearing the prevailing tive-year 'Treasury bond
   rate.

'I'lic government Iias also approved a draft regulation requikd to turn the Sonali, Janata and Agrani banks
   into public limited coinpanics and bring thein under the Banking Company Act. The operations o f fliese
   h i k s \\ill now be rim bq an autonomous board of directors and. for the first time. these banks will fall
   LIncIer directioii sLIpc1.vision and rc~ Iation by 13angIades11
                                              L I                      13anli. 13ang1ades11 Bank contin11es to inonitor
conipliancc ol'tlic NCRs with its Memornndum o f Understanding with cacli NCB.

   Bangladcsh Bank has inadc it mandatory liom January 2007 for all banks to have themselves credit rated
by a Credit kiting agency with a view to safeguard tlie interest of tlie prospective investors, depositors,
creditors and the bank inanageinent as a \\hole. Banks have been advised to take neccssary ineastires so
that the), can l i m e their credit ratings in all relevant areas as well as tlie bank management. Banks have
bccn instructed to complete tlicir c r d i t rating by end-June. 2007. 'Hie credit rating will be updated
aniitially. \,tithin sis months l'rom the date ot' close ot' cacli financial year. The rating report will be
siibniittcd to I3anglodcsh 13an1, and macle public within onc month o f the notification of rating by tlie
credit rating agcncj'. Banks          1%ill disclose tlicir credit ratings prominently in their published annual and
1ia1I'! early statciiicnts.



                                                               55

                                                                                                                 Annex 5


                                                                                .-

t'o\ver Sector .- Bangladcsli is facing a power crisis. The installed capacity o f electric power is about
5.350 MW, including 1.260 M W that is privately owned and operated. However, largely because o f
tinrcliable state-owned poMer plants, it has been diflictilt to generate more than 3700 MW at any given
time over the course oi'tlic last 18 niontlis. Meanuliile. peak dcmand is estimated to be about 5,000 MW.
'I'he country is likely to face daily load sliedding of 1200 to 1500 M W in tlie coining stiininer months.

l3angladcsli has tinderinvested in generation and transmission, while expanding its distribution network in
                          tilt has been an impressive increase in customers --now estimated at about 8.5 inillion
countr>wide. for a household connection rate of about 38% -but               tlie shortage o f generation is now so
severe that a moratoritini has been placed on new lines in rural areas        ,   Furthermore, the country has often
not invested in the right kind o f generation capacity--small gas-tired plants like Tongi, or small coal-
burning units as at Uarapukuria, have been built for very high prices per installed kilowatt.

Restructuring the energy sector is a high priority for thc government. Recognizing tlie severity of tlie
problem. the government has initiated actions in the following arcas to address the problem over the short
and mediuin-term:

     Improving the management of load shedding-Load                     shedding will be a part o f tlie operational
     reality in Rangladcsli for some years to come: so an immediate concern is to ensure that load
     shedding procedures are effective. Soltitions that can promote grid stability even in the face o f
     continued supply constraints are being devised and implemented. Better load management, involving
     short-terni steps to red~iceoverall load, and to shift load, where possible, from peak to non-peak
     Iioiirs. are also being implemented. Recent Lip\vard lising o f power tariff is also espected to
     discourage wastefill load.

     Increasing collections and preventing clcctricitjr and gas thcft--Tlie government is determined to
     improve tlie siluation. during tlie last three months an amount o f Tk. 381 crore has been collected,
     which is Iiig1it.r b> fk. 80 crore than tlie earlier three month period. During tlie same time to prevent
     electricity leakage 60.012 illegal lines have been disconnected and Tk. 19,74,000 realised as penalty.
     'l'he ongoing drive to increase collections froin private, public, and especially semi-autonomous
     custoiners will be sustained and deepened and disconnection o f illegal connections will continue.

     Concliicting rii pid xsscssmcnt of generiition opcr;itions, maintcnance antl rehabilitation iss11es---
     Options for a sustaincd turn-around in perforinance, focusing both on technical solutions
     (rehabilitation. operating procedures) and institutional ones (O&M contracts. public-private
     partnerships, etc.) are being considered.          .           a

     Knsuring that the I3angladcsh Power Development Roard (BI'D13) and all GOB agencies are
     appropriately locusccl on ensuring smooth preparation and implementation of the ADB, JljIC,
     and World 13ank Group generation investments. as this will deliver around 2000 M W of publicly
     tinanccd power generation by early next dccade. AI1 o f this capacity in terms of location and
     technology is justified in the least-cost plan.

     Knsuring that the independent power producer (11'1')                process is prioritized. as it is uniquely
     positioned to &liver         ;i linanceable deal    Ibr ne\\ baseload capacity.    Iinpleinentation of tlie IPP
     process \ b i l l be carricti out \\ith the help oi'rcputable intcrnational advisers.

&t       I lie Cliittagong Port. \+liicIi handles 90 percent 01'   k3angladesh's hreign trade, has not been able to
keep up    LZ it11the rapid gro~cthoi'traiisport demand. causing congestions and delays at tlie port, as well as
high costs to port users. 7 lie Loluine of'containcrs hnndlcd by the port Iias increased b j over 10 percent a
year over the last decade and similar or faster growth is projected for the foreseeable future Cliittagong
Port lias not responded to this demand grohtli efl'cctivcly. fhe delays and uncertainties in port services
scriouslj Lindcrniinc the economj's productivity and international trading links. Improving both port


                                                             56

                                                                                                                 Annex 5


                          .-

 operations and on\\ard inland transportation system is                   critical for improving the international
 cot iipctitivcness o1' t1Ic I 311ng1adc511i ccoiiomy.

 'l'lic Go\crnincnt. \villi support tioni its development partners, lias invested substantially in the Cliittagong
 port to improve its performance. A note\corthy step has been the introduction o f the Automated System
 Ibr Customs Data (ASYCUDA t- I ), involving electronic processing and clearance of cargo. A one-step
 services for clearing RMG export cargo was introduced at the Chittagong port to facilitate port and
 customs related paper\\~ork,shortening the tiine taken for clearing exports and also improving tlie turn-
 around time Ibr ships. The CPA has recently procured ship-to-shore container gantry cranes for tlie
 existing dedicated container berths. The New Mooring Container 'l'erininal (NMCT), with a total length
 ol' I.000m berth length      \\ith 22 hectare backup facilities, tias been completed with 100% financing by the
 government. On t.'ebriiary 18. 2007, tlie gobernment decided to operate tlie Chittagoiig NCT on Supply-
 Operate-l'ransfcr (SO'I') basis by cspzrt operators of international repute. The government will not have
to spend an! nioney on SO'f. 'I'liis decision L\ ill be effective subject to vacating the court rule asking for
 maintaining tlie status quo on the proposed SO'I'. 'fender will be floated within thirty days after the
 vacation of'the court ruling.

  l7ic government also plans to construct a river-based inland container depot (ICD) at Pangaon, Dhaka,
 tinder ajoint venture of 13angladesli Inland Water Transportation Authority (BIWTA), Bangladesh Inland
 Water rraiisportation Corporation (BIW IC) and the Chittagong eoi-t Authority (CPA).

'l'hc ADI3-tinanced Chittagong Port 'l'rade tacilitation l'ro,jcct is tinder implementation. The project
 includes installation 01'    comptitcrizcd container terminal inanageincnt system, upgrading o f existing MIS,
and improvement of environmental nianagcment capacity o f the CPA. Constriiction o f an access-
controlled road for improving port access has already been completed under this project. The World Bank
 lias had limited engngeiiicnt in the port sector in recent years. t lomevcr. a proposed Export Infrastructure
 L)e\clopincnt Project is tinder preparation for IDA support for a new ICD near Dhaka. This would be
supported by improvement in the railway connection along tlie Dhaka--Chittagongcorridor. under a joint
prqiect between Cl'A and Bangladesh Railway (BR) and subject to a private sector operator o f the
proposed ICD.

.I'ctrolciini -
 ._ __.
      -          'I'Iic increase in \\orid oil prices has posed a Iicnvy unanticipated extra burden on Bangladesh
and tlic 1iii:inccs ot' tlic I3anglaclesli t'ctrolctitn Corporation (13PC). In response to rising oil prices. the
Govcrrimwt hiis riiiscct clomcstic petrolctitn prices in a nuinbcr 01'          incrcinental steps betuecn July 2003
and June 1006. Very recently the Go\crnmcnt took steps for significant increase in the prices o f
pctrolctiiii products. which shoitld stem the large losses atdhe BPC. On April 2, 2007, GOB announced a
21 percent increase in tlie prices o f diesel arid Kerosene and a 16 percent increase in the prices o f octane
and petrol. W e remain committed to ensuring that doincstic petroleum prices reflect the full cost o f
imports in line mith tlic lorintila agreed with IDA tinder DSC I.

hhttcai(is- Our natural gas rcsot~rccsneed to be developed and used et'ficicntly. We remain committed
to ensitring that doincstic gas prices are linked to intcrnational prices of'coinpeting fuels in line with the
tbrtnula agreed witli 1I)A. \ti. h a ~ cotnplctcd the preparation ol'a gas sector master plan.
                                            e

Statc_-c)\\ ncd cntgiyciscs - l'he linancial pcrl'oriiiance o f SOEs deteriorated in FY06 cpitli aggrcgate losses
ol'around 'fk 45 billion (equivalciit to 1. I?'oofGDt'). compared uith 0.8% in FY05. Energy sector SOEs
were the main contributors. led by the BPC which accounted for over 80% o f the SOE.losses. The
13PlIl3, the Bangladesh Chemical Industries Corporation (BCIC) and Bangladesh Biinan, the national
airlinc, also incurred signilicant losses. I.osses of manufacluring SOEs were contained at less than Tk 4
billion. l'he 5% increase in po\\er tarift'tioin March I.2007 is expected to increase BPDB reventies by
'I I\: 3.5 billion antitiall\.. 'I'hc go\ erninciit is l'itrthcr considering non cash assumption o f 13PC's debt in


                                                               57

                                                                                                                     Annex 5



 orclcr lo clear tip HIY.''s outstanding debts o f over 'l'k.100 billion to the NCUs. It bvill make necessary
 pro\ isioii in tlic l'YO8 budget tbr the paynetit o f interest on these assumed debt. The BPC also owes
 $235 million to the Islamic DeLelopiiicnt 13ank. lor \vliicli arrangements will be made by the government
  for payncnt.

 Iradelibcrali/.ation       I:Y07 I3tidget p~islictlthe liontiers ol'tradc liberalization a notch further b!, reducing
 the avcragc iiominal protection li.oiii 26.5 percent in FY06 to 24.3 percent. *l'his              ~ h a s
                                                                                                         done inainly by
 reducing the Supplcincntar\~Duty (SI)) and. to a lesser extent, by lowering the customs duty (CD). Tlie
 CD rates lbr intcrinediates and basic raw materials and capital machinery were scaled back from 13 and 6
 percent. rcspccti\.cl\. to 12 percent and 5 percent. I,arlier in 2005, bans on textile imports Lvere lifted and
 rcplaccd uith SDs o f 2 0 percent across the board, in addition to the highest protective CD o f 25 percent.
 1he SI) ratc on textiles has bccn l'iirthcr lowered to 15 percent. a sinall reduction, but nonetheless one that
 sends the incssage to the sector to shape tip in light of greater competition.

 4.          Core Govcrnance 1;LI nctions

 'I'lic Go\ crnment has mode I'tirthcr efforts to strengthen core governance functions through improvements
 in the budget 1;)riniilntion        process. public cspcnditiire planniiig and financial manageinent, public
 pi.octireincnt. monitoring, and accoiiiiling. It is also seeking to enhance revenue mobilization and the
 pcrt'ori11anceot'thc KBR.

 Rcventie        Structural pi'oblciiis. such 21s ;I narrow tiis base. tax evasion, distrust of the taxpayer toward
 public institutions. and administrative ckeahnesses. have had adverse impact on tax collection. Revenues
 tiwn tax and non-tax sotirces remain extrcincly .lo\\ in Bangladesh compared to other countries in South
 Asia and elsc\vlierc. limiting the public sector's capacit!. to meet demands for healtli. education and
 infrastructure services. After a strong perl';)rinance in I'Y03, when tlic tax to CDP ratio rose by 0.6
 percentage points in o w \car. that ratio 119s remained practically stagnant at around 8.5 percent tliroiigli
 FY06. I,ihe\\ isc. the o\cralI revenue to Gl,)l' ratio. \vhich includzs non-tax revenue o f about 2 percent of
 Gl)l', has also rcmaiiicd static Lit around 10.6 percent. There is general conscnstis that the NBR, tlie
 agency responsible t?)r most revenue collection. needs a major institutional overhaul to enable it to
 mobilize rcveiiiie cffccti\~elyand el7iciently. \vhile supporting the development o f an improved business
 climate arid public sector govcriiance.

 With the government's endorscmcnt of'          ;IStrategic Ikvelopment Plan for NBR. a multi-l.ear program is
 tindcr\\.a>1'0 r coinprchens     i    chaigcs in reventic adininistratioti. TI1e pIan aiins at increasing reventie
 collcctioii. cicvclopiiig a inore cl'li.cti\ c organi/ational stl.;ictiirc along functional lines. de\ eloping ~cgal
 and regtilatory s!steins to Ilicilitatc ratlicr lliaii liainpcr triide Ilo\\s, fostering a culttire oftaxpaycr service.
 and ensuring that 1111 businesses arc trcritcd tiiiili)rinl~ and equitably. 'There are some positive
 developments in crcntiiig new functional responsibilities in the areas of audit. IiLiinan resources and ICT.
  lhe NBII is being reorganized along liinclional lines. a model being piloted at the t\co Large 'laxpayer
 Units (VAT arid Iiicoinc 'l'ax). A inr3jor pro-icct is tinder preparation for comprehensive automation o f
 Nljll's operations in all thrcc Las wings: IDA'Ssupport will be sought for this project.

 Public cxpenditure
               __            We M.ill ensure that growth-enhancing and poverty-reducing spending is given
'pi'ioi.it!,. aiid that public sector \~;igebills arc contained. Tlie government continues to make efforts to
 root out uastcl'ul cspcndittircs and better prioritix spcticling.               We have stepped up otir efforts to
 strcngtlie11pLI 11 Iic cspciiclittire inanngcincnt b l iinproving project scIcction and exectitioil iinder tlie A DP.
 U'c rollcd out the mcdiuin-term budget l'raine\\ork (M'l'Hk') to six inore line ministries in the FY07
 budget and will add foiir more in the FY08 budyet to bring tlie number o f ministries covered by the
 b1'1.131to 14. We h;ivc instriictcd the IJlanning Ministry to tighten the scrutiny of projects before placing
 them for the approval o f the Esccutivc Committee of National Economic Council (ECNEC). We have


                                                             58

                     -                                                                                                Annex 5



iilso asked the concerned ministry to review the terms and conditions o f suppliers' credit. In view o f tlie
 revenue and foreign financing shortfall. \\e Iiavc decided to prune the size o f FY07 ADP by at least Tk 40
 billion- froin 'fh 260 billion to 'l'k 320 billion--by dropping the low priority prqjects. Ministries have
also been instructed to design programs li)r the I,'YO8 budyt linked to achievement of the longer-term
 goals ol'tlic NSAPII.

 M'c have coinplctcd trac1,iiip studies 01'         public spciiding on liealtli and education with donors (IJK-DFID
and the Nctliei~lancls)to ti') to ensure that spending rcachcs thc intcndcd recipients. These studies showed
that \vliilc most spending \+[is reaching tlie poor. tliere was some evidence o f leakages and
misinanagemetit. We arc acting to correct these.

 t'roc rement
        ti           -- 13angladcs11  is seen ;is   II "sticcess story" for introdtic ing sj.steinic ptibIic proctireinent
 reform. 'l'lie governincnt has established a I~rocurcmeiitPolicy Unit, put in place a tiniforin procurement
policy \villi procedures applicablc for all public sector entitia, introduced a performance tracking system,
and dcvclopcci critical mass 01'         procurement professionals. The Parliament approved in July 2006 a new
 t'iwiircincnt l,a\\, containing most features o f international good procurement practices with better
competitiveness. transparency. efticicncy. and accotintability of the system, with no restriction for
participation in bidding. I'lic development partners have laiidcd tlie law and are increasingly harmonizing
their activities with the count1              procedures. An immediatc priority now is to iinpleinent tlie Law by
dcveloping tlie iinplcmcntation rilles and regulations. An IDA-ftmded second procurement reform project
that is tinder preparation ~ ~ o t iIiclp introduce series o f measures incl~idinge-Government procurement,
                                           l d
managcinent of' procurcincnt. and beha\ ioi'al change and social accountability.

Accoun,tiiig agd a~iclit ing            'l'lic G o b cimiiicnt  has strengthened pub1ic      linancial accounting with
coinptitcri/at ion oI' 111ont11 1)     ;iccotints. strcngt11eni11g of t11c ControIIcr Genera1 o f Accotints (CGA),
appoiiitinciit ot'('liic1'Accotinting Officers to each ministi             ncl thc separation of accounting and auditing
bq placing the C G A uiidcr tlic Finance Division. instead o f tlie Comptroller and Auditor General
((:&A(;),           Otitstancliny atidit ob-jcctioris have been reduced. In tlic year ahead. we will begin
impleinenting our Public 1;inancial Management linproveinent Plan. We will also publish qtiarterly
procureincnt Managemcnt Information System results with performance indicators for key agencies in
p o \ ~ cand inli.astructurc. Fl'lic Cotincil 01'
           r                                          Advisors lias recently approved in principle the draft Financial
Reporting Ordinance to ensure accountability and transparent)' in tinancial reporting in piiblic interest
ent it ics.

l'iiblic xiiniiiistration Tlic Govcrnirieiit lix a key role in, improving tlic performance ofpiiblic oflicials.
M'c havc accoidiiigl> gikcn grcatci. c~ciglitto merit in the promotion o f senior officials. We adopted an
improved training polic!            in 2003. and made completion 01'           training in core courses mandatory for
proinotion considerations, We ;ire cot sidcring liirtlier instittitionaI strengt11ening o f staff training. We are
                                                i
creating clusters 01'          ministries \vitli similar :irc;is of interest and expertise, in order to encoilrage
profcssionii I speciaIi/at ion o1' Ike!       sta l'f rotated bctuecii t liese ininistries.  We have introdticed legal
rc'e1Liiiwiiciits niakiiig it mandntor> 1i)r civil scrbanrs to submit income tns returns and statements o f assets
aiid liabilirics. and \kill contintic tu monitor and strcngtlicii coinpliance.

l~~i.~m~rp~J~cj institutions o f ac~)iintabilitj:             . 'l'lie government recognizes tlie need to improve
p\.criiancc itcross the board ~Iiroiigli\I iclc and spccilic nicasures. Poor governance manifests itself in
pcrv'asiw corruption. poor s e n i c e clcliverq. ~ced\accountability and a crisis in citizens' cqfidence in tlie
                                                               :
state. A coiiccrtccl cl'lort to tacklc tlie govcriiancc problems \\ill require reforming formal institutions,
l a \ ~ sand processes and dcvclopincnt of ~neclianismsfor accountability throiigh civil society and the
incclia.     'l'lic new CI'G lias stnrted this proccss, focusing first and I'oreniost on restructuring and
streiigthcniiig o f tlic ACC and separatiiig tlie judiciary froin tlie executive and strengtliening the
1'0 11ntint oils
           i      1'0r its i11depcndencc.                    ..



                                                               59

                                                                                                                          Annex 5
                                                                                                                                 _.


                                                                        ..




: l / ~ / ; - ('orrup/iou ('o/~~/~~is.sio~? 'l'hc government has recently reconstituted the Anti-Corruption
                                            (.4('(:')
Cominission. -l'Iie Commission has started its work \hit11 a big bang by publishing a list of50 high profile
people aiid requiring them to submit their \vealtli statements. It is inot,ing swiftly in scrutinizing these
statements and filing corruption cases against the suspects. The CTG amended the Emergency Power
Rules 2007 to empower the ACC to confiscate, through courts, movable and iiiimovable assets of the
listed corrupt persons tvlio have failed to submit their uealtli statements. The actions of the ACC have
bccn vcrq itell received hj, the general piiblic arid credibly signal that the government is extremely seriotis
about ailciressiiig corriiptinii. I'lic Government has also ratilied the United Nations Convention Against
Corriiption (L!NCAC). I'liis is oiil>,tlic beginning. In the near and medium-term, the Government will
IbctIS 011:


         Matching ACC's maiid:itc             \\  ith fiindiiig We rccognix that a gross imbalance between ex-ante
         inandates and ex-post funding can result in failed expectations and damaged credibility. We bill
        thcrclbrc ensure a predictable and sit I'licicnt level of funding to enable the ACC to fulfill its mandates.

         I b i s i n g the legal franic\vorli to strcngtlicn the ACC and corruption prevention inore generally. This
         \\ill include provisions relating to money laundering; acts preparatory to corruption; provisions
         reI;t t iii: to intcriiat iotiaI coopcrati011 : 1inanciaI instittitions regtiIation, processes for assct recovery and
         its rcltirii to its legitimate o\\iicrs: incastires to provide protection to informants, witnesses, experts
        and their associates in relntion to corruption of'ttnces: and prevention incastires directed at both the
        piihlic and private sectors.

        t'xploring. \\ithotit infringing upon the mandate and indeperidence o f the ACC, the possibility of
         formatioii of an Advisorq Cominittee coinprising reptitable reprcsciitatives froin civiI society
        organizations and the piiblic at large to scrutinize the work of' the Commission and provide regular
         1i.cdback on the Commissions \~orl\and suggest possible avenues for improvement.

        1:sainining the poasibilit> o1'establishing a Code of('oncluct idcntifying conflict o f interest and other
        niattcrs that inaq arise arid pro\ icling ('ommissioiicrs arid other personnel with giiidance on hou. they
        arc to he rcsolh.cd.

Jm'icid Irit/tpe/7~/i'/7c'~. Gowrntiicnt recognizes the importance of having an adequate ineastire of
                                     l'lic
independence of' the judiciarq, li.oni the executive and legislative branches. The CTG has already issued
gazette notifications on the f'our judicial service rules andpromulgated an ordinance on the ainendincnt o f
Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) as per the directive o f the Supreme Court. The Governrnent is working
on:

        I-,'ast tracliiiig the separiition ot'tlic judiciary tiom the executive and to I'ocits efforts to professionalize
        tlic selcctionipromotioii~s~~tictions         process for all judges.

        Keconstituting the Judicial Service Coinmission and introducing a transparent process for recruitment
        ol'judgcs ot'stibortlinate Judicinrq based on coinpetencc and integrity.

        1:stablisliing a sectire and sufiicient level o f budgetary funding that over time permits the judiciary to
        raise the compensation ofjudgcs aiid justices to lcvcls cotnincnsuratc with their staturk in society.

        Ihisirig inlhriiinl prcsssurcs on the judiciary through mcdia scrutiny and piiblic discussion by
        aiiicnding tlic esistiiig coiitciiipt I;t\\s.

                -                                                                                                    Annex 5




4. I     A National Stratcg!, Ibr Accelcratcd I'ovcrty IIcduction            - "Unlocking tlie Potential" was finalized
in October 2005 alicr     \\ idc consiiIt;itioiis   \\ it11difli'rent segments of society in every Division across tlie
coiintry. as \\ell as  \\ it11stakeholder groups including Members o f Parliaincnt from major parties. tlie
business comniunity. NGOs and academics.                    ' h e present government bvill continue the process o f
implcmcnting the PRS.

4.2      Bangladesh is broadly "on track" in relation to a number of tlie Millenniiiin Development Goals
(MDGs). IntBnt mortality lias been falling more rapidly than the trend rate required to meet the MDGs by
2015. Child niortality has bcen falling at close to tlie required rate. Enrolment in primary and secondary
schools lias been increasing more quickly than tlie required trend. 'The gender gap in primary and
secondary school enrolinent has bcen virtiially eliininatcd. Other gender inequities, however, continue,
notably in maternal health, political representation and labor productivity. As a inark o f environmental
progress. tree cover liiis incrciiscd liom 7 percent oftlic country in 1990 to 1 1 percent in 2000.

4.3      ll'tlic current <;Ill)gro~btlirate ot'owr 6 percent is maintained, I3angladesli would be able to meet
its MIX; o f reducing tlie pow.t! rate to 79 percent bj. 2015. ' l l c recent progress towards tlie MDGs has
bcen shared across regions and Iiouschold types. 711icrcappears to be a high degree o f social inequality.
'lhe gap between the poorest and tlic rest 01'              society remains large. l'liese inequalities and tlie weak
                                                                              L




position ol'thc poorest could cause divergence in meeting the MDGs. 1'liesc are substantial challenges and
Lve shall seek the help o f our dcvclopincnt partners in meeting them.

 1.4     'Ihe main priorities of the NSAPI<arc (i) emplo!nicnt. (ii) nutrition. (iii) quality education, (iv)
IocLil go\crncincc. (1 niatcrnciI IicctItIi. ( c i ) sanitation and safe \cater, (vii) criminal justice and (viii)
nioiiiloring.

4.5      The NSAI'K idcntifics four major Stratcgic t3locl<s to achieve these goals.
0        - Rlock1.-Pro-poorproL\tli
         Strategic                                         Growth depends importantly on the rate o f growth o f the
         capital stock. This requires raising tlie rate of investment. The Government is determined to
         create a climate that is friendly to private investment. l'liese           include fiscal incentives, improved
         tas adiniiIist rat io11. inaking IaIIil avaiIabIe, fac iIitating woincn's entreprenctirsiiip and tlie
         upgrxiing of technolog>.. cnhancing qualit) control. iinpro\'ing labor standards and supportive
         crcdit policies. l'hc Go\ei.niiiciit is also coininiltcii       10removing obstaclcs. siich as lack o f reliable
         po\\cr anLi giis. poor transport. inadcqii;itc tclc~ommunicationsIliciIities, poor port fxiIitics,
                          mcnt. dcla!,s       aiid corruption. \ccal\ Iaii and order sitiiation and frequent political
         agitatioii. liaising the invcstinciit rote ILiIl have to be accompanied by higher savings by both the
         private and piiblic sectors. Invcsrmcnt prospects slio~ildalso bc improved through maintaining
         prudelit inacrocconomic policies, including raising tax rcvenues. improving the quality and
         ef'fcctivcness 01'   public spending and opening tlic economj through trade libcraliration and
         significantly reducing average protection.                Reforins o f banking, state enterprises and energy
         should be coinplctcd. 'l'hc regulatory environinent. too, needs to continue to develop.
0        Strgtcgic 13locl; 11.;-    ('riticnl, Scctors for t.':o-l'oor  rjc-qnoinic (>.p)yai (i) Agricultiire and riiral
                                                                                            -
         Jccclopmenr must be the top priorities Ibr rapid povcrt! reduction. because three-quarters of the
         population lice in ri1r;iI ~irc;isand 85 pcrccnt of tlic poor earn their living there. The Governinent
         aims to create an cnvironmciit in \vliicli production ot'nili.ior crops is intensified while other high
         val tic crops. sticli   ;IS   \ cgetablcs. t'ruits and Iiorticulture are encouraged. We also intend to
         encourage the emerging tlslicrics. potiltry and Iixstock industries. Likewise we aim to encourage
         tlic tbrcstry industry to increase timber siipplics and preserve biodiversity. (ii) Tlic Government
         has adopted a National Water f'olicy to ensiirc that tlic country's water is inanaged effectively.
         I'lood control is ii priority. together      1% ith irrigation, drainage and the provision o f clean water. (iii)


                                                                  61

                                                                                                                    Annex 5




         Small and inediuni enterprises play a key role it1 eniploymeiit generation, and we intend to
         encourage their development tlirough a siinplilicd regulatorj, frmework, improved market
         inli)imiation. a 1iasslc-Ii.cc tax s! stem anti appropriate credit facilities. (iv) The informal sector,
         too. ofl'ers tlic prospect o f rapid cniplo!,iiient        creation and needs to be helped through adequate
         traiiiing. access to infi     trtictiire and dcvclopincnt services. NGOs may have a key role to play
         Iicrc:.(v) Good inl'rasti     [tire is criicial for fast economic growth. We intend to coinplete ongoing
         rel'orms in the po\\er sector. prepare an action plan to address the financial problems o f tlie major
         poibcr utilities. prioritize public in\,estment in power and purchase power cost effectively from
         independent po\vcr producers. Gas is a viilLiable resource, and \\e aim to iinprovc the performance
         01' this sector b j tiiibiinclling its parts. cstending the national grid and improving its finances. (vi)
         \$'e intend to improve the transpoi.t system, including a focus on maintaining existing roads
         better. reforming tlic railwa)'s. and cncouraging private participation in ports. (vii) 'Tourism offers
         cinployincnt opportunities. centered on L3angladcsh's beaches, cultural spots and eco-sites,
         especially the Sundarlxins. (viii) The Government recognizes that telecommunications and
         information technology are lil;cIj to be important fiitiire growth areas. It is ciicouraging private
         participation in tclecominiinicatiotis. the availabilitj, o f internet facilities in rural areas and the
         creation ol'a iigli-tech park.
         Strategic 131ocl\- 111    - Social Sati.1)   Nets - 'I'lie NSAPIi aims to build on the country's already
         robust portli)lio o f social sal'ct!   net prograins \khich trai12ql'errcsourccs in cash or Ikind directly to
         tlic poor. I'Iicsc p r o p i n s targct ~ t ~ l r i c r ~ igroups. inclucliiig the poor. \\omen, disadvantaged
                                                                    l ~ l c
         groups iiiid old people. 'I'licy also iiitn to help liccp childrcn in scliool, promote girls' education in
                      s. ciishion tile poor against tlie cl'fccts 01' natural disasters and provide shelter to the
                       We intend to improve the targeting and widen the coverage o f these programs while
         stcin iniiig Ieakagcs.
         Stratetic I3locli IV -..Iluinan Dcvclopnient - We intend to invest in people tlirotigh encouraging
                -___.___                         __-
         the provision o f high qiiality education. improved healthcare. better nutrition and clean water and
         snnit:itioii. We aim to ciicotir-agc carlj education, especially in rural areas. in cooperation with
         \GOs. M'c aim to ensiirc that all cliildren have access to priiiiaq schools and complete their
         pi.imary education. Wc arc Ibcuscd on improving the quality o f secondary education and the
         pro\ ision of vociitioiial training. 'I lie go\/ernancc. access and facilities o f tertiary education need
         to be iinprovcd Ivitli greater l'octis oil professional degrees. In health, tlie Government intends to
         cspand the provision o f essential ser\.ices, improve women's and inatcrnal healthcare, strengthen
         meastires to coinbat communicable diseases and raise awareness o f ineastires that people can take
         to reduce the risk ol'non-communicable discases. The Government aims to continue and enhance
         its nutrition pi'ograins. It is also dc\,eloping a st.Tategy for clean icatcr and sanitation Lvithin its
         overall \\atcr strategy.




5. I     Monitoring is pro.jectccl ;is one ol'thc sti,atcgic agendas of tlic NSAPR. became realization o f our
poverty goals and incastiring tlie cflkctivcricss of' our policies will require carcfiil monitoring o f both
proccsscs a i d outcoincs. In addition to tlic nornxil data sources I'or tracking social progress, u'e intend to
conduct special survej's uith tlie esprcss piirpose o f benchniarliing progress towards the MDGs.
Monitoring and evaluation o f the NSAPIi \\ill require it vigilant institutional mechanism. The National
Steering Coininittee. therefore, has been transformed into an Iinpleinentation Review Committee. which
will conduct a rcvieth annually. possibl!. ahead o f a meeting with donors. The HIES modtile tinder
Hnnglndcsh ~3ureali       01'  Statistics (1313s) will be supplemcntcd by an MLX attainment module.
Iiidcpcndcnt resc;ircli     institutes iind civil society can monitor progress towards the MDGs and give
crcilibilit~to the cwrcisc. An Indcpcndciit Coiniiiittec i'or Monitoring and Evaluation o f PRS and
Attainniciit o f MUGShas bccn constituted \kith cniincnt incinbcrs froin civil society for overall guidance
and iinpleincntatioii monitoring 01'      the f'liS.


                                                               62

*.
.
                                                                                                         Annex 5




   6.       Conc1usion

   6.1      Bangladesh has made good progress in implementing the broad range o f policies to improve
   growth and reduce p o ~ i - t y- despite domestic constraints and the iinfavorable impact o f high global
   commodity prices, espcciolly oil. We have benetited from the siipport of our development partners,
   including the World Dank. We havc laid out a challenging agenda for the medium-term, and the
   Government is keenl). awarc 01'   thc hwv> responsibility that it bears for pursuing reforms with strong
   determination for the bcnelit o f all our people. Further ad.iiistinent lending froin the International
   Development Association under Development Support Credit IV will play a crucial role. We believe that
   this will cnhance our ability to meet our povcrty reduction goals and encourage the private sector growth
   which is crLicia1to creating employment and raising incomes of the poor.




                                                                                   Sincerely,




                                                                       Dr. A. B. Mirza Md. Aziziil Islam




                                                       63

                                                                                                                         Annex 6


                                                  Statement ofLoansandCredits
                                                         BANGLADESH
                                                                                                              Differencebetween
                                                                                                              expected and actual
                                                            OriginalAmount inUS$Millions                        disbursements

Project ID FY   Purpose                                   IBRD      IDA      SF       GEF   Cancel. Undisb.  Orig.     Frm.Rev'd

P100330    2007 BDRailway ReformProgrammatic               0.00     40.00     0.00     0.00   0.00    40.29    0.00        0.00
                DevPolicy
PO98273    2006 Local Governance Support Project            0.00   111.50     0.00     0.00   0.00   112.33   -0.08        0.00
PO89382    2006 Investment PromotionFinancingFacility       0.00    50.00     0.00     0.00   0.00    47.35   -1.25        0.00
PO74841    2005 HNP Sector Program                          0.00  300.00      0.00     0.00   0.00  361.48   -56.05        0.00
PO86661    2004 iBD Water Supply ProgramProject
                    -                                       0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00   0.00    39.57    0.77        0.00
PO83890    2004 Economic Management TA Program              0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00   0.00    19.64    8.74        0.00
                (EMTAP)
PO86791    2004 ReachingOut of School Children Project      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00   0.00    43.19    3.65        0.00
PO81969    2004 EnterpriseGrowth & Bank Modernization       0.00  250.00      0.00     0.00   0.00   140.99   50.42        0.00
PO74966    2004 Primary Education Development Program       0.00   150.00     0.00     0.00   0.00    99.36    2.92        0.00
                I1
PO78707    2004 Power Sector Development TA                 0.00     7.10     0.00     0.00   0.00    13.86    9.77        1.93
PO53578    2003 Social Investment Program Project           0.00    18.24     0.00     0.00   0.00     5.63    3.60        0.00
PO71435    2003 RuralTransport Improvement Project          0.00   190.00     0.00     0.00   0.00   126.17   54.76        0.00
PO62916    2003 Central Bank StrengtheningProject           0.00    37.00     0.00     0.00   0.00    36.37   32.50        0.00
PO81849    2003 BD:Telecommunications Technical             0.00     9.12     0.00     0.00   0.00     7.82    5.10        1.89
                Assist.
PO74731    2002 Financial Services for the Poorest          0.00     5.00     0.00     0.00   0.00     1.78    1.07        0.00
PO75016    2002 Public Procurement ReformProject            0.00     4.50     0.00     0.00   0.00     0.34   -0.35       -0.48
PO71794    2002 Rural Elect. Renewable Energy Dev.          0.00   190.98     0.00     0.00   0.00    91.16   46.91        0.00
PO44876    2002 Female Secondary School Assis. I1           0.00   120.90     0.00     0.00  31.06    25.11   38.32       -5.35
PO74040    2002 Renewable Energy Development                0.00     0.00     0.00     8.20   0.00     1.97    6.2 1       0.00
PO69933    2001 HlV/AIDS Prevention                         0.00    40.00     0.00     0.00  21.98     2.09   19.67       -0.33
PO57833    2001 Air Quality Management Project              0.00     4.71     0.00     0.00   0.00     2.65    2.15       -0.54
PO50752    2001 Post-Literacy & Continuing Education        0.00    53.30     0.00     0.00   0.00    29.37   21.26       -1.74
PO44810    2001 Legal &Judicial CapacityBuilding            0.00    30.60     0.00     0.00   0.04    15.03   10.57        0.00
PO41887    1999 Municipal Services                          0.00   138.60     0.00     0.00   0.68    36.88   34.08      22.36

                                                   Total:   0.00  1,751.55    0.00     8.20  53.76  1,300.43 294.74      17.74




                                                                 64

                                                                                                                  Annex 6


                                                 Statement of IFC's
                                            HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                              InMillionsofUSDollars


                                                      Committed                           Disbursed
                                                     IFC                                IFC
FY Approval Company                      Loan      Equity    Quasi    Partic. Loan      Equity      Quasi  Partic.
2001        BRAC Bank                    0.00         1.63     0.00    0.00     0.00     1.60       0.00    0.00
1997        DBH                          1.91         0.65     0.00    0.00     1.91     0.65       0.00    0.00
1991        Dynamic Textile              0.00         0.00     0.00    1.48     0.00     0.00        0.00   1.48
            GTFP DhakaBank               5.00         0.00     0.00    0.00     5.00     0.00        0.00   0.00
            GTFPEasternBnk               2.59         0.00     0.00    0.00     2.59     0.00        0.00   0.00
2004        GrameenPhoneLtd              24.00        0.00     0.00    0.00    24.00     0.00        0.00   0.00
2006        GrameenPhoneLtd              59.00        0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00        0.00   0.00
1998        IPDC                         3.13         0.00     0.00    0.00     3.13     0.00        0.00   0.00
1998        Khulna                       10.40        0.00     0.00   11.99     10.40    0.00        0.00  11.99
1998        Lafarge/Surma                35.00       10.00     0.00    0.00    35.00    10.00        0.00   0.00
2000        Lafarge/Surma                0.00         0.00     0.00   15.00     0.00     0.00        0.00  15.00
2003        RAK Ceramics                 7.20         0.00     0.00    0.00     7.20     0.00        0.00   0.00
2000        UnitedLeasing                2.57         0.00     0.00    0.00     2.57     0.00        0.00   0.00

                       Total portfolio:   150.80     12.28     0.00   28.47    91.80    12.25        0.00  28.47




                                                                 ApprovalsPending Commitment
             FY Approval    Company                          Loan      Equity     Quasi      Partic.
             2000           USPCL                          0.00        0.00        0.00       0.00
             1998           Khulna                         0.00        0.00        0.00       0.00

                                  Total pendingcommitment:    0.00     0.00        0.00       0.00




                                                          65


MAP SECTION


                                                                                                                                                                                                       IBRD 33368
                To Gangtok
   88E                                          89E                    BHUTAN                   90E                                 91E                   BANGLADESH
                                                                                                                                                                             DISTRICT CAPITALS

                                                                                                                                                                             DIVISION CAPITALS
                                                                                         To
                                                                                        Dispur
                                 Panchagar                                                                                                                                   NATIONAL CAPITAL

 To                                                                                                                                                                          RIVERS
Patna                  PANCHAGAR
                                                                                                                                 BANGLADESH
                                                           LALMONIRHA                                                                                                        MAIN ROADS
 26N         Thakurgaon                NILPHAMARI                                                                                                                           RAILROADS
          THAKURGAON                        Nilphamari                   Lalmonirhat
                                                                       T                                                                                                     DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
                                                                               Kurigram
                                                       Rangpur                                                                                                               DIVISION BOUNDARIES
   To                                                                       KURIGRAM
 Katihar                            Dinajpur             RANGPUR                                                                                                             INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                        DINAJPUR                                                       To
                                                                                                    Goalpara                        I N D I A
    To
  Katihar                                                             Gaibandha                                                                                    To      92E                 To
                                                                                                                                                                  Dispur
                                                                      GAIBANDHA                                                                                                                Dispur

                                                 JOYPURHAT
                                                                                                    SERPUR
                                                    Joypurhat                                                                               Sunamganj
 25N                                                                                                                                                                   SYLHET
                                NAOGAON                                                              Serpur                                                                                                  25N
                                                                                                                         NETROKONA               SUNAMGANJ        Sylhet
                               Naogaon                                 BOGRA              Jamalpur
                                                                        Bogra
                                 R A J S H A H I                                              JAMALPUR                       Netrokona
                                                                                                                Mymensingh                              S Y L H E T
        NOWABGANJ                                                                                                                                                                                              To
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Silchar
                                                                                                              MYMENSINGH
                   Nowabganj                                                     Jam

                            RAJSHAHI                                               muuna                    D H A K A               Kishorganj                    MOULVI BAZAR
                                                                                                                                                                   Moulvi Bazar
             Ganges             Rajshahi                                  Serajganj
                                                     Natore                                                                                         HABIGANJ
                                                                        SERAJGANJ                                                 KISHORGANJ
                                                  NATORE                                            TANGAIL

                                                                                                  Tangail                                            Habiganj


                                                                  PABNA
                                                                   ABNA                                            GAZIPUR

                                                                 Pabna                                                      NARSINGDI
 24N                                                                                                             Gazipur                                                                                    24N
                                                                                                                            Narsingdi
   I N D I A                                KUSHTIA      Kushtia                           Manikanj       DHAKA                      MegBRAHMAN
                                                                                                                                       hna                                             I N D I A
                                                                                                                                            Brahmanbaria


                                  Meherpur                                                                                                BARIA
                                                                                    Rajbari   MANIKGANJ
                       MEHERPUR                                                                                       NARAYNGANJ
                                                                                                                           YNGANJ
                                           Chuadanga                     RAJBARI                         DHAKA          Naraynganj

                                  CHUADANGA                                                    Faridpur                            COMILLA
                                                             Jhenaidah
                                                                      Magura                                MUNSHIGANJ Munshiganj
                                                JHENAIDAH                                FARIDPUR
                                                                                          ARIDPUR
                                                                   MAGURA                                     Ganges                     Comilla

 To                                                                                                           SARIATPUR
Calcutta                                                                                                                    CHANDPUR
                                                                                                                 Sariatpur
                                                  Jessore                 Narail                            Madaripur      Chandpur                                               Khagrachhari
                                                                          NARAIL                    MADARIPUR
                                                       JESSORE                             GOPALGANJ                                                                     KHAGRACHHARI
 23N                                               K H U L N A                               Gopalganj                                                Feni                                                  23N
                                                                                                                              LUXMIPUR
                                                                                                                                                     FENI
                                                                              Khulna                        BARISAL             Luxmipur  NOAKHALI

                                                                                                                                           Noakhali                                   RANGAMATI
                                                      Satkhira      KHULNA                        PEROJPUR        Barisal   Bhola            C H I T T A G O N G
                                                                             Bagerhat             Jhalukathi
  To                                             SATKHIRA                                               JHALUKATHI                                                        Rangamati         Karnali
Calcutta                                                                          BAGERHAT          Perojpur                                                                                Reservoir
                                                                                                      B A R I S A L                                            CHITTAGONG

                                                                                                                 Patuakhali   BHOLA

                                                                             e      l      t  a                 PATUAKHALI                                 Chittagong
                                                                                                          Barguna
                         G       a    n     g      e    s               D
                                                                                                    BARGUNA                                                                               Bandarban


 22N                                                                                                                                      s                                              Mt. Mowdok         22N
                                                                                   s                                               g                                                          (957 m)
                                                                       b  a  n                                                          e

                                                         d         r                                                         a   n

                                            S   u    n        a
                                                                                                               t h e      G
                                                                                                                                                                                           BANDARBAN
                                                                                                    o   f                                                                COX'S
                                                                                                                                                                         COX'S

                                                                     M    o  u    t     h    s                                                                           BAZAR


                                                                                                                                                                 Cox's Bazar
                 0 10 20 30 40 50 Kilometers
                                                                                                              B a y o f B e n g a l
                 0     10       20     30     40       50 Miles                                                                                                                               MYANMAR
         This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
 21N    The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                                                                                                     21N
         shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
         Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
         endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                                                      To
                                              89E                                                90E                                  91E                                    92E                 Sittwe

                                                                                                                                                                                                     SEPTEMBER 2004

