Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
CREDIT NUMBER 4312-BD 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Fourth D
evelopment Support Credit
)
between 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated   June 2, 2007 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4312-BD 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated  June 2,  2007, entered into between 
PEOPLE’S  
REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH (“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for the purpose of providing 
financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The 
Association has decided to provide this financing on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) the 
actions which the Recipient has already taken under the Program and which are described 
in Section I (A) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of 
an appropriate macro-economic policy framework. The Recipient and the Association 
therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I
 
–
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
–
FINANCING 
 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to one 
hundred thirty-two million two hundred thousand special drawing rights  
(SDR 132,200,000). 
 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the 
Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
 
ARTICLE III 
–
PROGRAM 
 
3.01 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end: 
 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Recipient shall exchange views with the Association on any 
proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Financing 
which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program, or any action taken under the Program including any action 
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV
 
–
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that a 
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
significant part of it, will be carried out. 
 
ARTICLE V 
–
EFFECTIVENESS
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. The 
Recipient
’s Representative is the Secretary, or the Additional Secretary, or 
any Joint Secretary, or Deputy Secretary or Senior Assistant Secretary or 
Assistant Secretary or Joint Chief, or Deputy Chief or Senior Assistant Chief or 
Assistant Chief of the Economic Relations Division of the Ministry of Finance. 
Page  4
-
3
-
6.02. The 
Recipient
’s Address is: 
 
Economic Relations Division 
Ministry of Finance 
Government of the People’s Republic 
 
of
Bangladesh 
Sher-e-Bangla Nagar 
Dhaka, Bangladesh 
 
Facsimile: 
 
88-02-8113088  
 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
Page  5
-
4
-
AGREED at Dhaka, Bangladesh, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH 
 
By /s / Md. Aminul Islam Bhuiyan 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Xian Zhu 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
A. 
Actions Taken Under the Program 
 
1. 
The Recipient has deepened trade liberalization by reducing the average nominal 
rate of protection by 2.2 percentage points, out of which 1.7 percentage points 
was achieved by phasing out supplementary duties and 0.5 percentage points by 
reducing customs duties.   
 
2. 
The Recipient has strengthened the effectiveness and accountability of the NBR 
by moving it toward a more functional organization structure, consistent with the 
NBR Strategic Development Plan, and, toward that, introduced human resources, 
information and communication technology, and audit functions at the NBR 
Board level, with follow-up plans to create three new Board positions for the 
three new functions.  
 
3. 
The Recipient has advertised the managing director positions for Janata and 
Sonali banks, and has committed to doing the same for Agrani bank by  
June 30, 2007, based on specific terms of reference that include performance 
indicators, it being understood that said managing directors shall be held 
accountable for meeting said indicators.  
 
4. 
The Recipient has made significant progress in implementing an NCB 
restructuring action plan, in particular with its Council of Advisers taking the 
legal decision to corporatize the Agrani, Janata, and Sonali banks and the 
commitment by the Recipient to complete the corporatization process by  
July 2007. 
 
5. 
The Recipient has developed and initiated implementation of a public financial 
management improvement plan, satisfactory to the Association, with measures 
and timetable to address gaps, including those identified in the recently 
developed public financial management indicators. 
 
6. 
The Recipient has: (i) established a complaints mechanism for procurement, 
including independent review panels, meeting the standards stipulated in the 
procurement regulations; and (ii) published, on a pilot basis, quarterly 
procurement management information systems results on CPTU’s website with 
performance indicators for key implementing agencies in the infrastructure and 
power sectors.  
 
Page  7
-
6
-
7. 
The Recipient has taken appropriate steps, acceptable to the Association, to 
strengthen the Anti-Corruption Commission and its management. 
 
8. 
The Recipient has: (i) adopted a least-cost generation development plan for 
generation investments in the power sector and ensuring that all proposed 
generation investments, extant and in the future, are consistent with said 
development plan; and (ii) selected expert consultants to help formulate a 
generation financing plan including, 
inter alia
,
the proportion of generation 
capacity and the specific generation investments to be procured under private and 
public financing and ownership, respectively. 
 
9. 
The Recipient has appointed a reputable international transaction adviser to assist 
in the development of a fair, transparent and competitive procurement process for 
procuring a new, baseload, gas-fired combined-cycle power plant in the power 
sector, consistent with the Recipient’s regulations and procurement policies. 
 
10. 
The Recipient has taken all measures necessary to ensure that the process of 
procuring power under its Small Power Plant Program is transparent and is based 
on competitive procedures, including the issue of model security packages and 
licensing agreements, and selection criteria based on technical competence, 
financial capabilities and tariffs offered by competing bidders, with relative 
weights consistent with international good practices. 
 
11. 
The Recipient has: (i) adopted, in principle, a power sector financial restructuring 
plan (covering specific actions on asset re-valuation, debt restructuring, pension 
liabilities, tariffs, arrears), and has initiated implementation of the plan by 
adjusting power tariffs and collecting payment arrears to power utilities, and has 
further agreed to start restructuring the balance sheets of all power utilities from 
July 2007; (ii) reduced Bangladesh Power Development Board’s average 
payment arrears to Independent Power Producers to less than forty five (45) days; 
and (iii) submitted to the Council of Advisers a financing plan, including a 
combination of budgetary support and tariff increases, to put the sector on 
financial recovery path. 
 
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A.
 General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as 
the Association may specify by notice to the Recipient. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts.
 
The Financing shall be withdrawn in a 
single tranche.  The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set 
out in the table below: 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing Allocated 
(Expressed in SDR) 
 
Single Tranche 
 
132,200,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
                       132,200,000 
C.
 Deposits 
of 
Financing 
Amounts.
 
Except as the Association may otherwise 
agree: 
 
1. 
all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into an account designated by the Recipient and acceptable 
to the Association; and 
 
2.  
the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the 
Financing into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the 
Recipient
’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the 
Association. 
 
D.
 Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Financing shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association 
determines at any time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a 
payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to 
the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be 
cancelled.
 
E.
 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is December 31, 2007. 
Page  9
-
8
-
SCHEDULE 2
 
Repayment Schedule 
 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each January 15 and July 15: 
 
commencing July 15, 2017, to and including 
January 15, 2027 
1% 
commencing July 15, 2027, to and including 
January 15, 2047 
2% 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03(b) of 
the General Conditions. 
Page  10
-
9
-
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-corruption Commission” or “ACC” means the anti-corruption commission 
established by the Borrower under the Anti-Corruption Commission Act, 2004. 
 
2. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or 
loan; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Recipient: 
 
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121 
 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not 
containing tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious 
stones, unworked or worked 
718 718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing machinery 
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum 
group metals (except watches and watch 
cases) and goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ 
wares (including set gems) 
971 
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold 
ores and concentrates) 
Page  11
-
10
-
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international 
agreements to which the Recipient is a party, and any other goods 
designated as environmentally hazardous by agreement between the 
Recipient and the Association; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the 
Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate 
action satisfactory to the Association to address such practices when they 
occur. 
 
3. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through  October 15, 2006) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
4. 
“CPTU” means the Recipient’s Central Procurement Technical Unit. 
 
5. 
“NBR” means the Recipient’s National Board of Revenue. 
 
6. 
“NCBs” means the Recipient’s nationalized commercial banks as set out in 
Bangladesh Banks (Nationalization) Order, 1972 (P.O. No. 26 of 1972) and 
include, for purposes of this Agreement, Agrani Bank, Janata Bank, Rupali Bank 
and Sonali Bank. 
 
7. 
“SOE” means the Recipient’s state-owned enterprises. 
 
8. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or 
referred to in the letter dated April 11, 2007 from the Recipient to the 
Association declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the 
Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in support of the 
Program during its execution. 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
9. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category 
entitled “Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 
1
to this Agreement. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the “International Development Association General 
Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 
2006) are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Financing until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient 
shall enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
6. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by 
the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under 
Page  13
-
12
-
the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Financing. 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term 
“Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Financing Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in 
support of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” 
throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to 
“Program”. 
Page  14
-
13
-
wb77754 
M:\legsa\Bangladesh\DSCIV\FinancingAgreement (conformed).doc 
06/12/2007 12:22:00 PM
 
