Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB3049 
Operation Name 
Development Support Credit IV/Development Policy Lending 
Region 
SOUTH ASIA 
Sector 
General industry and trade sector (25%);General energy sector 
(25%);Central government administration (25%);General finance sector 
(25%) 
Project ID 
P074801 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF BANGLADESH 
Implementing Agency 
INISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
April 9, 2007 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
April 3, 2007 
Date of Board Approval 
May 29, 2007 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Bangladesh, a country of about 150 million people, has made remarkable progress in reducing poverty 
over the last 15 years.  In early 1990s, an estimated 60 percent of the population was living in poverty; 
this number was reduced to 40 percent by 2005.  At current rate, Bangladesh will meet its Millennium 
Development Goal (MDG) of reducing the poverty rate to 29 percent by 2015.  Progress has also been 
good toward achievement of several other MDGs.  Bangladesh is well on its way to meeting the MDG on 
gender parity
,
having already achieved the goal
 
in primary and secondary
 
schooling.  The under-five 
mortality rate has fallen from 136 deaths per 1,000 live births in 1990 to 66 today.  Attaining the MDGs 
relating to 
child malnutrition
 and those in education relating to 
universal net primary enrollment
 and 
primary completion
 remains challenging but within reach.  Bangladesh had nearly achieved the 
safe water
 
MDG, with 97 percent of its population having access to pathogen-free water, before this achievement 
was undermined by naturally occurring arsenic contamination posing a new round of serious challenges. 
 
Despite good progress, significant development challenges remain.  The first and foremost one is of weak 
governance.  Perception-
based indicators, including Transparency International’s Corruption Perception 
Index and the World Bank Institute’s Governance Indicators, have consistently placed Bangladesh at the 
bottom quartile of their cross-country rankings.  Moreover, Bangladesh is still a low-income country, with 
per-capita GDP of about US$460 in 2006.  Poverty has fallen but progress has been uneven across 
geographical regions.  Some 60 million people still live in deprivation, two-thirds of them caught in 
extreme poverty.  Adult illiteracy is persistent at about 50 percent and falling slowly, particularly among 
women.  More than half the children aged one to three are underweight.  Maternal mortality is high as a 
result of inadequate access to health services during pregnancy and childbirth and the poor nutritional 
status of pregnant women.  Attainment of the MDGs on maternal mortality, sanitation, and environmental 
sustainability, therefore, appears to be a difficult challenge. 
 
Bangladesh’s development vision and strategic agenda for poverty reduction, outlined in the 
Government’s Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS), recognize these critical challenges.  The World Bank 
has been a major development partner of Bangladesh.  World Bank Group’s most recent FY06-09 
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Bangladesh aligns itself with the government’s PRS, with 
governance at center stage and cutting across the two pillars of the PRS – improving the investment 
climate and empowering the poor.  In supporting the implementation of the PRS, and earlier the Interim 
PRS, the Bank has provided a series of budget support operations in the form of Development Support 
Credits (DSCs).  As part of the DSC series, three credits totaling US$700 million have been provided to 
Page  2
Bangladesh since 2003; the proposed operation is the fourth in the series.  The DSCs have complemented 
a
parallel SDR 347 million Poverty Reduction Grant Facility (PRGF) program of the IMF, due to be 
completed in June 2007. 
 
2. Operation 
Objectives 
 
The proposed DSC IV operation, just like the previous three DSCs, supports a component of the 
Government of Bangladesh
’s (GoB’s) reform agenda as spelt out in its PRS.  In particular, DSC-
supported reforms have sought to (a) strengthen core governance functions, with emphasis on reforms in 
public procurement, budget formulation and execution, and tax administration; and (b) improve the 
investment climate, by maintaining macroeconomic stability, deepening domestic deregulation and trade 
liberalization, and strengthening performances of banking and energy sectors and state-owned enterprises. 
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The current political environment, with a new competent caretaker government (CTG) in place since 
January 2007, provides a window of opportunity to carry out major policy and institutional reforms.  The 
new CTG has moved decisively to begin to address the governance problems and aggressively carry 
forward the reform agenda.  It has accorded its highest priority to mending the electoral system, while 
also restoring essential law and order conditions, and strengthening key institutions of accountability such 
as the Election Commission, the Anti-Corruption Commission (ACC), and the Judiciary.  Notable actions 
by the CTG include (a) adoption of rules relating to the Judicial Services Commission and amendments to 
the Code of Criminal Procedure to separate the judiciary from the executive, and (b) reconstitution of the 
ACC, which was set-up under the previous elected government but was yet to become functional.  The 
ACC is now vigorously carrying out its activities.  The previous government had also begun to 
institutionalize important improvements in budget planning, tax administration, and public financial 
management – measures supported by the DSC series – all of which are being furthered by the CTG.   
 
The CTG’s commitment to persist with the economic policy reforms started by the previous elected 
government, especially by addressing the key challenges of weak revenue mobilization, growing energy 
sector losses, and persistent inflationary pressures, to keep the economy on a solid footing is reassuring.  
Among the major economic policy reforms since 2002: Trade and exchange liberalization was deepened 
with average nominal protection falling from 29.4 percent in FY02 to 24.3 percent in FY07, virtual 
elimination of trade related quantitative restrictions, and adoption of a floating exchange rate regime in 
FY03; low fiscal deficits since FY02 together with limited domestic borrowing to cover the deficit 
ensured a sustainable fiscal situation; monetary policy, after some initial laxity, has been tightened since 
early 2005 to contain exogenous inflationary pressures.   
 
To support its ambitious reform program, the CTG has requested speedy assistance from its development 
partners, including the World Bank Group.  The CTG has specifically requested the Bank to fast-track the 
proposed DSC IV, a budget-support operation.  The initiation of major governance reforms by the CTG 
and sustained progress by successive governments on economic management, backed by the solid 
development record, make Bangladesh an appropriate candidate for continued support from the Bank. 
 
4. Financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
200 
 Total 
200 
Page  3
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
Monitoring and Evaluation
:
The monitoring framework outlined in 
Bangladesh’s PRS includes 
monitoring indicators, data sources, and institutional arrangements for monitoring and providing feedback 
to policy makers.  Repeated rounds of Household and Income Expenditure Survey (HIES) conducted by 
the Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics (BBS) are the most important basis for poverty monitoring and 
analysis.  HIES 2000 provided baseline information for most outcome indicators identified in the PRS, 
which was then updated by the 2005 HIES.  Other important sources of information on MDG indicators 
include the Demographic and Health Surveys, the Child Nutrition Surveys, and the Labor Force Surveys.  
Efforts are also underway to improve monitoring of performance in public financial management (PFM).  
GoB has developed baseline ratings of the core PFM functions and has instituted a PFM Implementation 
Plan (PFMIP) to improve performance. 
 
In recent years, capacity improvement in monitoring and evaluation (M&E) has occurred along multiple 
dimensions.  Technical assistance from the Bank, including an ongoing Institutional Development 
Facility grant, has helped BBS improve the survey quality and speed of data processing over successive 
rounds of HIES.  The capacity of BBS to measure and analyze poverty has benefited from close on-the-
job collaboration with the Bank.  A number of training courses and workshops—some administered by 
the World Bank Institute—have further enhanced the analytical capacity at BBS as well as other 
government departments and nongovernment think tanks.   
 
Fiduciary Aspects
.
Fiduciary arrangements for the DSC IV operation are the same as those used for 
managing GoB’s own foreign exchange reserves at Bangladesh Bank and budgetary resources through the 
treasury system.  While recent assessments of these fiduciary arrangements continue to highlight a weak 
environment, efforts have been made in recent years to improve the systems, with significant results. 
·
First, a comprehensive reform effort to improve PFM institutions, supported by this operation and 
parallel technical assistance activities is ongoing.  This includes reforms to improve budget 
planning, accounting and auditing of government transactions, and financial reporting. 
 
Particularly significant has been the steady progress in improving the transparency and 
competitiveness of public procurement.  A new law on public procurement was adopted in July 
2006, with many provisions that are in line with well-accepted international practices.  GoB is 
now finalizing the rules to implement the law and, in the interim, is using the regulations that 
were the precursor for the law.  In addition, accounting transactions are being computerized, 
improving the accuracy and timeliness of public financial information.  Reconciliation of budget 
accounts and corresponding bank accounts is also being computerized.  
·
Second, on the foreign exchange side, the recent IMF safeguard assessment confirms that 
progress has been made on strengthening Bangladesh Bank’s safeguards framework in a number 
of areas, including through the publication of Bangladesh Bank’s financial accounts (according to 
International Financial Reporting Standards), reconciliation of monetary data reported to the IMF 
with the audited accounts and improvements in foreign exchange management.  Starting from 
FY03, the Bangladesh Bank has had its financial statements audited by internationally affiliated 
audit firms in full compliance with international standards on auditing.  
 
Disbursement
.
Proceeds of the Credit will be disbursed to a specific deposit account of the Ministry of 
Finance and Planning established at Bangladesh Bank for this purpose; the deposit account is part of the 
country’s official foreign exchange reserves.  An amount equivalent to the Credit proceeds will then be 
credited to an account of the Government to finance budgeted expenditures.  Transactions and balances of 
the Government account will be fully incorporated into the Government’s accounting records and 
financial statements.  Disbursement will not be linked to any specific purchases and no procurement 
Page  4
requirements will be needed.  If any portion of the Credit proceeds is used for ineligible purposes as 
defined by the Financing Agreement, IDA will require the Borrower either to return that amount to the 
deposit account or refund the amount directly to IDA. 
Environment Aspects
.
The extent of environmental degradation in Bangladesh poses a substantial social 
and economic concern.  The recent Bangladesh Country Environmental Analysis (CEA) suggests that 
policy initiatives to reduce environmental health risks associated with poor water quality and urban and 
indoor air pollution could result in economic savings of as much as 3.5 percent of GDP.  A number of 
critical issues regarding environmental health, natural resource productivity, and urban and industrial 
pollution have been at
 the center of Bank’s policy dialogue with GoB and will remain a strategic 
challenge of utmost importance.  The Strategic Environmental Assessment of Dhaka Area Development 
Plans is in progress and will support the institutional coordination for better management of Dhaka area 
and will respond to the increasing environmental and governance challenges.  Equally important is to 
continue the institutional capacity building support to the Department of Environment (DoE) to better 
control the rapidly escalating urban and industrial environmental challenges facing Bangladesh.  Priority 
actions are being taken for updating the DoE Strategic Plan prior to submitting for approval by the 
Ministry of Environment and Economic Relations Division.  Strengthening environmental institutions and 
transparency should improve the capacity of regulating bodies and lead to better environmental 
compliance.  Improved access to environmental information will increase the awareness of the public and 
engage civil society in formulation of environmental policies and protection of environmental resources. 
The policies supported by DSC IV in themselves are not expected to have any significant negative effect 
on the environment, natural resources, or forests.  Many of the policy actions may, in fact, indirectly 
generate environmental benefits by reducing pressures on the natural resources and may facilitate the 
adoption of cleaner technologies in production sectors, thus leading to better environmental outcomes.  
For example, deepening trade liberalization may reduce pressures on natural resources which are being 
overexploited in Bangladesh – case in point is the process of deforestation to meet demand for wood 
products.  A reduction in trade tariffs will tend to increase imports and reduce the domestic price, thereby 
easing pressures on these resources.   Policies to address issues of environmental liability for past 
contamination and continuing pollution by SOEs undergoing privatization have been agreed with the 
Government as part of the 
Enterprise Growth and Bank Modernization Project
.
These policies include 
provision for the environmental audit of potentially contaminated sites prior to sale, although greater 
attention to the application of these measures is warranted.  The Bank will continue to monitor 
implementation of these policies. 
 
6. 
Benefits and Risks 
 
Benefits
:
The DSC series has supported reforms aimed at strengthening prospects for stronger economic 
growth, improved governance, and faster poverty reduction.  By most measures, Bangladesh’s recent 
development record justifies this support.  Economic growth is at historically high levels, poverty fell by 
9
percentage points between 2000–05, and most of the MDGs seem attainable.  Growth has benefited 
from macroeconomic stability, trade liberalization, regulatory reforms, banking reforms, some 
improvements in infrastructure provisioning, and more efficient public expenditure management – areas 
that the DSCs have explicitly supported.  The institutional reforms supported by the DSCs have a longer 
gestation period and therefore it is too soon to judge their efficacy.  Nonetheless, broad-based governance 
reforms targeted at strengthening core governance functions—such as PFM, tax administration, public 
administration, and checks and balances on public entities—are expected over the longer term to improve 
public service delivery, reduce systemic corruption, and strengthen the business environment.   
Political Risks
.
The sustainability of the reform process put in train by the CTG is ultimately linked to 
the smoothness of the political transition.  The CTG is making good efforts to create conditions conducive 
Page  5
to free and fair parliamentary elections, yet the timing of the elections remains a bit uncertain: the CTG 
has indicated that elections will be held before the year 2008 is over.  The CTG enjoys widespread public 
support, but there is a risk that that may erode with uncertainty regarding the timing of the elections.  The 
Bank has remained in contact with the reform-minded members of the two major political parties to 
ensure broader political support for the DSC-supported reforms.  Both parties agree on the broad reform 
priorities supported by the DSC operation, which bodes well for sustainability of the reforms.  The Bank 
is also contributing to ensuring continuity and prioritization of reforms with its analytical work on major 
development issues, which it regularly shares with the government and other stakeholders. 
Economic Risks
.
The main economic risk stems from the weak financial condition of state-owned 
enterprises (SOEs), especially those in the energy sector.  Sustained large losses at the energy sector 
SOEs have led to a build-up of outstanding liabilities and exacerbated the financial fragilities of the 
nationalized commercial banks (NCBs) that are directed to finance their losses.  Authorities raised power 
tariffs in March 2007 and fuel prices in April 2007 to stem growing losses at the Bangladesh Petroleum 
Corporation (BPC) and the Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB), respectively.  However, BPC 
is still unable to service its large outstanding debt burden, mostly to the NCBs, which would need to be 
resolved.  Recent analysis by the Bank using HIES 2000 and HIES 2005 data shows that the direct and 
indirect social impact of energy price increases
—in terms of the effect on household consumption and 
welfare—is likely to be quite small for the poor.  Authorities have recently also significantly reduced 
BPDB’s payment arrears to independent power producers (IPPs) and stepped up efforts to recover power 
utilities’ accounts receivables.  Implementation of the Financial Recovery and Restructuring Plan (FRP) 
for the power sector, which GoB recently adopted in principle, should further help alleviate the financial 
burden on the power utilities.  GoB is also considering divesture of the loss-making national airline, 
Biman, through a strategic partner or other appropriate means, and has sought technical assistance from 
its development partners to support this move.   
 
Another important source of economic vulnerability is the persistently low tax mobilization, which 
severely curtains GoB’s ability to provide public goods and services and is a source of risk to long-term 
fiscal sustainability.  To address this, authorities would need to step up implementation of the tax 
administration modernization program being supported by the Bank and DFID along with legislative 
reforms to correct major tax policy distortions and strengthening of customs administration. 
 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts  
The net impact on the poor of the specific reforms supported by DSC IV is expected to be positive.   
Þ
Core governance reforms such as making the ACC more effective and improving the PFM functions, 
including public procurement, are expected to deter and reduce future misuse of public resources, and 
the saving from this can be used for pro-poor spending.   
Þ
Measures to improve budgetary planning and execution would help strengthen the targeting of pro-
poor public expenditure toward the needy and improve the quality of public capital expenditure. 
Þ
Improvements in tax administration would create the fiscal space for expanding pro-poor public 
programs and pro-growth public capital expenditure, particularly in the critical area of power and 
other infrastructure. 
Þ
Trade liberalization would improve the competitiveness of the ready-made garments (RMG) sector 
and prospects for export diversification into labor-intensive manufacturing in areas other than ready-
made garments, which would create job opportunities for the population, including the poor. 
Þ
Reforms in the energy sector are designed to improve access and reliability of power supply, 
especially to the poor who have very limited access to electricity.   
Page  6
Þ
Financial sector reforms will improve the efficiency of state owned banks, which would improve 
access to finance for the poor and the non-poor.  Moreover improved efficiency of banks would lead 
to reduced interest spreads, thereby reducing borrowing rates for the poor.  
 
8. Contact 
point 
Contact: Sandeep Mahajan 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: (202) 458-0287 
Fax: (202) 522-0356 
Email: smahajan@worldbank.org 
 
9. 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
 
