Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2989 
Operation Name 
Development Support Credit IV/Development Policy Lending 
Region 
SOUTH ASIA 
Sector 
General industry and trade sector (25%); General energy sector 
(25%); Central government administration (25%); General finance 
sector (25%) 
Project ID 
P074801 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF BANGLADESH 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
March 23, 2007 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
April 21, 2007 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
May 29, 2007 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Bangladesh, a country of 140 million people, has made remarkable progress in reducing poverty.
 
In early 1990s, 
close to 60 percent of the population was living in poverty; this number was reduced to 49 percent by 2000 and 
further to 40 percent by 2005. At current rate, Bangladesh will meet its Millennium Development Goal (MDG) of 
reducing the poverty rate to 29 percent by 2015. Progress has also been good toward achievement of several other 
MDGs. Bangladesh is well on its way to meeting the MDG on 
gender parity
,
having already achieved the goal
 
in 
primary and secondary
 
schooling. The under-five mortality rate has fallen from 136 deaths per 1,000 live births in 
1990 to 66 today. Attaining the MDGs relating to 
child malnutrition
 and those in education relating to 
universal 
net primary enrollment
 and 
primary completion
 remains challenging but within reach. Bangladesh had also nearly 
achieved the 
safe water
 MDG, with 97 percent of its population having access to pathogen-free water, before this 
achievement was undermined by naturally occurring arsenic contamination posing a new round of serious 
challenges. 
 
Bangladesh’s development challenges remain significant in their scale and scope.  The first and foremost one is of 
weak governance.  Perception-based indicators, including Transparency International’s Corruption Perception 
Index and the World Bank Institute’s Governance Indicators, have consistently placed Bangladesh at the bottom 
quartile of their cross-country ranking.  The country also faces several social and economic development 
challenges.  Bangladesh remains a low-income country, with per-capita GDP of about US$460 in 2006.  Poverty 
has fallen but progress has been uneven across geographical regions.  Some 60 million people still live in 
deprivation, two-thirds of them caught in extreme poverty.  Adult illiteracy is persistent at about 50 percent and 
falling slowly, particularly among women.  More than half the children aged one to three are underweight.  
Maternal mortality is high as a result of inadequate access to health services during pregnancy and childbirth and 
the poor nutritional status of pregnant women.  Attainment of the MDGs on maternal mortality, sanitation, and 
environmental sustainability, therefore, appears to be a difficult challenge. 
 
Bangladesh’s development vision and strategic agenda for poverty reduction, outlined in the Government’s 
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP), recognize these critical challenges.  The World Bank has been a major 
development partner of Bangladesh. World Bank Group’s most recent FY06-09 Country Assistance Strategy 
(CAS) for Bangladesh aligns itself with the government’s poverty reduction strategy, with governance at center 
stage and cutting across the two pillars of the PRSP – improving the investment climate and empowering the 
poor.  In supporting the implementation of the PRSP, and earlier the Interim PRSP, the Bank has provided a series 
Page  2
2
of budget support programmatic operations in the form  of Development Support Credits (DSCs).  As part of the 
DSC series, three credits totaling US$ 700 million have been provided to Bangladesh since 2003; the proposed 
operation is the fourth in the series.  The DSCs have complemented a parallel SDR 347 million Poverty Reduction 
Grant Facility (PRGF) program of the IMF, due to be completed in June 2007.   
 
The current political environment, with a new competent caretaker government (CTG) in place since January 
2007, provides a window of opportunity to carry out major policy and institutional reforms. The new CTG has 
moved decisively to begin to address the governance problems and aggressively carry forward the reform agenda. 
It has accorded its highest priority to mending the electoral system, while also restoring essential law and order 
conditions, and strengthening key institutions of accountability such as the Election Commission, the Anti-
Corruption Commission (ACC), and the Judiciary.   
 
The CTG has resuscitated several institutional reforms that were initiated under previous governments but had not 
been completed.  Notable actions include (a) adoption of rules relating to the Judicial Services Commission and 
amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure to separate the judiciary from the executive, and (b) reconstitution 
of the Anti-Corruption Commission (ACC), set-up under the previous elected government with support from the 
Bank under DSC series and the ADB but was yet to become functional.  The ACC is now vigorously carrying out 
its activities. The previous government had also begun to institutionalize important improvements in budget 
planning, tax administration, and public financial management 
–
measures supported by the DSC series – all of 
which are being furthered by the CTG.  In a particularly significant move, the last Parliament enacted a 
Procurement Law, consistent with international good practices, and preparation of its implementing rules are now 
ongoing. 
 
On the economic policy front, the performance of the previous elected government in implementing DSC-
supported reforms was good.
 
Trade and exchange liberalization was deepened with average nominal protection 
falling from 29.4 percent in FY02 to 24.3 percent in FY07, virtual elimination of trade related quantitative 
restrictions, and adoption of a floating exchange rate regime in FY03.  Low fiscal deficits since FY02 together 
with limited domestic borrowing to cover the deficit ensured a sustainable fiscal situation.  Monetary policy, after 
some initial laxity, has been tightened since early 2005 to contain exogenous inflationary pressures.  The CTG’s 
commitment to persist with the economic policy reforms, especially by addressing the key challenges of weak 
revenue mobilization, growing energy sector losses, and persistent inflationary pressures, to keep the economy on 
a
solid footing is reassuring. 
 
The CTG has requested speedy support from the development partners, including the World Bank Group, who are 
accordingly gearing up—financially and through technical assistance—to support the CTG in its bold reform 
efforts.  The CTG has specifically requested the Bank to fast-track the proposed DSC IV, a budget-support 
operation.  The initiation of major governance reforms by the CTG and sustained progress by successive 
governments on improving economic management, backed by the country’s solid development record, make 
Bangladesh an appropriate candidate for continued support from the Bank. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The proposed DSC IV operation, just like the previous three DSCs, supports a component of the Government’s 
reform agenda as spelt out in its PRSP, with emphasis on reform efforts to strengthen core governance functions 
and improve the investment climate.  By most measures, Bangladesh’s strong record on growth (which has been 
on historically high levels in recent years) and on poverty reduction and other MDGs justifies this support.  
Growth has benefited from macroeconomic stability, trade liberalization, regulatory reforms and deregulation, 
banking reforms, some improvements in infrastructure provisioning, and more efficient public expenditure 
management.  These are all areas that the DSCs have explicitly supported.  The institutional reforms supported by 
the DSCs have a longer gestation period and therefore it is too soon to judge their efficacy.  Nonetheless, broad-
based governance reforms targeted at strengthening core governance functions – such as public financial 
management, tax administration, public administration, and checks and balances on public entities – are expected 
over the longer term to improve public service delivery, reduce systemic corruption, and strengthen the business 
environment.  
 
Page  3
3
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
The proposed DSC IV operations supports 
the Government’s ongoing policies and institutional reforms, with a 
view to accelerating growth, reducing poverty, and improving the quality of service delivery. Building on the 
reform progress in core governance under the previous three DSCs, DSC IV supports the Government’s reforms 
in procurement, public financial management (PFM) functions, tax administration, and checks and balances on 
public entities.  DSC IV would also support deepening of reforms to improve the investment climate, particularly 
continued macroeconomic stability, trade liberalization, and better performances of the banking and energy 
sectors and SOEs. 
 
Specific reform actions of the Government supported by the DSC IV operation include: 
 
·
Pursuance of adequate fiscal, monetary, and external sector policies to ensure continued macroeconomic 
stability characterized by low inflation and sustainable external and internal balances. 
·
Deepening of trade liberalization by further phasing out of supplementary duties to strengthen the 
economy’s export competitiveness. 
·
Initiation of steps to move the National Board of Revenue (NBR) toward a more functional organizational 
structure, to improve tax mobilization needed to finance development priorities of the government. 
·
Continued restructuring of the nationalized commercial banks (NCBs), to improve performance and 
governance of the banking sector.  Key steps would include further withdrawing the role of the public 
sector role in the NCBs, bringing them more directly under the regulatory and supervisory control of 
Bangladesh Bank, and strengthening their management structure. 
·
Development and initial implementation of an agreed Public Financial Management Improvement Plan 
(PFMIP), with measures and timetable to address gaps in key PFM functions, including strengthening the 
technical capacity of and improving media access to the Parliamentary Accounts Committee (PAC) 
proceedings. 
·
Continued strengthening of the public procurement system, an area typically rife with corruption 
problems, with emphasis on (i) a better functioning and independent complaints mechanism for public 
procurement that is consistent with the standard stipulated in the new public procurement regulations; and 
(ii) publishing regular procurement MIS results on the Central Procurement Technical Unit’s (CPTU) 
website with performance indicators for key implementing agencies in the infrastructure and power 
sector. 
·
Strengthening of the ACC and its management, to make it into a more effective autonomous watchdog 
institution. 
·
Addressing the substantial and growing power generation shortfall and the poor financial situation of the 
power sectors entities.  Attracting private investment into development of base-load power plants, while 
following a transparent procurement process that is consistent with the government’s own regulations and 
policies. Strengthening the financial position of the power sector entities with more efficient pricing of 
power and initial financial restructuring of the public utility companies. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
Overall, the policies supported by DSC IV will not have significant negative effects on the environment, natural 
resources, or forests. Many of the policy actions may, in fact, indirectly generate environmental benefits by 
reducing pressures on the natural resources and may facilitate the adoption of cleaner technologies in production 
sectors, thus leading to better environmental outcomes. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
200 
 Total 
200 
Page  4
4
6. Contact point 
 
Contact: Sandeep Mahajan 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: (202) 458-0287 
Fax: 
(202) 522-0356
 
Email: smahajan@worldbank.org
 
