Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13947-SL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED HEALTH SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
FEBRUARY 6, 1996



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of January 5, 1996)
Currency Unit = Leones
US$1.00 = 948 Leones
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AfDB        African Development Bank
DHMT        District Health Management Team
DOF         Department of Finance
DOH         Department of Health
EU          European Union
FP          Family Planning
FY          Fiscal Year
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
GOSL        Government of Sierra Leone
I-RV        Human Immunodeficiency Virus
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
IDA         International Development Association
tMF         International Monetary Fund
IPAM        Institute of Public Administration and Management
MCH         Maternal Child Health
NHAP        National Health Action Plan
NCB         National Competitive Bidding
NGO         Non-Governmental Organization
PHC         Primary Health Care
PHU         Peripheral Health Unit
PHRD        Policy and Human Resources Development (Japanese Grant)
PMISU       Planning, Monitoring, Information and Statistics Unit
PER         Public Expenditure Review
PIP          Public Investment Program
SAP         Structural Adjustment Program
SDR         Special Drawing Right
SIP          Sector Investment Project
SOE         Statement of Expenditure
UNDP        United Nations Development Prograrnme
UNFPA       United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF      United Nations Children's Fund
WFP         World Food Program
WHO         World Health Organization
BORROWER'S FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31 (from January 1, 1996)
July 1 - June 30 (until December 31, 1995)



REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED HEALTH SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT,
Contents
CREDIT  AND  PROGRAM   SUMMARY ..........................................................                            iii
L INTRODUCTION ........................................................... 1
HI. THE HEALTH SECTOR .........................................................._2
A. SECTOR BACKGROUND ..........................................................................._2
B. CURRENT STATE OF THE HEALTH SECTOR .....................................................................3
Organization of the health care system  .............................3..............................3
Status of health facilities ...........................................................4
Health personnel ...........................................................5
Health financing ...........................................................5
C. PREVIOUS BANK OPERATIONS IN THE HEALTH SECTOR AND LESSONS LEARNED .............8
D. DONOR ASSISTANCE IN THE SECTOR ............................................................................8
E. KEY ISSUES ............................................................................9
Poor access to health care ...........................................................9
Poor quality of services ..........................................................                                10
Poor management, with inadequate community involvement and accountability ....... 10
Insufficient financing and misallocation of scarce resources ................                     ...................... 11
IM. THE HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY                                                             ..  11
A. THE GOVERNMENT REFORM  PROGRAM  ......................................................................   11
B. RATIONALE FOR IDA INVOLVEMENT ........................................................................... 12
C. BANK ROLE IN THE HEALTH REFORM  PROGRAM .......................................................... 13
D. FUTURE DONOR SUPPORT FOR THE HEALTH REFORM  PROGRAM  ...........                                    ....................... 14
IV. THE PROGRAM ..........................................................                                             15
A. PROGRAM  SCOPE AND OBJECTIVES ........................................................................... 15
B. PROGRAM  DESCRIPTION ...........................................................................                   16
iThis report is based upon the findings of missions which visited Sierra Leone in February, May and August, 1994,
and February and October, 1995. The mission members consisted of Messrs./Mmes. D. Peters (Mission
Leader/Public Health Physician, AF4PH), S. Luculescu (Mission Leader/Senior Public Health Specialist, AF5PH), J.
Angers (Operations Analyst, AF4PH), S. Ben-Halima (Implementation Specialist, AF5PH), A. E. Elmendorf (Lead
Advisor/Principal Management Specialist, AFTHR), F. Fichtl (Economist, AF5PH), D. Harris (Economist, AF4PH),
G. Raheem (Project Management Specialist, AFTCB), 0. Ransome-Kuti (Professional Education/PHC Specialist,
AFTHR), K. Bhattacharyya (Beneficiary Assessment, Consultant), K. Brown (Human Resource Management
Specialist, Consultant), S. Cunningham (Financial Management Specialist, Consultant), B. Siegel (Health Policy
Advisor, Consultant), and S. Bradley, J-P. Manshande, and P. Bachrach (Health Planning Consultants). The
Technical Review team includes Ms. H. Saxenian (PHN), Ms. D. Vaillancourt (PHN), and Mr. J. Roome (AFIEI).
Ms. J. Christiansen assisted in the preparation of the report. Messrs. 0. Pannenborg and J-L. Sarbib are the
managing Division Chief and Department Director, respectively, for the operation.



- ii -
Definition of NHAP technical programs and support services .                                  .................................. 17
Health facilities rehabilitation and re-tooling ....................................................                      18
Institutional development ....................................................                                           19
The first year program ....................................................                                              22
C. PROGRAM  COSTS AND FNANCING .................................................................                             24
V. PROGRAM  IMPLEMENTATION ....................................................                                             29
A.  STATUS OF PROGRAM  PREPARATION ........................................................                        ......... 29
B. PROGRAM  IMPLEMENTATION (MANAGEMENT AND COORDINATION) ...........                                             ................ 31
C. PROGRAM SUSTAINABILiTY AND RECURRENT COST IMPLICATIONS .............................. 32
D. PROGRAM  MONITORING AND REPORTING ................................................................. 33
E. ANNUAL AND MID-TERM  REVIEWS ....................................                           ............................. 35
F. ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS ................................................................. 35
G. PROCUREMENT ................................................................. 35
H. DISBURSEMENTS ................................................................. 39
I. ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, AND REPORTING  ................................................................. 40
VL PROGRAM BENEFITS AND RISKS ....................................................                                            41
A. PROGRAM  BENEFITS                             ................................................................. 41
B. PROGRAM  RISKS .................................................................                                          41
VLL AGREEMENTS, CONDITIONS, AND RECOMMENDATION   .. 42
ANNEXES
1. Socio-Economic Indicators
2. Letter of Health Sector Development Policy
3. Causes of Mortality in Western Area
4. Distribution of Health Facilities and Public Sector Health Workers
5. Historical Health Sector Expenditures in Sierra Leone
6. Communique of the Social Sectors Round Table Consultations
7. Framework for Prioritization of the Core Program of the National Health Action Plan
8. Detailed Description of Technical and Support Programs
9. Proposed Training Plan
10. Detailed Program Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
11. Draft of Key Health Sector Performance Indicators
12. Department of Health Organogram
13. Summary Program Implementation Schedule
14. Operational Manual Draft Table of Contents
15. Supervision Plan
16. Disbursement Forecast
Map



- iii -
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED HEALTH SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:                 Republic of Sierra Leone
Beneficiary:              Department of Health (DOH)
Poverty:                  Not included in the Program of Targeted Interventions
Credit amount:            SDR 13.6 Million (US$20.0 Million equivalent)
Terms:                    Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity
Commitment Fee:           0.50 percent on undisbursed Credit balances, beginning 60
days after signing, less any waiver.
Financing Plan:           See paragraph 4.20 on page 27
Net Present Value:       Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:   13947-SL
Map:                     IBRD 26923
Project ID No.:           SL-PA-2422






Republic of Sierra Leone
INTEGRATED HEALTH SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1   The Government of Sierra Leone, in its effort to improve the health of its people, has
requested IDA assistance of SDR 13.6 million (US$20 million equivalent) to finance a Credit
aimed at supporting the Government's reform of the health sector based on its National Health
Action Plan (NHAP).
1.2    With an annual GNP/per capita of only US$150 (1993), Sierra Leone is classified as
one of the poorest and "least-developed" countries in the world. After negligible growth in the
1970s, the economic situation sharply deteriorated in the 1980s, coinciding with the Bank's
five-year suspension of activities in the country. By 1990, over two-thirds of the population
lived in absolute poverty, a situation exacerbated by the influx of refugees from Liberia and,
more recently, the displacement of large segments of the population due to rebel attacks on
mining sites and small towns (see Box 1). Although measures taken by Government,
particularly during the last months, seem to bear positive results, the future remains difficult to
predict, and the country is faced with new economic problems such as inflation caused by the
decline of export revenue, particularly of rutile and diamond mining industry. This situation
is being compounded by the fact that social services and human resources have been largely
neglected during the past decade. At present, the infrastructure in the social sector has
deteriorated significantly because of the absence of maintenance systems, the erosion of public
sector management and underfunding.
1.3   Faced with limited resources, the Government of Sierra Leone (GOSL), with assistance
from the Bank and the IMF, embarked on an ambitious structural adjustment program in late
1989, aimed at economic stabilization and creation of conditions for sustained economic
growth and reduction of poverty. As stated in its Policy Framework Paper, increased public
investment in social sectors, particularly for basic education and health care, is a central part of
the GOSL adjustment program and development strategy. Substantial progress had been made
in achieving macroeconomic and fiscal management targets: growth rates are recovering, and
inflation, which reached a peak of 170 percent in 1986-87, stabilized at around 15 percent in
1993-94. Since the resurgence of rebel activities, macroeconomic performance has begun to
suffer as a result of decreasing revenues from the productive areas of the country, and
deviations of public expenditures, largely for military purposes. Government has maintained
its fiscal commitments to the health sector, though without external support to implement its
proposed plan, it will be difficult to maintain these efforts in the medium term. Rehabilitation
of social infrastructure has begun with the resumption of donor assistance and IDA project
activities, yet there remains an enormous challenge to assure the provision of basic social
services and to develop the institutional capacity needed to maintain them. The proposed
investment credit would help the Government's sector reforms lay the foundation for a
sustainable, equitable and efficient health system, while addressing the new demands
exacerbated by the rebel activities.



II. THE HEALTH SECTOR
A. SECTOR BACKGROUND
2.1      Sierra Leone has hardly begun the health   BOX 1  The Security Situation in Sierra
transition, as evidenced by its dire health          Leone
indicators. The population of 4.7 million (1995)'   Since January, 1995, rebels (assumed to be no
is growing at an approximately 2.6 percent per       more than 500-600) have mounted a "hit and
year. The total fertility rate is very high, estimated  run" campaign against the public. Villages,
at 6.5. Little change in fertility can be expected   road convoys, construction sites, and mines
until substantial improvements are made in           have been attacked, in some cases taking
cvilians in custody. Many vilagers (perhaps
mortality conditions, which are among the worst    up to 1 million) have moved to safer areas in
in the world. High fertility also contributes       the main towns and in neighboring Guinea.
significantly to high mortality. Life expectancy,    Aid workers have relocated to Freetown, and
after improving during the 1 960s and 1 970s,        most development efforts outside Freetown
s4tagnated during the 1980s, and is currently only    have ceased. For years, the rebels did not
specify a political or military agenda, though
39 years,' the lowest in the world. More than one   in the last few months, one leader has
child in four dies before the age of five, and adults  expressed his intention to become presidet
have the second highest rate of mortality in the     The initial attempts of the government to
world (World Development Report, 1995). The          resolve the conflict by increasing the size of
main causes of mortality and morbidity are          the army were lagely unsuccessful and
contributed to a loss of discipline in the army.
infectious diseases, largely related to the childhood  In June, 1995, the Government hired a private
complex of pneumonia, diarrhea, measles and          mercenary force, which has mounted an
malnutrition (see Annex 3). Other infectious         intense coumter-offensive against alleged
diseases, such as malaria, tuberculosis,             rebel targets. In paralel with the military
onchocerciasis and schistosomiasis, are highly       approach, the Govement ha also taken
several initiatives to reach a negotiated
prevalent in all age groups, and the human           solution and to foster democracy by
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) poses a new threat   announcing general elections for early 1996.
to youth and adults (HIV prevalence is estimated     At Government's request, a special UN envoy
at nearly five percent among low risk groups in     is trying to broker a settlement with rebel
leaders, while the Commonwealth Secretariat
Freetown). Maternal mortality rate IS also           and the Organization of African Unity are
exceptionally high, estimated at 800 deaths per      also actively supporting negotiated solutions.
100,000 deliveries.                                 Foreign representatives are firm in their
assessment of the Government's commitment
2.2      The nutritional situation has changed       to end the war. To date, the outcomes of
little over the last decade. In 1978, a national     these measures look promising but not yet
survey revealed that 30.5% of children under five    conclusive.
years were underweight; the most recent estimate in 1989-90 showed a prevalence of 33.4%
in the same age group. The data show similar trends for stunting and wasting. The daily
supply of calories is only about 1,800 - less than 80% of estimated requirements; about the
Department of Health figures differ, estimating the population to 4.2 million and life expectancy at 43 years and 45
years.



same level as ten years ago. Micronutrient deficiencies are also common. For example, iron-
deficiency anemia is found in about two-thirds of pregnant women and nearly 60% of all
children. Among other causes, this can be attributed to chronic or recurrent illness (especially
malaria), worm infestation, poor feeding practices (e.g. late addition of supplemental foods for
infants), and short birth spacing.
2.3     There are a number of factors contributing to the poor levels of health status
indicators in Sierra Leone. There is a high burden of disease exposure due to crowded and
unsanitary living conditions. For example, less than half the population has access to safe
drinking water or sanitation facilities, with conditions being much worse in rural areas. Too
many children, spaced too closely, by mothers that are too young, increase health risks to
mothers and their children. Extremely low levels of literacy and basic education leave many
people ignorant about good health practices, limit the ability of women to make healthy
choices for their families, and perpetuate the cycle of poverty and illness. These are
aggravated by the social disruption and disorganization that has afflicted Sierra Leone.
Traditional practices and cultural norms also may impose additional health risks or may limit
access to modem health care.
B. CURRENT STATE OF THE HEALTH SECTOR
2.4     According to the Government, health services have "reached an appalling state of
deterioration both in quality and scope" (NHAP). Because of this, health care services are
doing little to respond to the huge health needs of the population. A lack of sustained political
will, grossly inadequate funding, and the near absence of responsibility and accountability
within the health sector in the past contributed to the breakdown in public services. The
private sector has compensated to a small degree for failings of the public system, but most
private services are inaccessible to the majority of the population and are of variable quality.
Organization of the health care system
2.5     Health care is provided through a network of about 550 primary, secondary, and
tertiary government health facilities, and another 35 hospitals and 84 clinics operated by the
mission and private sectors (see Annex 4). There are two main types of public facilities, as
outlined below.
(a)   Peripheral Health Units (PHUs). Over 500 PHUs are supposed to provide
primary health care services: predominantly antenatal care, family planning,
immunizations, and simple curative care. There are currently three types of PHUs
which differ, at least in concept, by the level of staffing, equipment, and the size of the
communities in which they serve. In order of decreasing size, these PHUs are located
at chiefdom headquarters (Community Health Centers, catchment population of 10,000
- 20,000), small towns (Community Health Posts, catchment population of 5,000), and
village level (Maternal and Child Health Posts). The latter facilities may not be formal
clinics, as they are often based in the homes of local health workers (MCH Aides).



- 4 -
(b)   Hospitals. There are 24 public hospitals currently open, which mostly provide
the services of a first referral hospital. The Govemment defines hospitals with less
than 40 beds as secondary care facilities, and larger hospitals as tertiary care facilities.
The larger hospitals are usually located in major towns (e.g. provincial headquarters)
and are supposed to have more specialized curative care services. Connaught hospital
in Freetown is the main referral hospital in the country.
2.6     Prior to the sector reforms of 1994, the organizational structure of the Department of
Health (DOH) was convoluted, and inconsistent with the health care delivery system. Health
activities in the DOH were separated between "clinical" and "public health" services, and there
was no clear responsibility for or authority over health service delivery. There was very little
sharing of information or coordination of the different "programs" that existed, partly because
of a lack of joint planning and the separate funding arrangements with different donors. The
headquarters of the DOH did not have a single executive head, and the administrative authority
was divided between the Permanent Secretary and the Chief Medical Officer, who handled
nearly all paperwork and decisions in the DOH. The vast majority of decisions regarding
budgets, expenditures, appointments, discipline and pay were still referred to other Central
Government Departments. In the DOH, the major services needed to operate a Government
Department, such as those for budgeting, accounting, personnel and management information
were at best extensions of Central Departments, with little autonomy, capacity, or direction
from the DOH.
2.7     Below the headquarters level, the Provincial management tier is being eliminated,
opening up a direct link between headquarters and the district level (there are 12 rural districts
and 2 administrative divisions in Western Area-Freetown). A District Medical Officer (usually
a "public health" physician) heads the district management team, and the district hospital is
usually headed by another District Medical Officer (a "clinical" physician). The district team
is responsible for both primary and secondary care facilities, but in practice, hospital planning
and management have been quite separate from other district health activities. District teams
lack the management structures and authority to plan, make expenditures, or monitor health
services in their districts. Few district teams provide training, supervision or other support to
their PHUs, much less interface with their communities in a meaningful manner. For example,
community health or development committees are rarely functional. There is no effective
referral system, and hospitals spend much of their resources providing primary curative care.
Many of the services that are to be delivered at PHUs are being done poorly, and some
services, in particular health education, family planning, and community nutrition, are
frequently not delivered at all.
Status of health facilities
2.8     Except for a few projects earmarked by donors, specific data on the physical status on
most health facilities are not yet available. The physical state of most hospitals and clinics is
deplorable, since virtually no attention has been paid to maintenance and repairs in decade
preceding 1992. Basic infrastructure (water, electrical power, and access roads) is often
lacking. Furthermore, in a 1994 DOH/WHO survey of district health care, it was determined
that there are not enough PHUs, and also noted that many of the clinics that were expected to



exist were no longer in operation. There was no functional ambulance or communications
systems to connect PHUs to hospitals until 1994, when a small ambulance service was started.
Although the situation has improved in the last two years, shortages of essential drugs
(including contraceptives and vaccines), medical equipment, and supplies are commonplace,
seriously undermining the capability of facilities to deliver services.
Health personnel
2.9     The 1994 DOH/WHO survey of district health care revealed that there are wide
variations in the numbers and levels of qualified staff in PHUs. In general, health personnel
are unevenly distributed, inadequately trained, badly supervised, poorly supported, and under-
compensated. Consequently, staff performance is poor and morale is low. It is estimated that
currently nearly two-thirds of all health personnel are deployed in hospitals, including all
clinical doctors in the public sector. To establish the basis for forward looking manpower
planning, the DOH has initiated the set up of a manpower database to monitor the actual
numbers of health personnel, their qualifications, and location (see Annex 4 for the estimated
distribution of health personnel). In its preliminary estimates, the NHAP indicated that there
are major shortages of community health workers, pharmacy technicians, nurses, midwives,
and doctors. At the same time, the DOH has been hampered with a large number of daily
wage earners, which has consumed much of the wage bill and prevented the recruitment of
much needed health staff. By mid-1991, more than half of the DOH's staff consisted of daily
wage workers (6,100). Since then, however, the number of daily workers has been reduced to
under 2,200, and the number of staff given temporary appointments has dropped by 27 percent
(see Figure 2.1).
2.10    In the past, training of health workers has been inconsistent, and has suffered from
chronic under-funding, ad hoc development of training programs, out-dated and redundant
curricula, and poor competing local training institutions. Government recognized these
problems and, despite prevailing constraints, developed well-designed training programs for
MCH Aides and other mid-level staff as well as a physician training program. As part of its
new manpower plan, the DOH has decided to rationalize the composition and training of
health workers according to the types of skills needed at various levels of the health system.
The implementation of this plan is part of the NHAP core program.
Health financing
2.11  During the past decade, the health sector has been grossly under-funded. In FY90/91,
the share of health expenditures in the total Government expenditures was about 2 percent, and
the share of the recurrent health expenditures in the total Government recurrent expenditures
was about 2.8 percent, both in sharp decline as compared to the previous years, e.g., in
1980/81, these shares were 6 percent and 7 percent, respectively. This situation is gradually
being reversed under the current structural adjustment program. As a result, in FY95/96 the
health sector's share in the total Government's expenditures increased to about 6 percent (see
Figure 2.2). In real terms (constant 1986/87 Le), health expenditures per capita increased from
about Le2O in FY90/91 to Le33 in FY 95/96, and as a share of GDP, the public sector's health
budget increased from 0.4 percent to about 1 percent over the same period (see Annex 5). The



- 6 -
Government, at the Social Sector Consultation with donors and NGOs in October 1995,
reiterated its commitment to further increase the financial allocation to the health sector.
Although this might be hampered by slow economic growth and a high population growth rate,
it appears reasonable to attempt to maintain, or slightly increase, the share of financial
resources allocated to the health sector at the current level of more than 6 percent of the
Government budget (not including public debt service). In US Dollar terms, per capita
expenditures for health in the public sector in 1995/1996 amounted to approximately $3.1
($1.5 contributed by GOSL and $1.6 by donors). Based on the household survey conducted in
1989/1990, it can also be estimated that some other $4 were spent by the population in the
private formal and informal health sector. Under the new project, the Government's allocation
for the provision of health services in FY 1996 will amount to approximately $2.1 per capita,
while donor assistance to the health sector from bilateral and multilateral sources, as well as
from NGOs, will exceed current Government contribution, and will amount to approximately
$3.2 per capita. This will represent an increase of funding to the public health services of
about 70%.
Fizure 2.1
DOH Employment Trends 1991 - 1995
7000                                                 -    Pernn Staff
6000  - i                                             ---- Temp. Staff
6000              -                                  - - * - -Daily Workers
4000 -
2 000                                          IL-
1000
0
Jun491    Jun492     Jun493     Jun-94     Sep496
Source: Government of Sierra Leone--Accountan Gyeneral's Office
2.12    Government financed development expenditures in the health sector were negligible
during since the beginning of the 1990s. The only notable exception has been the
establishment of a new College of Medicine and Allied Health Sciences in 1988, financed as
an educational institution from funds allocated to the Department of Education. A proposal to
build a new tertiary hospital near Freetown has been on the drawing board for nearly 10 years.
However, in the process of setting the priorities for the NHAP, Goverinment has made a
conscious and commendable decision to postpone the building of a tertiary care hospital and to
concentrate its infrastructure development efforts on primary health care and on rehabilitating
existing facilities.



-7 -
Figure 2.2
Govemment Expenditure in the Health Sector
(Percertages of Total Expenditue)
7.00%
OO00%                                                            Total Exp. in Heafthrrotal
5.00%y                                                             Exp.
4.00%                            - -                          -- -- Recuwrert Exp ./Total
3.00y. .                                                             . . - * - ~ i / Recwrert Exp.
2.00Y                                             /         - - - Investmert Exp.lotal
2.00Y. -              , -lrw ~ ~ ~ _s           X                  Investment Exp.
1.00%Y              -O
O.0.   ___S'    II              s_I           I
90191    91192     92193     93194     94J96    95196*
Source:
Govemment of Sierra Leone--Department of Finance
* Budget Allocation
2.13      Since the inception of its health sector reform, the DOH has achieved a stunning turn-
around in the economic composition of its recurrent expenditures by reducing the share of
personnel expenditures and, conversely, increasing the share for other operating expenditures.
In 1992/93, the DOH used more than 63 percent of all recurrent expenditures for salary and
wage related expenses. This share has been reduced, within two years, to only 30 percent in
1994/95 (see figure 2.3). The underlying basis for this change has been the above mentioned
reduction in DOH staff, in particular of daily wage workers (see para. 2.9), and the increase of
the budgetary allocations to the health sector. Indications are that this change has impacted
positively on service delivery, improving the funding for critical recurrent expenditures such as
drugs, contraceptives, supplies, maintenance and repair, while the laid-off staff - consisting of
either "ghost workers" or of relatively inefficient custodial and clerical workers - hardly
contributed to service delivery.
Fieure 2.3
Economic Composition of DOH Expenditures
100%    - r- -- - ---_  - -- a- - - - - - a
80%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -                 - ----- Persnnel
60% -'~                                                       Goods and Services
40%.                                                          TOW
....................
20%
0%
1992/93        1993/94        1994/95        1995/96
Source:
Govemment of Sierra Leone--Department of Finance
2.14     While this is a remarkable success, unprecedented in any other West African country,
personnel expenditures remain distorted towards hospital services: it is
estimated that 27% of personnel expenditures are paid to PHU workers, 72% to hospital
workers, and the remainder to central DOH staff. Non-personnel recurrent costs also show a



- 8 -
hospital bias; 19% of these expenditures went to PHC services, and 53% went to hospitals, the
remainder to central DOH operations. Salaries are still severely distorted, so that a physician
entering Govemment service receives virtually the same gross pay as a low-skilled daily
worker doing menial cleaning. However, physicians and other health providers supplement
illegally their incomes through charging additional fees, allegedly enabling some of them to
eam ten times their official salaries. Other health workers often demand two to four times the
amount of their official salaries to augment their incomes. In January 1995, an ad-hoc
committee has been set up with support from WHO to assess the situation and to coordinate
health care financing issues, initially focusing on tertiary level hospitals.
2.15 User fees for drugs and services were commonly applied in public facilities. However,
during the last years, the sharp increase in the number of displaced people and the declining
economy have impoverished a large proportion of the population. The government was
therefore forced, in 1994, to temporarily suspend cost recovery for drugs and, to a large part,
the collection of user fees for services.
C. PREVIOUS BANK OPERATIONS IN THE HEALTH SECTOR AND LESSONS LEARNED
2.16    The resumption in 1992 of project activities under the Health and Population Project
(CR 1695-SL) has demonstrated the severe institutional weakness of the DOH. A limited
number of very capable staff are over-stretched with responsibilities, and there are few
functioning management systems to support them. While much of 1992-93 was needed to re-
establish the project, with increased supervision and technical assistance, project performance
has progressively improved. The project is expected to fully disburse its funds by the closing
date at the end of 1995. The experience reinforces the need for an investment operation that
concentrates on human resource development and the establishment of management systems.
It also suggests that health system investment requires a long-term commitment to effect
sustainable change. Lessons from two World Bank studies have been instrumental in the
development of the program. The World Development Report 1993: Investing in Health was
used as a resource in the prioritization of activities, particularly to identify the more cost-
effective services. The comprehensive review of African experience, Better Health in Africa,
outlines processes for change in health policy and strategy development, government
commitment and collaboration with the private sector, cost-effective approaches to the delivery
of care, managerial development and institutional reform, and donor support to a single
country reform program. These have all been adopted by the Government of Sierra Leone in
the development of the NHAP. The program is thus becoming an example of how to apply the
Better Health in Africa study.
D. DONOR ASSISTANCE IN THE SECTOR
2.17    There is a wide number of donors involved in the Sierra Leone health sector, whose
activities have increased over the last ten years as the public system's needs have increased.
The main bilateral donors have included France, Germany, the United States, the United
Kingdom, and others, while the multilateral agencies have included, African Development
Bank, IDA, UNDP, UNFPA, UNICEF, and WHO. The number of non-governmental



organizations (NGOs) has also increased, and includes AFRICARE, CARE, Christian Children
Fund, Christian Health Association of Sierra Leone, Sierra Leone Muslim Mission, Plan
International, Plan Parenthood Association, Sierra Leone Red Cross, Marie Stopes and others.
Many agencies are involved in emergency relief operations for refugees and war victims, the
largest of which is the World Food Program. Otherwise, the main activities have included
support for maternal child health and family planning, hospital services, and various
preventive programs. The total amount of external assistance in the health sector was
estimated at US$8.4 million in 1992 (see Annex 5). By comparison, donor assistance for the
entire period from 1989 to 1992 amounted to US$38.5 million. Most donors have bypassed
Government structures as much as possible in the planning and implementation of their
programs, largely because of the limited administrative and operational capacity and lack of
accountability in the Government system, and the need to achieve short term performance
criteria by which project implementation is usually judged. The lack of coordination among
participants in the health sector has led to a fractionated health system. At one point in 1994,
the DOH estimated that it had at least 47 different "project implementing units" aligned with
the various donors. The failure of such a divisive approach is one of the major reasons that
Government and donors have opted for an integrated sector-wide approach. Implementation of
the NHAP provides the means for the DOH to develop as a Department of Health rather than a
Depot for Health Projects; the DOH will become the true coordinator of the sector and guide
donor efforts, rather than the other way around.
E. KEY ISSUES
2.18    The security situation has been a central concern for the health sector in recent years,
and has taken up much of the energy of the DOH and other health agencies (see Box 2). One
of the functions of a health system is to respond to emergency needs caused by man-made
crisis or natural disasters. Government has taken the position that emergency responses and
rehabilitation efforts will be wasted in Sierra Leone unless underlying reform in the health
sector also takes place. In this respect, the Government's program addresses four underlying
problems of the health sector.
Poor access to health care
2.19    Physical access is limited by the insufficient number of functional health facilities to
serve the vast majority of the population who live in rural areas. Only about 65% of the
population live within a 10 km radius of a health facility, and the proportion is lower in the
Northern and Southern Provinces. Many of the facilities provide poor quality services, due to
lack of diagnostic equipment, drugs, contraceptives, vaccines and supplies, or because of a lack
of qualified and motivated staff. Inadequate knowledge about the need for health care, high
fees charged by health workers, and the poor quality of care also diminish the access to and the
use of health care services, particularly for the poor.



- 10-
Box 2 The Effects of the Security Crisis on the Health Sector
The deteriorating security situation has put additional strain on an already weakened public health system. Nearly all health
personnel in the most affected districts (4 out of 13) have been moved to larger towns, a number of public and private hospitals
andi clinics have closed, and the provision of health services in these districts have been disrupted severely. Supply and logistic
support to district hospitals and PHUs have been hampered. At the same time, the large scale movement of the population has
caused increased demand for health services in the remaining districts not affected by the conflict, particularly in Freetown and
the Westem Area.
Despite the ongoing strife, the DOH is conducting more district outreach activities than in 1992, even after the events of
January, 1995. Partly because of the influx of refugees, and also because of the improved quality of care, utilization of health
seivices in Freetown and other urban areas appears to have increased in the last years. In the last month, some of the drugs and
supplies that were planned for peripheral distribution are being used to meet the emergency needs of refugees in Freetown. As
the security situation improves, they will be distributed to peripheral clinics and hospitals as necessary.
The current uncertainty about the security situation has affected much of the physical planning for the health sector. There is
mutch need for repair and retooling of clinics and hospitals throughout the country. However, these activities will now need to
belin in the Westem Area and the safe districts until security is completely restored in the outlying areas. Much of the ongoing
and1 planned training activities in the health sector will be able to continue, though the development and upgrading of some
support systems may well have to be delayed or phased in because of the uncertainty in the countryside. For example, the
development of better cost-recovery systems for drugs will probably need to be delayed as Govermment is planning to subsidize
drugs for hospitalized refugees and displaced persons.
The management of the DOH has reacted flexibly and quickly to the current crisis. Even more remarkable is that while under
this increased strain, the DOH has mustered the energy and taken major steps to reform the health system. The security crisis
haa put additional pressure on the Govemment's budget by reducing income and increasing military expenditures.
Nevertheless, the DOH was able to maintain the support of central Govemment, and allocations for the health sector actually
increased for the FY1995/1996.
The uncertainty caused by the deteriorating security situation has increased the need for a comprehensive and flexible approach.
The sector-wide approach and the implementation and monitoring modalities require that each year's financing is based on
review of past performance and a plan for the coming year approved by IDA. This will allow maximum flexibility for
Gcvernment and donors to begin the upgrading of the health system in the most safe areas, and to react quickly to any changes
in he security situation. To restore the provision of quality health care in the district - as soon as the security situation allows -
wil be a necessary precondition for the return of the rual population, and for the recovery of agricultural production, and thus
improvement of the prospects for a lasting peace in the country.
Poor quality of services
2.20     There are a number of immediate factors which contribute to poor quality of care, in
addition to the basic problems of under-funding of health services and poor management.
Anong them, insufficient attention to in-service training and to supportive supervision of
health workers is a major factor, particularly for those in the outreach, such as MCH aides,
community health officers, and other mid-level staff.
Poor management, with inadequate community involvement and accountability
2.21      This situation is partly a result of insufficient training, a lack of investment in
management systems such as management information, and an organizational structure that is
highly centralized and dominated by a power culture where decisions are not linked to the
level of operations. This has led to a disconnection between peripheral and central levels of
health care delivery, inadequate planning, and an inability to regulate the defacto parallel



- 11 -
private health care system. The lack of community involvement is partly due to insufficient
attention to this matter by an administration currently confronted with war and low economic
performance, no clear accountability of health providers to the communities they serve,
insufficient skills in community relations and development, and the absence of incentives for
health workers to involve communities.
Insufricient financing and misallocation of scarce resources
2.22   There has been inadequate fumding for critical support programs such as maintenance
and essential drugs systems, resulting in physical decay of health facilities, shortages of drugs,
and loss of confidence in public sector health services. The use of the scarce resources has been
biased to urban, hospital based curative care, at the expense of more cost-effective primary
curative and preventive measures aimed at those most at risk. There was a heavy payroll with a
large proportion going to daily wage workers who contributed little to the sector, while most
health professionals are paid well below a living wage, forcing many to take on other jobs or
charge patients extra fees. To improve financial management, Government has introduced -
beginning FY 94/95 - a program budgeting system to better match resources with stated priority
programs and activities; and it is also in the process of establishing a comprehensive accounting
system which would more closely monitor the appropriate allocation of financial resources.
III. THE HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY
A. THE GOVERNMENT REFORM PROGRAM
3.1    As part of its structural adjustment program, the Government of Sierra Leone is
demonstrating a greater commitment to reforming the health sector by increasing the share of
its resources allocated to health, though public expenditures on health are yet to reach the 1980
levels. Following the change in Government in April 1992, the Government began a series of
public discussions on the problems of the health sector. This led to the development of a
National Health Policy in 1993, which outlined its main intentions for reform in terms of
improving the health of its population through comprehensive and systemic reform. Again,
using widespread consultation, a National Health Action Plan (NHAP) was developed in 1994
to provide the framework for health sector reform, and outline its overall costs. Since then, the
DOH has undertaken a series of steps to further advance their reforms, including a public
information campaign about the NHAP, an assessment of health services and priorities from
the viewpoint of beneficiaries, a prioritization exercise to develop a core program of the
NHAP, a reorganization of the DOH based on a institutional self-assessment, a comprehensive
manpower plan, and a financial management plan. The DOH is also developing procedures
for district health planning, and has begun the formulation of operational plans by the new
units of the DOH and the districts. It has outlined its plan for infrastructure investment, and is
further studying its financing options for the health sector.
3.2    In the National Health Policy, the Government declares its intention to seek economic
growth and social justice by improving the quality and distribution of services, including



- 12 -
health care. The National Health Policy states that the focus of efforts in health care will be on
the development of preventive services, while strengthening the existing delivery system. The
main agenda for Government as described in the National Health Policy is that:
(a)  a network of sound primary, secondary, and tertiary health facilities will be
strengthened through rehabilitation, appropriate staffing and logistical support;
(b)  environmental health and communicable disease control will be promoted;
(c)  community participation and intersectoral cooperation will be fostered;
(d) health care delivery will be decentralized to the district level;
(e)  Government financing of health care will increase;
(f)  certain services will be privatized, where appropriate; and
(g) cooperation with international agencies and NGOs will be promoted.
3.3    The NHAP builds on the National Health Policy by providing a framework for health
sector actions, and proposes systematic improvement in the delivery of priority health services
and the support services that maintain them. The NHAP was developed through a participative
workshop involving a wide variety of stakeholders using an adaptation of the ZOPP
(objectives oriented project planning) methodology developed by the German technical
assistance agency (GTZ). This resulted in an unconstrained "total" program costing about
US$270 million over five years, and an agreed set of criteria for prioritization: (a) need; (b)
cost-effectiveness; (c) cultural acceptability; (d) operational feasibility; and (e) equity
promotion. A series of highly participative consultations were used to analyze the total
program according to these criteria (see para. 4.3, and Box 3). Given the anticipated limitations
on financing, the central planning team applied the findings on priorities to the total program,
to end up with a core program costing about US$138 million, comprising the most essential
elements of the sector plan which need to be financed before other elements of the program.
The core program of the NHAP is intended to guide sector activities for the next five years and
provide a focal point for donor assistance. It is the basis for the sector investment credit.
3.4    The process of reform has done much to energize the Department of Health, district
staff and the people associated with it. DOH staff have learned to work in teams to identify
and solve problems, and therefore communication and the effectiveness of the work of the
DOH has improved. The reform process has brought Department staff much closer to the
users of the health system and to other providers. This is one of the main reasons why the
DOH was selected Government's most productive Department (see Box 4).
B. RATIONALE FOR IDA INVOLVEMENT
3.5    There are compelling reasons for IDA to continue to support the Government's
reform initiatives in the health sector which started with assistance from a first project, i.e.,
Health and Population Project, which will be closed at the end of 1995: (a) the Bank has
invested heavily in sector work to promote health system reform (notably the above-
mentioned, 1993 World Development Report and Better Health in Africa) to foster rational
priority setting and selection of cost-effective interventions. The sector reform process in



- 13 -
Sierra Leone follows the same objectives and will benefit from IDA financial and technical
support; (b) the policy and type of program developed in Sierra Leone, and the agreement with
donors and NGOs makes possible a more comprehensive and integrated approach to which the
Bank is committed and which will ensure a sustainable development impact; (c) the health
system in Sierra Leone has deteriorated to such an extent that there is a large financial and
technical gap between what is currently available (and provided by Govemment, donors and
NGOs) and what is needed to begin making the health system work in Sierra Leone; (d) at this
point in time, IDA is in a decisive position. Its contribution as a donor of last resort, filling
the gap after other donors have adjusted their support to meet specific requirements and
restrictions, will enable the Government to address the basic health needs of a very poor
population, carry out a fundamental sector reform, and help the economic and societal
recovery.
Box 3 Stakeholders Set Priorities
At the first Bintumani conference in November, 1993, a large group of health professionals, officials and other
interested parties was charged with outlining a National Health Action Plan, based on recently developed
National Health Policy. The result was an ideal health program estimated to cost over $270 million for the next
5 years. The participants recognized that the draft NHAP was not a program that could be feasibly financed or
implemented at this time, so they worked out a set of criteria to choose priorities. The main criteria were: (a)
need; (b) cost-effectiveness; (c) cultural acceptability; (d) operational feasibility; and (e) equity promotion. An
external consultant was hired to operationalize these criteria, to help the DOH choose among the nearly 60 main
activities outlined in the draft National Health Action Plan.
A number of tools were used for priority setting, including structured interviews with officials in various
Government Departments and non-governmental organizations; a written survey for DOH staff from all levels;
focus group meetings with opinion leaders from key groups, such as with women's organizations, health
providers, and health care consumers; and town meetings with 150 male and female chiefs located throughout
the country. At each stage, the results were discussed with the participants. A detailed beneficiary assessment
was also conducted by Department staff and local consultants, to obtain in-depth feedback on priorities and
concerns about health care. A central team of DOH staff went through an exercise to use this information,
along with data on cost-effectiveness of interventions from the World Development Report, to rank the priority
programs and activities. These results were then systematically applied against the first draft of the NHAP to
determine the most essential services and activities.
The core program of the NHAP that resulted from this exercise cost around one half the original NHAP, and
included activities for incremental financing. The most critical programs identified were in the areas of
primary health care, particularly for maternal and child health, clean water and sanitation, and health education.
Difficult decisions were also made to freeze public investment on tertiary care. Equally important is the
consultative processes that were established within Government, between Goverunent and the public, and with
other health agencies. As a result, there is a great deal of public support for the health reforms, and a high level
of ownership and enthusiasm within Govermnent for the NHAP.
C. BANK ROLE IN THE HEALTH REFORM PROGRAM
3.6      In response to a Govemment request, the Bank has assisted the Government in
promoting the sector-wide investment approach among the donors and has been a key partner
in the Government's efforts to design its reform program. Through a Japanese PHRD Grant,
IDA has helped Government with much of the technical preparatory work and consensus-



- 14 -
building for the NHAP and the development of the core program. IDA has supported the
assessment and reorganization of the DOH and its training programs, and has provided
technical assistance in design and facilitation of the planning, budgeting, and prioritization
processes. This has included a formal beneficiary assessment, the development of health
planning tools, a human resources plan, and design of its technical and support programs,
(such as nutrition, health information and education, essential drugs and contraceptives,
laboratory services, maintenance and repair services), and support to strengthen sector
financial management. Last, but not least, IDA-together with the other donors and NGOs-
participated actively in the social sectors consultations held in 1994 and 1995, and supported
DOH to become a true coordinator of the donor community in both health and education
sectors.
D. FUTURE DONOR SUPPORT FOR THE HEALTH REFORM PROGRAM
3.7 In 1993 Government launched its new policy for the sector and declared that its main
goals were improvement in social conditions and poverty alleviation, along with sustained
economic growth, which were reflected in its Public Investment Program (PIP). A
Consultative Group (CG) meeting held in March, 1994, was carried out to serve as a vehicle to
bring the needs of Sierra Leone before the donor community and encourage donor support to
the human resources sectors (Health, Education, and Poverty Alleviation). The CG was
followed by two Social Sectors Round Tables in May, 1994, and in October 1995, to mobilize
external assistance and coordinate donor interventions around the core program of the NHAP.
The donor and NGO community responded with full endorsement of the NHAP and the
integrated sector approach, as described in the Communiques of the Round Table Meetings
(Annex 6). Aside from IDA, donors made pledges for over US$55 million in support of the
core program of the NHAP, with additional support for technical assistance. The donors
offering support include the Africa Development Bank, the European Union, the Islamic
Development Bank, the Saudi Fund for Development, UNDP, UNFPA, UNICEF, and WHO,
with potential for additional donor assistance. As agreed at the Round Table Meetings, the
Government would play the lead role in coordination, and would commit to regularly (i.)
discuss with donors and NGOs sector plans and budgets, and (ii.) jointly review their
implementation.



- 15 -
Box 4 Heroes Day Award to DOH
As part of the 1994 Sierra Leone Star Awards, the following citation was given to the Department of Health:
DEPARTMENTAL AWARD FOR HIGH PERFORMANCE IN THE CIVIL SERVICE
CITATION
I, Hilton Fyle, Convener and Coordinator of the 1994 Awards, declare that from votes sent in by the Sierra
Leone Public, the Departmental Award for High Performance in the Civil Service goes to the DEPARTMENT
OF HEALTH, for the following reasons:
- The success of the National Cleaning Exercise
- The efficient clearing of rubbish in the capital
- The introduction of an Ambulance Service
- The rehabilitation of Hospitals
- The provision of affordable medicines for the poor
- The launching of a New Blood Bank
- And the pursuit of pioneering Health Policy and Action Plan
This is the people's choice. This is the people's voice.
IV. THE PROGRAM
A. PROGRAM SCOPE AND OBJECTIVES
4.1    The proposed IDA Credit would support the Government's NHAP core program, with
the intention of improving the health status of the people of Sierra Leone by increasing access
to and improving the quality of a basic package of health services that would be better
managed and delivered through an increasingly decentralized system. In the prioritization
exercise which led to the definition of the NHAP core program, the DOH identified the
following general development objectives: (i) improve key health status indicators; (ii)
increase access to health care and family planning, particularly in the rural areas; (iii) improve
the quality of service through training, supervision and improved logistic support; (iv)
strengthen management, accountability and community involvement at central and peripheral
levels, and; (v) increase efficiency and improve the financing for health care. The NHAP core
program also identifies the following program priorities: (a) improve child health; (b) improve
maternal health; (c) reduce fertility; (d) reduce the incidence and prevalence of communicable
diseases and other common ailments, including HIV; (e) reduce mental illness; (f) reduce
injury and handicaps; (g) assure satisfactory nutritional status; (h) reduce drug abuse; (i)
improve living conditions; and (j) improve food hygiene. Specific indicators to monitor
progress in the achievement of these objectives have been developed and will be used during
supervision. Successfully laying the foundation for a sustainable, equitable and efficient health
system will also contribute to the attainment of more general societal goals, such as social



- 16-
sustainability of the adjustment program, improvement of prospects for a lasting peace in the
country, and the strengthening of the human resource base needed for a sustainable economic
development.
4.2    The credit is designed as an integrated sector investment operation, such as the
transport sector projects in Tanzania and Mozambique, and the credits approved to the health
sector of Bangladesh and, more recently, of Pakistan and Zambia. Government has taken the
lead to design a common framework for action in the entire sector, under which IDA and other
donors will provide support. The credit thus supports Government in its continual
development of policy and on-going operations, even as reforms and rehabilitation proceed.
The number of reforms needed are vast, and often there are no clear-cut answers to the
problems they seek to address. The changes will require considerable financial and technical
support for in-country testing and discussion, requiring maximum flexibility in the type of
support needed by Government. Accordingly, the specific items for financing will be
identified throughout implementation of the NHAP, based on regular review, re-planning and
client consultation.
4.3    Priorities. The prioritization of health needs and services has been a major part of
the preparation process, leading to the definition of the core program from an initial
description of a total or desired sector program. As discussed above, a comprehensive
approach was used to develop priorities within Sierra Leone (see para. 3.3 and Box 3). A
broad consensus was reached on a number of key areas, which formed the basis for the
development of the core program. As described in the NHAP, the programs of highest priority
are: (a) maternal and child health, including family planning; (b) communicable disease
control; (c) sanitation and clean water; and (d) health education. The lack of awareness about
the emerging threat of HIV infection and the relatively low priority accorded to HIV
prevention is a concern that will need to be addressed as a major challenge for the DOH and
the Disease Prevention and Control and Health Education units in particular. There are also
four cross-cutting issues of the reform program that DOH has recognized as needing urgent
attention: (a) expanding and strengthening peripheral health units; (b) confronting the
problems of high health service fees and drug pricing; (c) increasing community involvement
in health service planning, execution and oversight; and (d) planning for decentralization.
Although there are many concerns about the need to build a new tertiary care facility, a
difficult decision was made to exclude it from the core program for the next three years.
Annex 7 demonstrates how decisions were taken on the core program, and how it compares to
the initial total program, and the essential packages of care described in the Better Health in
Africa study, and the World Development Report 1993: Investing in Health.
B. PROGRAM DESCRIPTION
4.4    In the NHAP, the Government is proposing a major reform and restructuring of the
health sector. In addition to radical organizational changes and substantial human resources
development, the program proposes a substantial rehabilitation of health services, primarily in
rural areas, by soliciting community involvement, repairing or constructing health facilities,
training health personnel for clinical and managerial responsibilities, and investing in support



- 17-
services and systems that are needed to sustain operations. In summary, implementation of the
NHAP is intended to:
(a)   Increase access to health care by:
(i)   rehabilitating existing health facilities to make them functional;
(ii)   creating new health posts and health centers;
(iii)  increasing access to health workers trained and equipped for midwifery
and family planning;
(iv)   enhancing the community health skills of health workers; and
(v)   implementing EEC strategies to increase demand for health and family
planning services and to improve healthy behaviors, including the
prevention of HIV transmission.
(b)   Improve the quality of health care by:
(i)   training, retraining and supervising health workers;
(ii)   providing drugs, contraceptives, vaccines, materials and logistic support;
(iii)  rehabilitating existing clinics and hospitals; and
(iv)   making health services responsive to community needs.
(c)   Strengthen the management of health care by:
(i)   involving communities in health care management;
(ii)   developing management skills and establishing management systems;
(iii)  decentralizing the management of health service delivery to the district
level;
(iv)  reorganizing and strengthening the central Department of Health; and
(v)   defining and implementing a core set of technical programs and support
services.
(d)  Improve the financing for health care by:
(i)   increasing Government expenditures on health care;
(ii)  involving donors and non-governmental organizations; and
(iii)  attracting more household health expenditures to an improved public
sector health service.
Definition of NHAP technical programs and support services
4.5     The NHAP organizes the overall sector program into eight technical programs and
six support services. Technical programs are the elements of the system which directly deliver
health services to the public. The technical programs include six Primary Health Care (PHC)
services: (a) Maternal-Child Health, including Family Planning; (b) Treatment of Common
Ailments; (c) Communicable Disease Control; (d) Sanitation and Water; (e) Nutrition; and (f)
Information, Education and Communications; along with (g) Secondary Health Care; and (h)



- 18 -
Tertiary Health Care. Support services are those functions which are needed to support the
technical programs, and include: (a) Drugs and Medical Supplies; (b) Laboratory Services; (c)
Infrastructure, Equipment, Transport and Maintenance; (d) Human Resources; (e) Planning
and Information Systems; and (f) Central Administration. Consideration is also given to legal
aspects and private practice, though no funding has been allocated to them at this time. A
description of the proposed activities under each of the technical programs and support
services is outlined in Annex 8; a further description of the initial total program is provided in
the NHAP, while the core program is detailed in the Government paper: Better Health in
Sierra Leone: A Proposalfor Donor Funding (it has subsequently been revised to improve
consistency and to integrate a number of sub-services at the operational level).
4.6     The on-going programs are designed so that they will not be implemented as vertical
programs, but as part of a package of essential health services. The 13 districts will become
the focus of operational planning and implementation. Following general guidance of the
central DOH, the District Health Management Teams (DHMT) will be responsible for
planning and delivery of most elements of the six PHC services in their own district. The
operational details of how the specific services will be provided in each area will be worked
out m each district as part of their annual planning exercise, with the PHUs expected to deliver
much of the preventive and primary curative services. Each PHU will be linked to a district
level hospital which will provide first referral services. Larger hospitals will provide more of
the same services as the district hospitals, and also function as referral points for more
specialized services (tertiary health care services). The larger hospitals will be under the
administration of newly created hospital management committees.
Health facilities rehabilitation and re-tooling
4.7    In the NHAP, the Government not only redefines the type of services that are to be
provided in Sierra Leone, but points out that a substantial increase in access to services is
needed if the health goals are to be met. This will entail a substantial investment in
rehabilitation of PHUs and hospitals, and an expansion of new PHUs to under-serviced areas.
In early 1994, a DOH survey found that there were 504 Government-run PHUs in the country.
Most of them are ill equipped and in dire need of repair, and many are not operational due to
the poor state of the facility or because of civil conflict in the area. The DOH is currently
rehabilitating 17 PHUs and 3 hospitals. It has prioritized another 44 PHUs and 10 hospitals
for the next stage of repairs, and identified the next 7 of 57 locations in under-served areas
where it intends to build new PHUs. The bidding documents have already been prepared for
the next 15 PHUs and 3 hospitals. Based on criteria of populations served by health facilities,
it was estimated that the country will need about 600 PHUs by the end of the century (400
health posts, each serving about 5,000 people, and 200 health centers, covering populations of
10,000 to 20,000 inhabitants). The long range plans are to replace the health posts with health
centers, but there are not sufficient physical or manpower resources at this time. The main
criteria for initial selection for rehabilitation or construction are the distance to another
working clinic (either public or private) and the size of the population served. Functional
water and power supply are pre-requisites to any building repair or re-equipping. The selected
PHUs will need to be in locations where the civil situation is secure for rehabilitation to be
considered. Because of the security situation, the specific sites and the volume of operations



- 19-
will be revised and adjusted with each annual plan, or more often if required. In the future, the
District Management Team's ability to plan and implement health plans will also be
considered. The DOH also has specific plans for repairing and re-equipping the existing
Govemment hospitals, so that they will be able to better serve as first referral facilities.
Government spending on tertiary care services will be held constant in the next years of the
NHAP, though hospitals may open private wings which may provide such services, to be
financed out of private sources. Part of the DOH plan to make the clinical and public health
laboratory services functional includes reconstruction of laboratory space to consolidate the
central laboratories, and rehabilitation of peripheral laboratories. As part of the preparation for
this work, and in order to take advantage of economies of scale, the DOH is standardizing the
civil works designs and equipment requirements for each level of facility. In addition to
developing a database of major repair and equipment needs, the central DOH is spearheading
the development of an asset registry for all new buildings and equipment, and of maintenance
schedules as part of an effort to upgrade its maintenance and repair unit.
Institutional development
4.8    In order to achieve the sectoral goals and implement the technical programs and
support services, the DOH is currently being strengthened at both headquarters and district
levels to manage a more effective health service for Sierra Leone. The focus of these changes
will be in four key interlocking areas:
(a) enhancing the authority of the DOH on key financial and personnel decisions in
relation to Central Government;
(b) strengthening the role of the DOH headquarters in policy and strategy
formulation, planning, budgeting and health financing, and problem solving and
support for district management teams;
(c) building the capacity of district management teams to plan, manage and
supervise health services delivered by hospitals and PHUs; and
(d) developing the skills and experience of personnel deployed in both health
service delivery and support services.
4.9   DOH authority over finance and personnel. Decision-making in Government on
personnel and financial matters is highly centralized, thereby affecting the health service by
impairing the quality of decisions and undermining the DOH's accountability for health sector
performance. Accordingly, the GOSL has indicated that the DOH has obtained from the
Department of Finance and the Establishment Secretary:
(a)   authority to decide manpower and line item budgets, in relation to the core
program, and within an overall departmental and program ceilings agreed with the
Department of Finance;



- 20 -
(b)   real influence over the recruitment and selection process, and the application of
employment practices for staff promotions, discipline and transfers; and
(c)   authority to determine the numbers, categories, and skill mix of staff required in
line with an overall departmental manpower plan, as well as some discretion over
individual's pay within established salary structures.
4.10    Steps to delegate authority to the DOH will be carefully coordinated with parallel
measures to introduce improved central accounting and budgeting systems, rationalized
manpower levels and revised salary scales. Both financial and personnel management within
the DOH will be strengthened in terms of upgraded skills and improved systems to enable
delegated authority to be fully effective.
4.11    Strengthened DOH headquarters. Currently the DOH headquarters plays an active
role both in authorizing expenditure and the management of health programs, through
monitoring and direct supervision. The DOH intends to "decentralize" the health system
which will shift health program management (and expenditure authorization) to the district
level. Accordingly, the role of headquarters will be strengthened to concentrate on:
(a)   policy and strategy formulation, planning, budgeting, evaluation and the
establishment of norms, and developing alternative strategies and mechanisms for
financing health care;
(b)   providing technical assistance in the form of support and problem solving for
district management teams, rather than direct program management, and by means of
monitoring and direct supervision;
(c)   the analysis and processing of management information for use by head office
and district managers; and
(d)   the provision of central services, such as laboratory and pharmaceutical services
and management support services.
4.12    The DOH has begun to implement its institutional reform plans to enable it to
effectively fulfill its new role. This will necessitate:
(a)   complete transition to its recently revised organization structure which is more
service-oriented and matches NHAP objectives. As a condition for effectiveness, the
DOH would staff the following key positions: Director of Management Support,
Director of Financial Resources, Chief Procurement Officer, and a supporting position
at the Donor Relations Office to monitor and coordinate donor programs and budgets
(para. 7.3(h));



- 21 -
(b)   the adaptation of the organization culture to one which is more decentralized
and formalized to enable "decentralization" to be effective;
(c)   the development of management control strategies and systems more
appropriate for a "decentralized" health service;
(d)   building systems and developing professional competence in personnel and
financial management, procurement and management information; and
(e)   improvements in personnel and reward systems, and in training.
4.13    District management. District Health Management Teams will gradually be given
greater authority over operational, financial and personnel decisions, and responsibility to
prepare district health plans. Guidelines for developing district health plans are being
developed and field tested in a number of districts. These plans are to play an increasingly
prominent role in the determination of DOH activities and budgets. Since few people at the
district level have experience in planning and management, technical assistance and training is
planned in the areas of health planning, as well as in community health care, team building,
financial management and accounting, so that the district teams will be able to plan,
implement, and monitor health care, family planning and nutrition activities in their districts.
As a condition for negotiations, guidelines for district health planning to make District
Health Management Teams functional, and indicating decentralization of decision-making in
the sector were submitted to IDA. At negotiations, assurances were provided that the GOSL
will give budgetary authority to implement a prepared district health plan to at least one
additional district in each year of the operation (para. 7. I(a)). Community representation and
accountability is expected to play a prominent role in these plans. The pace of decentralization
will be quite cautious, and will depend on the security situation in the country and on the
progress made in the first districts with decentralized authority.
4.14    Strengthening district management will involve the following changes in both
organization structure and culture in line with the spirit of "decentralization."
(a)   The Provincial level of management will be removed, thereby providing the
districts with direct reporting to headquarters.
(b)   The DHMT will exercise managerial authority over the PHUs, namely the
health centers and health posts. Members of this team would also provide technical
supervision over the activities of the health centers, and the health posts would be
directly supervised from the health centers.
(c)   District health planning will be conducted and mechanisms established for
involving communities in the planning process. District Development Committees and
Health Committees will be set up to enable key stakeholders to influence and review
these plans.



- 22 -
(d)   The DHMT will coordinate the activities of NGOs and the private sector in
order to improve the coverage of health services.
4.15    Human resource development. Significant changes are proposed in nearly all
facets of manpower development. Enhancing institutional capacity will involve considerable
training and management development across the DOH. This will involve managerial,
professional and technical personnel drawn from support service as well as health service
functions. The DOH manpower plan was developed on the basis of a reappraisal of the type of
health personnel needed at each level of the system, compared with its existing resources based
on a 1994 census of health personnel (though three of the districts were not included due to the
ongoing conflict). Analysis of the personnel census revealed that there are nearly 2,000
workers being paid by the Establishments Department who were no longer working in the
DOH. As a condition for Board presentation, the Government submitted to IDA a detailed
plan and timetable for reconciling the DOH payroll and the actual DOH staff census (para.
7.2(a)). The priority areas of training are shown below in Table 4.1, whereas Annex 9
summarizes the proposed training plan for the sector. One of the most significant changes is
that the wide variety of PHC staff and training programs will be simplified, phasing out single-
purpose workers and developing a cadre of PHC workers with polyvalent skills and greater
ability to deal with communities. Large gaps in job categories (especially for hospital nurses,
community health assistants, and community health aides) would mostly be met by
redeployment and retraining of existing workers, and substantial training of new recruits.
Existing training institutions, namely the School of Hygiene and the Paramedical School,
would be merged and strengthened in terms of improved and revised curricula, and upgraded
skills in training design and delivery. It is still likely that shortages of skilled personnel will
exist five years from now, although guidelines have been drafted to improve the utilization of
the manpower to achieve the most efficient and equitable service coverage. A management
training program is a major component of the manpower plan, and is designed for developing
new skills and practices of senior managers, middle managers, and a critical mass from each
DHMT. Most of the training will be conducted in Sierra Leone (using local institutions where
possible), although it will also include other countries in the region and outside the continent,
where appropriate. The substantial investments in training (estimated at US$5.2 million) will
be closely coordinated with actions taken to improve the working environment, pay and
incentives, and performance appraisal systems.
The first year program
4.16    The first year of the prograrn has been designed to set the foundation for the NHAP
implementation while addressing the current security situation. Detailed activities and budgets
for the first 12 months were prepared by the DOH staff for the entire program, and are
included in the DOH Operational Manual. Since many of the districts are currently
inaccessible, more central level activities are programmed for the first year. The emphasis on
improving the ongoing service delivery will focus on the Western Area and the towns where
the populations have concentrated. It is estimated that 1.5 million people are now living in
Western area. Physical project supervision in these areas is currently going on, and should be
possible during the coming years. Maternal and child health services, including family
planning, obstetrics, and well-child care, along with communicable disease control, water and



- 23 -
sanitation services, and nutrition take the majority of inputs for service delivery. Emergency
assistance for refugees is being handled separately from routine DOH activities, under an
umbrella organization in the Government. Implementation of the institutional changes in the
DOH is another highlight of the first year's plan. Staff have been reassigned to the new units
of the Department, but further work and support is planned for 1996 to get them fully
functional. The key areas include Management, Financial Management, Procurement, and
Maintenance and Repair. Human resources development will comprise a major part of the first
year: curricula at the training institutions will be revised, and the first year of the new cadres of
peripheral health staff is expected this year, while personnel systems will be set up. Revising
the health information system is also planned during the first year. Decentralization will be
implemented slowly during this year. The Western Area District Health Management Team
has developed its district plan, and will be given authority to implement the plan, including
budgetary allocations for non-wage recurrent expenditures. Physical rehabilitation will
concentrate in the Western Area. Three hospitals, 17 PHUs, a maintenance facility, and a drug
warehouse, all in the Western Area, are scheduled for rehabilitation in 1996. A health
facilities infrastructure and equipment survey will be extended in a phased manner to cover the
remainder of the country, and it will form the basis for specific rehabilitation plans in the
subsequent years. Essential drugs, contraceptives, vaccines and laboratory reagents for PHUs
and hospitals will also be purchased and distributed.
Table 4.1 Traidng Priorities for the Sierra Leone Department of Health
Function                             Sldfls needed
PHUs                                 Community health, nursing, midwifery, family planning, health
education and communications, nutrition, counseling for sexually
transmitted diseases (particularly H1V)
Medical service management           Management, team building, training design and delivery
Accounts and internal au&t           Financial management and audit
Personnel                            Personnel management
Planning and management information  Management information
Purchasing and stores                Procurement management
District hospitals                   Internal medicine, surgery, obstetrics and gynecology,
pediatrics, hospital administration
DOH and district management          Public health, epidemiology, health services administration,
planning budgeting, human resources management, maintenance



- 24 -
C. PROGRAM COSTS AND FINANCING
4.17    Health sector budget. The Government funding for the health sector is, at present,
limited mainly by the economy's capacity to generate income, and the Government's ability to
collect taxes. Therefore, only a conservative projection-to be reviewed annually-of health
sector budget increases has been made. This is based on the assumption-in line with the
ongoing structural adjustment program-that total Government expenditures remain limited to
about 20 percent of GDP and that the share of allocation to the health sector steadily increases
from about five percent in 1995 to about seven percent of total Government budget in 2000
(see Annex 10). The most critical part of most Government financing is the non-salary
recurrent component of the budget. In Sierra Leone the share of the non-salary recurrent
budget in the total recurrent health budget is exceptionally high (about 70%) but expected to
fall somewhat in the future as critical health personnel will be recruited and salaries might be
adjusted in the context of a Civil Service Reform. However, Government ought to endeavor to
maintain the share of its non-salary expenditures in the sector at low levels, should any
improvements in health services be achieved in the following years.
4.18    Costs. The total cost for the core program for fiscal year 1996-2000 is about
US$138 million, or about US$5.5 per capita per annum, with the breakdown shown in detail in
Annex 10 (see also para. 3.3). Technical programs would receive 55 percent of the total
program funds, of which primary health care would receive about 60 percent, and secondary
and tertiary care about 40 percent. The support services, which cut across the technical
programs, would receive about 45 percent of the total funds, including the rehabilitation of
health facilities (17% of total funds).
4.19    Detailed costs are determined on an annual basis in the NHAP, to coordinate
Government and donor budget preparation. The total cost for the first year of the program is
US$25.6 million equivalent, with foreign exchange costs estimated at US$11 million, or 43
percent of the total costs. Table 4.2 summarizes the costs of the first year of the program,
according to component, and Table 4.3 summarizes the costs according to expenditure
category.



- 25 -
Table 4.2 Summary of Sierra Leone Health Sector Costs by Component for Fiscal Year 1996
USS     __     _                 % Total
DOH Programs                  Local /e   Foreign /f    Total     For. ExL   Base Cost
A. Policy Formulation, Coordination and    1,704,901     599,019   2,303,920    26%         90/o
Support Services
B. District Allocation
1. Westem Area                             332,365     221,577     553,942    40%         2%
2. Other Districts /a                     2,249,522   1,499,681   3,749,203    40%        15%
Sub-total District Allocation   2,581,887   1,721,258   4,303,145    40%   17%
C. Infiastructure & Equipment Maintenance    204,147     212,479     416,626    51%          2%
D. Planning and Information                    80,500    321,999     402,499    80%          2%
E. Human Resource Management                1,582,091    420,556   2,002,647    21%          8%
F. Drugs and Medical Supplies                 365,016   4,197,683   4,562,699    92%        18%
G. Primary Health Care
1. Maternal Child Health/Family Planning  1,181,462   1,229,685   2,411,147    51%        9%
2. Common Ailments                          27,645       1,455      29,100     5%         0%
3. Communicable Disease Control            741,437     274,230   1,015,667    27%         4%
4. Sanitation & Water                      921,467     413,993   1,335,460    31%         5%
5. Nutrition                              1,320,854    539,504   1,860,358    29%         7%
6. Health Education                        148,367      54,875     203,242    27%          1%
7. PHC Directorate /b                       46,154       5,128      51,282    10%         00/0
Sub-total PHC   4,387,386   2,518,870   6,906,256    36%       27%
H. Hospital and Laboratory Services
1. Secondary & Tertiary Care /c           3,715,805    821,613   4,537,418    18%         18%
2. Laboratory Services                      94,833     111,326     206,159    54%         1%
Sub-total Hospital & Labs   3,810,638  932,939   4,743,577    27%        18%
Total PROGRAM COSTS /d                      14,716,567   10,924,802   25,641,369    43%     100%
/a Includes all Development (donor & NGO) expenditures to Program
/b Includes all salaries for PHC
/c Includes all salaries for Hospitals and Laboratory Services
/d Physical and Price Contingencies (15%) included.
/e Local expenditures means expenditures in the currency of the Borrower, or for goods or services supplied from the
tenitory of the Borrower.
/f Foreign expenditures means expenditures in the cunrency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods and
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower.



- 26 -
Table 4.3 Summary of NHIAP Core Program Costs by Expenditure Category for Fiscal Year 1996
US S                     %       % Total
Descripton of Expenditure           Local /c    Foreign /d    Total    For. Ex  Base Cost
L INVESTMENT
A. Civil Works                               1,147,230   1,720,845   2,868,075    60%       11%
B. Goods and Equipment
1. Medical equipment                                    749,643     749,643   100%        3%
2. Lab Equipment (District Hospitals)                   869,688     869,688   1000/%      3%
3. Furniture                                 255,756    383,633     639,389    600/o      2%
4. Vehicles                                            1,599,765   1,599,765   100%       6%
Sub-total Goods and Equipment    255,756   3,602,729   3,858,485    93%       15%
C. Materials                                             1,222,649   1,222,649   1000/a     5%
D. Drugs, Contraceptives, Vaccines &                     3,042,120   3,042,120   1000/%     12%
Supplies /a
E. Services
1. Technical Assistance                                1,139,329   1,139,329   100%       4%
2. Training/Workshops                      2,207,728               2,207,728    0%        90/0
Sub-total Services  2,207,728   1,139,329   3,347,057   34%        13%
IL RECURRENT
A. Personnel Recurrent Expenditures
1. Salaries                                1,171,896               1,171,896    0%        5%
2. Allowances                                549,603                549,603    0%         2%
3. Wages                                     608,041                608,041    0%         2%
Sub-total Personnel Recurrent Expenditures  2,329,540        0   2,329,540    0%         90/0
B. Other Recurrent Expenditures
1. Traveling Oocal)                          153,937                 153,937    0%        0%
2. Traveling (overseas)                                  156,783     156,783   100%       0%
3. Office and generd                          83,000                  83,000    0%        0%
4. Recruitment and training expenses         726,956                 726,956    0%        3%
5. Professional fees, honoraria, other       116,846                 116,846    00/a      0%
allowances
6. Transport, fuel and oil                   190,488                 190,488    00/a      0%
7. Electricity and water charges             156,339                 156,339    0%        0%
8. Telephone and other communication         217,986                 217,986    0%        0%
9. Printing, publicity and advertising        56,447                  56,447    0%        0%
10. Stores and other supplies               1,257,771               1,257,771    0%        5%
11. Freight and port charges                  189,474                189,474    0%         0%
12. Repairs & Maintenance                     176,541                176,541    0%         0%
13. Public relations expenses                   6,947                  6,947    0%         0%
14. Miscellaneous /b                        3,239,088               3,239,088    0%        13%
15. Subscriptions and membership dues        632,368                 632,368    0%         2%
16. Donations, grants and other              981,063                 981,063    0%         4%
contributions
17. Diets                                    270,009      40,346     310,356    13%        1%
18. Uniforms                                   39,474                 39,474    0%         0%
19. National oncho development program         28,947                 28,947    0%         0%
20. Medical expenses                          252,632                252,632    0%         0%
Sub-total Other Recurrent  8,776,313    197,129   8,973,443    2%        35%
Total Recurrent    11,105,853   197,129  11,302,983    2%        44%
Total    14,716,567  10,924,802  25,641,369    43%      100%
/a Including freight and port charges
/b Includes all operating costs inputs from donors and NGOs active in health sector
/c Local expenditures means expenditures in the currency of the Borrower, or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
/d Foreign expenditures means expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods and
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower.



- 27 -
4.20 Financing. It is expected that Government will contribute about US$63 million (46%)
to the core program over the next five years. The IDA credit is estimated to be about US$20
million, covering about 14 percent of the program costs. It is also expected that the remainder,
US$55 million, will be made up through donor contributions, an amount well within the stated
intentions of donors attending the Social Sectors Round Tables. Table 4.4 provides a
summary of donor commitment to the NHAP (FY96 - FY00) based on pledges made at the
Second Social Sectors Donor's Meeting and subsequent discussions held with GOSL and
development partners. Table 4.5 shows the donor financing to various progran areas. The
IDA credit would represent initial support for IDA's long term commitment to rehabilitation of
the sector. The credit would fund a "time slice" of sub-sectors of the health budget-both
operational and developmental-to support the core program, and would be eligible for any
foreign exchange or local costs net of duties and taxes, with the exception of the following
items: land acquisition; donations; salaries of non-imcremental personnel; subscriptions and
membership fees; and overseas medical expenses.
Table 4.4 Financing Plan (US$ million) FY96 - FY00 
Financier          Local        Foreign           Total
GOSL                           63.2          0.0             63.2
AfDB                           3.0           12.0            15.0
EU                             0.0           4.0              4.0
Saudi Fund forDevelopment      5.0          11.0             16.0
UNDP                           0.6           1.4              2.0
UNICEF                         1.3           3.6              4.9
UNFPA                          1.2           2.8              4.0
WHO                            1.0           3.0             4.0
NGOs and Others                1.5           3.0              5.0
IDA                            4.0          16.0             20.0
Total                          81.1         57.0             138.1
"I Estimated, final arnount may vary depending on annual negotiations with donors.



- 28 -
Table 4.5 Areas of Financial Support to the NHAP According to Agency Involved
Central    District   Support  Planning    Human   Drugs &   Primazy   Hospital  Salaries
Admnin.   Allocation  Services   & Info.   Resource   Medical   Health    & Lab  &
Mgmt.  Supplies   Care             Wages
Mudilaterals:
African Development   X                  X        X         X        X                 X
Bank
European Union                                                       X                 X
IDA                   X         X        X        X         X        X        X        X
Islamic Development                                                           X        X
Bank
UNDP                                                        X
UNFPA                                                                X        X
UNICEF                                                      X        X        X
WFP                                                                           x        x
WHO                             X        X        X         X        X        X        X
Bflbterab:
ODA(UK)                                  X                                             X
Snudi Fund for                                                       X        X        X
Development
U.S.A.                                                               X        X
Non-Govermmental Organizations:
Action Aid                                                           X        X
Africare                                                             X        X
Ahmaddiya Mission                                                    X        X
AICF                                                                 X        X
Baptist Convention                                                            X
Care                                                                          X
Cause Canada                             X                                    X
Christian Health                                                     X        X
Association of Sierra
Leone
Catbolic Relief Service                                                       X
German TB/Leprosy                                                    X        X        X
Marie Stopes                                                         X        X
Plan Internat'l                                                               X
Rotasy Internat'l                                                             x
Sierra Leone Family                                                           X
Planning Association
Sierra Leone Red Cross                                                        X        X
Household                                                            X        X        X
Contribuotbn
GOSL                  X         X        X        X         X        X        X        X         X
4.21     A detailed determination of all investment items for the program would be done for
each year through the annual planning processes. A traditional investment would not be
supportive of the Sierra Leone program, particularly as it hopes to decentralize responsibility
to district teams and hospitals, and to institutionalize the annual planning and budgeting
process. IDA's role will be to help ensure that all agreed and vital elements of the annual plans
are funded. Therefore, financing through the credit would be phased to coincide with the
annual budgets and workplans of the DOH, as agreed with IDA and other donors. Funding
will be dependent on coordinated planning processes with Government, local stakeholders, and
other donors, to ensure an appropriate sequence and pace of action, and to avoid the
continuation of small, disparate, donor-driven projects. External financing would be made
available as progress is made on the specific annual workplans of the sector. As shown in
Table 4.6, Government input is expected to increase over the program period while donor
contributions are declining as a proportion of total expenditures.



- 29 -
Table 4.6 Projected Government and Donor Contributions to the NHAP (USS million)
FY 96*    FY 97      FY 98      FY 99     FY 00      Total
GOSL           10.3      11.3       12.6      14.0       15.0      63.2
%              40%       41%        45%       49%        52%       46%
Donors         15.3      16.0       15.4      14.6       13.6       74.9
%              60%       59%        55%       51%        48%        54%
Total          25.6      27.3       28.0      28.6       28.6      138.1
-%       l    100%       100%       100%      100%       100%      100%
* The Govermment has provided assurances that provision to the health sector in FY 1996 will amount to USS8.7 million
for recurrent expenditures and USS1.5 million for development expenditures.
4.22    IDA funds will be made available annually when there has been satisfactory
completion of the previous year's DOH budget and workplan and upon receipt of satisfactory
evidence of GOSL and donor commitments to the sector plan and budget for the respective
fiscal year. The estimated disbursement of the IDA Credit is indicated in Table 4.6. IDA
contribution will not exceed 25% of the annual sector budget. Over the years, as a result of the
progress in decentralization, the sector plans and budgets will be increasingly based on the
budget proposals and workplans of the DHMTs and the hospitals. Identified core program
activities will be carried out with budget control under the management of the Division heads
of technical and support services. All support services will need to be fully funded, including
specific allocations for Drugs and Medical Supplies, and maintenance and repairs. Specific
performance targets will be agreed on for each year of the program, to provide a basis for
continued funding of activities. The draft set of performance indicators for the first years of
the program are shown in Annex 11. If performance targets regarding Government fiscal
effort have not been met, IDA and other donors will adjust their funding for subsequent years.
Table 4.7 Estimated Disbursements of IDA Credit (US$ million)
FY 96       FY 97         FY 98        FY 99        FY 00
Annual            2.2         3.9           5.5          4.6          3.8
Cumulative       2.2          6.1          11.6         16.2          20
Fercentage       11%          30%          58%          81%          100%
V. PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION
A. STATUS OF PROGRAM PREPARATION
5.1     The proposed Integrated Health Sector Investment Project was prepared in response
to a request from the Department of Health for IDA to assist in developing a policy framework
and sector development program to reform the sector, and to coordinate donor, Government
and private sector efforts. As described in Chapter III, the program has been prepared by the
DOH in collaboration with a wide range of stakeholders, including other Government
Departments, private sector health care providers and non-governmental organizations



- 30 -
(NGOs), community representatives, and multilateral agencies, including among others, WHO,
UNICEF, UNDP, UNFPA, and IDA.
5.2     The Government's reform program is an ongoing effort that needs to occur at the
same time that it is attempting to restore basic services. Some of the critical areas under
preparation include: (a) institutional arrangements to implement the program; (b) the program
content itself, and (c) costs and financing.
(a)   Institutional arrangements and capacity. An institutional assessment of the
DOH and an analysis of job tasks have been done, resulting in reformed organizational
structure of the central DOH, and a decision to successively decentralize authority for
implementation of health care delivery to districts and hospitals. It has already been
decided that the program will operate through the permanent DOH structure, and that
there will be no separate project implementation units for individual donor programs.
Departmental Units have been established, and staff assigned to the new units.
Program coordination and donor liaison functions have been incorporated into the new
organizational structure of the DOH. As a condition for negotiations, the DOH
submitted to IDA the detailed description of the finalized re-organization of the DOH,
including terms of reference for key offices for NHAP implementation, including the
DOH Management Team, the Management Support Office, and a Financial
Management Team. Submission to IDA of a draft Operational Manual, detailing the
roles, responsibilities, and implementation procedures under the program for the
Department of Health was a condition for negotiations. To strengthen the DOH so
that it will be able to perform its new roles, considerable training and technical
assistance will be needed, particularly in the areas of financial management,
procurement and general management. Plans to set up the systems are currently being
developed. As a condition of effectiveness, technical assistance agreements with a
financial management consultant firm and a procurement technical assistance agency
for at least 12 months each, for support services to be provided during the first two
years of the project, and an agency to conduct the in-house management training (the
Sierra Leone Institute for Public Administration and Management) would be signed
under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA (para. 7.2 (a & b)).
(b)   The program. After the planning workshops and extensive priority-setting
exercises, the NHAP core program clearly identifies priorities of sector programs and
activities. Submission to IDA of a draft Letter of Health Sector Development Policy,
outlining the specific policy commitments of Government to the NHAP, the priorities
for Government, private and donor funding, and indicating that the DOH is given
authority to decide manpower and line item budgets within the program resource
ceilings agreed with the DOF, and the authority over staff numbers, selection,
promotions, discipline and pay within the established salary structure was a condition
for negotiations (also outlined in para. 4.9). Submission of a draft Letter of Health
Sector Development Policy, satisfactory to IDA, was a condition for negotiations, and
was signed as a condition of Board presentation (para. 7.2(b)). Work in the following
areas needs has been submitted to IDA as a condition for negotiations: (i) the final
detailed first year implementation plan and budget for the program; (ii) a finalized



- 31 -
human resources plan showing commitment to rationalizing health personnel and
decentralizing service delivery; and (iii) completion of the formal beneficiary
assessment. As a condition for effectiveness, the Government would submit to IDA (i)
the training plan and (ii) the plan for recruitment and redeployment of staff for those
health facilities of the Western Region where rehabilitation and construction works is
to take place during the first year of the project (para 7.3(c)).
(c)   Costs and financing. At the Social Sectors Round Table meetings in May
1994, Government reconfirmed its commitment to increase allocation to the health
sector during the program period in line with the SAP. Other donors pledged about
US$55 million to the NHAP, but actual commitments need to be reconfirmed regularly.
At the Donors Conference, in October 1995, donors and NGOs pledges to the sector for
FY 1996 were over US$12 million. Government is confident to obtain additional
funding in the amount of US$3.3 million from donors not represented at the
Conference, thereby closing the financing gap for FY 1996. Because little is known
about how much the private sector and households contribute to the sector, a study is
being conducted to describe the financing options and mechanisms to optimize the
public/private mix of financing and service provision.
B. PROGRAM IMLEMENTATION (MANAGEMENT AND COORDINATION)
5.3    The DOH, through its staff working within its permanent organization structure
(shown in Annex 12), will be responsible for implementation of the NHAP. The various
multilateral and bilateral donors have agreed to adopt this consistent and common management
and implementation approach for all financing agencies and for all components under the
program. A new organization structure has been adapted by the DOH to facilitate this, and
management systems of the DOH are being established, particularly in accounting and
budgeting arrangements, and district planning.
5.4    At the head of the new DOH is a DOH Management Team, comprised of the
Directors General, key heads of units of the DOH, and led by the Secretary of State.
Responsible managers within the strengthened structure, at both headquarters and district
levels, will be given the authority and resources to implement specific interventions and
services in the NHAP. Coordination of those interventions and services will be achieved
largely through the newly adopted organization structure and any special coordinating
mechanisms such as improved annual planning procedures, identified as part of the
institutional development component of the program.
5.5    As the implementation of the program will require new relationships to be built with
donors, a clear focal point is needed in the organization structure of the DOH to manage these
relations effectively. This will become one of the functions of the Donor Relations Office,
which reports to the DOH Management Team. The Director of Donor Relations is responsible
for managing and coordinating external relations. More importantly he/she will also be
responsible for monitoring donor programs and inputs to the sector; hence the need to
strengthen this office.



- 32 -
5.6    A Management Support Office, led by a technical officer providing support to the
DOH Management Team, will also be recruited to oversee the coordination of work of DOH
staff on the physical and technical program implementation activities as well as the monitoring
and reporting element of implementation. He/she will also provide and obtain information and
support to and from those managers responsible for implementation of the DOH program.
5.7    Management support services will be largely the responsibility the Financial
Managemtent Unit (i.e., accounting and disbursement), the Procurement Unit, and the Facilities
Management Unit (i.e., maintenance and repairs). These divisions will be strengthened by
upgrading the number of staff and their skills and by introducing improved systems which
would meet the different procurement and accounting requirements of both the Government
and individual donors. In addition, as an aid to more decentralized financial management, a
system of district level warrants will be introduced. The Planning, Monitoring, Information
and Statistics Unit (PMISU) will play a key role in the design and implementation of health
and management information, and in providing support to district planning, monitoring and
evaluation.
5.8    While the District Medical Officers would be responsible for program execution for
those areas within their jurisdiction, communities would be involved in both the planning and
management of health services and their periodic review. It is anticipated that such
arrangements will strengthen accountability and improve the quality of services. Conditions of
effectiveness have been designed to strengthen the DOH's implementation capacity in
preparation of Program implementation (para. 7.3). A summary of the implementation
program is shown in Annex 13, with a outline of an Operational Manual shown in Annex 14.
The Operational Manual would be finalized as a condition for effectiveness (para. 7.3(d)).
C. PROGRAM SUSTAINABILITY AND RECURRENT COST IMPLICATIONS
5.9    In response to the current state of collapse and fragmentation in the health care
system, sustainability is an integral part of the sector goals. The reform program seeks to
achieve social sustainability by soliciting community support in the preparation of the
program, and by ensuring an important role for the community in the operation and
maintenance of health services, so that the health system becomes more accountable to the
communities that they serve. The program currently enjoys considerable political support, as
evidenced by the involvement of the President and cabinet in the launching of the National
Health Policy and NHAP, and by the eagerness to make major policy decisions. Efforts will
be made to maintain the political support through continued involvement of key decision-
makers in the planning and evaluation of health services. A major challenge of the program is
to develop managerial and technical capacity to ensure sustainability of the health care
delivery. This is why the program intends to put heavy investments in training (both formal
and on-the-job), technical assistance, and the establishment of management systems to develop
the necessary cadre of appropriately trained people to meet local needs and to plan for services
that respond to these needs. To build up local capacity, local technical assistance and training
will be used as much as possible, and the modalities for long term technical assistance, where



- 33 -
required, will be designed to maximize local capacity and control. For example, long term
assistance may be done through twinning arrangements with external public health and
medical organizations, and use and development of local consultancy capacity.
5.10    Financial sustainability. The program aims to be financially sustainable in the long
run, but will be dependent on considerable donor investment in the short and medium term.
Government health expenditures are expected to increase from US$10.3 million in FY 1996 to
US$15.0 million in FY 2000 over the next five years. Government financing will cover an
increasing proportion of the core program (40% in 1996 to 52% in 1999). The increases are
based on commitments to increasing Government allocations to health, and on projections for
economic growth. On a per capita basis, the total program expects to spend about US$5.5 per
capita per annum at the end of the program, double the current public and donor expenditures.
According to Better Health In AJrica, a well-run system would cost, in low revenue countries,
around US$9 per capita (1993). Thus, it is likely that continued increase in health financing
will be needed in Sierra Leone, and that additional financing will be needed from private
sector sources and households. Increased household expenditures on more effective public and
private services is anticipated as the quality of these services improve. As mentioned, the
program foresees external financing by donors on a declining basis.
D. PROGRAM MONITORING AND REPORTING
5.11    Program monitoring, that is measuring, evaluating and reporting progress, would be
the responsibility of the DOH and those line managers responsible for specific interventions
and services. The Management Support Office will coordinate this effort in the central DOH,
and will bring together all parties involved so that key issues are dealt with through discussions
among those concerned. The line managers would be, in turn, responsible for taking any
necessary corrective action, as indicated by the monitoring information. The PMISU will
undertake to coordinate program monitoring and reporting on health services performance
from the districts. In order to do this, the DOH will establish its own approach, acceptable to
the Bank and other donors, for developing annual workplans and reviewing progress on a
periodic basis. The annual workplans, to be agreed on by all donors, would form the basis for
reviewing progress on a regular basis. At negotiations, assurances were provided that
Government will submit a three-year rolling plan, an annual progress report, and a draft
detailed implementation plan and budget at least three months prior to the beginning of each
fiscal year, and prior to an annual Government-led meeting with donors where progress on the
previous year's health program would be reviewed and specific financing commitments made
for the next year in advance of the submission of the Government's annual budget (para.
7. 1(b)).
5.12    Progress reports will be made available to donors and the recently-established Aid
Coordination Unit at the Department of Development and Planning, which is charged, among
other things, with coordinating donor assistance to the Government's Public Health Sector
Investment Program. The Donor Liaison Officer would be responsible for collating the
periodic reports for submission to Government and donors. The program reporting system to
be developed would establish short-term targets and indicators as appropriate for each



- 34 -
component of the program, regardless of the funding source. These measures will enable the
responsible line managers to check whether program components are on track, in termns of
achieving the desired outputs spelled out in the NHAP for the different technical programs and
support services. Therefore, there is need for clear conceptual linkages between the
intermediate reporting measures and the long-term output and impact indicators used for the
program.
5.13    Specific targets are given for involvement of communities in districts and hospital
boards, development of standards for quality, outputs targets for training and rehabilitation of
facilities and utilization of facilities, and impact targets for mortality, fertility, and disease rate
reduction (Annex 11). For example, the impact targets for the year 2000 include: infant
mortality at 70 deaths per 1000 live births; under 5 mortality at 160 deaths per 1000 live births;
and total fertility rate at 6.0 children. During negotiations, assurances were provided that
Government will meet the key time-bound performance indicators agreed on for the program,
as shown in Annex 11 (para. 7.4(c)). In addition, assurances were provided by Government
during negotiations that it will undertake the following measures in support of the NHAP: (a)
develop a health sector financing plan by the end of 1997 to identify the public and private
financing mix of health services; (b) institutionalize feedback of health service users by
conducting formal beneficiary assessments in 1998 and 2000; (c) conduct a national household
survey on health behaviors, health status and health expenditures in 1999; and (d) initiate a
certificate of need process whereby all capital investments above US$25,000 must obtain
formal approval from the DOH Management Team to justify investments according to priority,
based on the criteria of: (i) meeting community needs; (ii) addressing program goals; and (iii)
the affordability of the proposal. (para. 7.1(d)).
5.14    The Monitoring cycle. A regular program planning and monitoring cycle would be
established under the NHAP, based on the Government's financial calendar. A progress report
and draft rolling implementation plan and budget, covering activities, training, and
procurement would be circulated to donors at least three months before the beginning of the
next fiscal year. Two months before the beginning of the next fiscal year, Government would
convene a joint meeting with donors to review progress made during the previous year, and
finalize specific financial commitments for the coming year, based on the draft plans.
Eventually, the national plan would be a consolidation of previously prepared District and
central DOH plans. One month before the end of the fiscal year, the annual implementation
plan and budget for the next FY would be agreed upon for Government and donor
disbursement. Government would produce an annual progress report, summarizing reports
from the Districts and the DOH programs, for distribution among donors, prior to supervision
mission. These reports would not only indicate progress in relation to the plans from the
central DOH and the districts, they would also report actions taken to resolve problems. The
Management Support Officer would liaise with the respective line managers to ensure that they
submit timely written progress reports on the specific program interventions and services for
which they are responsible. Formal Bank supervision missions-to be carried out in
collaboration with donors and NGOs-would take place at least twice a year, and one of these
will be scheduled to follow the receipt of the annual report from the DOH, and will continue
with the program annual review and the donor consultation meeting on sector plan and budget
for the next fiscal year (see Annex 15 and also 5.15 below). The primary objective of



- 35 -
supervision would be to provide support and guidance to the DOH to solve those problems
which it is unable to resolve by itself. The program has budgeted for the DOH to hire
additional technical assistance for the preparation of sector plans and budgets. This approach
to supervision places the responsibility firmly with the DOH, so that the Borrower would take
its own necessary corrective action on the basis of monitoring information available before the
arrival of a donor supervision mission. The DOH will also provide Part II of the Program
Completion Report to IDA within six months of the closing date.
E. ANNUAL AND MID-TERM REVIEWS
5.15    A comprehensive annual review of the program conducted jointly with the
Government and other donors is an important feature of the operation. These reviews would
focus on the achievement of the intermediate targets and indicators in the agreed upon annual
workplan and the reasons for any variation. The approach to the reviews would be forward-
looking, endeavoring to identify factors which are likely to impede progress in the following
year, and taking necessary steps to overcome these constraints in a timely manner or to amend
objectives in the light of changing circumstances. The reviews would also assess progress on
the indicators of the NHAP and decide whether financial resources from the Credit would be
made available for the implementation of program activities. The implications of the findings
of the annual review for the current year's workplan would also be examined, and the workplan
would subsequently be amended as appropriate.
5.16    Assurances were provided at negotiations, that in the third year of the program, a
mid-term review will be carried out jointly with the Government and other donors to assess the
program achievement toward meeting its original objectives (para. 4.1) and targets (Annex
11), and on that basis make necessary adjustments in program objectives, inputs and
performance indicators prior to starting the second phase of the program (para. 7.1(e)). The
Government will prepare, two months ahead of time, a report required for a comprehensive
mid-term review covering all aspects of the program being implemented (both at headquarters
and district levels). Based on the outcome of the review, the Government and other donors
will agree on whether to alter program objectives and/or to reduce or increase the scope of the
program. Government will then prepare a revised NHAP that will reflect any agreed changes
for improving program implementation.
F. ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
5.17    This project is classified as category C in view of its negligible environmental effects.
Because the program includes improvements in sanitation, food hygiene, and medical waste,
the net effects of the program are expected to be beneficial to the environment.
G. PROCUREMENT
5.18    As is the case for other sector investment credits, the credit is undetermined for
procurement purposes. The exact mix of civil works, goods and services to be financed by the
Credit will depend on the results of the annual planning process that will be reflected in the



- 36 -
annually agreed upon plans. The proposed totals for the procurement (and disbursement)
categories are thus expected to change during implementation. The initial estimates are shown
in Table 5. 1. National competitive bidding (NCB) procedures will include: (a) explicit
statement to bidders of the evaluation and award criteria; (b) local advertising with public bid
opening; (c) award to lowest evaluated bidder; and (d) foreign bidders would not be precluded
from participating in NCB. Government confirmed the above NCB principles during
negotiations.
5.19    Government's overall procedures for procurement are being developed with IDA
assistance to ensure that they are economic, efficient, fair and acceptable to other contributors
to the NHAP. For the use of Government funds, the thresholds 2 for goods, works, and
services are currently as follows: purchases exceeding Le5 million require public tendering
through the Central Tenders Board (which meets at least every two weeks); purchases
between Le700,000 and Le5 million require public tendering through a Departmental Tender
Board; purchases between Le200,000 and Le700,000 require at least three price quotations;
and purchases under Le200,000 may be made at the discretion of the Vote Controller.
National bidding requires publication of invitations to tender in at least two local newspapers,
and a bidding period of at least one month. For international competition, the invitations are
also published in overseas newspapers and international trade journals, and disseminated to
local embassies, and a bidding period of at least nine weeks is required. A technical committee
makes recommendations for award based on the lowest evaluated bid, based on criteria clearly
described in the bidding documents. A register for contractors for works and services is being
maintained to classify them according to their financial standing and value of contracts for
works and services for which they are normally capable of carrying out satisfactorily. Further
details are outlined in the DOH Operations Manual. Procurement staff from the Management
Services Division will be trained in the new procedures, and assisted by a procurement agency.
5.20    Civil works. The programn's civil works include the construction of 57 health centers,
and the rehabilitation of 61 PHUs and 13 hospitals. For the use of IDA funds for civil works,
contracts for construction and rehabilitation estimated at more than US$500,000 per contract
would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with the
Guidelinesfor Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995). The majority of
civil works are small and scattered, and unlikely to attract international bidders. The construction
of health centers and rehabilitation of clinics that cannot be grouped into large contracts or are less
than US$500,000 per contract and US$4.5 million in aggregate would be awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised nationally (NCB) in accordance with procedures acceptable to
IDA. Minor rehabilitation and repairs works that are estimated to cost less than US$25,000
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate of US$0.5 million, would be procured under
procedures acceptable to IDA on the basis of price quotations obtained from at least three local
reliable contractors who use local labor and materials, including participation of communities, to
the extent practical.
2 Government is currently revising thresholds in the light of new exchange rates and inflation.



- 37 -
Table 5.1 Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements (US$ million)
Procurement Category                         ICB   NCB OTHER  N.F.A.  TOTAL
1   Civil Works
1.1 Construction/Rehabilitation of health centers  2.2    4.5    0.5   13.8       22.0
and hospitals                               (2.2)   (4.5)   (0.5)   (-)       (7.2)
2. Goods
2.1 Essential drugs, equipment and materials      2.0    0.5    2.5    3.5         8.5
(2.0)   (0.5)   (2.5)   (-.-)    (5.0)
3   Consultancies
3.1 Institutional development, studies, monitoring  -.-    -.-    2.5    1.4       3.9
& supervision                                (-)   (-.-)  (2.5)   (-)         (2.5)
4   Training
4.1 Training and workshops                        -.-    -.-    3.4    2.0         5.4
( )    ( )  ~(3.4)   (-.-)   (3.4)
5   Operating costs                                .      -.-    2.0   97.5       99.5
( )    ( )  ~(2.0)    (- -)  (2.0)
TOTA1L                                       4.2    5.0   10.9  118.2        138.1
IDA Financing                               (4.2)   (5.0)  (10.9)   (0.0)    (20.0)
Note: Totals may not add up due to rounding. Figures in parentheses are the estimated amounts to be financed by the IDA
credit. Final totals may vary significantly since only the first year of the Sector Investment Credit has been programmed
in detail.
N.F-A. = Not Financed by the Association
5.21     Goods. Goods financed by IDA under the program would include: essential drugs,
medical equipment and materials, vehicles, and office equipment and furniture for a total value
of US$5 million equivalent. Because of the current need to use drug kits for PHUs,
procurement of essential drugs for primary health care would be procured from UNICEF, for
drugs stocked by them, up to an aggregate of US$2 million. Approximately US$1.5 million
equivalent in pharmaceuticals would be procured through ICB, and another US$250,000
through international shopping for drugs estimated to cost less than US$25,000 equivalent per
contract in accordance with Bank Guidelines. In general, goods valued at US$250,000 or
more per contract would be procured through ICB. Goods estimated at less than US$250,000
per contract, and US$0.5 million in the aggregate, would be procured through national
competitive bidding (NCB) under procedures acceptable to IDA. The remaining goods which
cannot be grouped into bid packages of at least US$25,000 equivalent up to an aggregate of
US$250,000 would be procured by national shopping up to an aggregate of US$100,00
equivalent, or by international shopping up to an aggregate of US$150,000 according to Bank
Guidelines.
5.22 Services. Consultants financed by IDA would be contracted in accordance with IDA's,
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants (August 1981). The consultancy services required under the
project would be mostly for project management, supervision and implementation, architectural
and engineering services, and for training activities. It would include, specifically, the services of
locally recruited consultants and training institutions to carry out activities such as: (a)



- 38 -
procurement agents; (b) quantity surveyors and building technicians; (c) annual program audits;
(d) training of DOH and District staff; and (e) preparation of training and [EC materials. Training
institutions would be selected on the basis of a short-list and submitted proposals. Where specific
area of expertise is required intermittently over an extended period, contracts with international
universities or training institutions will be considered.
5.23    Procurement arrangements. The procurement activities of the program financed
by IDA will be straightforward. The construction and rehabilitation works will be supervised
by project engineers and final payment will be made to contractors only when the work is
complete according to specifications. The procurement will be carried out by staff who have
procurement experience under the ongoing IDA-assisted project, who will be assigned to the
new Procurement Services Unit of the DOH (under the Management Services Division), with
additional technical assistance support. The Unit will be staffed with professional purchasing
and stores personnel and utilize improved procurement management systems, covering both
Govemment and donor procurement procedures. Although the DOH Management Team will
be responsible for the oversight of the administrative and contractual arrangements of the
program, the Management Support Officer will liaise closely with the Procurement Services
Unit for handling all matters related to the preparation, implementation and monitoring of
work plans for the smooth execution of procurement of all works, goods, and services,
including the preparation of bidding documents, launching of tenders, evaluation, and
reporting the results to the Government and to IDA for review. In addition, adequate records
on procurement progress, including staff reports on site visits, the timing of works and goods
procurement; and compliance with agreed methods of procurement will be maintained by the
Procurement Services Unit. These will be used in DOH's program monitoring system.
Commitment to following a generic timetable for the detailed steps of the different
procurement activities were agreed at negotiations (para. 7.1 (f)).
5.24    Bank review. Prior review by IDA would be required for procurement of packages
of works and goods which exceed US$100,000. Procurement documentation and
arrangements for each consultant contract valued at US$100,000 or more for firms and
US$50,000 or more for individuals would be subject to prior review by IDA. However, the
exceptions to prior IDA review would not apply to (a) the terms of reference for such
contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature,
as reasonably determined by the Association; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment
of consulting firms raising the contracts value to US$100,000 equivalent or above; or (e)
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract
value to US$50,000 equivalent or above. All bidding documents will be prepared using the
Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for each type of ICB procurement which will be
submitted to IDA for review and approval. Submission to IDA of finalized first year bidding
documents for civil works and goods for the Western Region-to be financed by IDA-to be
procured through international competitive bidding would be a condition of effectiveness
(para. 7.3 (e)).



- 39 -
H. DISBURSEMENTS
5.25     In accordance with the NHAP, the Credit is expected to be completed within a five-
year period by December 31, 2000 (completion date), with all disbursements made by June 30,
2001 (closing date). Although the program is expected to be implemented with considerable
difficulty because of the enormous challenges faced by the DOH, successful disbursement is
anticipated because of (a) the considerable time and resources invested in preparation and
planning; (b) the high degree of Government ownership and commitment to the program
developed through the preparation process; (c) the strengthening of DOH capacity by staffing
of key positions and support by local and international consultants; and (d) the use of training
and technical assistance in financial management. There is limited Regional experience in the
disbursement of integrated sector-wide programs. The funds for this operation are forecast to
disburse at a faster rate than the Regional profile because the operation is equivalent to the
DOH program, and cannot be marginalized, and because of the up-front preparation and
systematic review of program implementation. The estimated disbursement schedule is given
in Annex 16.
5.26     The following table gives the categories and amounts to be financed out of the IDA
Credit, and the percentage to be financed in each category.
Table 5.2 Allocation and Disbursement of the IDA Credit (US$ million)
1. Civil works                                     6.3     100% of foreign expenditures
90% of local expenditures
2. Drugs, furniture, equipment, vehicles, supplies  4.3     100% of foreign expenditures
and spare parts                                         90% of local expenditures
3. Technical assistance and studies                2.1      100% of expenditures
4. Training, including training materials          3.0      100% of expenditures
5. Incremental operating costs'                    1.7      100% of foreign expenditures;
90% of local expenditures until
December 31, 1998; then, 75%
of local expenditures
6. Refunding of Project Preparation Advance        0.3      100%
7. Unallocated                                     2.3
Total credit amount                           20.0
These include: incremental administrative and rnnning costs of districts, the DOH Management Team, the PMISU,
the Management Support Office, the Financial Management Unit, and the Procurement Unit, such as salaries for
incremental staff positions, per diems, travel costs, general office supplies, fuel, vehicle and equipment maintenance costs,
and other administrative expenses.
5.27     Disbursement and withdrawal procedures are detailed in The World Bank
DisbursementHandbook (1992 edition). All disbursements are subject to the conditions of the
Development Credit Agreement and the procedures defined in the Disbursement Letter. The
Operational Manual will further outline what individual managers need to do to spend and
account for money under their authority.
5.28     Special Account. To facilitate disbursements of eligible expenditures for works,
goods and services, the Government would open a Special Account in a commercial bank to
cover part of IDA's share of eligible expenditures to be managed and administered by the



- 40 -
DOH. The authorized allocation for the Special Account would be US$1 million covering an
estimated four months of eligible expenditures financed by IDA. Upon effectiveness, 500/o of
the authorized allocations amounting to US$500,000 would be deposited to the Special
Account. The remaining balance will be made available as needed. Monthly replenishment
requests would be fully documented except for contracts for civil works, goods and consulting
firms below US$100,000 equivalent, and for contracts for services from individuals below
US$50,000, and all incremental operating costs, which may be claimed on the basis of
Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). Documentation would be retained by DOH for review by
regular IDA supervision missions and the external auditors. Replenishment requests would be
accompanied by up-to-date bank statements and reconciliations of the Special Account. All
payments under US$50,000 equivalent must be made through the Special Account; payments
above that amount may be made through direct payment or special commitment procedures.
All direct-IDA payments must be according to the procedures set out in The World Bank
Disbursement Handbook (1992 edition). Funds in the Special Account cannot be mixed with
other funds (such as funds from Government sources or other donors).
5.29    Government financing. Government financial contribution to the health sector
would be monitored through the accounting system being established with the assistance of an
auditor and with the Department of Finance (DOF). As a condition of effectiveness, the
Government would sign a contract for (i) the installation in the system of an accounting
software for the DOH's programs, and (ii) the training of DOH's staff in the use of the said
system (para. 7.3(f)). The DOF would be required to make quarterly allocations to the DOH
on the basis of an agreed budget for the program, proposed by Government, and accepted by
IDA one month before the beginning of each fiscal year.
L. ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, AND REPORTING
5.30  Overall responsibility for the project's financial management would rest with the
Financial Management Division of the DOH, which would maintain the consolidated Program
Accounts for the entire program. To improve Government's coordination of donor funds and
to ensure transparency for the entire program, accounting for all transactions of the Program
Accounts, including Government funds, the IDA Special Account, and funds from other
donors, would be maintained in accordance with international accounting standards. Annual
financial statements of Government and all donor finances would be prepared and audited in
accordance with international auditing guidelines. By June 30th of each year, the
implementing agency would submit to IDA and other donors an auditor's report, management
report and audited financial statements for the Program Accounts, the Special Account, and
Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) for the preceding fiscal year, audited by an independent
expert under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. Therefore, the appointment of an
independent auditor will be crucial,and it would be a condition of credit effectiveness (para.
7.3(g)), the Government will have issued the letter of invitation satisfactory to IDA for the
employment of an independent auditor to audit the expenditures financed from proceeds of the
proposed Credit. The audit of Credit 1695-SL implemented by the DOH is current.



- 41 -
VI. PROGRAM BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. PROGRAM BENEFITS
6.1    Implementation of the program will enable the Government to attain its sector goals,
offering Sierra Leoneans more access to health services of better quality, and will ultimately
lead to, through its emphasis on primary health care, improved health status of the population
with emphasis on the poor, women and children. The main benefits of the project would be to:
(a) reduce excessive morbidity, mortality, and fertility through extension of basic quality
health and family planning services to those most in need; (b) implement a comprehensive
reform of the health sector aiming at directing resources to those priority health problems for
which cost-effective intervention strategies are available; (c) strengthen the capacity of central
DOH to use resources in an efficient manner; (d) develop sector capacity in areas such as
management, financial management, human resources development and planning; (e)
decentralize decision-making, and enable communities and districts to make decisions and to
have greater control over budget and service delivery; and (f) diversify the financing of health
services and help establish a more equitable and affordable basis for it.
B. PROGRAM RISKS
6.2    There are a number of potential risks, most notably: (a) the persistence of-or late
solution to-the security situation, which multiplies health emergencies, makes rehabilitation
in parts of the country untenable, and increases the possibility of not obtaining sufficient
domestic resources to implement the NHAP; (b) an over-ambitious program, which over-
stretches the implementation capacity of the DOH, could lead to weak efficiency gains and
donor skepticism concerning GOSL potential to coordinate and implement its policy, and; (c)
moving too quickly, before the reorganization of the DOH and the strengthening of its key
units are completed, could lead to a decline in efficiency, further dysfunction and distortions in
the provision of health services, and the inability to use national- and donor-contributed funds.
6.3   The risks are minimized by implementing the program in phases, starting physical
rehabilitation in areas free from civil unrest (e.g., Western Area). The sector investment
approach is also appropriate in these circumstances, as it allows a greater deal of flexibility in
program planning, enabling quick response to changing situations. The development phases
are also planned according to the growing capacity of Govemment, investing heavily on
training, support systems, and studies, using pilot initiatives, and reviewing progress
frequently, to minimize the risk of moving too quickly with institutional reform. Particular
emphasis on financial management, accounting and controls will help to ensure that allocated
funds are used for intended purposes in the health sector. The risks are further diminished
because there has been a comprehensive effort to examine organizational needs and
capabilities, incentives, and institutional culture, and to involve a wide number of Government
participants in the reform process. Decentralization of authority will be accompanied by
appropriate financial support and intensive training in management systems. Annual reviews
undertaken jointly by the Government, IDA, and other donors will enable Government to



- 42 -
make required changes in programming strategies on a frequent basis. A mid-term review will
provide an opportunity for major restructuring, and cancellation, if necessary. Efforts to
increase participation with other Government Departments and stakeholders outside of the
Govemment should help to assure domestic support, and will diminish the risks due to political
instability, by developing a broad approval for the program and for the process of program
development and management. Finally, through the Bank's assistance by means of the
structural adjustment program, there is a consistent effort to maintain the commitment of the
Government to invest in social sectors.
VII. AGREEMENTS, CONDITIONS, AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1    During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that it will:
(a)  give budgetary authority to implement a prepared district health plan to at least one
additional district in each year of the operation (para. 4.13);
(b) submit a three year rolling plan, an annual progress report, and a draft annual detailed
implementation plan and budget at least three months prior to the beginning of each
fiscal year, and prior to an annual Government-led meeting with donors, where
progress on the previous year's health program would be reviewed and specific
financing commitments made for the next year in advance of the submission of the
Government's annual budget (para. 5.11);
(c) make all efforts to meet the key time-bound performance indicators agreed on for the
program (para. 5.13);
(d) undertake the following measures in support of the NHAP: (a) develop a health
sector financing plan by the end of 1997; (b) institutionalize feedback of health
service users by conducting formal beneficiary assessments in 1998 and 2000; (c)
conduct a national household survey on health behaviors, health status and health
expenditures in 1999, and (d) initiate a certificate of need process whereby all capital
investments above US$25,000 must obtain formal approval from the DOH
Management Team to justify investments according to priority, based on the criteria
of: (i) meeting community needs; (ii) addressing program goals; and (iii) the
affordability of the proposal. (para. 5.13).
(e)  carry out jointly with other donors a mid-term review to assess the program
achievement toward meeting its original objectives (para. 4.1) and targets (Annex 11)
in the third year of the program, and on that basis make necessary adjustments in
program objectives, inputs and performance indicators prior to starting the second
phase of the program (para. 5.16).



- 43 -
(f)  upgrade procurement procedures to meet IDA standards (para. 5.18); and follow an
agreed generic timetable for the detailed steps of the different procurement activities
(para. 5.23).
7.2   As a condition for Board presentation, the Government submitted:
(a) a detailed plan and timetable for reconciling the DOH payroll and the actual DOH
staff census (para. 4.15); and
(b) a signed Letter of Health Sector Development Policy satisfactory to IDA (para.
5.2(b)).
7.3   As a condition of effectiveness, the Government would:
(a)  sign two technical assistance agreements, for at least twelve man months each, for
support services to be provided during the first two years of the project, with (i) a
financial management consulting firm, and (ii) a procurement technical assistance
agency, under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA;(para. 5.2(a));
(b)  sign a technical assistance agreement to conduct in-house training with the Sierra
Leone Institute for Public Administration and Management (IPAM), under terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA (para. 5.2(a));
(c) submit to IDA for the Western Region district: (i) the training plans and (ii) the plan
for recruitment and redeployment of staff for those health facilities where
rehabilitation and construction works will take place during the first year of the
project (para. 5.2(b));
(d)  finalize the Operational Manual (para. 5.8);
(e)  prepare and finalize the first year bidding documents for civil works and goods for
the Western Region district to be procured through International Competitive Bidding
(ICB) and to be funded by IDA; (para. 5.24);
(f)  sign a contract for: (i) the installation in the system of an accounting software for
DOH's programs, and (ii) the training of DOH's staff in the use of the said system
(para. 5.29);
(g)  issue the letter of invitation to recruit an independent auditor to audit the expenditures
financed from proceeds of the Credit (para 5.30); and
(h)  staff the following key positions: Director of Management Support, Director of
Financial Resources, Chief Procurement Officer, and a professional supporting
position at the Donor Relations Office to monitor and coordinate donor programs and
budgets, under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA (para 4.12(a)).



- 44 -
Recommendation
7.4    Subject to agreement to the above, the proposed program will constitute a suitable
basis for an IDA credit of SDR 13.6 million (US$20 million equivalent) to the Republic of
Sierra Leone on standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years.



ANNEX 1
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED HEALTH SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
Sodo-Economic Indicators
Most           Same
Recent         Region       Income  Groups
Unit of          Estimate      Sub-Sah.       Low-         Middle-
Measure            (mre)          Africa      Income        Income
Income Indicators
GNP per capita                                USS               150             520         380          2480
Social Indicators
Public Expenditures on Basic Social Services  % of GDP          3.1              -           -             -
Gross Enrollment Ratio:                 % school age group
Primary:    Total                                              48             67          101           104
Femals                                               39              60          93
Secondary: Total                                               16                          42
Female                                               12                          34             -
Mortality                              per '000 live births
Infant Mortality Rate                                        164             93          64            39
Under-5 Mortality Rate                                       284            172          103           57
Immunization (under 12 months)            % age group
Measles                                                      74              49          44            65
DPT                                                          75              38          43            67
Child malnutrition (<5)                                        23              28          38
Life Expectancy at birth                     years
Overall                                                      39              52          62            68
Female advantage                                             3.2            3.4          2.4           6.4
Total Fertility Rate                    births per woman        6.5            6.1          3.4          3.1
Matemal Mortality Rate                 100.000 live births     800              -            -
Sources:  Social Indicators of Development, 1993-1994, The World Bank, 1994.
World Development Report 1995: Workers in an Integrating World, The World Bank, 1995.






ANNEX 2
Page I of 6
SECRETARY OF ST7ATE FOR HEALTH
AND SOCUL SERVICES
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH 4TH FLOOR
TOUTIBUILDING
FREETOWN, SIERRA LEONE
Februazy 5, 1996
Mr. James D. Wolfensobn
President
The World Bank
Washington, D.C.
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
Sector Development Policy
I wish, on behalf of the Govemment and people of Sierra Leone, to thank the World Bank,
through you, for the assistance it has provided right from the start of the development of our National
Health Action Plan to tbis stage.
Over the last three years, our health sector in Sierra Leone has developed a policy, details of
which will be spelt out below.
Strting September 21-25, 1992, the Department convened a week-long seminar involving all
stakeholders in the health sector in Sierra Leone. It provided an open forum for a dialogue, assessment
of needs, people-centred prioritizafion, and for the creation of an atmosphere of cooperation between the
public, private and the private non-profit sectors, the health consumers and the international community.
The National Health Policy, which was the outcome of this exercise, was closely scrutinized and
finally accepted by Government in June 1993.
The policy mapped out a new direction for the health care system, focussing on the development
of preventive services whilst simultaneously strengthening the existing deivery system. The main
agenda for Government described in the National Health Policy is that:
(a) a network of sound primaiy, secondary, and tertiary health facilities will be strengthened
through rehabilitation, appropriate staffing and logistical support;
(b) environmental health and communicable disease control will be promoted;
(c) community participation and intersectoral cooperation will be fostered;



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 6
(d)   health care delivery will be decentralized to the district level;
(e)   Govemment financing of health care will increase;
(f)   certain services will be privatized, where appropriate; and
(g) cooperation with international agencies and NGOs will be promoted.
The Government's main health objectives and indicators for the nation are clearly stated in the
NHAP. In brief the main objectives are to: (a) improve child health; (b) improve matemal health; (c)
reduce fertility; (d) reduce the incidence and prevalence of communicable diseases and other common
ailments, including H1V; (e) reduce mental illness; (f) reduce injury and handicaps; (g) assure
satisfactory nutritional status; (h) reduce drug abuse; (i) improve living conditions; and 0) improve food
hygiene. The NHAP defines the main functions of the health sector, and identifies how each of its
programmes are designed to fulfill these functions and contribute to one or more of the nine population
impact objectives. Each programme within the NHAP has clear operational targets to be attained during
the next five years, which will contribute to achieving its main objectives. Fulfilling these objectives
would contribute to the social sustainability of the adjustment programme, and strengthen the human
resource base needed for the future growth of Sierra Leone.
In order to transform the Health Policy into action, the Department organized a participative
workshop, held from October 27-November 5, 1993, involving various stakeholders, including the other
sectoral Departments, non-governmental organizations and donor agencies. This analysed health
problems, determined objectives and formulated both technical and support programmes (Annex 1), in
an effort to develop a consensus around an effective health policy and planning process as a critical
means of increasing effectiveness and efficiency. The National Health Action Plan (NHAP) was
developed at the workshop.
The Action Plan (NHAP) envisaged a major reform and restructuring of the health sector,
resulting in: (1) a radical organizational change (2) substantial human resource development and
management; (3) rehabilitation of the health infrastructure, particularly in the rural areas; (4)
enhancement of community participation, as well as investment in support services and systems that
sustain operations; (5) district level decentralization, and; (6) integration of vertical health service
programmes to make public health care more responsive to community needs.
The following four, related issues are recognized as critical in the establishment of a foundation
for a sustainable, equitable, and efficient health care: (a) poor access to health care; (b) poor quality of
services; (c) poor management, inadequate community involvement and accountability; and (d)
insufficient health care financing. The net effect of the reform programme is expected to improve the
health status of the people of Sierra Leone, by increasing access to healthcare and improving quality of a
national package of health services that is better managed and financed through a progressively
decentralized system.
The total cost of these programmes is estimated at US$270 million over the period 19941999.
Comparing these estimates with projected Government and donor expenditure at current levels gives a
financing gap of US$184 million.



ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 6
In view of the magnitude of the fimding gap for the NHAP, the Department prepared a core
programme of high priority interventions and services for discussion with donors.
The core programme was developed by considering the highest priority programmes and,
therefore, represents a more modest version or subset of the NHAP. The total estimated cost of the core
programme is US$138.2 million (adjusted for physical and price contingencies). After taking account of
the current Govemment and donor support of US$86 million for the Health Sector, the financing gap is
estimated at US$52 million.
Of the funding gap for the core programme of US$52 million, it is estimated that an additional
US$26 million will be contributed by the Government and household sectors. The core programme wilL
therefore, require an incremental donor contribution of US$26 million.
It is recognised that the cost and financing totals are preliminary estimates requiring further
refinement through discussion with donors and other major stakeholders. In particular, the costs of
training, improved staff remuneration and decentralization need considerable further analysis. Periodic
review of programme expenditures and donor commitments is therefore envisaged.
It is recognized that the cost and financing totals are preliminary estimates, requiring further
refinement through discussion with donors and other major stakeholders. In particular, the costs of
training improved staff remuneration and decentralization need considerable further analysis. Periodic
review of program expenditures and donor commitments is therefore envisaged.
The provision of a more comprehensive, integrated and sustainable health care system is central
to the country's development strategy. The health system had deteriorated to such an extent that there is
a large financial and technical gap between what is currently available and what is needed to make it
work.
At the Social Sectors Round Table Consultations (May, 1994) the Department presented its
plans for the reform and restructuring of the health care system, with the objective of promoting dialogue
and fostering consensus among Govermnent, NGOS, the donor community and other key stakeholders,
and of generating support for the health sector reforms. Government was encouraged to make greater
use of NGOs and the enhanced role of the private sector in financing and health care delivery. NGO's
agreed to work fully within the framework of the NHAP and share their information and technical
capabilities with Govermment.
Participants applauded government's determination to decentralize the health care services at
district level and enhance accountability at both Headquarters and at the periphery.
Donors and NGOs agreed-inter alia-to: work exclusively within the framework of the National
Health Action Plan as much as possible, using common implementation modalities; participate with
Govermment in the joint review and planning process; provide financial and/or technical assistance in
support of the NHAP; meet the estimated funding gap in the NHAP; mobilize their resource
commitments for the NHAP; prepare their information requirements for discussion with Government;
adapt the scope and modalities of their development assistance to accord with the needs of the NHAP,
and; offer to redirect some existing projects' funds to finance some sharply-focussed, technical
assistance-both to yield demonstrable progress in the field and improve the efficiency of the Department.



ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 6
At the October 1995 Social Sectors Donors Meeting, donors and NGOs agreed to support the
incremental core program activities with an additional US$5.75 million for 1996.
Governmenfs commitment to the NHAP has been demonstrated by its acceptance of the
document, and its commitment to increase expenditure in the health sector by at least 5% per annum in
real terms over the duration of the NHAP. More recently, Govemment has agreed in principle to
authorize the Department of Health to have:
(a)  authority to decide programme, manpower and line item budgets, in relation to the core
programme, and wihiin an overall departmental ceiling provided by the Department of
Finance;
(b)  real influence over the recruitment and selection process, and the application of
employment practices for staff promotions, discipline and transfers, and;
(c)  authority to determine the numbers, categories, and skill mix of staff required in line with
an overall departmental manpower plan, as well as some discretion over individual's pay
within established salary structures.
An improved organizational structure of the Department has been developed and job
descriptions have been prepared to delegate authority from the Secretary of State to the central and
district levels of management as follows:
1.   Top Management Team
2.   Director-General of Medical Services
3 .   Director-General of Management Services
4.   Donor Relations
5.   Intemal Auditor
6.   Management Support Office
7.   Division Directors
8.   Unit Managers
9.   District Health Management Teams
10.  National Health Councils, District Health Boards and Hospital Management Committees
The process of reform has done much to energize the Department of Health and the people
associated with it. DOH staff have learned to work in teams to identify and solve problems, and
therefore communication and the effectiveness of the work of the DOH has improved. The reform
process has brought Department staff much closer to the users of the health system and to other
providers. Much of this is due to the preparation of the NHAP and the confidence they have gained from
the experience. This is one of the main reasons why the DOH was selected Governments most
productive Department.
The beneficiaries have been involved in the development of the National Health Policy and the
National Health Action Plan. They participated in a programme prioritization exercise, which identified
the core programmes of the NHAP, and they have indicated their commitment to the NHAP through
their willingness to pay for the improved services through user fees and the Bamako Initiative. A



ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 6
beneficiary assessment was carried out to establish a baseline for the future analysis of the impact of
Government actions on health care. The finding that was specifically relevant and important to the
Department of Health was the thought that Government could help by providing roads, basic services
such as water, and improving literacy and increased economic activity.
The programmes are designed so that they will not be implemented vertically, but as part of a
package of essential health services. The district will become the focus of operational planning and
implementation. Following general guidance of the central DOH, the District Health Management
Teams (DHNT) will be responsible for planning and delivery of most elements of the six PHC services
in their own district. The operational details of how the specific services will be provided in each area
will be worked out in each district as part of their annual planning exercise, with the PHUs expected to
deliver much of the preventive and primary curative services. Each PHU will be linked to a district level
hospital which will provide first referral services. Larger hospitals will provide more of the same
services as the district hospitals, and also function as referral points for more specialized services
(tertiary health care services). The larger hospitals will be under the administration of newly created
hospital management committees.
The first year of the programme has been designed to set the foundation for the NHAP
implementation while addressing the current security situation. Detailed activities and budgets for the
first 18 months were prepared by the DOH staff for the entire programme, and are included in the DOH
Operational Manual. Since many of the districts are currently inaccessible, more central level planning
and irnplementation occurs in the first year. The emphasis on improving the ongoing service delivery
will focus on the Westem Area and the towns where the populations have concentrated. Matemal and
child health services, including family planning, obstetric, and well-child care, along with communicable
disease control, water and sanitation services, and nutrition take the majority of inputs for service
delivery. Emergency assistance for refugees is being handled separately from routine DOH activities,
under an umbrella organization in the Govemment. Implementation of the institutional changes in the
DOH is another highlight of the first year's plan. Staff have been reassigned to the new units of the
Department, but further work and support is planned for 1995/96 to get them fully functional. The key
areas include the establishment of the Financial Management Team, the Procurement Unit, the
Maintenance and Repair Unit, and a Donor Relations Secretariat. Human resources development will
comprise a major part of the first year: curricula at the training institutions will be revised, and the first
year of the new cadres of peripheral health staff is expected this year, while personnel systems will be set
up. Revising the health information system is also planned during the first year. Decentralization will be
implemented slowly during this year. The Western Area District Health Management Team has
developed its district plan, and will be given authority to implement the plan, including budgetary
allocations for non-wage recurrent expenditures. Rehabilitation will concentrate in the Westem Area.
Hospitals and PHUS, a maintenance facility, and a drug warehouse, all in the Westem Area, are
scheduled for rehabilitation in 1995/96. A health facilities infrastructure and equipment survey will be
extended in a phased manner to cover the remainder of the country, which will form the basis for specific
rehabilitation plans in the subsequent years. Pharmaceutical seed stocks (essential drugs, contraceptives,
vaccines, laboratory reagents) for PHUs and hospitals will also be purchased and distributed.
An annual review of the programme will be conducted jointly with the Govermment and the other
donors. This review will focus on the achievement of the immediate targets and indicators in the agreed
annual workplan, and the reasons for any under-achievement or variation. The approach of the review
would be forward looking, endeavouring to identify factors which are likely to affect progress in the



ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 6
following year, and taking necessary steps to overcome these constraints in a timely manner or to amend
objectives in the light of changing circumstances.
The implementation of the findings of the annual review for the current years workplans would
also be examined. This workplan would subsequently be amended as appropriate, demonstrating the
flexibility of the NHAP implementation process.
The World Bank has funded the Health and Population Project (HPP) from which lessons have
been leamed. These will be useful in the implementation of the National Health Action Plan. One of the
challenges of the NHAP implementation will be to recognize, develop and apply local capacity to solve
health problems of the country.
The lack of coordination in the Health Sector has led to a fractionalised health system. The
National Health Action Plan seeks to ensure that donor support is focussed on the enhancement of the
objectives of the plan and so obviate the tendency to run separate projects.
Additional recent information about our programme, is provided in the draft Implementation
Manual, a copy of which is being transmitted to you.
We thank you profoundly for the Bank's cooperation in our efforts to provide better health care
for our people.
With best regards.
Yours sincerely,
Dr. S.U.M. Jah
Secretary of State for Health and Social Services



REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED HEALTH SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
Causes Of Mortality in Western Area
C    e  _hd dc    m   -utky                                                                     65 yr. md wr            4544 yr#             1S44 yn               5-14 yr              1-4 yr.             Ud.r I yr             TOTAL
Number   %   N14_r   %   NH_r   *   N_or    %   Nu.er   %    _mer   %   Nmewr s
b.edilm d   _     dms_                                                                            175         2        Is         29        179        44         75        66        259         7i        416        67       11"         46
Pimania (lowu mrpirmloty tmd ifecliona)                                                         94         12        33         11        53         13        13         12        73         22        151        24        417         16
Malaria                                                                                         14         2         13         4         30         7         26         23         60        18        110         18       253         10
ln1o.em  jectim dieoase (diarthe)                                                               31         4         11         4         28         7         13         12         60        I8         81         13       224         9
Meale                                                                                                                                                           10         9         57        17         47         8         114        4
TuhouJosi                                                                                       24         3         10         3         37         9          8         7          1          0                              80         3
Smoke *mia                                                                                       5         1                              19         5                               5          1         12         2         41         2
Maili.                                                                                           2         0          3         1         10         2          3         3          3          1         6          1         27         1
Tetanus                                                                                          I         0          7         2          1         0                                                     8         1         17         1
Hqepdlis                                                                                         2         0          6         2                               1          1                                                    9         0
Olibr infaclious Caum                                                                            2         0         2          1          1         0          1          1                               1         0          7         0
Me        ?EaegP          ( _seUe4)                                                                14        2         13         4          6          1         1          1                                                   34          1
e, Nd,ks._   i Mde D_a _wrw I                                  .rs                                 17        2          a         3          4          1                              19         6         30         5         73          3
Nulsutlasa manimea & otw prlzei-calori malnulrilion                                                                                                                                  19         6         30         5         49         2
DIat  meitiu                                                                                    17         2         8          3          4         1                                                                         29         1
D _lemew E_Bbed   d BEmdJe        n      (ldm6 esC   l_I                                           1         a                               9          2         5          4         2          1                              17          1
D_    d 6k  Cfr1q4y Syg4W                                                                         345        43         3         44          o        20                                                                        555 
Csrilov.cular dimeas                                                                            292        36         83        29         66        16                                                                        443        17
Cereeovaoular dimee                                                                              53         7         43        13         14         3                                                                        112         4
D_  *f                 y 8y     b             ah_-)                                                12         1         2          1         6          I         2          2         11         3         1i         2         43          3
Dimmew d 6k Digedive Sydm                                                                         20         2         13         4         22          5         2          2                                                   57         2
Chron  lice, disa    d cinbodi                                                                  7          1         1          0          3         1                                                                         1 1        0
O    gfSi"oiateaisal trat clIne                                                                 13         2         12         4         19         5          2         2                                                    46         2
D    _w d 6ke G dmkmwy Sydm  __eEu    re_ tll e                                                   10         1          9         3         20          5         1          1          1         0                              41         2
C.ingedIlm  Es m,                         -    rh1h   * an pampa    (rddde _ dine                                                            7          2                                                                         7         t
c _m O,              W bg ham p,,w. P4.d                                                                                                                                               I          0    no    19   121    5
ProiuriIy m bmw ww&ghl                                                                                                                                                              1         0          74    12    75                  3
Bi.&L tomum                                                                                                                                                                                               46         7         46         2
ki-7 -a PWNNbg                                                                                     2         0          1         0          14         3         1          1          5         1                              23         1
0o , Nmp.le          I     Cd_wd Ca                                                               214        24        33         1          i         14         26        23         36         11        49         3         466        16
TOTAL                                                                                             Ole        1a        294        1         45         139       113        139        336       139        as        13        2381        li
Soue  Wetm Arwa Vitl Ragitb, 1993
N.W  Th ashmt ta m bl ofdaat  u t1 W..t.m Alma Ia 1993a qrm f4iy 2211000 X
M,000 - 19.36D death;: trbuer& the PmesDftle of death    d  ia tem Vibl R*glt"  il
o"wi_lumal 13%.






REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED HEALTH SECTOR INVEHrMENT PROJECT
DIHrUBUrION OF HEALTH FACILITIES AND PUBLIC SECTOR HEALTH WORKERS
DISTRIBUNION OF HEALTTH FACILITIES - 1994
Est                                   Mhoa                                                        IndEud &i 0th.r
Admnistrdiv.          POp.                                                   G ovt. HOoD        Mision Hop.              Private HOs itd.       Total            Pop.
Dbtriots            1994                                     Pr.           No.    bd           No.      Bed             No.   Bed        No.  B.d           pe HOap
('000)   CHC   CHP   MCHP    TotW    CUrnlo   Totes          Comd.                 Comdn.                Comdn.           Compi.           Bed
1. Eaastrn Province
Kailahun                  289     14    30        6       50       9       59     2      87    16    1        172      12      1   closed       4   259    28       1,116
Kenema                    408     13    31       24       6s       2       70     1    132    10    2          40      -1      3    123   21   6   295    31        1,383
Kono                      446     13    11        5       35       6       41     1      45     10    -        -               6    144   34   7   198    44        2,370
Sub-total  1,143    40    78      35      153       17      170    4    264   36       3       212      12    10   267   55  17   743   103    1,541
2. Northern Prvvnce
Bombali                   409     19    11       20       48       9       57      1     50    10     3       108      16      1    30    5   5    199    31        2,178
Kambia                    217     13    11        4       28       5       33     1      37    5      1        30       5      *     -          2    67      10     3,238
Koinadugu                 206      5     13       5       23       2       25     1      65    10     -        -        -      1    25    5   2    90    15         2,289
Port Loko                 352     10    23       1S       52       9       el     2      83    19     2       100      10      1    50    S   5   233    36         1,554
Tonkolili                 278     10    17       35       62       4       66      1     85    16     2       340      10      -                3   425    26       654
Sub-total  1,462    56    75      93      214       28     242    6    320   59        9       578      41      3    105   19  17  1,003  119    1,489
3. Southern Province
BO                        319     14    15       30       59       10      6s     1    185    16    1        closed            -     -          2    185    le      1,724
Bonthe                    122      7     12       1       20       2       22     1      44      5    1        64      11      1    50    10   3   158    26         772
Moyamba                   316     14    15       13       42       6       48     3    122    20    -          -        -      1    64    10   4    le9   30        1,699
Pujehun                   129      8      7      15       30       -       30     1   closed          -        -        -      -     -     -   1  closed
Sub-total  s99     35    42       44      121       19      169    6    351   41       2        64      11      2    114   20  10   529    72        1,674
4. Western Area
Rural Area                156      a      1       3       12       9       12     2      50     -     -        *        -            -          2    50      -      3,120
Urban Area                726      4      -       -       4        12      4      7    979   135    1          25       -      6    236    55  14  1,240  190        585
Sub-total   982    12      1       3       16       21      16     9    1,029  135    1        25        -      6    236   55  16  1290   190    3,705
TOTAL  4,373   143   196        166     504       84     597    25   1,964  271    14        879      64    21   722   148  60  3,566  483    1,230
I-



REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED HEALTH SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
Distribution of Public Sector Health Workers - 1994
Clinical
Doctors     Nurses   Conii,irtnity                 Public       Ptiblic                                          Dispensers.
Adinillistrative            &          &          lealth      Nursing       Healtil       Heal(ii               EDCU-                      Pharmac.
Districts             Dentists    Midwives     Nurses     Assistants   hispectors    Assistants     CHO       CIIA   Pharinacists       Technic..
I. Easrern Province
Kailalhun               4           10           7           54           6             5            0        40           0
Kenerna                 12         33           23           95           7             13           0        29           0
Kono                    3           10          14           52           5             14           1         9           0               -
Sub-total    19          53           44          201           18           32            1        78           0               0
2. Northern Province
Bomibali                6           16          10           89           10            40          14                     -               5
Kamibia                 1           9           17           56           5             1 0          8         -           -               6
Koinadtigu              2           7           11           44           3             12           3                     1               9
Port Loko               2           14          24           64           11            31          11                      -              9
Tonkolili               4           6           10           119          6             21           8                     1               4
Sub-toral    15          52           72          372           35           114          44        0            2              33
3. Sotuthern Province
Bo                      13         44           24           105          54           101          19         2           2              12
Buntlie                 1           4            6           36           3             7            6                     -               5
Moyamba                 2           6           10           49           4             16          14                     -               5
Pujehun                 -
Sub-rota)    16          54           40          190          61            124          39        2            2              22
4. Western Area                     62          241         315          358           34           118          10        0            8              32
TOTAL      112         400         471          1121         148           388          94        80          12              87



REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED HEALTH SECTOR IVESTMENT PROJECT
DISTRIBUTION OF PUBLIC HEALTH WORKERS - 1994
Non-                        Nurses/
Administrative        Stat.    Lab.  Maint.              Support Staff           Clinical     Population/     Doctor
Districts          Officers   Staff  Techn. Drivers    Admin. Clerical  Minor    Specialists  Physians Nurses  Ratio
1. Eastern Province
Kailahun                    -        -      -       -        -   -            -         -        72,300    17,000     4
Kenema                      -        -      -       -        -   -            -         -        34,000    7,300      5
Kono                        -        -      -       -        -   -            -         -       149,000   18,600      8
Sub-total   -         -      -      -        -   -            -         -        60,000    11,800      5
2. Northern Province
Bombali                    21        2      8      18        4   21          78         -        68,100    15,800     4
Kambia                      3               1       5        5   5           65        -        217,000    8,300      26
Koinedugu                   1        1      -       5       0   5            65         -       103,000   11,400      9
Port Loko                   1        1      1       9        0    10        316         -       176,500    9,300      19
Tonkolili                   2        5      5       7        1   9           84         -        69,500    17,400     4
Sub-total    28      9      15      44       10   50         808        0        97,500    11,800      8
3. Southern Province
Bo                         10       14      38     32       13   10         130        1         24,500    4,800      5
Bonthe                      3        7      2       2        -   2           27         -       122,000   12,200      10
Moyamba                     2       14      2       6        -   6           59         -       158,000   19,800      8
Pujehun                     -        8      -       -        -   -            -         -        closed
Sub-total    15      35     42      40       13   18         216        1        47,300    8,100       6
4. Western Area                52       4       -      84       23   309       1105       12         9,500     1,200      8
TOTAL    95        48     57    18        46   377        1929      13        25,100    4,200       6                    ov
Onx
(ann4b.xls)






REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED HEALTH SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
Government Financed Health Sector Expenditures in Sierra Leone (1990/91-1995/96)
(millions of Leones)
90/91    91/92    92/93      93/94     94/95     95/96*
Nominal Expenditures
Recurrent Expenditures in Health         769.9   1545.3   2479.5    4406.5    5342.9    5417.4
Investment Expenditures in Health         12.5      17.0    291.0      384.0      69.0     773.2
Total Expenditures in Health             782.4   1562.3   2770.5    4790.5    5411.9    6190.6
Recurrent Exp ./Total Recurrent Exp.    2.80%     3.30%    3.90%      5.84%     6.47%      6.21%
Investment Exp./Total Investment Exp.   0.20%    0.10%      1.66%     1.72%     0.35%      4.75%
Total Exp. in Health/Total Exp.         2.30%    2.50%     3.41%      4.90%     5.29%      5.98%
Recurrent Health Expenditure/GDP        0.42%    0.52%    0.63%       0.92%     0.96%      0.84%
Investment Health Expenditure/GDP       0.01%    0.01%    0.07%       0.08%     0.01%      0.12%
Total Health Expenditure/GDP            0.43%    0.53%    0.70%       1.00%     0.97%      0.96%
Per Capita Expenditure in Health (1986/87 Le)
Real Expenditures
Real Recurrent Expenditure inHealth      19.17     18.87    21.99      32.29     33.06     29.28
Real Investment Expenditure in Health     0.31      0.21     2.58       2.81      0.43      4.18
Real Total HealthExpenditures            19.48     19.08    24.58      35.10     33.49     33.46
Memorandum Items:
GDP (millions of Leones)                181624   295259   395057    480113    558006    645400
DomesticInflation(Index1986/87= 100)       957     1901      2551      3010       3473      3876                      :
Population (Millions)                      4.2       4.3      4.4        4.5       4.7       4.8         M
Allocations for FY 1995/96. AU other yas a1c l expeidiur. Sources: Deparbines of Fnance; World Bank Repoit No. 1261 8-SL



ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 3
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED HEALTH SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM
Table 2: Historical External Assistance to the Health Sector (US$ 000's)
1989      1990       1991      1992
Health Sub-Sector
Policy and Planning                     247      1,100     5,030      5,635
Primary Health Care                   6,427      4,307     2,579      1,715
Immunisation/Disease Control          2,344      2,332     2,167       320
Family Planning                          15          5        48          7
Hospitals and Clinics                  2572       202        496       605
Social Dev. Sub-Sector
Drinking Water and Sanitation                      85         61       205
|TOTALS:                          |  11,605      8,031     10,381     8,487
Annual Percentage Changes                       -30.8%     29.3%    -18.2%
Total External Assistance            78,601    63,833    78,596   147,577
Source: UNDP Development
Note: Expenditures according to each donor project are detailed in "Sierra Leone National Health



ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 3
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED HEALTH SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
Estimates of 1989/90 Household Expenditures on Health Care
Household Expenditure                                      Leone          US$   Percent
Monthly household expenditure
Food                                                 6,839         37.8    60.0%
Beverages & tobacco                                    430          2.4      3.8%
Medicine & medical care                                359          2.0      3.1%
Other non-food expenditure                           3,769         20.8    33.1%
Total                                                      11,398         63.0   100.0%
Annual household expenditure                              136,774          756
Total national household expenditure                86,840,933,168  485,765,266
Total household expenditure on health (3.1%)         2,766,456,035   15,298,656
Per Ca ita Ex enditure
Monthly per capita expenditure                               1770          9.8
Monthly per capita expenditure on health (3.1 %)               56         0.31
Annual per capita expenditure                              21,238        117.4
Annual per capita expenditure on health (3.1%)                669          3.7
Notes: - The average household size was 6.44 persons.
- The 1990 population estimate was 4.1 million persons.
- Parallel market exchange rate (1990 ann.av.) US$1=Lel81.
- These estimates are likely understatements of true private expenditures, since other sources of
private health expenditure are not included, e.g. industry, personal loans).
Source: Report on Survey of Household Expenditure and Household Economic Activity.
Central Statistics Office. Government of Sierra Leone. December, 1993.






ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 9
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED HEALTH SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
Communique of the
Social Sectors Round Table Consultations
Freetown, Sierra Leone
May 17 to 20, 1994
1.    The Social Sectors Round Table was officially opened by His Excellency the Chairman,
National Provisional Ruling Council (NPRC) and Head of State, Captain Valentine E M Strasser
thereby demonstrating Government's firm commitment to social sector reform with the objective
of raising the level of human development.
The National Action Plans
2.    The Government of Sierra Leone (GOSL) presented National Action Plans for the
Education and Health Sectors at a UNDP sponsored Social Sectors Round Table convened in
Freetown from May 17 to 20, 1994. Its purpose was to promote dialogue and to foster
consensus among Government, NGOs, the donor community and other key stakeholders, and to
generate support for the Government's health and education sectors reform programmes.
3.    The National Education Action Plan (NEAP), underpinning the recently introduced 6-3-3-
4 Education Reform, is to improve quality and quantity of basic education and technical training
system. NEAP focuses on three main priorities: primary and junior secondary level education,
both formal and non-formal; enhancing the management and administration of the education
system, especially increasing decision making powers at the local level; and training of education
sector personnel.
4.    The core program of the National Health Action Plan (NHAP) is a comprehensive
framework of technical and support services emphasizing primary health and supportive hospital
services to improve access and quality of care. The main priorities are maternal and child health
care, water and sanitation, and health education, whilst strengthening the sector's management,
human resources and maintenance functions.
5.    Taking into account likely financial constraints and implementation capacity, these six-year
plans aim for effective, efficient, and sustainable provision of services. Equitable treatment for
under-served groups - notably women, girls and the rural poor - are hallmarks of the plans. The
special needs of education and health services in the war affected areas were recognized and will
be addressed as soon as the security situation allows.
6.    The compelling economic and humanitarian rationale for immediate implementation of the
social sector reform agenda has led GOSL to move boldly on two fronts: delivering benefits to



ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 9
individuals and communities while at the same time building institutional capacity to implement,
absorb and sustain massive reform.
Discussions
7.    Donors responded by congratulating Government on its initiative in requesting the first
ever Round Table on the social sectors. Endorsement was given to the highly participatory
process used to formulate and prioritize the Action Plans, which has resulted in strong local
ownership and commitment.
8.    The sector program approach - the conceptual framework for the Plans - was commended
for its potential to: harmonize sectoral development with macro-economic policy adjustment;
integrate ongoing and projected activities whether domestically or externally financed; respond to
unforeseen circumstances while maintaining direction and cohesiveness; facilitate Government
coordination of donor and NGO assistance; and generally maximize developmental impact. It
also enables donors to provide their assistance to specific components, geographic areas, as well
as to broader program support.
9.    The importance of increasing authority and responsibility for delivering education and
health services at district level was a central feature of both plans. Donors applauded
Government's determination to decentralize operations and to enhance accountability at both
headquarters and in the field.
10.   Emphasis was placed on the need for enhanced coordination within each Department, and
between these line departments and the central coordinating agencies of Government. This
includes the establishment of an aid coordination unit in the Department of Development and
Economic Planning (DODEP).
11.   Donors concurred with Government that achievement of ultimate objectives would be best
assured through periodic review and updating.
12.   Donors responded enthusiastically and practically to GOSL's courageous strategy of
simultaneously getting results on the ground and strengthening the institutional base.
13.   Donors and NGOs offered to redirect some existing project funds and to finance some
sharply focused technical assistance both to yield demonstrable progress in the field and to
improve the efficiency of Department of Education (DOE) and Department of Health and Social
Services (DOHSS) headquarters and district administrations.
14.   Government was also encouraged to investigate greater use of NGOs and enhanced role
for the private sector in financing and delivery of education and health care.



ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 9
Understandings Reached
15.   GOSL agreed to:
*     increase the financial allocation to health and education by at least 5% per annum
in real terms over the life of the plans;
*     focus DOE and DOHSS activities and resources on planning, implementing,
monitoring and evaluating the agreed sector programmes;
*     review the progress and content of the programmes in collaboration with donors
and other stakeholders on a regular basis; and
*     reorganize both Departments at central and district levels to facilitate
implementation of their programmes. These changes would include:
*     development of implementation and monitoring arrangements to preclude the need
for separate project implementation units;
a     coordination of information flow with NGOs and donors, in collaboration with the
DODEP;
decentralization of responsibility and authority to enhance local management,
accountability and sustainability of service delivery.
16.   NGOs agreed to:
work fully within the framework of NEAP and NHAP; and
share their information and technical capabilities with Government.
17.   Donors agreed to:
*     work exclusively within the framework of NEAP and NHAP, as much as possible,
using common implementation modalities;
*     participate with Government in joint review and planning processes;
*     provide financial and/or technical assistance in support of NEAP and NHAP;



ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 9
*     meet the estimated financing gaps in both sectors ($25 million for the initial three
years in education; $37 million for the next five years of the health program).
Next Steps
18.   GOSL will:
*     prepare detailed implementation plans for each of the components of the sector
programmes, including organizational change, financial management and human
resources policies and incentives by the end of 1994;
*     develop guidelines on the use of technical assistance to best promote local capacity
development and utilization and program sustainability;
*     follow up with donors to ascertain what is needed to realize their full support;
*     develop a detailed schedule for preparation of the sector programmes, and distribute
this to donors within the next month; and
*     produce a status report on the programmes, including donor commitment, by the next
Consultative Group Meeting in 1995.
19.   NGOs will:
*     provide information to Government on their current and proposed activities; and
*     adapt their existing development assistance to accord with NEAP and NHAP.
20.   Donors will:
prepare their information requirements to discuss with Government;
adapt the scope and modalities of their development assistance to accord with the
needs of the NEAP and NHAP; and
*     mobilize their resource commitments for the NEAP and NHAP.
21.   In light of the success of this meeting, it was proposed to reconvene a follow-up Round
Table Consultation on the Social Sectors in 18 months, within the wider context of poverty
alleviation.



ANNEX 6
Page 5 of 9
22.   The meeting was attended by representatives from France, the United Kingdom, the
United States of America, the European Union, Food and Agriculture Organization, Islamic
Development Bank, United Nations Children's Fund, United Nations Population Fund, United
Nations Education Scientific and Cultural Organization, World Food Program, World Health
Organization, World Bank, International Monetary Fund, United Nations Development Program,
the Government of Sierra Leone - Departments of Health and Social Services, Education,
Development and Economic Planning, Finance, and also international and national NGOs and
other organizations.



ANNEX 6
Page 6 of 9
COMMUNIQUE
SOCIAL SECTOR DONORS MEETING
BINTUMANI HOTEL
16 - 18 OCTOBER, 1995
1.    The Social Sectors Donors Meeting, a follow up of the May, 1994, Social Sectors Round
Table Consultations was officially opened by His Excellency Captain Valentine E.M. Strasser,
Head of State and Chairman of the National Provisional Ruling Council thereby giving credence
to Governments strong commitment to Social Sectors reform.
2.    Sierra Leone Government reported on progress, in the Education and Health Sectors, on
the understandings and agreements reached at the May, 1994, Consultations.
3.    The National Education Sector Policy and Priorities were presented:
4.The Health Sector Priority activities and incremental costs for Fiscal Year 1996 (For Western
Area District and Central Level Program) activities; budgets; implementation arrangements and
monitoring indicators.
5.Government of Sierra Leone is strongly committed to Social Sectors reform including the
process of democratization already started and which will be leading to the reactivation, of the
district councils, which will give the districts the authority to plan, implement and monitor their
respective Health and Education programmes.
6.Government increased its financial allocation to the Health and Education Sectors by at least
5% per annum in real terms, with effect from the 1994/95 fiscal year; the increases will be
sustained over the life span of the Health and Education Action Plans.
7.The Education and Health Sector have benefited from the Social Action and Poverty Alleviation
(SAPA) activities; School rehabilitation; pedagogical material and equipment; hospital and health
center refurbishment; supply of essential drugs on a cost recovery basis and the supply of basic
equipment.
8.    Government highlighted its commitment to address the special and dire needs of the
education and health sectors affected by the rebel war which has a devastating effect on the
sources of Government revenue through the disruption of economic activities.
9.    Government agrees to convene a similar Social Sector Donors Meeting each year of
NHAP and NEAP Implementation to appraise Donors and NGOs of progress made to present
sector plans and Budgets for the following year, and to encourage continued commitment and
support to the implementation of the two national plans.



ANNEX 6
Page 7 of 9
IN THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Donors and NGOs:
1.    Commended the DOE on progress made since the last Donors Round Table for the social
sector in May 1994. They recognized the significant effort involved in the production of
the new education sector policy and the difficulties the DOE has faced over the last 18
months in responding to the emergency needs of the displaced school-aged population.
2.    Appreciate the steps which have been taken thus far towards the restructuring the central
administration of the DOE, and recognize that initial steps have been taken to review the
National Education Plan and Policy and to improve efficiency in the tertiary sector.
3.    Also appreciate that further work is needed in relation to prioritization, phasing and
detailed costing in order to operationalize the new education policy. A master plan which
will be completed by 1996 will serve as the basis for medium-term coordination and
cooperation with donors.
4.    Are in full agreement with the priority for improving both the quality of, and access to,
basic education, (formal and non-formal) paying particular attention to the needs of girls'
disabled and disadvantaged and gifted. They would wish to emphasize the importance of
quality primary education as a prerequisite for the successful development of quality
education thereafter.
5.    Recognized the positive role of the DOE during the last 18 months in ensuring
coordination of donor contributions but would stress the need for further attention to
developing this partnership.
6.    Recognized that central to the implementation of the whole new education policy is the
efficient management of the teacher resource; donors support the establishment of a
teaching service commission, the continuing professional development of teachers, and
control of the payroll.
IN THE HEALTH SECTOR
Donors and NGOs commended the Department of Health on the progress made on the
initiative in convening this Meeting as a follow up to the Social Sectors Roundtable Consultations
of May 1994. The participants congratulated the DOH on the quality of work which has gone
into the preparation of the working documents including the detailed plans and budgets for
Western Area District activities, Central Program support activities, and the Estimates of
Resource Requirements for 1996, as well as other supporting documentation.



ANNEX 6
Page 8 of 9
Donors and NGOs praised the efforts of the Government in restructuring the Department,
strengthening management capabilities, and in the progress made in the decentralization of health
care management and delivery. Participants also applauded Government in setting up a central aid
coordination unit in the Department of Development and Economic Planning and also the
Department of Health for putting in place a Donor Coordination Secretariat.
Donors and NGOs:
1.    agreed with the Government's efforts to continue health care throughout the country, with
special emphasis on districts with influx of the displaced, while emphasizing key
investment at central level and in the Western Area as the foundation for extension into
the areas of the country in subsequent years.
2.    restated their commitment to work within the framework of the NHAP, and recognized
the important role of DOH in managing the process of overall planning for the sector.
Notwithstanding this, participants also encouraged the Department to continue with its
efforts build capacity at both central and district levels needed for the efficient
implementation of the NHAP.
3.    noted the excellent working relationship enjoyed with the Department and suggested that
continued dialogue and consultations between DOH and partners in the health sector be
held periodically.
During discussions, donors and NGOs also highlighted the need for information sharing
and joint program review with a view to maximize use of resources.
Recognizing the health needs of the country and the commitment on the part of
Government to share the cost of implementing the NHAP, donors and NGOs indicated that, they
would continue their current support to the overall health sector prograrn including the emergency
activities, at the minimum amount of US$6.9 million. An additional US$5.75 million minimum
was committed in support of the incremental core program activities for 1996. Assuming that the
overall core NHAP Program will cost approximately US$24 million for 1996 and that
Government will contribute approximately US$7 million; a projected gap of at least US$4.5
million still exists. Government will take steps to fill this financing gap through discussion with
donors, NGOs and its other partners in the health sector. To this end, those unable to quantify
their organizations' contributions to NHAP implementation, committed themselves to provide the
finical information to the DOH as soon as available.
In conclusion, the donors and NGOs reiterated their support for the Departments efforts
and in the implementation of the NHAP.
The meeting was attended by representatives from the United Kingdom, United States of
America, European Union, United Nations Development Program, United Nations Children's



ANNEX 6
Page 9 of 9
Fund, United Nations Population Fund, United Nations Education, Scientific and Cultural
Organization, United Nations High Commission for Refugees, World Health Organization,
African Development Bank, Islamic Development Bank, World Bank; the NGOs - AFRICARE,
Choithram Charitable Trust, Christian Children's Fund, Sierra Leone Red Cross, Action Aid, Plan
International, AICF, Christian Health Association Sierra Leone, German Leprosy Relief
Association, Marie Stopes, Plan Parenthood Association; the Sierra Leone Government -
Departments of Health and Social Services, Education, Development and Economic Planning,
Finance, Audit, State Law Office and the University of Sierra Leone.






ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 7
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED HEALTH SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis and Framework for Prioritization of the Core Program of the National
Health Action Plan (NHAP)
This analysis of the Integrated Health Sector Investment Project (IHSIP) is based on the
public expenditure reviewl and the health sector policy (NHAP core program), and takes into
account existing resource constraints.
The Sector Investment Approach (SIP) does not lend itself to assessing the rate of return
of the IHSIP because: (i) the IDA level of funding and the breakdown by expenditure categories
are to be determined on an annual basis; and (ii) IDA funds are fungible and will be used as a
last resort source of financing. It is therefore not feasible to prospectively quantify project costs
and benefits. For this reason, a detailed analysis of the soundness of the entire national sector
investment program, as presented in the sector policy (NHAP core program), was carried out.
Sector-wide review of public expenditures
Focus on service provision. The review of public expenditures has focused on restoring
the GOSL's capacity to provide basic services, specifically in the health and education sectors.2
Consequently, DOH has developed its health sector strategy-as presented in the NHAP-in the
general frame and constraints offered by the review. As a result, the sector refocused its plans
giving greater emphasis to cost-effective interventions, such as preventive and curative primary
health services, and abandoned efforts to establish a new tertiary facility in the form of a
teaching hospital at Jui near the capital Freetown. Efforts have been stepped up to diversify the
funding of the public health sector and to increase private health care provision by actively
facilitating NGO activities3 and by starting privatization of tertiary services4.
The status-quo alternative (i.e. no change in Government intervention and donor
support). Regarding the provision of preventive services, such as immunization or vector
I Sierra Leone: Public Expenditure Policiesfor Sustained Economic Growth and Poverty Alleviation. February 16, 1994.
Cf. Report No. 12618-SL.
2 Sierra Leone: Policiesfor Sustained Economic Growth and Poverty Alleviation. May 14, 1993. Cf. World Bank Report No.
11371-SL.
3 In early 1995, the DOH established a donor liaison office. It is now actively assisting a local foundation in the construction
of a new 56-bed hospital near Freetown by facilitating duty-free status and expediting customs and other administrative
procedures. DOH is liaising with all NGOs in order to avoid overlap and duplication by the public sector in the provision
of health care services.
4 A portion of the Connaught Hospital, termed the "Annex," is providing above-standard services (higher staff/client ratio,
air-conditioning, better food, etc.) and is now financed by collecting increased fees.



ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 7
recognized. With regard to primary health care and related referral services, a good case can be
made for the public provision of these services, especially at the outreach, on the basis of market
failures. It is reasonable to assume that maintaining the status quo in the sector would result in a
further deterioration of the already poor provision of health services to the general public: (a)
consumers in rural areas would not gain access to acceptable health services; (b) the overall
quality of health services, particularly at primary level, would remain low; (c) the lack of
information would continue to hamper rational decision-making by consumers; (d) expenditures
by private households on traditional healers and drug peddlers could not be recouped in favor of
better services; and (e) preventive services such as immunization or vector control would continue
to be supplied below optimal levels.
Macroeconomic environment
Budgetary impact. The Project's program evaluation and programming cycle
incorporates a mechanism, on an annual basis, to review together with Government of Sierra
Leone (GOSL) and other donors not only the IHSIP performance but the entire sector program-
under the leadership of GOSL- and to coordinate both recurrent and investment health
expenditures with the Government's overall budget. The project therefore will facilitate macro-
economic stability while at the same time contributing to the gains in the sector and to the
achievement of a reasonable level and composition of health expenditures (see figures 2.2 and 2.3
in the SAR).
Marginal cost of funds. No country-specific estimate for the marginal cost of public
funds is available. However, to overcome existing data limitations, the GOSL has committed
itself during Negotiations to conduct a national survey on household expenditures and household
economic activities, and to develop a comprehensive health sector financing plan latest by the end
of 1997, addressing the question of the public/private mix of services and diversification of sector
financing. Given that there is a premium on public income (since, generally speaking,
governments resort to distortionary taxation for revenue) and in order to ensure sustainability of
the health sector reform, the GOSL in the context of the IHSIP intends to upgrade and streamline
various existing cost recovery measures into a more coherent and efficient system.
Cost effectiveness
No specific data are available for Sierra Leone regarding the distribution of deaths by
specific cause, age and sex. However, it can be assumed that the country's mortality pattern
follows the model used for sub-Saharan Africa, as it is the case in neighboring Guinea for which
preliminary data exist from an ongoing study. Similarly, intervention costs have been estimated
from NHAP costs, literature and ongoing studies.



ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 7
NHAP Program: Unit cost by level of intervention (1996-2000)
Estimated  % of                        Five-year
Cost   Total  Beneficiaries         Unit cost
(US$              (million)      (US$/beneficiary)
million)
PRMARY HEALTH CARE               77.1    55.8        5.0                15.3
Public Health Services
Maternal and Child Health       14.2    10.3        2.0                7.0
Control of Communicable Diseases  15.4    11.2      5.0                3.1
Sanitation and Safe Water       12.0    8.7         5.0                2.4
Nutrition                       9.0      6.5        1.0                9.1
Health Education/Communication  7.0      5.1        5.0                 1.4
Essential Clinical Services
TreatmentofCommonAilments    19.5    14.1           5.0                3.9
SEcoNDARY HEALTH CARE            25.1     18.2       5.0                5.0
TERTiARY HEALTH CARE             13.1     9.5        5.0                2.6
ADMINISTRATION                   22.8    16.5        5.0                4.5
TOTAL                           138.1    100         5.0                27.4
The NHAP activities were compared with activities of the minimum package of care,
selected on the basis of demonstrated favorable cost-effectiveness ratios, and presented by the
World Bank in two major publications, i.e., Better Health in Africa (1994) and World
Development Report (1993). The table below demonstrates that NHAP activities concur with the
Bank's recommendations and are economically justified.



ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 7
Health system level/NHAP Program/      In NHAP       in     In BHA Package      In WDR93 Package
Intervention or Service                 (Y/N)      NHAP   and/or Priorities            (Y/N)
Core          Y/N                Y-C Clin
Program                            Y-P Pub
(Y/N)                      and/or WDR Priorities
TECHNICAL PROGRAMS
A. PRIPMARY CARE                                           _
1. Maternal and child health
Anti-natal                        Y           Y         Y                 Y-C
Delivery                          Y           Y         Y                 Y-C
Post-natal                        y           y         y                 Y-C
Micro-nutrient supply              Y          Y         Y                 Y-P
Family planning                    Y          Y         Y                 Y-C
School health                     Y           Y         Y                 Y-P
ORT                               Y           Y         y                 Y-C
Growth monitoring & promotion     Y           Y         Y                 N
Breast feeding                    Y           Y         Y                 Y-P
2. Common ailments
TreatmentVReferral                Yr-2        y                           2
Drugs/Supplies                     Y          Y         Y                 Y
First Aid/Referral                YY-2                                    2     __
Education on food selection &     Y           Y         Y                 Y-P
preparation
Public and patient info.          Y           Y         Y                 Y-P
3. Communicable disease control
Immunization
BCG                            Y          Y         Y                 Y
EPI                            Y          Y         Y                 Y
Yellow Fever                   Y          Y         N                 Y
Hepatitis B                    N          N3        N                 Y
Preventive services
Onchocerciasis spray           Y          y4        Y                 N
TB Chemo.                      Y          Y         ?                 ?
Blood bank safety              Y          Y'        Y5                N
AlDS/STDs                      N          Y         Y                 N
Curative services
TB_                            Y          Y         Y                 Y
Leprosy __N6_N                                                        N
STD                            Y       _ Y          Y                 Y
ARI                            Y          Y         Y                 Y
Helminths                      _          _                           Y
1 Basic trauma, maaa, diarrhea, local infection.
2 Assessment, advice, alleviation of pain, treatment of infection and minor trauma.
3 Cost and feasibility in Sierra Leone to be reviewed.
4 Maintenance after devolution.
5 Not to imply 100% testing.
6 To be further reviewed for relative cost-effectiveness; not clear whether costs included in NHAP.



ANNEX 7
Page 5 of 7
Health system level/NHAP Program/      In NHAP       In     In BHA Package       In WDR93 Package
Intervention or Service                 (Y/N)      NHAP    and/or Priorities           (Y/N)
Core          Y/N                 Y-C Clin
Program                             Y-P Pub
(YIN)                       and/or WDR Priorities
4. Water sanitation
Well digging                       Y          Y         Y                 N
Latrine construction               Y          Y         Y                 N
Piped water system                 y7         N         N                 N
Sewage system                      y6         N         N                 N
Solid waste                      y__2         N         N                 N
5. Nutrition & dietetics
Nutrition education                Y          Y         Y                 Y-P
Nutrition rehabilitation           Y          Y         Y                 Y-C (0-5 wrs.)
Diet therapy                       y          N8        N                 N
Micro-nutrients
Vitamin A                      N          N9         Y                Y-P
Iodine                         Y          Y          Y                Y-P
6. Health education & communication                                           _
Community health education         Y          Y         Y                 Y-PIO
Printed materials                  Y          Y         ?                 ?
Drama and songs                    Y          Y         ?                 ?
Mass media                         Y          Y         Y                 Y
School health education           Y           Y         Y                 Y
B. SECONDARY CARE
General in-patient services        Y          Y"        Y                 yl2
Mental health care                 Y          y13       N                 N
Limited care for chronic diseases  Y          N         Y                 Y
TB treatment                       Y          Y         Y                 Y
C. TERTIARY CARE
Various specialist care            Y          N14       N                 N
Psychiatric care                   Y          N15       N                 N
Clinical lab                       Y          Y         N                 N
Research & data collection         Y          N         y6Y
SUPPORT PROGRAMS
A. DRUGS AND SUPPLIES
Selection/Quantification           Y          Y         Y                 y-p17
7 Responsibility of Department of Works.
8 Dietetics & diet therapy to be moved to secondary care, as non-care interventions.
9 To be reviewed for relevance in Sierra Leone.
10 Health education and communication interventions were included in the WDR interventions for alcohol,
tobacco, and school health
11 Resources unlikely to permit more than 12 below.
12 Assessment, advice, alleviation of pain, treatment of infection and minor trauma, other treatment as resources
permit.
13 Mental health services at all levels merit further reflection; there is no consensus in the NHAP Task Force on
them.
14 Future needs for specialist staff merit careful review, as many existing staff are soon to retire.
15 Mental health services at all levels merit review.
16 Public health monitoring and surveillance, provided outside tertiary care.



ANNEX 7
Page 6 of 7
Health system level/NHAP Program/      In NHAP       in     In BHA Package       In WDR93 Package
Intervention or Service                 (Y/N)      NHAP    and/or Priorities           (Y/N)
Core          Y/N                 Y-C Clin
Program                             Y-P Pub
(Y/N)                       and/or WDR Priorities
Procurement                        Y          Y         Y                 Y-P
Storage/Inventory                 Y           Y         Y                 Y-P
Distribution                       Y          Y         Y                 Y P
Rational drug prescription & use   Y          Y         Y                 Y-P
Cost recovery/Pricing              Y          Y         Y                 Y-P
Quality control                    Y          y         y                 y.p
Drug regulation/Control            Y          Y         Y                 Y-P
NGO, private sector                N                    Y18      y        Y-P
B. NATIONAL FOOD, ENVIRONMENT, &
CLINICAL LAB SERVICE
Advice to clinicians & policy makers   Y      N         N                 N
Analysis of lab samples           Y           N         N                 N
Training lab staff                 Y          Y         N                 N
Quality control of lab services    Y          N         N                 N
Promotion of safe blood            Y          yN9 y20                     N
Forensic analysis                  Y          N         N                 N
Regulation and enforcement         Y          N         N                 N
C. MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (M&R)
DOH-level unit                     Y          Y         Y                 N
District units                     Y          Y         Y                 N
Norms for M&R/Equipment            N          Y         Y                 Y
Planning & M&R skills              N          Y         Y                 N
D. HuMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
Long-term planning                 Y          Y         Y                 N
Training plans                     Y          Y         N                 N
Coordinating mechanism for         Y          Y         Y                 N
training/management development
Develop HRM capacity               Y          Y         Y                 N
Employee relations strategy/pay    Y          Y         Y                 N
Computerized PMIS                 Y           Y         N                 N
Changing mix of staff             N           y21       y                 y
Redeploying staff                  N          Y         Y                 Y
Changing training curricula        N          Y         Y                 Y
Leadership/Supervision             N          Y         Y                 N
E. PMISU
Training staff in info. management    Y       Y         Y                 N
Establish district M&E capacity,   Y          Y         Y                 N
includin at hospitals
Operational research               Y          Y         Y                 Y
17 Drugs and supply services were included implicitly as part of the WDR essential care package.
18 Private sector roles in marketing and distribution of drugs merit review.
19 Quality control under lab services; promotion belongs under health education.
20 May not be a lab service; NHAP foresees provision of safe blood. BHA encourages promotion of safe blood, but
does not see provision of safe blood as a priority intervention.
21 Task Force endorsed a Y, but urges that the subject be approached with care.



ANNEX 7
Page 7 of 7
Health system level/RAP Program/     In NELA       in     In BRA Package    In WDR93 Package
Intervention or Service                (Y/N)    NLAP   and/or Prioritis             (Y/N)
Core         YIN                Y-C CIn
Program                           Y-P Pub
(Y/N)                      and/or WDR Priorities
Collection/dissemination of      Y          N         N                N
info./reports
Asdst in distict health plans    Y          Y         Y                Y
Evidemiological data             N          Y         Y                Y
Monitoring/health finance        N          _         Y                Y
Support community management     N          Y         Y                Y
22 Organizational locus in DOH merits serious consideration.






ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 11
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED HEALTH SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
Detailed Description of Technical and Support Programs
1.    This description of the technical and support programs of the National Health Action Plan
(NHAP) is adapted from the Social Sectors Round Table document "Towards Better Health in
Sierra Leone: A Proposal for Financial Assistance from The International Community". This
description identifies differences between the total NHAP and the core program developed in
March 1994, and projects costs for the first five years of implementation. Further detailed
descriptions are found in an Annex to the Social Sectors Round Table document, and in the
NHAP itself The programs are as follow:
Technical Programs
Primary Health Care
1 - Maternal and Child Health
2 - Treatment of Common Ailments
3 - Control of Communicable Diseases
4 - Sanitation and Safe Water
5 - Nutrition
6 - Health Education/Communication
7 - Secondary Health Care
8 - Tertiary Health Care
Support Programs
1 - Drugs and Medical Supplies
2 - National Food, Environment and Clinical Laboratory Service
3 - Maintenance and Repair
4 - Human Resource Management
5 - Planning, Monitoring, Information and Statistics Unit
6 - Central Administration
Primary Health Care Programs
2.    The objectives and services for each of the six primary health care programs are described
in paragraphs 5-23 below. These programs will be implemented through a strengthened primary
health care delivery system. There may appear to be some overlap in the definition of programs;
this does not occur in practice at the district level, since the package of services will be delivered
through the same personnel. Successful implementation will depend on an implementation
strategy which emphasizes the:



ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 11
(a)   revitalization of health centers and district hospitals, and the effective operation of
District Health Management Teams;
(b)   gradual conversion of PHU staff to more multi-skilled health care personnel;
(c)   effective coordination with the private voluntary sector in respect to the design of
PHU staff training, the establishment of service standards, and monitoring service
delivery throughout the country;
(d)   establishment of guidelines for specific services and staff training;
(e)   elimination of "vertical" programs; and
(f)   sensitization and mobilization of communities for improved health care.
3.    Successful implementation also depends upon the effective integration of health education
with the other technical programs and the establishment of close links with the Department of
Education to expand school health education.
4.    The key elements of improved primary health care delivery are:
(a)   improved performance of front-line staff, in particular, TBAs, midwives, MCH
Aides, through training and the provision of drugs, equipment and support
services;
(b)   increased service coverage and improved service quality; and
(c)   behavioral change at the community level.
Technical Program 1: Maternal and Child Health
5.    Deplorable child health and poor maternal health are amongst the most pressing health
problems facing Sierra Leone. The Maternal and Child Health (MCH) program addresses the
objectives of reducing maternal and child morbidity and mortality, and focuses on six key services
as follow:
(a)   antenatal care, safe delivery, post-natal care;
(b)   family planning;
(c)   school health services;
(d)   oral rehydration therapy (diarrhea control);
(e)   growth monitoring and promotion; and
(f)   breast feeding.



ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 11
6.    All of these services are incorporated in the core program which is estimated to cost $10.0
million before contingencies. Given existing Government and donor commitments to MCH, the
incremental costs of the MCH core program are estimated at $3.2 million.
7.    The key weaknesses in the current MCH program which need to be addressed relate to
poor service coverage at community level, in particular growth monitoring, family planning and
school health services.
Technical Program 2: Treatment of Common Ailments
8.    Common ailments in Sierra Leone include those with high prevalence, such as malaria,
helminths, STDs and injuries. The objective is to reduce the general levels of illness and death by
improving diagnosis and treatment at PHUs. Although there is no specific technical program,
there are a number of services which contribute to this objective as follow:
(a)   clinical diagnosis, treatment and referral;
(b)   the provision of essential drugs;
(c)   first aid for injuries;
(e)   education on food selection and drug abuse;
(f)   distribution of food supplements;
(g)   programs to reduce drug abuse; and
(h)   public and patient information services.
9.    The core program includes:
(a)   the treatment and referral of basic trauma, malaria, diarrhea and local infections;
(b)   assessment and advice on the alleviation of pain, and the treatment of infection and
minor trauma;
(c)   the provision of drugs and supplies;
(d)   education on food selection and preparation; and
(e)   public and patient information services.
10.   The total cost of the core program for common ailments is estimnated at $15.6 million
before contingencies. The incremental costs requiring funding are estimated at $8.8 million.
11.   One key issue is the potential overlap with other programs, such as nutrition and health
education, which could result in a waste of resources.
Technical Program 3: Control of Communicable Diseases
12.   The control of communicable diseases covers some of the most severe health problems in
Sierra Leone, specifically, tuberculosis, measles, polio, tetanus and pertussis. The overall
objective of this program is to reduce morbidity and mortality rates, particularly in infants and



ANNEX S
Page 4 of 11
children under-five. In order to achieve this objective, the NHAP envisages a comprehensive
approach to CDC which incorporates immunization, curative and preventive services.
13.   All preventive services in the NHAP are included in the core program, all immunization
services except rabies and meningitis, and all curative services excluding leprosy. In addition, the
core program explicitly adds AIDS and other STDs to the priority preventive services. The total
cost of the core CDC program is estimated at $11.6 million (before contingencies), with
incremental costs to be funded estimated at $3.0 million.
14.   Outstanding issues to be addressed include weaknesses in cold chain management and
coordination with NGOs active in CDC programs.
Technical Program 4: Sanitation and Safe Water
15.   Access to safe water and sanitation in Sierra Leone is very low, representing only 22%
and 35% of the rural population respectively. The overall objective of this program is to alleviate
the current unsanitary living conditions and reduce food contamination by improving access to
latrines and safe water.
16.   The NHAP sets out a comprehensive program for sanitation and safe water which
comprises well digging, latrine and toilet construction, and the extension and improvement of
piped water and sewage/solid waste disposal. Of these services, only well digging and latrine
construction are included in the priority core program as the remainder are the responsibility of
the Department of Works. The total costs of the core program are estimated at US$10.0 million
(before contingencies) and, of this amount, the incremental costs to be funded are estimated at
US$1.1 million.
17.   A key element of the program is the cooperation of various agencies, including NGOs, and
communities in expanded programs of well and latrine construction. The NHAP recognizes the
key role of communities in both the construction and maintenance of wells and latrines.
Accordingly, provision has been made to train village residents in well maintenance.
Technical Program 5: Nutrition and Dietetics
18.   The poor nutritional status of the population, particularly children, has been identified as a
major health problem in Sierra Leone. Studies show that malnutrition is a factor in more than one
third of infant and child deaths. Further, the poor quality and low quantity of food intake,
including breast milk, retards growth, reduces immunity, creates learning disabilities and
depresses work productivity. In order to address these problems, the main objective of the
overall NHAP program is to reduce the prevalence of childhood malnutrition by providing a
comprehensive range of services comprising:
(a)   nutrition education and rehabilitation;
(b)   food supplementation and fortification;



ANNEX 8
Page 5 of 11
(c)   diet therapy;
(d)   research; and
(e)   food control.
19.   The emphasis in the core program will be on nutrition education and rehabilitation, and
the provision of iodine micro-nutrients. The total cost of the core program is estimated at US$6.2
million (before contingencies), of which incremental costs to be financed amount to an estimated
US$1.0 million.
20.   Nutrition services will be provided through the PHU network and integrated with other
services at this level. One key element of this program, therefore, will be to increase the
performance of PHU staff to provide counseling, supplements and support services. Finally, one
outstanding issue is the need to develop a nutrition policy and convert this into a detailed plan.
Technical Program 6: Health Education and Communication
21.   Weaknesses in health education and communication are a key factor in many health
problems in Sierra Leone. This program, therefore, contributes to the effectiveness of the other
technical programs, although it currently lacks focus. The objective in the NHAP is to develop a
nationwide health education program which underpins the other technical programs. The NHAP
outlines a number of services in order to achieve this objective, as follow:
(a)   community health education;
(b)   production of printed materials;
(c)   drama presentations and songs;
(d)   mass media; and
(e)   school health education.
22.   All of these services have been included as a priority in the core program. The total costs
of the core program are estimated at US$4.0 million (before contingencies), of which US$0.5
million represents incremental expenditure to be funded.
23.   Outstanding issues which require urgent attention include the development of an IEC
strategy and the effective mobilization of community motivators and the communities with whom
they work.
Technical Program 7: Secondary Health Care
24.   Currently, district hospitals are providing very limited specialized care because of grossly
inadequate facilities, equipment, materials and inappropriately trained personnel. As a result,
hospitals have tended to focus on primary health care services. The main objective of secondary
health care, therefore, is to provide a referral service for the peripheral health units centered on



ANNEX S
Page 6 of 11
the district hospitals. The intention is for district hospitals also to play a role in monitoring and
following up patients who have been referred back to the PHUs after treatment.
25.   This program involves four health services under the NHAP, as follow:
(a)   hospital services;
(b)   mental health care;
(c)   drug information and poisoning services; and
(d)   disaster preparedness.
26.   The core program includes only the first of these services: emphasizing the provision of
basic in-patient care, some limited chronic care and curative care, and the treatment of
tuberculosis. The estimated cost of the core program is US$18.6 million (before contingencies),
with incremental costs to be financed estimated at US$3.5 million.
27.   The key elements of improved secondary health care include:
(a)   improved staff performance through training, better infrastructure, equipment and
support services;
(b)   the rehabilitation of district hospitals; and
(c)   strengthened district management.
28.   The secondary health care delivery system will be based on and around the district hospital
with a capacity of 40 beds or more, manned by at least 3 doctors. Each hospital wili be equipped
to handle basic medical and surgical emergencies and all routine clinical work. The district
hospital is also expected to improve the skills and services of the PHUs by referring patients home
for outpatient care.
29.   Successful implementation will depend on the rehabilitation of district hospitals, the
deployment of appropriate staff and improved management to ensure quality standards are
established and maintained.
30.   There are many outstanding issues which need to be resolved under secondary health care,
in particular:
(a)   attracting and retaining skilled personnel;
(b)   improved cost recovery through user fees and drug charges; and
(c)   the control of intra-mural private practice.
Technical Program 8: Tertiary Health Care
31.   Tertiary health care provides a higher level of specialized care and referrals from
secondary health care. Currently, however, the range of services offered is restricted by the lack
of working equipment and trained specialists. The NHAP set out plans to establish specialist



ANNEX 8
Page 7 of 11
departments for pediatrics, surgery, opthalmology, cardiology and dentistry in the larger District
hospitals.
32.   None of the proposed services for tertiary care have been included under the priority core
program in order to ensure that additional resources are geared initially towards the basic health
needs of the population. Existing levels of expenditure will be maintained, but no incremental
expenditure is envisaged over the period of the plan.
33.   Nonetheless, it remains a priority to analyze the cost-benefit of different tertiary care
services to determine where existing resources are best allocated. In addition, because of the
relatively high costs of tertiary care, the potential for cost recovery needs to be urgently
addressed.
Support Program 1: Drugs and Medical Supplies
34.   The majority of the technical programs rely heavily on the provision of drugs and medical
supplies. However, the establishment of an efficient supply system is threatened by shortages of
essential drugs and a low cash recovery rate. The overall objective of this support program will
be to ensure that both essential and specialized drugs are widely available. In this regard, the
Government has established a list of essential drugs. Specialist drugs and supplies will be supplied
to secondary and tertiary care hospitals.
35.   The NHAP sets out a comprehensive approach to drugs and medical supplies including:
(a)   selection and quantification;
(b)   procurement, storage and distribution;
(c)   rational drug usage;
(d)   improved cost recovery;
(e)   quality control; and
(f)    drug regulation.
36.   All of these services are included in the core program, as well as a review of the potential
involvement of the private sector in marketing and distribution. The estimated cost of the core
program is US$11.8 million (before contingencies), giving an incremental cost to be financed of
US$5.3 million.
37.   The key elements of this support program are better availability of essential drugs,
improved cost recovery and the provision of trained staff at all levels. The successful
implementation of the drugs and medical supplies support program will require:
(a)   a revitalized procurement, storage and distribution system;
(b)   improved monitoring and supervision at district level;
(c)   the appointment of specialized procurement staff, and
(d)   an efficient cost recovery system.



ANNEX S
Page 8 of 11
38.   There are a number of outstanding issues which require urgent attention, in particular, the
erratic supply of essential drugs, the shortage of foreign exchange, the role of the private sector in
distribution, and solutions to the poorly functioning cost recovery system. These issues should be
addressed through the development of an essential drugs policy.
Support Program 2: National Food, Environmental and Clinical Laboratory Service
39.   The country has no national laboratory service despite a perceived requirement to maintain
quality standards for drugs, food supply, water and the environment. Currently, analyses are
performed by separate organizations, such as the central medical stores and the district hospitals.
The objective of this support program is to set up a national laboratory to monitor and test
standards in drugs prescribed, water quality, the environment and food. The program wilH provide
a public health laboratory service as well as services to secondary and tertiary clinical care.
40.   The NHAP sets out a comprehensive set of services as follow:
(a)   advice to clinicians and policy makers;
(b)   routine analysis of laboratory samples;
(c)   training of laboratory staff;
(d)   quality control of public and non-Government laboratories;
(e)   provision of safe blood;
(f)   provision of forensic analysis; and
(g)   preparation and enforcement of laws.
41.   The core program includes two of these services: laboratory staff training and the
provision of safe blood. The cost of the core program is estimated at US$1.5 million (before
contingencies), all of which is incremental expenditure to be financed.
42.   Outstanding issues to be resolved include the training and acquisition of specialist staff and
the potential for laboratory services to generate revenue.
Support Program 3: Maintenance and Repair
43.   Maintenance and repair is the most neglected area of all the technical and support
programs. Physical infrastructure is dilapidated and equipment non-functional. Yet no current
expenditure is budgeted for maintenance and repair. Accordingly, the NHAP plans to establish
an ongoing maintenance program to carry out the enormous rehabilitation work required. Both
district hospitals and peripheral health units will be renovated and re-equipped.
44.   The services envisaged are mainly concemed with strengthening the organization,
management and staffing of the maintenance and repair function. Specifically, the NHAP involves
the establishment of:



ANNEX $
Page 9 of 11
(a)   a central Facilities Management and Maintenance Unit providing services in
medical electronics, civil works and transport maintenance;
(b)   regional maintenance and repair departments based at the larger hospitals; and
(c)   district maintenance units at the district hospitals.
45.   The core program covers the establishment of organizational units and facilities at the
central and district level. The estimated cost of the core program is US$13.0 million (before
contingencies), all of which are incremental costs.
46.   The successful implementation of the maintenance and repair program under the NHAP
will require the reorganization and expansion of the maintenance and repair function, supported
by the installation of management information and control systems. At the district level, a District
maintenance Officer would be responsible for planning and budgeting, and monitoring contract
work.
47.   Outstanding issues to be resolved include the need to develop sound maintenance policies
and procedures and to complete the construction of maintenance facilities quickly to enable the
massive rehabilitation program to proceed. In addition, a skilled staffing plan needs to be
prepared as this program will place major demands on staff capability.
Support Program 4: Human Resource Management
48.   The human resource management function is headed by a Personnel Manager who is the
sole personnel professional employed in the DOH. The scope of this function is presently limited
to recruitment and promotion services, leave and retirement administration, staff transfers and
salary administration. Pre-service training is managed separately under the various training
institutions.
49.   The most urgent issues facing this support service are:
(a)   very low remuneration in relation to both a "living" wage and compensation in the
private and parastatal sectors. This has contributed significantly to the low morale
in the health service;
(b)   deficiencies in the manual personnel records system, so that there is no accurate
information for manpower planning purposes; and
(c)   weaknesses in pre-service training. There are only 11 full-time trainers in the
entire DOH.
50.   The NHAP intends to establish a comprehensive Human Resource Management function
responsible for all activities related to the resourcing and development of personnel, and employee
relations. Key actions to be carried out are the:
(a)   preparation of a long-term manpower plan;
(b)   development of managerial and technical training plans;



ANNEX S
Page 10 of 11
(c)   establishment of effective mechanisms for coordinating training and management
development;
(d)   development of a HRM capability at head office;
(e)   establishment of effective employee relations strategies, with an emphasis on pay;
and
(f)   establishment of a computerized personnel information system.
51.   With the exception of a computerized personnel information system, all of these activities
are included in the core program. In addition, the development of leadership and supervisory
skills has been explicitly added. The cost of the core program is estimated at US$1.7 million
(before contingencies), of which US$0.3 million are incremental costs to be financed (At this
stage, the costs of the overall training program for the DOH have yet to be determined, although
some provisional estimates for training, of US$4 million, have been incorporated under the
different technical and support programs).
52.   The key elements of the HRM component are the development of a manpower and
training plan, management and clinical training, and strengthening the capability of local training
institutions.
53.   Successful implementation of the Human Resource Management program will require
acceptance of a new approach to managing staff which shifts responsibility from the
Establishments Department towards the DOH and line managers. Outstanding issues to be
resolved include:
(a)   the extent to which the HRM function should be "decentralized" to district level;
and
(b)   enhancing staff morale by taking steps to improve the working environment, staff
remuneration, and attitudes towards employees.
Support Program 5: Planning, Monitoring, Information and Statistics Unit
54.   The Planning, Monitoring, Information and Statistics Unit (PMISU) is the basic research
and data collection center of the health delivery system. The PMISU currently provides services
in:
(a)   training district staff in data collection;
(b)   operating the health management information system;
(c)   conducting base line surveys; and
(d)   managing and coordinating development projects.
55.   Of these services, the management information function is currently in most need of
improvement because of deficiencies in data collection, analysis and use both at head office and
district levels. This support program will involve the following services:



ANNEX 8
Page 11 of 11
(a)   training health staff in health and management information;
(b)   the establishment of district monitoring and evaluation offices;
(c)   setting up hospital medical records systems;
(d)   the design and conduct of research studies;
(e)   the collection and distribution of health information; and
(f)   support for developing district work plans.
56.   Of these services, the core program includes the establishment of a district monitoring and
evaluation capacity, operational research, and support for district work plans. It also includes the
collection of epidemiological data and support for community management. The estimated cost
of the core program US$4.8 million (before contingencies), of which US$1.5 million represent
incremental costs to be financed.
57.   Key elements of this support program are better trained and equipped staff, strengthened
district health planning and improved management information systems. In respect of the latter,
the NHAP seeks to improve the gathering and dissemination of health care information at all
levels, improve understanding and help professional program managers make better quality
decisions.
58.   Successful implementation of this support program will depend crucially on the ability of
PMISU to train health staff and managers. Outstanding issues are how to ensure that the
information is both useful for and used by management, and that all divisions cooperate in regular
data collection.
Support Program 6: Central Administration
59.   This support service comprises the central administrative support services, including:
(a)   financial management, including accounting
(b)   procurement management
(c)   transport administration
60.   The key element of the plan are to develop and implement these systems in the most
efficient manner. Purchasing and stores management functions will be kept separate from
financial management and pay functions in the Department to increase transparency and hasten
implementation. The estimated cost is US$7 million before contingencies.






REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED HEALTH SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
PROPOSED TRAINING PLAN
Table 1: A. Hospital Services
Job             Staff in                Other     Staff in    Projected    Number       Gap/
Category           Post    Retirements  Wastage    Training       Staff      Required   (Surplus)             Action
( 994)    (1994-99)  (1994-99)   (1994)   (June 1999) (June 1999)
Doctor                          98          14         10         19            93         140         47 Train at COMAHS
Train specialists overseas
Nurse                          265          37         27         65          266        1,406      1,140 Redeploy 354 SECHNs;
Train 786 SENs/SRNs
Midwife                        119          13          1         65           170         281       111 Train at School of Midwifery
(O level intake)
Nurse Anaesthetist               4           1          0          0             3          44        41 Train nurses in Nigeria
Dentist                          6           1          0          0             5          22         17 Train at COMAHS
Dental Technician               10           2          0          0             8          30         22 Train overseas
Radiographer                     5           2          0           0            3          22         19 Train at COMAHS
Radiographer Techn.              2           0          0          0             2          44        42 Train overseas
Dietician                        0           0          0          0             0          22        22 Train in-country
Pharmacist                       8           5          1          0             2          22         20 Train in-country
Dispensing Techn.              162          35          4          0           123          66       -57 Redeploy to ensure coverage
Med. storekeeper                 0           0          0          0             0          22         22 Train in-country
Lab. Technologist                2           1          0           0            0          20         20 Train in-country
Lab Technician                  19           3          0          0            16          44         28 Train in-country
Phsiotherapist                   1           0          0          0             1          22         21 Train overseas
Records Technician               6           0          0           0            6          80         74 Train in-country
Storekeeper                      5           2          1          0             2          22         20 Recruit
Maintenance Technician          26           1          3          0            22          30          8 Train in-country
Plumber                          1           0          0          0             1          40         39 Train in-country
Mason                            8           0          1          0             7           4         -3
Carpenter                       19           5          1           0           13           4         -9
Table 1   B. Peripheral Health Units
Job             Staff in                Other     Staff in    Projected    Number       Gap/
Category           Post    Retirements  Wastage    Training       Staff      Required   (Surplus)             Action
(1994)    (1994-99)  (1994-99)   (1994)   (June 1999) (June 1999)
Community Heafth Officer        93           0          9         44           128         200         72 Retrain 72 SECHNs at
paramedical school
Community Health Assista         0           0          0           0            0         400       400 Redeploy 73 MCH Aides (post-1986)                       h  ;,
Train 42 CHAs
Retrain 237 EDCU Assistants                           D 
Retrain 18 Vaccinators                                -
Community Heafth Aide          347           2         35           0          291       1,200       909 Train in-country
lann9a.xis)



ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 3
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED HEALTH SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
PROPOSED TRAINING PLAN
Table 2: Projected Trainees - Hospital and Primary Health Care Services
1996     1997    1998       1999     2000      Total
Train"
Job Category                                   No.      No.      No.       No.      No.      Years
A. Specialized: Hospital Services
1. Professional
Doctor                                            20        30      40        40       40        170
Dentist                                            6         9      12        12        11        50
Radiographer                                      13        19       19       12         6        69
Pharmacist                                        10        15      20        20        15        80
Sub-total                       49        73       91        84       72       369
11. Paramedical
Nurse                                            160       240     240       240      240      1,120
Midwife                                           48        48      47         15        0       158
Dietician                                         15        14        7        0         0        36
Lab. Technician                                   28        28      14         0         0        70
Sub-total                      251       330      308       255      240      1,384
l1l. Technical Support
Medical storekeeper                                5         5        5        5         0        20
Records Techician                                 50        49      24         0         0       123
Maintenance Technician                             8         8       4         0         0        20
Plumber                                           26        26       13        0         0        65
Sub-total                       89        88       46         5        0       228
Total Hoapital Service.              389      491      445       344      312      1,981
B. Specialized: Primary Health Care
1. Paramedical
Community Health Officer                          20        20      20         12        0        72
Community Health Assistant                        50        50      50        50        50       250
Sub-total                       70        70       70        62       50       322
11. Aides
Community Health Aide                            100       100     100       100      100        500
Total Primary Health Care             170       170     170       162       150       822
C. International Training
1. Hospital Services
Nurse Anaesthetist                                28        27       13        0         0        68
Dental Technician                                 15        14        7        0         0        36
Radiography Technician                            28        42      28        14         0       112
Lab. Technologist                                  8        11       11       11         7        48
Physiotherapist                                   11        16      21         15       10        73
Sub-total                       90       110       80        40       17       337
/1. Specialist Advisers                            4         4        4         4        4        20
Total International Training            94      114       84        44       21       357
TOTAL                         653       775      699       550      483     3.160



REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED HEALTH SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
PROPOSED TRAINING PLAN
Table 3: Management Training Plan
1996     1997    1998      1999     2000      Total
Training                                                No.
Days      No.      No.      No.      No.       No.    Trainees
Program
Management Skills                                  3       55        20      20        20                115
Future Performance                                15       10                                             10
Better Service                                    15       45       20       20        20                105
Planning & Organizing                             10                55       20        20       20       115
Implementing Plans                                10                55       20        20       20       115
Coaching Skills                                    5       20        10      10                           40
Trainer Skills                                     5                 30      30        30       30       120
Computer Skills                                   10                         40        40       40       120
Total Trainees             130       190     160       150      110       740
Total Staff-days           1,090    1,660   1,360      1,310     950      6,370
(ann9c.xls)






ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED HEALTH SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
Detailed Program Estimates
(USS '000)
Fiscal   Years
1996        1997        1998        1999        2000      TOTAL
INVESTMENT COSTS
A    TECHNICAL PROGRAMS
1.0  PRIMARY HEALTH CARE SERVICES                       3,236       4,500       4,850       4,000       4,000      20,586
2.0   Hospital and Laboratory Services
1. Secondary & Tertiary Health Care                497        1,500       2,000       2,000        1,966       7,963
2. Laboratory Services                              344         846         550         250         250        2,240
SUBTOTAL TECHNICAL PROGRAMS                       4,077       6,846       7,400        6,250       6,216      30,789
B    SUPPORT SERVICES
1.0  Policy Formulation I Central Administration         459         600          600         700         200        2,559
2.0   District Allocation                               1,000       1,000       1,300       1,300        1,500       6,100
3.0  Support Services (maintenance & repair)             204         615          543         482         480        2,324
4.0   PlanningandInformationSystems                        52         311         710          18         100        1,191
5.0   Human Resources /a                                1,052         100         100         100         100        1,452
6.0   Drugs and Medical Supplies/b                      4,303       1,159           0         220         220        5,902
SUBTOTAL SUPPORTSER7VICES                         7,070       3,785       3,253        2,820       2,600      19,528
TOTAL INVESTMENT COSTS /c                        11,147      10,632      10,653       9,070        8,816      50,318
OPERATING COSTS
A    TECHNICAL PROGRAMS
1.0  PRIMARY HFALTH CARE SERVICES                     3,670       4,290        4,881       5,364       5,605      23,810
2.0   Hospital and Laboratory Services
1. Secondary & Tertiaiy Health Care               3,799       4,318       4,318       4,377       4,410      21,222
2. Laboratory Services                              104         123         130         190         188         735
SUBTOTAL TECHNICAL PROGRAMS                       7,573       8,731       9,329        9,931      10,203      45,767
B    SUPPORT SERVICES
1.0  Policy Formulation / Central Administration        1,845       1,249       1,248       1,248       1,248       6,837
2.0   District Allocation                               3,303       4,046       4,130       4,173       4,218       19,870
3.0  Support Services (maintenance & repair)             212         118          227         335         335        1,227
4.0   Planning and Information Systems                   350          529         559         577         577        2,593
5.0   Human Resources                                    951         372          237         257         237       2,054
6.0   Drugs and Medical Supplies                         260        1,624       1,623       3,013       2,923       9,443
SUBTOTAL SUPPORTSERVICES                          6,921       7,938       8,024       9,603        9,538      42,023
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS /c                         14,494      16,669      17,353      19,534      19,741       87,790
TOTAL PROGRAM COSTS                              25,641      27,300      28,006      28,604      28,557      138,108
/a Most of the training for the FY 95/96 is allocated to Human Resources; in subsequent years it is divided accross the respective services.
/b The initial year budgets drug seedstock under capital costs; in subsequent years replenishments are budgeted under operating costs to be
consistent with government budget headings.
/c Physical and Price Contingencies 115%) included.



ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 3
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED HEALTH SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
Department of Health Expenditure Projections
(In millions of Leones at current prices)
NHAP**
Fisca Year                                   93194*   94/95*       1996      1997     1998       1999       2000
Proiected Health Sector Budget
Total Expenditures in Health                4,790     5,412      9,100    11,084    12,931     14,880     16,434
Recurrent Expenditures in Health           4,406     5,343      7,755     9,237    10,524     11,871     12,881
Investment Expenditures in Health            384       69       1,345     1,847    2,407       3,008      3,553
Health Expenditure Shares
Total Exp. in Health/Total Expenditures      4.9%      5.3%       6.0%      6.3%      6.6%       6.9%       6.90/o
Recurrent Exp./Total Recurrent Exp.         5.8%      6.5%       7.0%      7.5%      8.0/       8.5%       8.7%
Investment Exp./Total Inv. Exp.             1.7%      0.3%       3.2%      3.5%      3.8%       4.0%       4.0%
Health Expenditures as Share of GDP
Total Health Exp./GDP                        1.0%      1.0%        1.2%     1.3%      1.3%       1.4%       1.4%
Recurrent Exp./GDP                          0.9%      1.0%       1.0%      1.1%      1.1%       1.1%       1.1%
Investment Exp./GDP                         0.1%      0.0%       0.2%      0.2%      0.2%       0.3%       0.3%
Memorandum Items
GDP                                       480,113   558,006    764,063   879,669  974,453   1,074,335  1,184,454
Real GDP Growth Rate (projected)             5.0%     -4.5%       4.9%      6.8%      5.0%       5.0%       5.0/o
Dom. Infl. Rate (projected, CPI)            15.6%    21.7%       20.9%      7.8%      5.5%       5.0%       5.0/e
Nominal Exchange Rate (projected)             624      739         881       984     1,030      1,063      1,096
\* Actual Expenditures.
\00 Expenditure Projections. Stating January 1, 1996, the fiscal year is the annual year.
Source: Department of Finance, Sierra Leone. IMF and World Bank Projections.



REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED HEALTH SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
NEAP Components by Finander (USS)
FY 1996
IDA              GOSL              ADB            IDB            BU         UNICBF          UNDP          UNFPA           WHO           SFD        NGOs & Othes        Towl
NHAP Components                Amount    %        Amnunt    %    Amount   %   Amount  %   Amount %             Amount  %   Amount  %    Amount I %    Amou|           %I Amount  %I Amount  i %           Amount  I   %
A  Policy Formaoion                        146,480   6.4%    1,713,621  74%    257,090  11%                                 2,876  0'/%                                60,000  3%                    123,853   5%   2.303.920  100'%
B  District Opeations                                 0 0%    1,252,562  29%    156,354   4%  396,000  9%1. 105,263  2%                                                27,550  1%                  2,365,415  55%    4,303,145  100%!
C  hifrastructure & Eqwpment Maintnance    139,647  33 5%      175,047  42%      50,009  12%                                                                                                          51,923  12%      416,626  100'%
D  Planning and information                           0 0/     321,433  80%      14,993   4%                                                                                                          66,074  16%      402,499  100'/.
E Human Resource Management                348,721   174%      764,982  38%    183,009   9%            I                   36,863  2%  480,264  24%                                                  188,807   91/.  2,002,647  100%
F Dru  and Medical Supplies               1,061,865  23 3%    1,769,046  39%                    15,400  0%/               148,463  3%                  240,000   5%  135,000  3%                   1,192,925  26%   4,562,699  100%,.
G  Primary Health Care                     387,788   5 6%    1,029,041  15%                                               550,010  8                   520,000   8%  430,200  6%                   3,989,217  58%   6,906,256  100%!
H  Hospital and Laboratory Servces          71,701    1.5%   3,308,122  70/.   715,016  15%                 202,895  4%                                                41,400  1%                    404,443   9V1.  4,743,577  100N%
Total Disbursements                      2,156,203   8.4%   10,333,854  40%  1,376,471   5%  411,400  2%1 308,158  1%  738,212  3%  480.264   2%  760,000   3%  694,150  3%               0  0%!.  8.382,657  33%  25,641,369  100'!.






REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED HEALTH SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
Key Health Sector Performance IndicatorsA
Indicator                                          Baseline Level   When Measured                                   How Measured
(year)
96       97       98        99       00
Inputs                                                                     __     
Govermnent Health Budget/Expendimurs:
(i) Budget allocation at least 6% of Govt. Budget (current  (i) 5.2% (94/95)   6.0%  6.3%  6.6%  6.9%     6.9%      (i) Annual budget submission
and investment), not including public debt service and
exclusive of funds generated by cost recovery and
contributed by donors
(ii) % annual health budget expended               (iii) 96% (93-94)   >96%    >95%    >95%    >95%    >95%    (ii) Annual audit report; public
expenditure review
Donor Health Budgets/Expenditures:
(i) # of donors contributing to NHAP               (i) 22 (95-96)    X        X        X         X        X         (i) & (ii) Annual budget commitments
(ii) Amounts donors budgeted for NHAP              (ii) $15.3m (96)   X       X        X         X        X         with GOSL
(iii) Prop. of annual budgets disbursed through GOSL  (iii) no baseline    X  X        X         X        X         (iii) Annual external audit
(iv) Prop. of annul budgets disbursed through NGOs  (iv) no baseline    X     X        X         X        X         (iv) Donor Relations Reports
Processes                                          _                                                      _         __        X       _<X
Community Participation:
(i) # of districts decentralized                   (i) 0 (95)        1        2        3         4        5         (i) & (ii) Annual District Health Team
(ii) # of functional chiefdom health development   (iu) 0 (95)                10                 X                  Reports
committees with community representatives in
decentralized districts
(iii) # of functional hospital management committees with  (iii) 0 (95)  1    2        X         X        X         (iii) Hospital Reports (HMIS)
community representatives
(iv) Community feedback on quality, relevance of health  (iv) 3 sites (94)             2 per de-          2 per    (vi) Beneficiary Assessment
services, and ability to pay                                                           centr.             de-centr.
district          district
Clinical Quality:                                                                                                   (i) Annual Report
(i) Development of case management protocols for clinical not developed  Yes
workers                                                                                                            (ii) Annual Report (HMIS - HRD)
(ii) # of workers trained in case management protocols                        X        X         X        X
(iii) % of workers properly using case management in                                                               (iii) Supervision Reports (HMIS -
decentralized districts                                                       X         X        X        X         HRD)
Quality of Financial Management:
(i) Satisfactory audits of GOSL                    (i) no baseline   Yes      Yes       Yes      Yes      Yes      (i) Annual internal audit
(ii) Satisfactory audits of donor expenditures     (ii) no baseline  Yes      Yes       Yes      Yes      Yes      (u) Annual external audit            s  z
okm
Key performance indicators have been developed to monitor programs' progress in inputs, processes, outputs, and outcomes and project impact. These indicators will be used
yearly at the evaluation sections with donors and NGOs to assess the achievement of program objectives, and when and if necessary, will be updated to keep abreast of any
changes in the sector.



Indicator                                           Baseline Level   When Measured                                   How Measured
(year)                                                                                              1:
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ 96  97  98  99  00 
Outputs                                             _                                                                                                       m
Staff Training at Training Institutions:            Current level:    (i) 70    (i) 70    (i) 70    (i) 70    (i) 70
(i) # staff retrained & redeployed (total, SECHNs, MCH   93 CHOs;     SECHNs; SECHNs; SECHNs; SECHNs; SECHNs; DOH Semi-annual Report (HMIS -
Aides)                                              0 CHAss;          (i)      (ii)     (i)       6)   ()             HRD)
(ii) # new staff trained & employed in Sierra Leone (total,  347 CHAides;    50HAs  50CHAs  20CHOs  20CHOs  (iCK Rs
CHOs, CHAs, CHAides)                                471 SECHNs;       100CHAi IOCi    CHAi lOOCHAi IOOCHAi
des;     des;     des;      des;     des;
Facilities:                                                                                                          DOH Semi-annual Report (HMIS -
(i) # of PHUs rehabilitated                         no baseline       11       X         X        X         X        Support Services)
(ii) # of hospitals rehabilitated                                     4        X         X        X         X
(iii) # of PHUs built                                                 X        X         X        X         X
(iv) # of PHUs equipped                                               11       X         X        X         X
(v) # of hospitals equipped                                           4        X         X        X         X
Utilization:                                                                                                         (i) - (iv) Facilities reports (HMIS)
(i) # of outpatients seen at PHUs                   (i) _ (94)        X        X         X        X         X
(ii) # of inpatients at hospitals                   (ii) _ (94)       X        X         X        X         X        NB: rehabilitated and non-rehabilitated
(iii)  o f outpatients at hospitals                 (iii) _ (94)      X        X         X        X         X        facilities are to be distinguished
(iv) bed occupancy rate at District hospitals (distinguish   (iv) no baseline    X  X    X        X         X
decentralized District hospitals)                                                                I
Coverage:                                                                                                            (i) Clinic reports (HMIS); cluster
(i) % of 1 year olds fully immunized                (i) 35% (94)      X        X         X        X         85%      survey (96, 98, 2000)
(ii) # of women with 3 antenatal visits            (ii) no baseline   X        X         X        X         60%      (ii) Clinic reports (HMIS)
Outcomes/Impact
Child Health:
(i) Infant mortality rate                           (i) 135 (92)      X        X         X        X         70       (i), (u) & (iv) National Household
(ii) Under 5 mortality rate                        (ii) 240 (90)      X        X         X        X         160      Survey
(iii) Low birthweight                              (iii) 17% (90)     X        X         X        X         8.5      (iu) Hospital Reports (HMIS)
(iv) Childhood prevalence of low wt/age             (iv) 33 % (89-90)   X      X         X        X         25%
Maternal Health:
(i) Maternal mortality rate                         (i) 630 (92)      X        X         X        X         400      (i) & (iu) National Household Survey
(iu) Contraceptive prevalence rate                 (ii) 4% (93)       X        X         X        X         10%
(iii) Total fertility rate                          (iii) 6.5 (91)    X        X         X        X         6.0      (u) Reports from FP clinics (HMIS)
Communicable Diseases:
(i) HIV prevalence among blood donors in Western Area  (i) 2.1 % (94)  X       X         X        X         X        (i) Blood Bank data (HMIS)
(ii) # of measles cases                             (ii) 674 (92)     X        X         X        X         X        (ii)-(i) Clinic reports (HMIS)
(iii) # of neonatal tetanus cases                   (iii) 61 (92)     X        X         X        X         X
(iv) # new cases sputum positive tuberculosis       (iv)  (94)        X        X         X        X         X        (iv) CDD program reports (HMIS)
Notes:
- Most targets assume full operation of health programs in the country.
- Information should be broken down by district level where appropriate.



ANNEX 12
Page I of 2
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH ORGANIGRAM
(CENTRAL LEVEL)
i S.O.S. 
FD.G. MED. SRVCS.  ...    DnDeRn. Audit. GT  RVS
D.D.M.S.
I~~~~~~~D Inem Audi
HOSPE         DRUS            XFIN.             SUPT.
PHC  &     P      NL ED.   NURS.   RES.            SRVCS,
MCH    HOSP. PH.                      HA       RECT.
FIN.
PREV. L LAB,   PLFAN.NMPLYSTORES]
_ FOOD   |AMGT.                WLFRE
_ TRANSP.
_ CFACIL
MGNT.
BLTH. SEE 
LEGEND; SEE v



ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 2
KEY STAFF FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH ORGANIGRAM
TITLE                                          ABBREVIATION
SECRETARY OF STATE                             S.O.S.
DIRECTOR GENERAL OF MEDICAL SERVICES           D.G. MED. SRVCS.
DIRECTOR GENERAL OF MANAGEMENT SERVICES        D.G. MGT. SRVCS.
DIRECTOR OF DONOR RELATIONS                    D.D.R.
DIRECTOR OF MANAGEMENT SUPPORT                 D.M.S.
DIRECTOR OF INTERNAL AUDIT                     D.INTERN. AUDIT
DIRECTOR OF PLANNING AND INFORMATION           P&I
DIRECTOR OF PRIMARY HEALTH CARE                P.H.C.
DIRECTOR OF HOSPITAL AND LAB SYSTEM            HOSP. & LAB.
DIRECTOR OF NURSING                            NURS.
DIRECTOR OF RESOURCES (FINANCE)                FIN. RES. 1
ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF RESOURCES (FINANCE)      FIN. RES. 2
DIRECTOR OF SUPPORT SERVICES                   SUPT. SRVCS.
DIRECTOR OF DRUGS AND MEDICAL SUPPLIES         DRUGS MED. SUPPL.
DIRECTOR, HUMAN RESOURCES                      HRM
HOSPITAL CARE MANAGER                          HOSP.
MATERNAL AND CHILD HEALTH MANAGER              MCH
DISEASE PREVENTION AND CONTROL MANAGER         DIS. PREV. CONT.
FOOD AND NUTRITION MANAGER                     FOOD NUTR.
ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH MANAGER                   ENV. LTH.
HEALTH EDUCATION MANAGER                       HLTH. EDUC.
LABORATORY SERVICES MANAGER                    LAB.
PLANNING MANAGER                               PLAN
PUBLIC HEALTH AND MEDICAL STATISTICS MANAGER   P.H. MED. STATS.
MANAGEMENT INFORMATION MANAGER                 MGT. INFO
ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES MANAGER                 ARCH
FINANCIAL ACCOUNTANT                           FIN. ACCT.
HEALTH CARE FINANCING MANAGER                  HCARE FIN.
RECRUITMENT AND TRAINING MANAGER               RECT. TRN.
STORES MANAGER                                 STORES
PROCUREMENT MANAGER                            PROC.
TRANSPORTATION MANAGER                         TRNSP.
FACILITIES AND MAINTENANCE MANAGER             FACIL. MGNT.
EMPLOYEE WELFARE MANAGER                       EMPLY. WLFRE.



}~~h [                                                                                                                                                                                                                -t          -      lii&|!tI I l
I                                         ~                                                                                                                   IF.....................
.......................................................... ....                    .....................................................................                         .......  ....................        ...................................................... .....                              ....................
11ii --- -I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I -..   ....I' ...Mi
mm                                                 *~mI-                                                                                                                                              l -                                                             x 
,,:ID
4.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                                                                    0
.   ........................................... ..   ...........  ........................................................................    ....................                                                                                 ..............
4...................                                  ............
.................................................. ......................................................................................................           ........................... ...............................
.......................... .............................................................................................................    ........................   ...........................
..........................................................................................................................                                                                                                                        .....................



-i-- F-   - - - - -   - - - -  -- - -  - 
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f
r X                                                                                                                                                        yX......                                             
.. . . . . .    .      .      .      .       .      .. [  11                      .                                        .    .        
.. ........
U~~~~~ U
..... ... ..............  ...... ........  ...... ............ ..... .. ...............     ........... ........ .......... ..... ..                 ...........
.. . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . .  . . . .. . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . .
.   .. . .. .. . .. .. . .. .   .. . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . .-.. . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . .
.   .................................  .................................................. .....................................................



ANNEX 14
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED HIEALTH SECTOR INVESTMNENT PROJECT
Operational Manual - Draft Table of Contents
Preface .................................
Introduction to the Operational Manual ...............................                                                                       ii
Terms of Reference ................                                                                                                      iii-v
1. SITUATION ANALYSIS IN THE HEALTH SECTOR ................................ 1
2. THE NATIONAL HEALTH POLICY AND OBJECTIVES .......................... 2
3. THE NATIONAL HEALTH ACTION PLAN .............................................. 2
3 .1    rna-oa ucn o rl       ...................................................................... ...........  I
.     Descr         on .               .2......................................................... 2
'Scze           for . '=dh=    Care 3e iverv .........................................................                   5
3.4    E      maced    7oim             md  C regor   Costs .........................................................              5
3 5    Finarc=           ?       . .......................................................... S
3.6    Donor C            rdi       oa .........................................................8
3.7    MfuanL Dooor Cocdicons .........................................................                                           8
3.      Ke:  Lmvic3cn=ou  And  O eratona4  PoLic4es .................................................... 8
4. MANAGEMENT ARRANGEMENTS..........................................................
4.1       -ad.quzr-ters O               isaion  Sauc              ................................................... 
4.'   Roles   nd  Resronsibihaes:                                  ................................................. 8
a) ToO Mmagenant TG   ..................................................                                                    a
o)   S         r ! of  Sr .                ................ .... ..9........................                        ....... 9
c!  Du*c:or CGenral -   fedical Se-vices .................................................                                  9
d)   D:ecor Gc    -aI    .Mm                   emnt Sa4vices .................................................               9
e)  Director of Donor Reaos ................................................. 9
t)    Dira:  -or of inteaW             Aucit ..................................................                             9
g  Dur-,or o                   tM a entSupport .................................................                           10
h  Division D c:ors .................................................                                                      10
t) t    rnit M!aage S .................................................                                                    10
j)   Dis ct Heaida   M                 oeme t Tms .................................................                        10
k) Nanoaal Health CoLmcT ad  dHospimi Managent Co                                                   rimem .................. 10
4.3 Dec=n-aliain ,.,                                                                                                            10
4.4 4M.anpower D3c eopment ....................                                                                                 10
4 5  Nanonal Co-:rdin.roa nd Monitoring ................................                                                         11
4 6  Discict Co-reiinanon and Momitoi ng .                                        ................................. i I



..................................................      ioany    T~s                                                      -nx3t
.................................................o:Pnv  TU uf l HOG   o02 a3 0 SC=   1   .1
Ll                                    v1 -             *                                  OTpnV 7=zq i=m AoC  posodoLd  11
91                                                        ==;;zz~~~~~~~~~~lr;rS.  I25s   t 01
9 1  -     - -... -........   -......... = SAS fi                      lSno Pv  C=Y2rf1`fAO3 :1 * 01
91-  -----  --   ........................... mmasAs kr;;#ne  pm  Srm=c-rncv   =DLIT1)   I ol
9. ............................................... --                                            NLNnofQ           Vl   0o
9.l   -d-almO                                                                                                   t 6
cl ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- .--D! 0o3=zs mcsLC  - 6
s- - ----*== 2zrV =              CsIQ    6
......................... SQNfl  .40 1N3W                                                                    NVVy 6
................................                 ..- .O.O. ... ...
1-.                                                                         A .C   v :        S'=X              ,-g
^ ] ..........    - -............... -(   AC 'pzimn; -'1                             l=      - 
.IN- l3WflZnOUd *8
..  . .. . . .. . . .. . . ..........................          ..........-----..--'.'''-'''.ZL1i-in:  
c1''' ' '..........''.''''....................................................n,_    1
.J.........                                                                 .  --- J            I     d NLLm  l :3 I
...n-- ...... ---=O0it         U         'a== =   9
_a .......................................................          ...............                      C
................ .                    1OlNO   ON  NLLVn7A3 'NNOiINO     9
I ........................                        . IsJ03C  ;po  P  M            ] C  q UCISL,0nS    - ,
.n -0  -                                                                         Is lL LLOTES  =L             I     1 
NOLLIIN3WB3dWI i03L Obd 20 NOISIAN3dnfS S
LiJ Z a
tINXIV



ANNEX 14
Page 3 of 3
Annexes
Annex 1 Detailed  Description  of NHAP ..............................................                 20
Annex 2 Organisation Structure - Organogram ....................................... 21
Annex 3 Organisation  Structure - Detailed  Post Analysis ...................... 22
Annex 4.. Terms of Reference for Key Technical Assistance .23
Annex 5  Annual Planning  and  Budgeting Cycle ..................................... 37
Annex 6  Annual Implementation  Plan .. .                           .................................... 42
Annex 7  NHAP  Budget and  Financing Plan ....................................                      43
Annex 8  Annual Financing  Plan and Budget ....................................                       44
Annex 9  Procurement Arrangements ....................................                            45
Annex 10  Financial Management Guidelines ....................................                        47
Annex 11  Internal Audit Guidelines from  Auditor General's Dept ......... 52
Annex 12  Performance/ Progress Indicators .......................................... 57
Annex 13  Outline of Contents of Progress Reports ............................... 58
Annex 14  List of Key Addresses and Telephone Numbers .................... 62
Annex 15  Main Donor Conditions ............................,.,.,,,.,,,,. 63
Annex 16 List of Relevant Documents ..,,. 64
Annex 17  Pro forma Documents (eg letter of invitation to tender).......67






ANNEX 15
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED HEALTH SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
Supervision Plan
1.     Due to the sector reform nature of the Project, supervision missions will be done jointly with the
Department of Health and Social Services and other donor agencies based on progress reports with a common
format. Currently the Department is planning to invite donors for two reviews per year. One in the first half of the
year to review progress during the previous year and present a revised strategic plan, and one late in the year to
present the budget and work program for the following year. It is the Department's intention to collapse these two
workshops into one later in the program. This schedule, however is based on the current thinking, and thus reflects
two annual workshops.
2.     Other implementation support will be provided by Bank staff and consultants on mission to Sierra Leone as
necessary.
Bank Supervision Inputs into Key Activities
Approximate Date          Activity                   Expected Skills Required   Staff inputs
(Month/Year)                         _                                         (in staff weeks)
3/%             Project Launch Mission    Procurement, disbursement,            10
financial management, public
health
10/96           FY 96 Activity Plan        Public health, health                 10
Implementation Review and    economics, financing, donor
FY97 Budget and Activity    coordination
Plan Review
4/97            FY97 Budget and Activity  Public health, health                  6
Plan Review               economics, financing, donor
coordination
10/97           FY 97 Activity Plan        Public health, health                  0
Implementation Review and    economics, financing, donor
Launching of FY98 Plan and   coordination
Budget
4/98            FY98 Budget and Activity  Public health, health                  6
Plan Review               economics, financing, donor
coordination
10/98           FY98 Activity Plan         Public health, health                 10
Implementation Review and    economics, financing, donor
Launching of FY99 Plan and   coordination
Budget
4/99            Mid-term Review and FY99   Public health, health                14
Activity Plan Implementation   economics, EEC, human
Review                    resources, evaluation
10/99           FY99 Activity Plan         Public health, health                 10
Implementation Review and    economics, financing, donor
FY2000 Activity Plan and  coordination
Budget Launching
4/00            FY00 Budget and Activity  Public health, health                  6
Plan Review               economics, financing, donor
coordination
12/00           FY00 Activity Plan         Public health, health                  0
Implementation Review and    economics, financing, donor
Preparation for Final     coordination
Evaluation
4/01            Final Evaluation          Procurement, disbursement,            10
financial management, public
health






ANNEX 16
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED HEALTH SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
Disbursement Forecast
PHN Sector Disbursement Profiles
(% Cumulative Disbursements)
Quat&s from Approval Date          2  4  6  8  10 12 14 16 18 20  22  24 26 28 30 32  34   36   38
All Regions                        0  3  6  10 14 18 26 34 42 50  62  70 78 86 90 98  100
Afiica                             0  3  6  10 14 18 22 30 38 50  58  66 74 82 90 98  98  100
Siera Leone (All Selors)          0 14 18 22 26 38 46 54 66 74  82  82 86 86 90 94  98   98  100
Integrated HealthSectorInv.Project  0  6  11 21 31 44 58 70 81 91  100
Disbunsement Proflles
100                                                        -    - -
70
%50          j'                /                    -'_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Integraed Healthi Sector Inv. Projec
2468112  14 16 18 20 22 24 26 28 30 32 34 36 38
% ~     ~      ~      u~ 50            h



ANNEX 16
Page 2 of 2
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
INTEGRATED HEALTH SECTOR PROJECT
Disbursement Forecast
(US$ million)
Program Costs          Other Donors         IDA Fhncing   Government Contributfo
]DA Fisal Years
and Semesters   Semester Cumulative  Semester Cumlative  Semester Cumulative   Semester  Cumuative
1996     1,            0          0          0          0          0          0           0          0
2          12.8       12.8        6.6        6.6        1.1        1.1         5.2        5.2
1997     3          12.8       25.6        6.6       13.1         1.1       2.2         5.2        10.3
4          13.7       39.3        6.0       19.1        2.0        4.2         5.7        16.0
1998     5          13.7       52.9        6.0       25.1        2.0        6.1         5.7       21.7
6          14.0       66.9        5.0       30.1        2.8        8.9         6.3       28.0
1999     7          14.0       80.9        5.0       35.0        2.8       11.6         6.3       34.3
8          14.3       95.2        5.1       40.1        2.3       13.9         6.9       41.2
2000     9          14.3      109.5        5.1       45.2         2.3       16.2        6.9        48.1
10         14.3      123.8        4.9       50.1         1.9       18.1        7.6        55.7
2001    11          14.3      138.1        4.9       54.9         1.9       20.0        7.6       63.2
Total                138.1      138.1       54.9       54.9       20.0       20.0        63.2       63.2
Disbursement Schedule
140-
130-
120
110
100 -
90 
0                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Program
70 -                                                                      Cods
(Cumuiative)
50 -~ /                                            ,, '  ,, .(Cumufaive)
, , .      -IDA Financing
00 -                /                 _ _               -                 (CumutibHve)
10-                                                    '  '               Fh
1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8     9     10   11
Semester



MAP SECTION






IBRD 26923
I cf~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'                                                         LKN
Folobo                               / T
\A~~~~!'                                                  ,,ZTI e
t;' ; J ~~~~~~KABALA 3'
Z   '   l   Komakwie                                                      '
Fadugu           1.             Kamaron  >
o
/    KAMBIA   r     ~Pendembu 
,,_._0  D.~4t  ,.0   ')/
K.AMBIA                                                            0m
Bumbuna
M6nboloO       ,                             E -   MAKENI                                         Worodu
lrb  PORT LOKO                                                                                                 Slon
Konoktidee                                                ' .akidu                                                        0
0                                 Marom                                                                           KoIn.ordu \
Lungi )   ,                  Lu 24 l  0          M BURAKA> Matotoko            Mosingbe           0       N O
or ~~~~~~~~~~~e1-             -~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~Kinod
REETgtWN        Pepe        P-       O                                                                         SEFADU
Yele.                     Jalama
0"                0 
AREA [10a t ON 6Makonkor, O Yonibono
W ES T f RR' Nwcterr  ,,<i,
O'                                            wtaima/
Kent         Ml O  Y  A M  B A    0                     oSenehur                                          OP          KAILAHUN  j
MOYAMBA                                                Dodo
Pond mbu0       I
G)BO
-Sembabun                                                          s
Gbongbotok
.  2O6Nitti
_        malig                                               JJoru
' .   E         ,     ; O---'Matru            .                                      - 
BONTHE(iL                                                            L '       A
C) C B O                                   K F,o                         SIERRA LEONE
)'Tormobum                              HEALTH SECTOR
":' Z            --<t0K,,   <   INVESTMENT CREDIT
4~ /                    <          PFiro :j/                           PAVED ROADS
7'                                                  C                                                            *     NATIONAL CAPITAL
8   Sulima -t ()    DISTRICT CAPITALS                                  7
All                 \                        (i)     INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT
DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
\   ~ Zt  RIVERS
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
The boundones, colors, denominations and any other information
shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                      0  10  20  30  40
Group, any judgment on the legol status of any territory, or any                                                                      K LOMETERS
endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                         M LES
13                                           12                                        '21
DECFMBER 1995









IMAGING
Report No:       13947 SL
Type: SAR



