                                    Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                           Report No: 27387

                      IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                               (PPFI-P9520 IDA-28270)

                                       ON A

                                      CREDIT

                         IN THE AMOUNT OF US$20 MILLION

                                      TO THE

                            REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE

                                      FOR A

                      HEALTH SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT




                                  February 27, 2004




Human Development, Group II
Country Department 10
Africa Region

               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

            (Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2003)

                 Currency Unit = Leone
                          Le 1 = US$ 0.0004
                        US$ 1 = 2500

                       FISCAL YEAR
                 January 1 -     December 30

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFRC                       Armed Forces Ruling Council
ARI                        Acute respiratory infections
BCC                        Behavior Change Communication
DCA                        Development Credit Agreement
ECOMOG                     Economic Community of West African States
                           Monitoring Group
ECOWAS                     Economic Community of West African States
EPI                        Expanded Program of Immunization
HIV/AIDS                   Human Immuno-Deficiency Virus/Acquired
                           Immuno-Deficiency Syndrome
GOSL                       Government of Sierra Leone
HPP                        Health and Population Project
ICR                        Implementation Completion Report
IDA                        International Development Association
IEC                        Information, Education, and Communication
M&E                        Monitoring and Evaluation
MOHS                       Ministry of Health and Sanitation
MTR                        Mid-term review
NGO                        Non-governmental organization
NHAP                       National Health Action Plan
NHP                        National Health Policy
NMCP                       National Malaria Control Programme
NPA                        National Power Agency
OCP                        Onchocerciasis Control Programme
PHRD                       Population, Human Resources, Development
PHU                        Peripheral Health Unit
PPF                        Project Preparation Facility
PSR                        Project Status Report
QAG                        Quality Assurance Group
QSR                        Quality Supervision Report
RUF                        Revolutionary United Front
SAR                        Staff Appraisal Report
SHARP                      Sierra Leone HIV/AIDS Response Project
SIP                        Sector Investment Programme
STD                        Sexually Transmitted Disease
STI                        Sexually Transmitted Infection
SWAP                       Sector-wide Approach Programme
UN                         United Nations
UNICEF                     United Nations Children's Fund
WHO                        World Health Organization


                Vice President:      Callisto Madavo
              Country Director       Mats Karlsson
               Sector Manager        Alexandre Abrantes

Task Team Leader/Task Manager:  Midou Ibrahima/Daniele Jaekel

                                          SIERRA LEONE
                                        HEALTH SECTOR


                                            CONTENTS




                                                                                 Page No.
   1. Project Data                                                                    1
   2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
   3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         1
   4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            9
   5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            17
   6. Sustainability                                                                18
   7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 19
   8. Lessons Learned                                                               21
   9. Partner Comments                                                              22
   10. Additional Information                                                       27
   Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             28
   Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             29
   Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             32
   Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             33
   Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             35
   Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                37
   Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            38
   Annex 8. List of Planned and Implemented Project Activities                      39
   Annex 9. Government's Report                                                     45

MAP IBRD32404

Project ID: P002422                                                  Project Name: Integrated Health Sector Investment
                                                                     Project
Team Leader: Daniele A-G. P. Jaekel                                  TL Unit: AFTH2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: March 9, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Integrated Health Sector Investment Project              L/C/TF Number: PPFI-P9520; IDA-28270
   Country/Department: SIERRA LEONE                                                       Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Health (91%); Central government administration (9%)
                  Theme: Health system performance (P); Population and reproductive health
                            (S); Participation and civic engagement (S); Child health (S); Other
                            communicable diseases (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 08/20/1993                                     Effective: 06/19/1996                09/13/1996
     Appraisal: 06/28/1994                                         MTR: 10/31/1998                  01/24/2000
      Approval: 03/14/1996                                      Closing: 06/30/2001                 06/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE/DOH & SOCIAL SVCS
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             Kim Jaycox
Country Director:               Mats Karlsson                                  Jean-Louis Sarbib
Sector Manager:                 Alexandre V. Abrantes                          Ok Pannenborg
Team Leader at ICR:             Daniele A-G. P. Jaekel                         David Peters
ICR Primary Author:             Daniele A-G. P. Jaekel; Midou
                                Ibrahima


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: U                                U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Background

Political background. Sierra Leone's recent history has been dominated by military takeovers and civil
war (from 1990-1995). In February and March 1996, democratic multi-party parliamentary and
presidential elections were held and Alhaji Ahmad Tejan Kabbah became President. In May 1997,
President Kabbah was overthrown in a coup led by the Armed Forces Revolutionary
Council/Revolutionary United Front (AFRC/RUF), which was followed by months of terror and atrocities.
All Bank disbursements in Sierra Leone were suspended in August 1997 and resumed only in June of 1998,
after the legitimate government was reinstated in March of that same year, following an offensive by the
Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) Monitoring Group (ECOMOG). A new rebel
invasion which took place in January 1999 limited again the access to district areas other than the Western
Area region (where the capital city, Freetown, is located) and rebels occupied close to half of the country
until 2001. A peace agreement was signed in Lome in July 1999 and the official end of the war was
declared only in January 2002. Table 1 in the section below gives a detailed chronology of events which
affected the implementation of this Project and which were taken into account by the ICR team.

Health sector background. In the mid-1990s, at the time of preparation of the Integrated Health Sector
Investment Project, the health indicators in Sierra Leone (a population estimated in 1995 at 4.7 million),
were among the worst in the Africa Region with: (i) a population growth rate of 2.6 percent per year, and a
fertility rate of 6.5; (ii) a life expectancy of 39 years, the lowest in the world; and (iii) a maternal mortality
ratio estimated at 800 deaths per 100,000 live births. The key causes of mortality and morbidity were
related to infectious diseases including malaria, tuberculosis, measles, diarrheal diseases, onchocerciasis, as
well as to severe malnutrition. HIV/AIDS was a new threat to youth and adults with an estimated
HIV/AIDS prevalence of five percent in Freetown. In 1995, per capita public expenditure for health was
estimated at only US$3.10.

The factors which contributed to this situation were a low level of basic education and literacy, unsanitary
living conditions of the population particularly those living in the slums, poor access to safe drinking water
or sanitation facilities mainly in rural areas, and high fertility rates among young mothers associated with
short birth intervals.

The health sector, at project inception, was facing a wide array of problems including: inadequate human
resources both in terms of quality and quantity; inadequate distribution of staff within the remote areas;
brain drain due to the insecure situation; poor access to health care and poor quality of services due to the
lack of qualified and motivated personnel, shortages of equipment and essential drugs including vaccines
and contraceptives, insufficient resources to support programs leading to the poor quality of --and loss of
confidence in-- public sector health services; poor management including the lack of community
involvement in decision-making; a lack of collaboration with the private sector; and weak decentralization
and overall coordination.

To address all these challenges, the Government of Sierra Leone (GOSL) developed in 1993 a National
Health Policy (NHP). The main focus of the NHP can be summarized as follows:

     1. Environment health and communicable disease control;
     2. Health care delivery with decentralization to district level;
     3. Network of sound primary, secondary and tertiary health facilities;
     4. Increasing government financing in the sector;
     5. Advocacy for mobilization of donor contribution as well as coordination within Ministry of Health
     and Sanitation (MOHS); and
     6. Community involvement and multi-sectoral approach.


                                                        - 2 -

The subsequent National Health Action Plan (NHAP), elaborated in 1994 strove to operationalize the NHP
including costing issues. This was followed by a roundtable where donors, including the Bank, pledged
their financial contributions to support the implementation of the NHAP. A Population, Human Resources,
Development (PHRD) Grant provided support for the assessment and the reorganization of the MOHS and
the sector training framework. It provided technical assistance in the design and facilitation of planning,
budgeting and prioritization processes. This included a formal beneficiary assessment, the development of
planning tools and a human resources plan.

The Integrated Health Sector Investment Project (HISIP) was the second Bank-financed project in the
health sector in Sierra Leone. It's overall goal was to assist the Government with the implementation of the
NHP and the NHAP. Originally, it was meant to be implemented using a sector-wide approach (SWAP)
with the built-in flexibility of programming project funds on an annual basis. After the war, the project
was redesigned as a sector investment project, keeping the annual programming feature.

Impact of the war. After the war ended, approximately two million people were displaced, tens of
thousands had died, and thousands had been mutilated and subjected to other various forms of atrocities.
Living conditions and health status had deteriorated significantly. Malnutrition increased as did sexually
transmitted infections (STIs), measles, skin diseases and psychiatric disorders. Malaria, acute respiratory
infections (ARI) and anemia were major morbidity concerns. Maternal and infant mortality were extremely
high, and access to health services had severely deteriorated. People did not possess the means to pay more
than token user fees and cost recovery for drugs, and to a great extent services, basically came to a halt.
Infrastructure had been destroyed, including many health facilities, and some important equipment were
destroyed or stolen. By this time, most donors had pulled out of the country, and many government
officials, commercial suppliers and service providers had fled the country.

The war also led to economic collapse, resulting in the lack of adequate government budgetary allocations
to the health sector. This has severely hampered the ability to deliver essential health services, which has
lead to increasing dependence on donors and nongovernmental organizations (NGO).

After the war, the situation of the health sector in the country was entirely different than it had been at the
time of appraisal, and it was clear that the project had to be completely restructured. Right after the war,
the MOHS had to cope with the post-war emergency health situation and had to do so in the most difficult
of conditions. Thanks to its flexible design, the project was able to promptly provide some badly-needed
support to the Government's Emergency Response Plan.

After the project was restructured in 2000, the implementation conditions were still difficult as there was a
lack of qualified human resources in MOHS and in the Government in general, as well as a lack of
suppliers and local services, and the impossibility or difficulty accessing rural areas outside of the Western
Area.

As indicated above, it is clear that the project suffered greatly from the war and its accomplishments were
achieved in most difficult conditions. The following table gives a detailed chronology of events which have
affected the project throughout its implementation:

Table 1: Chronology of political and other events and their impact on the project
(1996 ­ 2003)

  September 1996               Effectiveness


                                                       - 3 -

May 1997          Coup d'état, international and local project staff leave country
June 1997        All project activities cease
August 1997      Suspension of disbursements for the entire Bank's portfolio
March 1998       Reinstitution of Kabbah Government
May 1998         Supervision (SPN) Mission agreed-on strategy: Reactivation of health
                 services (while keeping existing NHAP structure); Keep project as
                 Sector Investment Program (SIP); Finance Emergency Response Plan
June 1998        Lifting of suspension of disbursement
July 1998        Development Credit Agreement (DCA) amendment for more flexible
                 procurement procedures to take into account local situation (no local
                 supplies), including international shopping, limited international
                 bidding, UN agencies
September 1998   Expansion of Immediate Response package to include a medical
                 equipment package of US$1.30 million to be procured via UNICEF
January 1999     New rebel invasion, limiting again access to health districts
June 1999        Amendment to DCA - increasing percentage of Bank's financing of
                 operating costs from 75 to 90 percent
July 1999        Peace Agreement signed in Lome
August 1999      Preparation for mid-term review (MTR)/restructuring, study of
                 National Health Sector (situation assessment): re-activation,
                 re-structuring of Project, future implementation program
Jan/Feb. 2000    Mid-Term Review /Project Restructuring to take into account new
                 situation (war, former Development Objectives (DOs) no longer
                 achievable ):
                   - dropping the sector-wide approach (SWAP)
                   - new DOs
                   - new Project Description, including a US$3.4 million electricity
                 package(generators) for city of Freetown, with understanding that these
                 funds will be returned to the health sector under the form of a
                 supplemental credit;
                   - revision to legal documents -- new procurement procedures, 100
                 percent financing until Dec. 2002, then back to 90 percent (local);
                   - two-year extension of the closing date to June 30, 2003
                   - restructured package to be submitted to the Board
December 2000    DCA amendment countersigned/effective
May 2001          - Funds taken away for generators will not be replenished, as a result,
                 some activities (hospital reform package) of restructured project will
                 not be implemented
                  - Management decides to start preparation of new project instead, and
                 that DCA amendment not necessary to remove the hospital reform
                 package from project design
2001 - 2002      Demobilization of combatants
January 2002     Declaration of the End of War
April 2003       Last SPN mission
June 30, 2003    Closing of International Development Association (IDA) Credit
October 2003      ICR Mission/Last project audit received




                                          - 4 -

As a result of the war, the project ended up being implemented in three separate periods:
         (i) September 1996 to May 1997: the initial project, prior to the coup d'état;
         (ii) June 1998 to December 2000: after reinstatement of the Government, but prior to restructuring;
         and
         (iii) January 2001 to June 2003: the restructured Project.

Because the ICR format provides for only two phases (initial project and revised project), periods (i) and
(ii) are presented under the initial project. Also, because the revised DOs and components were not
defined until the MTR in January - February, 2000, and not applied until the revised project was approved
by the Board, the second period could not be included fully into the 'revised' project. According to the ICR
Guidelines, because the project was restructured as a result of a 'force majeure' (the war), and considering
that the initial objectives and indicators (pertinent only to the SWAP approach) were no longer relevant, the
project's ratings are primarily based on the revised DOs and revised indicators (Annex 1). However,
because of the project's important accomplishments and disbursement rate (almost 30 percent of the credit)
prior to its formal revision, the ICR team takes into account all three periods in its overall assessment.

Initial Objectives

The project's initial DOs were to: (i) improve key health status indicators; (ii) increase access to health care
and family planning services, particularly in rural areas; (iii) improve the quality of services through
training, supervision and improved logistics; (iv) strengthen management, accountability and community
involvement at central and peripheral levels; and (v) increase efficiency and improve financing of health
care.

The project was originally designed as a SWAP operation to support the Government's NHAP. The total
program cost amounted to US$138.1 million for a five-year period, and included multiple donor
contributions, confirmed at the time of appraisal at US$55 million (see Table 4 in section 5.4 for details),
in parallel to an IDA credit of US$20 million. Government was to contribute US$63.2 million, equivalent
to 46 percent of the total program cost.

Assessment of Initial DOs:

The objectives of the project as stated above were exactly the same as the NHAP's objectives. The risks
were clearly identified in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR): persistence of insecurity situation,
over-ambitious program for the implementation capacity, and overly hasty reorganization of the MOHS.
To address some of these risks, the project had built in flexibility (planning of activities on an annual basis)
which was to allow the project to be implemented at a progressively increasing pace, as government
capacity strengthened and as access to districts improved.

It is clear today that the initial Project's scope and objectives were too ambitious for the time taking into
account the institutional weakness and the still fragile security situation in the country. A Quality
Assurance Group (QAG)/Quality Supervision Report (QSR) review performed in 2001 indicated that it
found project design at entry to be unsound for these same reasons.

The ICR team assessment is that the risks were not sufficiently taken into account. The choice of the
SWAP approach was not the most appropriate in a country where the security situation was still very
fragile. Indeed, it was highly probable that the emergence of a new security crisis would have a tremendous
impact on: (a) donors' contributions (54% of national program) and coordination, (b) Government's
expected large contribution (46%­ the increased health sector budget which was to double from the


                                                       - 5 -

previous year at project start) and stewardship, and (c) access to districts. When the coup d'état took place
shortly after effectiveness, resulting in a deterioration of the security situation, the implementation of the
project, as initially designed, was no longer feasible as most donors pulled out of the country, access to the
districts became very limited or impossible due to rebel occupation, and the country's economy collapsed.
The objectives as initially designed were no longer achievable.

However, it is very important to note here, that, although the initial objectives could no longer be achieved,
the built-in flexibility in the project design (annual planning basis) enabled the project to provide much
needed financing for urgent post-conflict activities soon after the Government was reinstated. This
flexibility as well as the Bank's continued and basically sole presence in the health sector while the country
suffered from a devastated economy and social disruptions, proved to be crucial to the survival of basic
health sector activities. As a result, a significant number of accomplishments materialized, even before the
project was formally restructured; they are described in the sections below.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The revised project objectives were to address priority health needs including the taking of appropriate and
urgent measures to: (1) deal with major public health issues such as STIs, HIV/AIDS, malaria and
onchocerciasis and other infectious diseases; (2) provide care to amputees and psychologically traumatized
women and children; and (3) reform the health system.

Assessment of Revised DOs:

The revised project objectives took into account the post-conflict emerging needs, particularly in light of the
significant deterioration of the health care delivery system, due to the destruction of infrastructure and lack
of human resources, an increase in the prevalence of common communicable diseases, a sharp increase in
STIs including the emergence of HIV/AIDS, and a significant increase of the number of physically and
psychologically traumatized individuals, especially women and children, including amputees and
individuals who were diagnosed with post-traumatic psychological stress disorders.

The SWAP approach was dropped and the project was transformed into a specific sector investment
project to deal with post-conflict needs as well as to continue essential reforms of the health sector. The
annual planning feature of the initial project design was found practical and was maintained in the revised
project. The project's restructuring was initiated as part of the global portfolio restructuring exercise and
was based on the Bank's Interim Transitional Support Strategy (ITSS), Report No.19918-SL, approved by
the Board in December 1999, which took into account the post-conflict needs of the country in all sectors,
and on the Government's Emergency Response Plan. At the time when restructuring was being finalized,
the project was disbursed at almost 30 percent. The restructured project included an allocation of US$3.44
million of the remaining US$14 million of the Credit to the power sector, which was to be returned to the
health sector via a supplemental credit. These funds were to purchase generators for the provision of
electricity to the city of Freetown. This was critical for improving the provision of electricity to health
facilities in and around the capital where a large portion of the post-war health sector activities were taking
place.

The project's restructuring was finalized in 2000 in the framework of the project's MTR of the Bank's
portfolio restructuring exercise. The modifications were substantial and were formally approved by the
Board in October 2000 as part of the Sierra Leone global portfolio restructuring. An amendment to the
DCA, reflecting the new focus of the project, was signed in December 2000, and included a two-year
extension of the closing date to June 30, 2003.




                                                       - 6 -

3.3 Original Components:
1996-2000 - Components:
         1. Policy Formulation, Coordination and General Administration
         2. District Operations
         3. Medical Infrastructure and Equipment Services
         4. Planning and Information
         5. Human Resources Management
         6. Drugs and Medical Supplies
         7. Primary Health Care
         8. Hospital and Laboratory Services
Note: No overall project cost by component was provided in the SAR, only costs for the first year of
project implementation were estimated (see SAR Table 4.2 and Annex 10, p. 3) because the SWAP was
based on plans to be decided annually.

The components listed above are those listed in the SAR program/project first year projection cost table
and those recorded in the Project Status Reports (PSRs). The "Program Description" in the SAR
(paragraph 4.5) regroups the program's activities in the following three parts: A - Health Services
Packages; B - Support Services; and C - Institutional Development; this grouping of activities is also used
in the Government's report.

Assessment of the Original Components:

The initial project was designed as a SWAP to support the NHAP globally. The project components were
those of the NHAP, and as such were relevant as they addressed all its objectives and sub-objectives.

The ICR team concluded that the overall program was clearly too ambitious in light of the Government's
implementation capacity at the time (poor financial management, lack of procurement functions within the
MOHS, weakened pool of human resources (resulting from years of conflict), and the fragile political
situation. However, these points notwithstanding, it is worth noting that the project's flexible design
(annual planning process) was devised to allow for the implementation to keep pace with MOHS'
progressively increased capacity and improved access to health districts. The development of the initial
project design was based on: (a) the lessons learned from the first Health and Population Project (HPP)
(such as the need to reinforce human resources development and the need to establish management
systems); (b) the 1993 World Development Report: Investing in Health which was utilized as a resource in
the prioritization of activities; and (c) the Better Health in Africa study (1994) which supported choices on
health policy and strategy development. Within the project design, the Government was to present, on a
yearly basis, an annual plan with activities related to the emerging needs within each component, thus
allowing for adapting activities and to possibly shifting priorities, and for the Bank's support to be molded
to finance the most pressing needs in each of these areas of implementation.

3.4 Revised Components:
2001-2003. The revised components were:

1. Health Emergency Package:                 US$9.0
2. Provision of Electricity:                 US$3.5
3. Reform Package:                           US$7.5

The project components were modified and reformulated to reflect the new situation, include post-conflict
needs and take into account the new objectives. The details of the planned (and implemented) activities for



                                                       - 7 -

each Component are presented in Annex 8.

Component 1 addressed both DOs 1 (dealing with major health issues) and 2 (providing care to amputees
and traumatized individuals and communities), while component 3 addressed DO 3 (reforming the health
system). As for component 2, the funds allocated to the power sector were utilized to finance urgently
needed generators for the provision of electricity in Freetown (component 2) ­ which would in turn improve
the provision of electricity to health facilities in the area, indirectly addressing DO 1. The generators were
to be transferred later on to the capitals of those health districts where renovations were planned with the
project's financing.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry is rated Unsatisfactory. Although the project was well prepared and the risks were clearly
identified, the ICR team concluded that the risks were not sufficiently taken into account in the decision to
utilize a SWAP approach in a country where the security situation was still fragile. The success of such a
project was dependent on factors which would easily be affected by the resurgence of a security crisis
which included:
         1. access to all zones of the country (some areas were not accessible at the time of project design);
         2. donors contribution (54% of the total cost of the national program, including IDA); and
         3. a large contribution of the government's budget (46% of the total cost).

The project's built-in flexibility --enabling the programming of project funds to be done on an annual
basis-- could have easily been integrated in a specific investment credit instead of a SWAP.

At the time of project preparation, the Bank had not yet introduced the current procedures for quality at
entry assessment nor had it introduced the logical framework for monitoring and evaluation. A QSR (and
retrospective QER) performed in 2001 determined that the quality at entry was unsound. It found
questionable that a SWAP, a rather complex and ambitious undertaking, was an appropriate choice, given
the weak capacity within MOHS and the still volatile security situation in the country at that time.

The initial project design was innovative at the time and Sierra Leone was amongst one of the first
countries in Africa involved in sector wide investment operations. Neither the country nor the Bank team
had had previous experience with this particular type of operation. The project was prepared with the
Government in the driver's seat for organizing and ensuring coordination, and with the support of
development partners. IDA played a key role in supporting government efforts to design its reform
program.

The project's objectives and design were consistent with the NHP of 1993. As indicated earlier, the
preparation and the design of the project had benefited from: (i) the lessons learned from the first
Bank-financed project, the HPP which was implemented from 1986 to 1995 (with a five-year suspension
period); (ii) the NHP, which outlined its main intentions for reforms in terms of improving the heath status
of the population through comprehensive reform; (iii) the 1993 World Development Report; and (iv) the
Better Health in Africa study (1994). IDA participated strongly along with other donors in the social
sector round tables held in 1994 and 1995. In addition, through a participatory process a NHAP was
elaborated in 1994 to provide the framework for the health sector reform and outline its overall costs
(US$138.1 million over a five-year period). In 1994 and 1995 during the Round Table Meetings, aside
from IDA (which provided/contributed/pledged US$20 million), donors made pledges for US$55 million
(see table in paragraph 5.4) in support of the core program of NHAP.

The preparation of the project was supported by the HPP (Cr. 1695-SL), as well as a PPF (P9520). A



                                                         - 8 -

PHRD Grant (TF023049) also provided support for the assessment and the reorganization of the MOHS
and the sector training framework. It provided technical assistance in the design and facilitation of the
planning, budgeting and prioritization processes. This included a formal beneficiary assessment, the
development of planning tools and a human resources plan.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project's outcome is rated Satisfactory.

The ICR team took into account in its assessment the fact that the significant achievements described below
were attained under the most difficult implementing conditions in a war-ravaged country with limited
human, financial and material resources, and with basically no donor support, except the Bank's. Without
the sustained presence of the Bank, the health system would have possibly collapsed.

The initial project did bring some positive results through its short implementation, particularly in the area
of institutional strengthening, which were carried over throughout the project life, and in a durable manner,
and in other areas as well, such as:

   l improved donor collaboration (as a result of the preparation of the project);
   l reform activities initiated in sanitation and environmental health, school health and drug
         management (started in the initial project and continued in the restructured project);
   l improved budget planning practices (including wider stakeholder participation in the planning
         process);
   l better management practices within MOHS (staffing, financial and procurement management);
   l more (increased) professionalism through the training of staff at all levels of MOHS;
   l replication of MOHS-initiated decentralization efforts in other sectors;
   l improvement of access to health care (through provision of medical supplies and minor, but much
   l needed, renovations of health facilities in Freetown and the Western Area).


The ability of the project, during the interim period (after the coup d'état and after the return of
Government, but before restructuring) to deal with the emergency post-conflict situation has had a positive
impact on the provision of health services during the emergency phase, and on mitigating the effects of the
war, such as:

   l preventing the spread of diseases (through the removal and burial of bodies littering the streets in
         Freetown and other urban areas);
   l providing access to much needed basic health services to displaced population (through creating
         satellite clinics and rehabilitating clinics into hospitals, providing health services in camps for the
         displaced);
   l providing specialized services to war victims (through the provision of counseling for amputees,
         rape and other victims, provision of prostheses for the amputees, prevention and control of drug
         abuse, therapeutic feeding and nutrition surveillance);
   l providing much needed drugs in Freetown and in the districts (through strengthening of the drug
         management system, and through the procurement of drugs dispatched with the assistance of UN
         transport in difficult to access zones); and
   l providing electricity for the city of Freetown, in turn ensuring the provision of electricity to health
         facilities in and around the city (critical for operating rooms).




                                                         - 9 -

The revised project capitalized on these achievements and contributed to continued improvements in dealing
with major health issues and key sector reforms, mainly:

    l better control of communicable diseases through training and sensitization of HIV/AIDS, maternal
         and child health, school health, immunization, treatment of STDs, impregnated bed nets, etc.);
    l improved provision of health services (through the rehabilitation of health facilities, training of
         technical staff, and through the increased community participation in hospital management
         committees, and increased financial decentralization of peripheral health facilities);
    l access to specialized care (through the provision of centers for the amputees and mental hospital
         services;
    l improved financial management (through better practices and controls within MOHS);
    l reforms in key sector areas (management of drugs, environmental health, school health, etc.);
    l improved environmental health and sanitation (through the removal of bodies littering the streets,
         ensuring safe water);
    l improved access to health services for the poorest populations (through free services and free drugs
         for women and under-five children); and
    l the production of national policies for EPI (expanded program of immunization), malaria, and
         cost-recovery.

A more exhaustive list of the project's achievements is included in Annexes 8 (List of Planned and
Implemented Activities) and 9 (Government's Report).

Initial Objectives

As a result of the war and its impact on the provision of donor and government funding and on the access
to the district areas, the project as initially designed could not be implemented, and the related project
objectives could not be achieved.

Most of the initial indicators (see SAR, Annex 11) are no longer relevant as they were designed to measure
the achievements of a SWAP which, in the end, was not implemented.

Overall, however, the project as initially designed did bring positive results through its short
implementation, particularly in the area of institutional strengthening, such as improved donor
collaboration, and through reform activities it initiated (which were carried into the restructured project)
such as improved budget planning practices (including wider stakeholder participation in the planning
process), better management practices within MOHS (staffing, financial and procurement management),
and more professionalism through the training of staff at all levels of MOHS. MOHS-initiated
decentralization efforts are now being replicated in other sectors.

As indicated above, the project provided a significant amount of training in the area of sector management
(including Master's of Public Health programs/degrees for key MOHS staff), and general management
(financial, procurement, and human resources), as well as in technical areas (malaria control, reproductive
health, drug management), and strengthening the institutional capacity in a durable way. More details are
provided in the Institutional Development and Sustainability sections below.

Revised Objectives:

The outcome is rated Satisfactory. This rating is supported by the project performance indicators
presented in Annex 1 and the achievements which are described above.


                                                        - 10 -

It is clear that the situation would have been worse without the crucial support provided by the project.
This is particularly true when considering the fact that the project provided much-needed financing right
after the war keeping the Ministry of Health operational (most project staff were hired on a contract basis)
paid by the project who remained in place while most civil servants had fled and those who remained were
not paid), and ensuring that minimal health services were provided specially for the displaced population
arriving in the Freetown area (specifically ensuring the setting up of several satellite clinics, and the
upgrading of other clinics into hospitals), when most other public services were nonexistent.

The restructured project included a variety of activities aimed at reducing post-conflict issues such as the
loss of infrastructure, equipment and human resources and the emergence/reemergence of important health
problems such as HIV/AIDS, infectious disease epidemics, psychological trauma and activities aimed at
further developing the capacity of the health sector. To prevent the health system from further collapse, a
wide range of actions were planned in various areas of intervention, although resources were limited due to
already disbursed funds, the transfer to the power sector, and losses due to exchange rate fluctuations.

Objective 1: Address major public health issues such as STIs, HIV/AIDS, malaria, onchocerciasis
and other infectious diseases.

Maternal and child health program: This Program was designed to reduce maternal and child health
problems through safe motherhood activities, family planning, school health services, and the follow-up of
health care provided for infants and under five-year old children, including immunization. Through the
project, this program improved the capacity of maternal and child health aides and traditional birth
attendants, and of midwives, by the provision of technical training; increased the supply of contraceptives;
facilitated practical functioning of the Peripheral Health Units (PHU) through the provision of motorcycles;
improved teachers' capacity in the recognition of common ailments and first aid through training; provided
first aid kits and essential drugs for use in schools; and provided immunization training for district and
PHU health staff. These activities contributed to strengthen the technical capacity of the stakeholders and
provided some logistic support to this key program.

National Malaria Control Program: This program was elaborated and activities implemented in a
satisfactory manner. A policy for malaria control was elaborated and agreed upon in April 2000. In
addition to what had been done prior to the pre-restructuring phase, and in coordination with other donors
(e.g. WHO, AfDB, etc.), the project supported activities related to the promotion and use of
insecticide-treated bed-nets, and Information Education and Communication/Behavior Change
Communication (BCC). The targets were mainly women, children and displaced persons often living in the
slums.

Environmental Health and Sanitation: A significant number of accomplishments were achieved in this area
, such as water and sanitation activities which created synergy and ensured complementarity with the other
programs. These activities included training of staff, logistics for supervision, support for the development
of an environmental sanitation policy, provision of sanitary tools, insecticides, disinfectants and chlorine for
wells, and provision of dump trucks. Although it was started prior to restructuring, a crucial
accomplishment worth highlighting was the removal and burial of decomposing bodies that littered the
streets of Freetown and other urban areas, which prevented the spread of diseases.

Nutrition: The poor nutritional status of the population mainly of women of child-bearing age and children
under five-years old, was a serious public health problem after the war. The project provided equipment,
drugs and supplements, and funded training in nutrition surveillance and the establishment of a therapeutic


                                                       - 11 -

feeding center at the Children's Hospital.

Onchocerciasis: Ivermectine distribution by mobile teams and the integration of onchocerciasis prevention
and treatment activities in the national health system according to the devolution process, were
implemented. Since funding was secured from the World Bank Onchocerciasis Control Program (OCP),
the project provided only marginal support composed of staff training and renovation of the office of this
Program.

HIV/AIDS: The project supported (i) the availability of HIV testing through the procurement of test kits,
(ii) dissemination of IEC/BCC using diverse media, (iii) the availability (procurement and distribution) of
condoms, (iv) improvement of understanding of the disease and the spread of the epidemic, through the
training of religious leaders and traditional healers on HIV prevention, treatment and care, (v) training of
counselors on home-based care for people infected with HIV/AIDS, and (vi) the refurbishment of the
National AIDS Control Program (NACP) Secretariat. According to a Center for Disease Control and
Prevention (CDC) study, 78.9 percent of women (15-49) can correctly identify the three main ways of
avoiding HIV/AIDS (Annex 1, Indicator 1, although the results of this study were not officially published
as the sampling was found to be not reliable due to population movement). However, no other data exist to
measure the impact of the Program on the achievement of this objective.

Other achievements were noted in the areas of the health education program, and the secondary and tertiary
health care programs as mentioned in Annex 8.

Objective 2: Provide care to amputees and psychologically traumatized women and children

The Government carried out an assessment of disabilities in the Western Area and provided training of staff
and of communities on the control of communicable diseases and provided material, including prostheses
for amputees, and consumables, funded the rehabilitation of the Kissy Mental Hospital, counseling for
amputees, rape and other victims of violence, and undertook efforts designed for the prevention and control
of drug abuse. However, the planned contract with Handicap International, which was to provide
psychological care for amputees and a supply of prostheses, did not materialize promptly enough to be
financed under the project.

Objective 3: Reform the Health System

The continued activities in the area of health sector reform included: providing support to the development
of national policies such as those focusing on immunization, malaria and cost-recovery strategies;
attempting to increase provision of service in remote areas by provision of drugs; and increasing the
affordability of care for the poor by abandoning a cost-recovery approach in providing services and care
for pregnant women, children under-five years old, and displaced populations. In addition, the project:
rehabilitated the Central Medical Store; initiated decentralization to the district-level by staffing and
provision of discretionary operating funds; provided training to technical as well as administrative staff;
and developed improved accounting and procurement practices. Outcome and output indicators are
available to demonstrate the project's achievements towards this objective, such as the number of
decentralized and fully functional districts which went from 3 in 2000 to 12 in 2003, compared to a target
of 13.

The comprehensive rehabilitation package of health districts hospitals (US$3 million) could not be
implemented due to the non-refunding of the US$3.44 million which were transferred to the power sector.
The financing of electricity for the city of Freetown was a priority in the portfolio restructuring and its


                                                      - 12 -

urgency can be well understood. Supplemental funds were promised at the time of restructuring to offset
this transfer. However, these funds did not materialize. Instead, Bank management decided to jump start
the preparation of a new health project (rather than attempting to obtain the supplemental funding) as it
deemed that the district hospital civil works package was not the most important at a time of post-conflict
emergency. The new health operation does include district hospital renovations in the districts covered by
the project.

The following table (Table 2) shows IDA's support to technical programs:

                                      Summary of IDA Support to Technical Programs
                                                      1996 to 2003

PROGRAM                                                                                                        VEHI-
               1996      1997       1998       1999       2000         2001         2002     2003   TOTAL
                                                                                                               CLES
                $         $          $          $           $             $           $       $        $

DISEASE                3,822.00   6,925.00  23,911.46   69,925.18    18,160.88    9,767.64    -   132,512.16    1
PC

HEALTH          -      8,750.00  27,198.07  77,346.65   52,841.82    43,589.06    2,493.74    -   212,219.34    2
EDUC.


MCH             -     76,665.45  129,192.68 91,969.54   54,863.16   129,169.85    14,417.63   -   496,004.31    0


RH/FP           -     11,310.00      -       8,150.00   62,264.64    59,129.94    8,363.00    -   149,214.58    0


NUTRITION       -         -         937      5,000.00   36,233.81    19,110.17    33,685.79   -    94,966.77    0


CH/HEALTH       -         -       9,532.67  23,122.86   41,183.45     9,172.86    2,422.06    -    85,433.90    1


ENV
SANITATIO       -         -       5,172.42  54,740.10  135,527.76   490,101.67    152,528.18  -   838,070.13    0
N

IDS             -         -          -      41,793.73  138,251.02   119,206.85    2,996.06    -   302,247.66    0

DEATHS          -         -          -       4,741.48   11,956.25     7,605.55        -       -    24,303.28    0

MALARIA         -         -          -      18,810.13   90,166.59   133,201.23    10,734.98   -   252,912.93    1

ONCHO           -         -          -       7,170.92   84,924.52    50,480.63        -       -   142,576.07    0

LEPROSY         -         -          -          -       1,718.40          -           -       -     1,718.40    0

                -         -          -          -           -             -           -       -        -        -

TOTAL                 100,547.45 178,957.84 356,482.87 779,856.60  1,078,925.69   237,409.08  -   2,732,179.53  5

Source: MOHS




4.2 Outputs by components:
Initial project components:

After an initial start-up delay, several activities were carried out in safe access zones in Freetown and the
Western Area rural zones. These activities included training for institutional strengthening, the
procurement of drugs and medical supplies, minor rehabilitation, and the development of key health and
sanitation policy documents (Environmental Sanitation Policy, Health Education Policy, etc.). As indicated




                                                       - 13 -

earlier, in May 1997, the Government was ousted by rebels, suspension of disbursements followed and all
project activities stopped. After the war, once the legitimate government was reinstated and the suspension
of disbursements lifted, some emergency activities took place on an as needed basis at first, and then based
on the Emergency Response Plan prepared by the Government in September 1998, with quarterly activity
plans, until the project was restructured in 2000. This is considered the 'in-between' period (after the war,
but before restructuring). These activities are included under the 'initial project components'. One major
achievement after the war (prior to restructuring) was the establishment of satellite clinics and the
refurbishing of some clinics as hospitals, to deal with the increased demand resulting from the flow of
displaced populations in need of emergency/urgent health care.

The following lists the achievements in each of the project's major area of activity prior to restructuring.
More details are provided in Annex 8.

A - Health Services Package: The main programs to be supported were Maternal and Child Health
(through the training of child health and birth attendants), Expanded Program of Immunization
(transportation), Reproductive Health and Family Planning (training of staff), School Health, Disease
Prevention and Control (such as malaria, onchocerciacis, STDs, and HIV/AIDS), Environmental Sanitation
(development of the environmental sanitation policy), Nutrition, Health Education (provision of
supplements, training, counseling, transport), Clinical Services (provision of drugs and equipment), Human
Resources (training), and support and provision of health services in the camps for the displaced in the
Western Area.

B - Support Services: The following activities were funded prior to restructuring, mostly in the area of
drug management. Activities aimed at strengthening maintenance capacity were implemented:
improvement of the drugs management system (renovation of the Central Medical Stores, provision of
essential and specialized drugs, resuscitation of the drug cost-recovery program, consultancy and staffing),
and strengthening country-wide the maintenance and repair capacity (creating and strengthening of the
Maintenance and Repair Unit at two hospitals.

C - Institutional Development: These activities were implemented in order to reinforce the institutional
capacity of MOHS in the areas of human resource management, decentralization of management and
decision-making, and procurement and financial management systems. The achievements under this
component were substantial, including improved budget planning and practices within MOHS,
strengthening of the internal auditing and control mechanisms to ensure better accountability and
transparency, and hiring and training of staff in accounting, financial and procurement management at all
levels of MOHS. In addition the strengthening of human resources was ensured by implementing a staff
inventory, and by reinforcing the Donor relations office and the Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Office
by the recruitment of staff, equipment and training, and by conducting operational research studies such as
the disabilities study in the Western Area.

Restructured project components:

Most activities planned under the two health components have been completed despite very difficult
implementing conditions. The major accomplishments of these components are described below. As
indicated earlier, one major activity (the district hospital reform package) of the Reform component could
not be implemented due to the fact that the promised supplemental credit did not materialize.

Component 1: Health Emergency Response package: This component's DO and IP were rated



                                                      - 14 -

Satisfactory. This Component focused mostly on the emergency needs of the health sector, providing
support to the health care system at a crucial time, shortly after the return of the Government and
preventing further the collapse of the system. The project financed the following activities under this
Component: the rehabilitation of PHUs and staff quarters, the provision of essential and specialized drugs
and medical supplies; the training of PHU staff and community representatives on key public health
concerns; the provision of sanitary tools, disinfectants, insecticides, and chlorine for wells; and the
technical training of maternal and child aides and traditional birth attendants.

Component 2: Provision of Electricity: This Component was implemented satisfactorily by the National
Power Agency (NPA). The implementation of this component has been addressed in the Power Sector
Project ICR (Cr. 2356-SL). Briefly, this component included the purchase and installation of generators
for the city of Freetown, and spare parts for this and other generators. These generators were to be
transferred later on ­once a new main generator was bought ­ to the capitals of those health districts where
hospitals were to be rehabilitated. These generators were purchased and installed and spare parts were
bought. However, the generators were not transferred to health districts as they are still used by NPA as a
back-up system to the main generator, and because the cost of running them (fuel consumption rate) was
too high to be efficient for the financial capacity of district capitals.

Component 3: Health Sector Reform. This component's objective was to continue health sector reforms
in order to improve performance through institutional strengthening measures initiated at project inception.
Activities implemented with project funding included: the facilitation of financial decentralization through
the recruitment, training and deployment of district finance officers; the disbursement of discretionary
operating funds to the district health management teams for the implementation of key operational activities
(see Table 3 below); the strengthening of audit, architectural and procurement functions by recruiting
additional staff for the internal audit department, office of the architect, and the procurement unit; and the
provision of technical assistance to improve the planning and budgeting processes at all levels of the health
care delivery system. As previously mentioned, the health district civil works package was not
implemented because of lack of funds due to the transfer to the power sector (US$3.44 million) which was
not returned. This included a large civil works package (US$3 million) for the rehabilitation of health
district hospitals for which all the procurement documents had been prepared. As a result, this
component's IP rating was Unsatisfactory throughout the revised project duration. However, it is
important to note here that overall this component (together with the reform activities started under the
initial project set-up) has brought important achievements in the area of institutional development and
capacity strengthening as described in paragraph 4.5 below.




                                                      - 15 -

                                   Summary of Discretionary Operating Costs to Districts
                                                      1996 to 2003

                                            MOYAMB                                 PORTLOK
Year    KENEMA       BONTHE          BO                   W/AREA      PUJEHUN                 BOMBALI     TOTAL
                                                 A                                      O

            ($)          ($)         ($)        ($)          ($)         ($)            ($)      ($)        ($)

2000     12,903.23        -           -          -            -           -              -        -      12,903.23

2001     31,383.08    31,229.62   43,105.01 23,091.07     30,306.24   22,953.75     14,871.89     -      196,940.66


2002     14,852.22    11,212.77    9,708.74  4,993.43     19,646.63   11,033.20      4,993.43  3,864.74  80,305.16

2003         -            -           -          -            -           -              -        -          -

Total    59,138.53    42,442.39   52,813.75 28,084.50     49,952.87   33,986.95      9,865.32  3,864.74  290,149.05

Other Operating Costs (HQ) 1996 to 2003                                                                  1,999,771.61
Grand Total                                                                                              2,289,920.66
Source: MOHS


Annex 8 provides a detailed comparative list of planned and implemented activities for the initial and
revised components. Overall, in each of the components, many activities have actually been implemented
and successfully completed despite limited resources and means, and difficult implementing conditions
which prevailed during most of the project execution period. These accomplishments should be recognized
in the evaluation of the project.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not Applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not Applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:

Project activities had and continue to have a positive impact on many aspects of the health sector, and on
the MOHS as a whole, particularly in the improvement of:

    (a) staff capacity in financial management and procurement, planning, and M&E; and

    (b) the improvement of health workers technical skills, providing for better health delivery services to
    the population mainly in the Western Area, but also in some districts.

General improvement in MOHS book keeping and the establishment of an internal auditor unit in MOHS
have also helped provide better financial management practices throughout MOHS.

Some of these improved practices are now being replicated in other ministries. The project staff provided
direct procurement and financial management support for the two health components of the SHARP
(Bank-financed Sierra Leone HIV/AIDS Response Project).

Although more remains to be done to achieve full fiscal decentralization, MOHS initiated the
decentralization of funds to the rural areas. The direct provision of operating costs to the districts during
project implementation has laid the ground work for further sectoral decentralization. These discretionary
funds helped finance the running of vehicles, maintenance of equipment, supervision costs, and the



                                                          - 16 -

purchase of small supplies for the daily functioning of the districts health centers. The number of
decentralized districts which are fully functional went from 3 in 2000 to 12 in 2003, compared to a target
of 13 (a fully functional district is defined as having a financial officer, a functioning health management
team, and a referral system).

Another significant achievement, especially in light of the poor staffing situation which resulted from the
war, is the continuation of capacity-building, particularly the financing of external training courses,
including the participation of eight medical officers in a Master's of Public Health Program (MPH), and
post-graduate training for health planners, health education specialist, sanitary engineers, pharmacists,
financial management specialists, auditors, procurement specialists, architects, and administrators.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

The May 1997 coup d'état and ousting of the elected Government rendered the implementation of any
project activities impossible for over a year. Donors' pledged contributions could no longer materialize as
practically most donors had left the country. After the reinstatement of the Government, the country
suffered another rebel invasion in January 1999, further affecting the implementation of the project in the
district areas, thus rendering initial project objectives and design obsolete.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Lack of and delays in the provision of counterpart funds remained an issue throughout most of the project
life. After the war, due to liquidity problems, allocated counterpart funds were not transferred to the
project. Related delays in the payment of suppliers have affected project implementation as the already few
suppliers were no longer willing to bid. IDA deferred the declining financing percentage, and provided 100
percent financing on all categories for a fixed period, until December 2002. However, once less than 100
percent financing resumed, delays in the provision of counterpart funding continued, and at project closing,
there remains an outstanding list of unpaid `counterpart funds portion' to suppliers adding up to about
US$70,000 equivalent. This issue will be monitored closely under the new project (HSRDP).

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
There were some initial delays in the recruitment of project staff, particularly in the putting in place of a
procurement unit within MOHS. Some serious discrepancies in the procurement of civil works where
highlighted by the Bank's Procurement Specialist; corrective measures against the project architect were
applied promptly by project management, and tighter controls were established. Frequent changes in the
Ministry's top management staff led to disruptions in project implementation as these staff also had project
management responsibilities; those responsibilities were eventually assigned to more permanent technical
ministry staff.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The original project design relied heavily on the provision of donor funds. The original estimated project
cost was US$138.1 million and pledged donor contributions at the time of signature amounted to US$55
million.

                               Table 4: Amount Pledged by Donors

                 Donor                                          Amount Pledged
                                                                (in US$ million)
                 AfDB                                                  15.0



                                                       - 17 -

                 European Union                                          4.0
                 Saudi Fund for Development                              6.0
                 UNDP Grant                                              2.0
                 UNICEF                                                  4.9
                 UNFPA                                                   4.0
                 WHO                                                     4.0
                 Others                                                  5.0
                 Total                                                  54.9

The project suffered reduction of funding when, at restructuring, a portion of the credit was allocated to the
power sector (US$3.44 million) and the promised supplemental funds were not provided. At restructuring,
the project was about 30 percent disbursed (US$6 million equivalent). Furthermore, the project lost
slightly over US$2 million in exchange rate fluctuations, reducing the overall available funds to about
US$14 million for implementation of the project's health-related activities.

At the time of project closing, the credit (US$20 million) was virtually entirely disbursed (99.97 percent)
with a total disbursement of US$17.9 million and a remaining balance of US$4,530 (differences are due to
exchange rate fluctuations).


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is rated Unlikely.

Although the project has contributed to important achievements in the health sector during the pre- and
post-restructuring periods, particularly in institutional capacity strengthening, for the most part the
sustainability is unlikely ("sustainability" as defined by the ICR Guidelines for the purpose of this rating).
Even with the assumption that civil unrest is definitively over, and based on the Borrower's ownership and
the fact that health sector is amongst Government's priorities, the ICR team believes that for these
achievements to be sustainable, the following elements would be required:
    (i) increasing significantly the allocation to the health sector as part of the Government's overall budget
    and sustained flow of counterpart funds when necessary;
    (ii) developing and implementing a comprehensive policy of human resources;
    (iii) fostering/adjusting of the cost recovery strategy which, given the scope of poverty within the
    population, was unable to take off. Such a cost recovery strategy would need to provide equity in
    financial access to essential services by the poor, in order to increase utilization;
    (iv) increasing the quality of service delivery, and of supervision and M&E;
    (v) increasing the utilization rates;
    (vi) strengthening the maintenance mechanism put in place; and
    (vii) actually involving the community in the management of health facilities including involvement in
    decision making process.

For some of the Project's activities, long term sustainability is neither expected nor desirable, and hopefully
not needed (emergency activities, amputee hospital, etc.).

The importance of public health issues has increased and the MOHS' dependence on external financing has
not yet been able to decrease. Taking into account the country's current economic situation and the related
level of internal resources, it is obvious that sustainability is unlikely in the near future and that financing


                                                      - 18 -

of activities in the health sector will need to be supported by the donor community for years to come.

On the issue of recurrent cost and staffing, there were 14 full-time contractual staff positions funded by the
project for the MOHS. Most of these positions, with the exception of the three staff of the Central Medical
Store, have been carried over into the new health operation (HSRDP). The progressive integration of these
staff over the long term, in the MOHS should be examined. It is recommended that MOHS starts
addressing this issue in its human resource management strategy.

With regards to institutional development, it must be noted that there was a considerable effort made
towards capacity-building in the health sector, including at the district level. Important achievements were
made in the areas of planning and budgeting processes, procurement and financial management practices,
and in starting the process of decentralization to the districts. These key achievements will need to be
strengthened to achieve durable sustainability. One shortcoming, related to the lack of partnership with the
private sector and with NGOs, is being addressed through HSRDP and SHARP projects.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
There was no gap between the closure of this Project on June 30, 2003, and the effectiveness of the new
health operation (HSRDP) on May 23, 2003. The HIV/AIDS (SHARP) project was effective even earlier
in October 2002.

HSRDP has for an objective to contribute to poverty reduction in Sierra Leone through its focus on the
poor and under-served populations. The project complements other donors' funding to the programs
dealing with major public health problems and those programs which are of greater benefit to the poor
population such as primary health care, malaria, tuberculosis, nutrition, sanitation and HIV/AIDS.

The free-standing SHARP Project, in a complementary manner with HSRDP, will finance interventions
such as institutional capacity-building; provision of care and nutrition supplements to people living with
HIV/AIDS, interventions for vulnerable groups, and condom availability through multiple provision
channels including the health sector and social marketing.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance during project preparation is rated Unsatisfactory.

The ICR team believes that the risks were clearly identified but not sufficiently taken into account and
unrealistic assumptions were made about: (a) the choice of the SWAP approach which is largely dependent
on donors' contributions, in a country with a still fragile security condition; and (b) the Government's
capacity to fulfill its financial commitment through the provision of counterpart funds and the needed
stewardship to oversee the implementation of a SWAP.

On the positive side, the Bank has played a key role in the technical and strategic analysis of the sector and
has contributed significantly in identifying the reforms to be conducted and to the design of the project
which was based on lessons learned from the HPP (Cr. 1695-SL) and on a strong dialogue with MOHS
and other development partners such as donors, private sector representatives, and civil society
stakeholders. The project preparation team had a specific focus on beneficiaries and their needs, especially
addressing the key challenges such as concerns for high fertility levels, very high level of infant, under-five
child and maternal mortality, and accelerated population growth and low sector capacity.




                                                      - 19 -

7.2 Supervision:
Supervision by the Bank is rated Highly Satisfactory for the following reasons:

    l The performance of the task team was outstanding and the Bank provided continued support at a
        crucial time (post-war);
    l The task team remained strongly involved in the dialogue with MOHS and key stakeholders and
        provided steadfast support and advice even throughout the difficult period of civil unrest through
        all possible means of communication. This was proof of a strong commitment of the Bank's team
        to the project;
    l Supervision missions were regularly organized both in the field and at the Bank's office in
        Washington and produced good quality documents. Missions to Sierra Leone were interrupted
        only for a year, and resumed as soon as the elected Government had returned. They were generally
        staffed with a good skill mix and experienced persons. However, it is worth mentioning that
        project supervision was carried out by three successive team leaders, all Washington-based staff,
        and that the Bank did not have a Country Office during most of the period under review. This high
        turnover and absence of a country office, however, did not negatively impact the implementation of
        the project.
    l Budgets allocated to supervision activities were, overall, in line with the stated needs;
    l Bank demonstrated appropriate flexibility which helped the Government address the challenges and
        public health problems as the country emerged out of a civil war. This flexibility allowed the
        project to assist the Government in dealing with urgent post-conflict public health issues such as
        STIs, HIV/AIDS, malaria, onchocerciasis and other infectious diseases, care to amputees and
        psychologically traumatized women and children. It also prevented the collapse of the health
        system at a crucial time when government resources were scarce and most donors were absent;
    l The Bank's continued presence in Sierra Leone, while the country suffered a devastated economy
        and most other donors had fled, was much appreciated by the Government.

The Bank's performance with regard to the promised supplemental credit to offset the transfer of US$3.44
million from this Credit to the power sector which was never granted, is not satisfactory as it had an impact
on the implementation of the Reform Component, although the Government was ready with the
procurement documents prepared to launch bidding for the hospital rehabilitation package (a major activity
of the Reform component). However, Bank management had to make a judgment call at this crucial time.
It considered that this sub-component was not the most important within emergency post-conflict activities,
and judged that the early preparation of the new health operation would be a more cost-efficient solution
than the slow and bureaucratic process of obtaining supplemental funding. The new health operation
(HSRDP) does include renovation of district hospitals in some districts.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Taking into account the above ratings, the Overall Bank Performance is rated Satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance during project preparation is considered to be Satisfactory. The preparation
of the project has benefited from experience gained by the HPP (Cr. 1695-SL). It started with the
development, in a participatory process, of the sector policy in 1993 and the subsequent NHAP in 1994.
However, the private sector was less involved in project preparation.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's implementation performance is rated Satisfactory.



                                                    - 20 -

The Government supported the health sector reform program including the decentralization reform and
played an active role in convincing donors in order to address the financing gap. Moreover, the Borrower
worked closely with the Bank during the mid-term to restructure the project into a specific investment
project and to include the financing of emergency activities for the post-conflict phase.

Due to the political and economic situation mostly related to the war, the mobilization of counterpart funds
encountered delays and this impacted somewhat negatively the implementation of the project (i.e. because
national suppliers were not fully paid, they became unwilling to bid on public procurement at a time when
there were already very few national suppliers).

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementing agency is rated Satisfactory. The project management was to be
integrated into the fiber of MOHS' structure and staff were to assume their respective roles. MOHS,
clearly in the driver's seat, showed a strong commitment, which as a result, facilitated coordination with
donors. However, project leadership was not clearly assigned and slow implementation resulted from this
at the start of implementation. This issue was corrected through the nomination of the Director of Planning
and Information as Project Coordinator within MOHS. In addition, the procurement function was weak at
the beginning of the project, but the recruited procurement staff helped improve the way procurement issues
were handled. Fourteen key positions in project implementation were project-financed contractual staff,
who performed well. Identified problems were resolved promptly.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The Borrower's overall performance is rated Satisfactory. Indeed, although some shortcomings were noted
during project implementation, such as a slow start, lack of or delays in counterpart funds, MOHS has
demonstrated a strong commitment despite the difficult environment, improved the planning process as well
as the financial management, initiated decentralization, and has also played the key role in the coordination
of stakeholders including donors.

8. Lessons Learned

    l The risk assessment needs to be taken into account in the project's scope and innovative design
         particularly in post-conflict settings.

    l Ensuring flexibility in project design: the flexibility in the initial project design (annual plan basis)
         allowed for immediate financing of emergency activities when needed, without immediate
         restructuring.

    l Distributing funds over too many activities can lessen the project's overall impact, specially when
         resources are limited, and should be avoided. The new project seems to have focused on specific
         interventions as well as fewer geographical areas.

    l The financing by the project of contractual staff for key implementation positions has ensured
         continuity of project implementation, in a conflict/post-conflict environment where most civil
         servants were no longer in place.

    l Activities should not be included in the project when funds to finance them are not secured (the
         example of the district hospital package to be financed by not-yet-secured supplemental funds
         reveals the risks inherent in such an approach).



                                                     - 21 -

    l In the project planning process, it is crucial to ensure that required counterpart funds are
        commensurate with the country's capacity to make them available, especially in a post-conflict
        environment, and that they are available by monitoring closely the budget and payment of these
        counterpart funds. In the new project, this issue will be monitored carefully.

    l The need to recruit local consultants for long-term assignments whenever feasible. An
        international financial management firm and procurement consultancy firm were recruited at
        project inception, but their services had to be terminated as a result of the coup d'état. Local
        replacements performed satisfactorily.

    l The need to further tighten internal fiduciary control measures. This became evident to the project
        when some discrepancies were highlighted in the procurement of civil works by the Bank
        procurement specialist during a routine supervision mission. This resulted in corrective measures
        against the project Architect to prevent the repetition of the problem, however, this emphasized the
        need to tighten internal controls.

    l It is particularly important when project management is fully integrated within a Ministry to assign
        specific responsibilities for project implementation and decision-making on the Ministry's more
        permanent staff rather than on those who are likely to change more often such as political
        appointees.

    l Finally, in post-conflict settings, one cannot expect short/medium term sustainability and it is
        important that Donors commit their resources over long periods to give a sector a reasonable
        chance for take off.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Government's complete contribution to the ICR can be found in Annex 9. The following is a summary
of the Government's report:

To assess the achievements under the project, two periods should be taken into account:

1.      Pre-restructuring period

This covers the period from project effectiveness to restructuring (September 1996 to June 2000). It must,
however, be noted that virtually no project activities were implemented during the Armed Forces Ruling
Council/Revolutionary United Front (AFRC/RUF) reign of terror (from May 1997 when the legitimate
government was ousted to March 1998 when it was reinstated). The following presents the findings of an
assessment of the achievements of the three main parts of the project as originally conceived.

PART A:          HEALTH SERVICES PACKAGE

The main programs that were to be supported under this component included Mother and Child
Health/Expanded Program of Immunization (MCH/EPI), Reproductive Health/Family Planning, School
Health, Disease Prevention and Control of diseases including Malaria, TB, Onchocerciasis, Respiratory
Tract Infections, STIs and HIV/AIDS), Environmental Sanitation, Nutrition, Health Education, Clinical
Services and Human Resources.



                                                     - 22 -

Support provided for this included the following:

l Training of maternal and child health aides and traditional birth attendants;
l Strengthening School Health Services by procuring first-aid kits and de-worming tablets, training
    school teachers on first-aid, rehabilitating and furnishing the offices of the Program Manager, and
    providing a 4-Wheel Drive (4WD) vehicle to assist with transportation;
l Strengthening environmental sanitation by funding the development of an Environmental Sanitation
    Policy, providing sanitation tools and disinfectants, constructing polders and refuse containers, training
    staff, supporting supervision and providing a 4WD vehicle and a front-loader;
l Provision of body bags for the burial of decomposing corpses that littered the streets of Freetown and
    other urban centers;
l Provision of prostheses for amputees;
l Counseling of amputees, rape and other victims, prevention and control of drug abuse;
l Supporting therapeutic feeding and nutrition surveillance by providing Supplementary Food and
    training; equipping and assigning staff to provide counseling, supplements and support services; and
    providing transportation;
l Supporting nationwide Health Education activities through training programs; development of the/a
    Health Education policy and IEC materials; and provision of transportation;
l Training of hospital staff on various topics like diagnosis and treatment of common ailments;
l Architectural assessment of health facilities in the Western Area;
l Minor repairs to the hospitals in Freetown after the devastation of the invasion, namely Connaught,
    Kissy Mental, Children's and PCM hospitals, and providing drugs, equipment, medical supplies and
    ambulances;
l Renovation of 10 PHUs;
l Support for the provision of health services in the camps for the displaced in the Western Area;
l Fencing of the satellite clinics and the limb-fitting center;
l Renovation of nurses' and doctors' hostels;
l Renovation of the offices of the Onchocerciasis Control Program;
l Provision of drugs and equipment for the PHUs in safe areas;
l Provision of reagents for screening for HIV/AIDS; and
l Revision of the Primary Health Care Operational Handbook.


Only input indicators can measure progress achieved under this package. It must, however, be appreciated
that projects of this nature are usually slow to take off, but pick up momentum with time, and this was fully
anticipated for this project in general, and this component in particular. There were all reasons to expect
that this would have continued if the conflict had not escalated.

PART B:           SUPPORT SERVICES

Support under this Component was primarily intended to improve the drugs management system, improve
the laboratory services, and strengthen maintenance and repair capacity country-wide. The following
activities were funded under this Component prior to restructuring:

l Renovation of two warehouses at Central Medical Stores;
l Fencing of Central Medical Stores;
l Provision of essential and specialized drugs and contraceptives for country-wide distribution and in
    support of the resuscitation of the Essential Drugs Cost-Recovery System;
l Strengthening of monitoring and supervision of the drugs management system through training (e.g., on



                                                      - 23 -

    rational drug use) and the provision of transportation;
l Appointment of specialized staff for the Central Medical Stores, namely Stores Accountant, Receiving
    Bay and Dispatch Bay Officers, and the recruitment of a private security firm;
l Consultancy on the management of the Central Medical Stores;
l Strengthening of the Maintenance and Repair Unit at Connaught Hospital, and establishment of a
l Maintenance and Repair Unit at PCM Hospital; and
l Strengthening of the Office for architectural services.


PART C:          INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT

The institutional weaknesses in MOHS were well documented and formed the rationale for this Component.
The problems identified included human resource deficiencies with few highly qualified staff overstretched
with responsibilities; the over-centralization of management; and weak procurement and financial
management systems. The achievements under this Component were substantial, and include the following:

l Establishment of a Management Support Unit (that was subsequently dissolved when the international
    consultants had to depart hastily because of the escalating conflict);
l Strengthening of Financial Management through the recruitment of the Director of Financial Resources
    and a Management Accountant;
l Strengthening of the Audit and internal control mechanisms to ensure transparency and accountability
    in financial transactions;
l Training of Accounts Clerks on Audit Procedures and Basic Accounting Principles;
l Establishment of a Procurement Unit that was appropriately staffed and equipped. Although the
    international consultants from the International Procurement Consultancy Firm had to leave because of
    the conflict, local consultants were subsequently recruited and performed satisfactorily;
l Establishment of a Directorate for Human Resources;
l Conduction of a staff inventory by the directorate of Human Resources;
l Strengthening of the Donor Relations Office by recruiting needed staff, furnishing the offices, and
    providing transportation;
l Strengthening of district M&E through training of district M&E Officers; rehabilitation of district
    M&E offices; development of new and revision of existing data collection instruments; printing and
    distribution of data collection instruments; intensification of supervision; and
l Conduction of operational research studies, e.g., on disabilities in the Western Area.


2.       Post-restructuring period

Although the legitimate government was reinstated in March 1998, and project-funded activities were
resumed soon after the lifting of suspension in June 1998, the project was not formally restructured until
June 2000. In line with this, the original completion and closing dates were extended by two years, i.e., to
December 2002 and June 2003, respectively. The restructured project had the following three components:
(i) Health Emergency Response; (ii) Provision of Electricity; and (iii) Health Sector Reform.

HEALTH EMERGENCY RESPONSE

This Component was intended to support the emergency needs in the sector, and contributed considerably
towards providing vital support in a timely manner, especially immediately after the cessation of hostilities.
Activities funded by IHSIP (write out what this is) include the following:

l Rehabilitation of PHUs and staff quarters;



                                                     - 24 -

l Provision of essential and specialized drugs and medical supplies;
l Conduction of assessment studies, especially in the liberated districts;
l Training of PHU staff and community representatives on topics of public health concern, e.g.,
    emergency preparedness and response, control of common communicable diseases, drugs management
    and essential drugs cost-recovery, Oral Rehydration Therapy and first-aid;
l Intensification of country-wide monitoring, supervision, and surveillance;
l Provision of sanitary tools, disinfectants, insecticides, and chlorine for wells; and
l Training of Maternal and Child Health Aides and Traditional Birth attendants.


PROVISION OF ELECTRICITY

This Component does not relate directly to any of the restructured DOs. It was recognized as an
emergency problem that needed to be urgently addressed, and it was "convenient" to utilize available,
non-committed IHSIP funds to address this problem. The total sum of US$3.4 million was disbursed to the
Energy Sector for this, with the implicit understanding that the health sector, i.e., the hospitals and other
health facilities in Freetown will benefit from improve electricity supply. The activities of this Component
were outside the purview of MOHS, and were implemented without any recourse to communications with
MOHS once the funds were disbursed.

HEALTH SECTOR REFORM

It was recognized that efforts must continue to improve health sector performance through the continuation
of the institutional strengthening measures initiated at project inception. Activities implemented with IHSIP
funding to address this important area included the following:

l Facilitation of financial decentralization through the recruitment, training and deployment of district
    finance officers;
l Disbursement of discretionary funds to the district health management teams for the implementation of
    key operational activities;
l Strengthening of audit, architectural and procurement functions by recruiting additional staff for the
    internal audit department, office of the architect, and the procurement unit; and
l Technical Assistance to improve the planning and budgeting processes at all levels of the health care
    delivery system.

Lessons learned by GOSL
Throughout the lifetime of the project, frequent changes in the top management structure of MOHS
sometimes led to disruptions in project implementation. This may have impacted more adversely on project
activities because the project was over-integrated, with lines of responsibility intertwined with those of the
overall Ministry. Although there are clear advantages as opposed to the existence of a separate Project
Implementation Unit (PIU), some project responsibilities must be placed on more permanent Ministry staff.
It was in recognition of this fact that the recently designed HSRDP identified a Project Administrator (the
Director General of Medical Services) and a Project Coordinator (the Director of Planning and
Information) with specific responsibilities related to the efficient implementation of project activities. It is
also being proposed that a wider group of key MOHS personnel be briefed on World Bank procedures.
This will enable top decision-makers to contribute more meaningfully to the efficient implementation of
project activities, as they will be more informed.

An international financial management firm and a procurement consultancy firm were recruited at project
inception, but their services had to be terminated as a result of the coup d'état of May 1997. The local


                                                      - 25 -

replacements performed satisfactorily after they were recruited. Much as the need for international
consultants is appreciated, it is probably prudent to restrict their input to short-term assignments, especially
in countries with weak security situations, like Sierra Leone at the time. Based on the aforementioned, it is
being advocated that local consultants should be recruited for long-term assignments.

The need to further strengthen internal financial control measures became evident when some discrepancies
were highlighted in the procurement of civil works by the Bank Procurement Specialist during a routine
Bank Supervision Mission. Although this resulted in correctives measures against the architect, this
definitely emphasized the need to tighten internal controls to prevent a repetition of the above. In line with
this, relevant personnel are undergoing intensified training on Bank procurement procedures, and this must
be continued to enhance efficiency, transparency and accountability.

The project provided much-needed follow-up to the previously IDA-funded HPP initiatives. For example,
the satellite clinics constructed with HPP funds in the Western Area were expanded and strengthened to the
level of District Hospitals. Another very strong point was the continuation of the capacity-building
initiated under the HPP. This is particularly important because of the deterioration of the staffing situation
mostly due to staff flight during the war. The project funded numerous local and external training courses
for key staff. For example, eight medical officers benefited from external post-graduate training (Master's
of Public Health); additionally, post-graduate training courses were also funded for a diverse group of
professionals that included health planners, health educationists, sanitary engineers, pharmacists, financial
management specialists, auditors, procurement specialists, architects, and administrators. Numerous local
trainings were funded for various categories of middle-level and lower-level staff, notably maternal and
child health aides and traditional birth attendants.

Other major accomplishments of the project are considered to be in the area of institutional strengthening,
especially in planning and budgeting, financial management, internal control, procurement and
coordination. The project funded the development of a planning and budgeting process that has led to
marked improvement in the planning and budgeting capacity at all levels of the sector. With support from
international consultants, regular workshops were conducted to train staff, supervision was considerably
improved, and most districts are now capable of elaborating their plans and budgets satisfactorily. A
revised financial and accounting system was designed and implemented within MOHS, enabling the
Ministry to track expenditures more rapidly and precisely. Efforts to decentralize the planning and
budgeting functions included training of district M&E officers; rehabilitation of M&E offices;
strengthening of supervision; recruitment, training and deployment of district finance officers. The
disbursement of discretionary funds to the districts definitely contributed towards improving the health
services in the beneficiary districts. Finally, there has been significant improvement in the procurement and
coordination functions in the Ministry. Most of the above can be attributed to the significant contribution
of the locally recruited consultants for the key incremental positions.

(b) Cofinanciers:
From the point of view of other financiers present in the health sector in Sierra Leone, the initial project
design as a Sector-wide Investment Operation was well appreciated by donors because of its flexibility and
also its efforts to promote better coordination within MOHS.

It has been recognized by the stakeholders consulted that the Bank has played a key role in undertaking the
dialogue with MOHS and also with regards to the reform program. The fact that the Bank remained during
the difficult situation, providing technical advice, has also been well appreciated by the Government and
donors. Co-financiers also recognized the fact that having suspended their assistance during the civil unrest
has caused damage to the implementation of the NHAP.



                                                      - 26 -

Finally, some of them have stated that the project initial design, the SWAP approach, was not realistic
given the context of the country at that time (war, low capacity).

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
The initiative of the project to work in collaboration with NGOs was relevant as they have a comparative
advantage to implement certain activities in areas difficult of access or where MOHS may not be the best
equipped, particularly those areas related to humanitarian interventions. Due to the project's diminished
financial resources and the lengthy preparation discussions between MOHS and the NGO, a contract with
Handicap International to provide amputees with psychological and physical care, could not materialize
before project closing.

10. Additional Information




                                                     - 27 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

                                                                           2000            2001                   2002               2003
Revised Project Key performance indicators
                                                                       (baseline) Target Actual Target Actual Target                    Actual

Outcome/Impact Indicators:
1. Percentage of women (15-49) who correctly state the                     21%           -     no data      30%     78.90%       35%    no data
three main ways of avoiding HIV a/
2. Number of functional (in government-owned hospitals)                     4           6           7         15       16         23      21
Hospital Management Committees with community
representatives b/, c/
3. Number of decentralized districts fully functional b/, d/                3           6           5          8       10         13      12
4. Ratio of satisfactory/unsatisfactory audits e/                          1/1                     2/2       3/3       3/4        4/4     4/6

Output Indicators:
5. Number of new staff trained b/ :
   5.1 Maternal and Child Health Aides f/                                  400         400        432                 432        800     832
   5.2 Traditional Birth Attendants g/                                     1600       2000       1000       2600      1500      4000     2300
   5.3 Public Health Specialists                                            3           4           2          6        7         10      9
6. Number of PHUs rehabilitated and equipped (of which                     250         344          7        500       15        769      24
project-funded) b/, h/, i/                                                                        (4)                  (9)               (9)
7. Number of (Government-owned) hospitals rehabilitated                     10          12          6         17       13         23      22
and equipped (of which IHSIP-funded) b/, i/                                                       (4)                 (10)               (10)
8. Percentage of 1-year old children fully immunized j/                   20.1%       30%       27.0%       50%       35%        60%     49%
9. Percentage of deliveries in women (15-49) attended by                   42%           -     no data      50%     no data      55%    no data
skilled personnel (physician, nurse, midwife, auxiliary
midwife)

Source: MOHS unless otherwise stated.
a/ Source: Center for Disease Control (CDC), HIV/AIDS Seroprevalence & Behavirour Risk Factor Survey, April 2002 (not published due to
sampling found 'unreliable' by Government), no other data exists.
b/ Cumumlative figures.
c/ Only two of the government-owned district hospitals are without (Kailahun and Kambia); this is due to the fact that they are undergoing
major repairs and are therefore not functioning. It is expected that Hospital Management committees will be constituted as soon as they
become functional.
d/ Definition of fully functional = have a Financial Officer, District Health Management Team, and referral system in place; therefore
providing full complement of services expected at district level, both for primary and secondary health services.
e/ Source = World Bank Auditing Report Compliance System (ARCS). Indicator = number of satisfactory audits/number of received audits.
f/ Training program is based on a two-year cohort, therefore no new cohort for 2002.
g/ The primary reason for the shortfall is lack of accessiblity; the staff were to be trained at village level by MCHAides, and there was
restricted access that only increased gradually after project restructuring.

h/ Shortfall in project target is due to the transfer of US$3.44 million from this credit to the power sector, not returned as promised.
i/ No baseline data or target set in PSR for "of which project-funded".
j/ Close of project is June 30, 2003. Coverage as of September 2003 was 49%. Estimated for the whole year is of at least 55%.




                                                                - 28 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$million)

                                                                                                           Actual Cost,
                                                                                         Restructu-
                                            Appraisal                                                       as % of
                                                              Components after               ring   Actual
         Cost per Component                  Estimates                                                     Restructu-
                                                                 Restructuring            Estimate  Cost
                                                 a/                                                           ring
                                                                                              b/
                                                                                                            Estimate


1. Policy Formulation,                                     1. Health Emergency                9.0   10.28   114.2%
Coordination and General                                   Package
Administration
2. District Operations                                     2. Provision of                    3.5   3.44     98.3%
                                                           Electricity
3. Medical Infrastructure and                              3. Reform Package                  7.5   4.58     61.1%
Equipment Services
4. Planning and Information
5. Human Resources
Management
6. Drugs and Medical Supplies
7. Primary Health Care
8. Hospital and Laboratory
Services


Total Baseline Cost                            138.1                                         20.0   18.3      92%
  Physical Contingencies                          -                                            -
  Price Contingencies                             -                                            -      -
Total Project Cost                             138.1                                                18.3
 of which IDA                                  (20.0)                                       (20.0)  (17.9)
a/ Cost by component did not exist at appraisal, for duration of project, only for first year.
b/ This is IDA only, no data available for revised total project cost.




                                                               - 29 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (SAR Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)


                                               Procurement Method    1/

      Expenditure Category          ICB           NCB         Other  2/      N.B.F.     Total Cost

1. Civil Works                       2.2           4.5           0.5          13.8          22.0
                                    (2.2)         (4.5)         (0.5)         (0.0)        (7.2)
2. Essential drugs, equipment
and materials                        2.0           0.5           2.5           3.5          8.5
                                    (2.0)         (0.5)         (2.5)         (0.0)        (5.0)
3. Consultants Services              0.0           0.0           2.5           1.4          3.9
                                    (0.0)         (0.0)         (2.5)         (0.0)        (2.5)

4. Training and Workshops            0.0           0.0           3.4           2.0          5.4
                                    (0.0)         (0.0)         (3.4)         (0.0)        (3.4)

5. Operating Cost                    0.0           0.0           2.0          97.5          99.5
                                    (0.0)         (0.0)         (2.0)         (0.0)        (2.0)

Total                                4.2           5.0          10.9          118.2        138.1
                                    (4.2)         (5.0)        (10.9)         (0.0)        (20.0)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)


                                               Procurement Method    1/

      Expenditure Category          ICB           NCB         Other  2/      N.B.F.     Total Cost

1. Civil Works                       0.0           0.2           1.5           0.0          1.7
                                    (0.0)         (0.1)         (1.4)         (0.0)        (1.6)
2. Essential drugs, equipment
and materials                        0.4           0.9           3.9           0.0          5.2
                                    (0.4)         (0.9)         (3.8)         (0.0)        (5.1)
3. Electric generators to National
Power Authority                      3.4           0.0           0.0           0.0          3.4
                                    (3.4)         (0.0)         (0.0)         (0.0)        (3.4)
4. Consultants Services              0.0           0.0           1.7           0.0          1.7
                                    (0.0)         (0.0)         (1.7)         (0.0)        (1.7)

5. Training and Workshops            0.0           0.0           2.8           0.0          2.8
                                    (0.0)         (0.0)         (2.8)         (0.0)        (2.8)

6. Operating Cost                    0.0           0.0           3.2           0.0          3.2
                                    (0.0)         (0.0)         (3.0)         (0.0)        (3.0)

7. PPF Refinancing                   0.0           0.0           0.3           0.0          0.3
                                    (0.0)         (0.0)         (0.3)         (0.0)        (0.3)

Total                                3.8           1.1          13.4           0.0          18.3
                                    (3.8)         (1.1)        (13.0)         (0.0)        (17.9)




                                              - 30 -

Project Cost and Financing by Component (in US$ million)

                                                                     Actual as % of
                                  Restructuring
         Cost per Component                              Actual       Restructured
                                    Estimate
                                                                       Estimate
                                  Bank     Gov      Bank      Gov   Bank       Gov
                                            */                                  */
1. Health Emergency Response      9.0                10.0      0.3  111%

2. Provision of Electricity       3.5                3.4       0.0   98%

3. Health Reform Package          7.5                4.5       0.1   60%

 Total Project Cost               20.0               17.9      0.4   90%
*/ no data available


Project Cost and Financing by Category (in US$ million)


                                                                     Actual as % of
                                  Restructuring
           Cost per Category                             Actual       Restructured
                                    Estimate
                                                                       Estimate
                                  Bank     Gov      Bank      Gov   Bank       Gov
                                            */                                  */
1. Civil Works                    2.1                1.6       0.1   76%
2. Drugs, equipment & spares
(including $3.5 for generators)   10.1               8.5       0.1   84%

3. Consultant Services & Training
                                  3.4                4.5       0.0  133%

5. Operational Costs              2.2                3.0       0.2  137%
6. Refunding of PPF               0.3                0.3       0.0  100%
7. Unallocated                    1.9                  -        -     -

 Total Project Cost               20.0               17.9            90%
*/ no data available




                                            - 31 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not Applicable.




                                      - 32 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              11/05/1993                8    TASK MANAGERS (2);
                                             CONSULTANTS (3);
                                             FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             DECENTRALIZATION
                                             SPCECIALIST (1); HEALTH
                                             EQUIPMENT SPECIALIST (1)


              08/19/1994                4    PUBLIC HEALTH SPECIALIST
                                             (1); OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                             (1); CONSULTANTS (2)


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              03/24/1995                7    TASK MANAGERS (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                             (1); PUBLIC HEALTH
                                             SPECIALIST (1); HEALTH
                                             PLANNING SPECIALIST
                                             (1); FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             CONSULTANTS (1)
              06/29/1995                1    TTL - ECONOMIST (1)

 Supervision

              11/07/1996                2    IMPLEMENTATION SPEC. (1);        U               U
                                             TASK TEAM LEADER (1)
              04/25/1997                2    SR. OPERATIONS OFFICER           U               U
                                             (1); PUBLIC HEALTH
                                             SPECIAL. (1)
              05/14/1998                1    PUBLIC HEALTH SPECIALI           HU            HU
                                             (1)
              09/18/1998                2    PUBLIC HEALTH SPECIALI           S               U
                                             (1); FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT S (1)
              08/28/1999                2    TEAM LEADER,HEALTH EC.           S               U
                                             (1); PR.PUBLIC HEALTH
                                             SPEC. (1)
              12/04/2000                4    PUBLIC HEALTH (1);               U               S
                                             AIDS/REPRODUC.HEALTH
                                             (1); FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT (1)



                                              - 33 -

               05/18/2001              4   TTL/HEALTH ECONOMIST               S    S
                                           (1); POPULATION/REPR.H. (1);
                                           PUBLIC HEALTH (1);
                                           PROCUREMENT/IMPL. (1)
               11/01/2001              4   TTL (1); REPRODUCTIVE              S    S
                                           HEALTH (1); PUBLIC HEALTH
                                           (1); INFECTIOUS DISEASES
                                           (1)
               04/27/2002              4   TEAM LEADER/HEALTH ECO             S    S
                                           (1); INFECTIOUS DISEASES
                                           (1); PROCUREMENT (1);
                                           FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                           (1)
               10/12/2002              6   TASK TEAM LEADER/H. EC             S    S
                                           (1); PROCUREMENT (1);
                                           FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                           (1); PUBLIC HEALTH (1);
                                           IMPLEMENTATION (1);
                                           ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT
                                           (1)
               04/10/2003              5   TEAM LEADER (1); PUBLIC            S    S
                                           HEALTH SPECIALI (1); HD
                                           SPECIALIST (1); FINANCIAL
                                           MANAGEMENT (1);
                                           PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                           (1)


 ICR
               10/24/2003             3     TEAM LEADER (1);
                                            HUMAN DEVELOPMENT
                                            SPECIALIST (1);
                                            OPERATIONS ANALYST
                                            (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            68.8                       136,800
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 97.7                       165,200
  Supervision                        129.32                      312,931.84
  ICR                                   23.7                      52,919.44
  Total                              319.52                      667,851.28




                                            - 34 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                           Rating
   Macro policies                         H      SU    M       N     NA
   Sector Policies                        H      SU    M       N     NA
   Physical                               H      SU    M       N     NA
   Financial                              H      SU    M       N     NA
   Institutional Development              H      SU    M       N     NA
   Environmental                          H      SU    M       N     NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction             H      SU    M       N     NA
            Gender                        H      SU    M       N     NA
            Other (Please specify)        H      SU    M       N     NA
   Private sector development             H      SU    M       N     NA
   Public sector management               H      SU    M       N     NA
   Other (Please specify)                 H      SU    M       N     NA
Reasons for ratings:

Sector Policies: The Project supported the development and production of key health and sanitation policy
documents, such as the Environmental Sanitation Policy, the Health Education Policy and related IEC
materials, a National HIV/AIDS Policy and its operational plan.

Physical: Some minor construction and renovations were carried out, but a major sub-component, the
district hospital reform package, which consisted mostly of civil works, was not implemented, due to the
non-granting of promised supplemental funds.

Financial: The Project funded the development of planning and budgeting process that has led to marked
improvement of the planning and budgeting capacity at all levels of the sector. A revised financial and
accounting system was implement in MOHS, enabling expenditures to be tracked more rapidly and
precisely.

Institutional Development: The Project contributed to important achievements in this area, such as the
establishment of a Management Support Unit in MOHS, the strengthening of financial management and
procurement functions, the establishments of improved planning and budgeting process, and of financial
management practices, the facilitation of financial decentralization through recruitment, and the training
and deployment of district finance officers.

Poverty reduction: Although based strictly on the ICR Guidelines, this rating would concern only Poverty
Targeted Interventions (PTI), the ICR team felt it was important to highlight that, in the post-war period,
the Government's cost-recovery policy for drugs and services was suspended for women, children under
five years of age, and displaced populations, touching on the most vulnerable groups.

Gender: Although project activities were not specifically targeted to improve gender issues, the Project
focused on maternal health with the objective of reducing maternal (and child) health problems through the
training of traditional birth attendants and midwives; provision of contraceptives; IEC activities; and
training of staff in the prevention and treatment of STDs.




                                                     - 35 -

Public Sector Management: The Project supported the improvement of planning, budgeting and auditing
processes, including wider stakeholder participation in the planning process. The Project also provided for
better management practices within MOHS and more professionalism through the training of staff at all
levels of MOHS. Better donor coordination also resulted from the project planning exercise and
strengthening of the donor coordination function within MOHS. This has had an impact on general public
sector management as other ministries are now following the same processes.




                                                   - 36 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                              Rating

   Lending                                         HS     S    U       HU
   Supervision                                     HS     S    U       HU
   Overall                                         HS     S    U       HU
Based on ICR Guidelines (which is to rate both the Bank's Project Team and Bank's Management
performances), the ICR Team has rated Bank's performance on Lending and on Supervision as
"Unsatisfactory" due to the following reasons:
    - Lending: the lending approach (SWAP) was not appropriate for a country with a weak capacity and
    with a still very fragile security situation as the SWAP was largely dependent on donors contributions
    (54%) , and on Government's contribution of US$63 million over a 5-year period, all of which would
    be affected by a new security crisis. These risks were assessed in the SAR, and although some
    mitigating measures were provided, they were not sufficiently taken into account;
    - Supervision: the performance of the Project Team was outstanding and the Bank provided continued
    support at a crucial time (post-war).

6.2 Borrower performance                          Rating

   Preparation                                     HS     S    U       HU
   Government implementation performance           HS     S    U       HU
   Implementation agency performance               HS     S    U       HU
   Overall                                         HS     S    U       HU




                                                       - 37 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1.    National Policy on Immunization (November 2002)
2.    National Recovery Strategy (2002-2003)
3.    National Environmental Health Policy (May 2000)
4.    Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey (MICS 2 ­November 2000)
5.    National Health action Plan (NHAP ­ 1996)
6.    National Malaria Control Programme: Policy document (April 2000)
7.    Government of Sierra Leone, Survey Report on the Status of Women and Children in Sierra Leone
at
      the end of the Decade, November 2000
8.    National AIDS Control Programme ­ Annual report
9.    Practical review of community referral system for obstetric emergencies in Sierra Leone ( August
2003 )
10.   MOHS/DPI: Assessment of disabilities in the Western Area (1999 )
11.   Health and Population Project (Cr. 1695-SL): Implementation Completion Report (July 1996)
12.   Health Sector Reconstruction and Development Project: Project Appraisal Document (September
      2000)
13.   Guidelines for management of Malaria In Sierra Leone for Doctors, Community Health Officers,
      Nursing staff and other health workers
14.   National Health Policy (June 1993)
15.   National Health Action Plan (February 1994)
16.   MOHS/DPI: National Health Sector Study (1999)
17.   The Sierra Leone Prevention of Maternal Mortality Association (August 2003), A Study on the
      Accessibility and Quality of Reproductive Health Services in Sierra Leone, in collaboration with
      UNCIFED and Ministry of Health and Sanitation
18.   MOHS: Annual health transition plan January ­ December, 2000 (September 1999)
19.   MOHS: HISIP Implementation Manual, March 1996
20.   IHSIP: Revised Program Budgetary Allocations for the Emergency Needs of the National Health
      Services (March 1999)
21.   IHSIP: Quarterly Budgetary Allocations for the period October-December 1999 (September 1999)
22.   IHSP: Supplemental plans for selected programs-January to December 2000 (February 2000)
23.   IHSP: Program Budgetary Allocations for the rehabilitation of the health services ­ January to
December
      2000 (November 1999)
24.   IHSIP: Proposed budgetary allocations- January to December 2001 (December 2000)
25.   IHSIP: Budgetary projections for the period June 2001 ­ December 2002 (June 2001 )
26.   IHSIP: Budgetary projections for the period June 2001 ­ December 2002
27.   IHSIP: Progress report (January 2000)
28.   HSRDP: Environmental assessment (October 29,2002)
29.   Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, Republic of Sierra Leone, Freetown, June 2001
30.   Transitional Support Strategy for the Republic of Sierra Leone, The World Bank, March 3, 2002
31.   Sierra Leone - Community Reintegration and Rehabilitation Project - Technical Annex
32.   Mission Aide-Memoires
33.   Project Status Reports (PSR).




                                                - 38 -

        Additional Annex 8. List of Project Planned and Actual Activities


Development Objectives          Project Components             Planned Activities                 Implemented Activities
I. Original Project Design
        1. Improve key health 1. Policy Formulation and       A ­ Health Services Package:
        status indicators.     Coordination
                                                              1. Maternal & child health         - trained maternal & child health
        2. Increase access to 2. District Operations                                             aides and traditional birth
        health care and                                       2. Treatment of common ailments attendants;
        family planning        3. Medical Infrastructure and                                     - strengthened of school health
        services, particularly Equipment                      3. Control of communicable         services by procuring first aid kits
        in rural areas.                                       diseases                           and de-worming tablets, training
                               4. Planning and Information                                       school teachers on first aid,
        3. Improve the quality                                4. Improving community access to rehabilitating and furnishing offices
        of services through    5. Human Resources             sanitation and safe water.         and providing vehicles;
        training, supervision Management                                                         - supported the development of the
        and improved                                          5. Nutrition and dietetics         Environmental Sanitation Policy,
        logistics.             6. Drugs and Medical Supplies  programs (nutrition education, (ii)providing sanitation tools and
                                                              provision of iodine & other        disinfectants, constructing polders,
        4. Strengthen          7. Primary Health Care         micronutrients, and (iii)          refuse containers, training staff,
        management,                                           counseling.                        supervision & vehicles;
        accountability and     8. Hospital and Laboratory                                        -provision of body bags fro the
        community              Services                       6. Development of a national       burial of decomposing corpses that
        involvement at                                        health education program.          littered the streets of Freetown and
        central and peripheral                                                                   other urban centers;
        levels.                                               7. Secondary and Tertiary health - provision of prostheses of
                                                              care program.                      amputees;
        5. Increase efficiency                                                                   - counseling for amputees, rape and
        and improve                                                                              other victims, prevention and
        financing of health                                                                      control of drug abuse;
        care.                                                                                    - supported nationwide health
                                                                                                 education activities, via training,
                                                                                                 development of Health Education
                                                                                                 policy and IEC materials,
                                                                                                 transportation;
                                                                                                 - supported therapeutic feeding and
                                                                                                 nutrition surveillance by providing
                                                                                                 supplemental food and training,
                                                                                                 equipping and assigning staff to
                                                                                                 provide counseling, supplements
                                                                                                 and support services, transportation;
                                                                                                 - training of hospital staff on various
                                                                                                 topics like diagnosis and treatment
                                                                                                 of common ailments;
                                                                                                 - support to health services in the
                                                                                                 camps for the displaces in Western
                                                                                                 Area;
                                                                                                 - revision of the Primary Health
                                                                                                 Care Operational Handbook
                                                                                                 - architectural assessment of health
                                                                                                 facilities in the Western Area;
                                                                                                 - minor repairs to hospitals in
                                                                                                 Freetown after the devastation of the
                                                                                                 invasion (Connaught, Kissy Mental,
                                                                                                 Children's and PCM hospitals),
                                                                                                 providing drugs, equipment,
                                                                                                 medical supplies and ambulances;




                                                                  - 39 -

                                 - fencing of satellite clinics and the
                                 limb-fitting center;
                                 - renovation of nurses and doctors
                                 hostels;
                                 - renovation of offices of the
                                 Onchocerciasis Control Program;
                                 - Provision of drugs and equipment
                                 for the peripheral Health Units in
                                 safe areas;
                                 - Provision of reagents for screening
                                 for HIV/AIDS.
B ­ Support Services

 1. Acquisition of drugs and      - renovation of two warehouses at Central
 medical supplies                 Medical Stores; fencing of Central Medical
 (contraceptives, vaccines,       Stores;
 supplies), revitalize            - provision of essential and specialized
 procurement function, cost       drugs and contraceptives for countrywide
 recover system.                  distribution and in support of resuscitation
                                  of the Essential Drugs Cost Recovery
2. National food, environmental   System;
and clinical laboratory service.  - strengthening of monitoring of the drugs
                                  management system through training (e.g.
3. Rehabilitation and             on rational drug use) and the provision of
re-equipping of health units      transportation;
hospitals, and management of      - appointment of specialized staff at the
maintenance services.             Central Medical Stores, namely store
                                  accountant, receiving bay and dispatch bay
                                  officers, and recruitment of private security
                                  firm;
                                  - consultancy on the management of
                                  Central Medial Stores;
                                  - strengthening of the Maintenance and
                                  Repair Unit at Connaught Hospital, and
                                  establishment of a Maintenance and Repair
                                  Unit at PCM Hospital;
                                  - strengthening of the Office of
                                  architectural services.
C ­ Institutional Development
1. Establish Human Resources     - establishment of a Management
management function in the       Support Unit;
health sector.                   - strengthening of financial
                                 management through the
2. Establish district monitoring recruitment of the Director of
and evaluation capacity.         Financial Resources and a
                                 Management Accountant;
3. Provision of central          - strengthening of the audit and
administrative support services  internal control mechanisms;
(financial management,           - training of accounts clerks on audit
procurement, transport           procedures and basic accounting
administration).                 principles;
                                 - establishment of a procurement
                                 unit, staffed and equipped;
                                 - establishment of a Directorate of
                                 Human Resources;
                                 - conduction of a staff inventory by
                                 the directorate of HR;
                                 - strengthening of the Donors
                                 Relations Office by recruitment




    - 40 -

                                                                                  staff, furnishing offices and
                                                                                  providing transportation;
                                                                                  - strengthening of district
                                                                                  monitoring and evaluation through
                                                                                  training of district M&E officers;
                                                                                  rehabilitation of district M&E
                                                                                  offices, development of new and
                                                                                  revision of existing data collection
                                                                                  instruments; printing and
                                                                                  distribution of data collection
                                                                                  instruments; intensification of
                                                                                  supervision ;
                                                                                  - conduction of operational research
                                                                                  studies, e.g. on disabilities in the
                                                                                  Western Area.
II. Restructured
Project Design
1. Deal with the    1. Health Emergency Package 1. The acquisition of drugs,       - rehabilitation of peripheral health units
major public health                             vaccines, contraceptives,          (PHUs) and staff quarters;
issues such as STDs,                            consumables, bio-medical           - provision of essential drugs and medical
HIV/AIDS, malaria                               equipment, furniture, water        supplies through Central Medical Store
and onchocerciasis                              pumps and electricity generators   (CMS);
and other infectious                            for health facilities, as well as  - ambulances provided, facilities
diseases.                                       ambulances and other logistic      rehabilitated, water wells installed in
                                                means to resume the delivery of    health facilities in eight districts outside of
2. Provide care to                              the health care in public health   Western Area;
amputees and                                    facilities.
psychologically
traumatized women
and children.

3. reform of the
health system.
                                                 2. The treatment of major         - carried out assessment of disabilities in
                                                 ailments in hospitals and         the Western Area;
                                                 clinics, including: (i) the       - training of PHU staff and community
                                                 treatment and referral of         representatives on topics of public health
                                                 amputees, and other physical      concerns, such as emergency preparedness
                                                 and psychological trauma          and response, control of common
                                                 cases, (ii) the assessment,       communicable diseases, drug management
                                                 advice and care to alleviate      and essential drugs cost-recovery, oral
                                                 pain, psychological suffering     rehydration therapy and first aid;
                                                 and disability; and (iii) the     - ambulances provided to district health
                                                 provision of good quality and     management teams;
                                                 affordable primary and referral   - provision of prostheses & accessories;
                                                 services with emphasis on         - provision of sanitary tools, disinfectants ,
                                                 reducing maternal mortality.      insecticides, and chlorine for wells;
                                                 3. The development of a           - contributed to the development of a
                                                 nation-wide STD/HIV/AIDS          National Policy and the operational plan;
                                                 prevention program by MOHS,       - provision of STD drugs, condoms,
                                                 local communities and all         reagents, HIV test kits, including for safe
                                                 concerned sectors.                blood promotion, and laboratory
                                                                                   equipment;
                                                                                   - funding of IEC activities (awareness
                                                                                   campaigns), specially for target groups
                                                                                   such as ex-combatants, the displaced,
                                                                                   prisoners, sex workers and rape victims;
                                                                                   - training of staff for the treatment of
                                                                                   STDs; training of counselors;




                                                    - 41 -

                                 - refurbishing of National AIDS Control
                                 Program (NACP) Secretariat;
4. The control of                - intensification of country-wide
communicable diseases            monitoring, supervision, and surveillance;
including: (i) provision of      - training of district health staff in the
preventive services to reduce    management of cholera and meningitis;
current epidemics and prevent
new outbreaks, (ii) improved
case management, and (iii)
epidemic surveillance.
5. The rehabilitation of         - small rehabilitations of satellite clinics,
essential health services such   health centers, hospitals, staff quarters,
as district hospitals, chiefdom  children hospital, mental hospital, school
health centers, and provision of of nursing, dental clinic, were carried out
equipment, drugs and furniture   in Freetown, Western Area, and other
to health facilities to be       accessible rural zones;
determined
6. The strengthening of mental   - minor rehabilitation of Kissy mental
health services at central level hospital;
and in districts to provide      - training of mental health workers
counseling, support and          - recruiting of counselors and dispatch to
treatment to war victims and     displaced camps;
other mentally ill persons with  - identification and provision of psychiatric
focus on women, children, and    support services to ex-combatants,
amputees.                        traumatized women & children, amputees,
                                 communities, and demobilized populations;
                                 - production of IEC supports (posters,
                                 radio/TV clips, newspapers inserts);
                                 - provision of drugs, prostheses, and small
                                 equipment;
7. Carrying out of a maternal    - training of maternal and child health
and child health program         aides and traditional birth attendants;
designed to reduce maternal      - provision of contraceptives;
and child health problems        - training of mid-wives, and traditional
through safe motherhood,         birth attendants;
family planning, school health   - purchase of motorcycles for PHUs;
services, and the follow-up of   - training of teachers on recognition of
health care provided for infants common ailments and first aid;
and under-five year old          - provision of first aid kits to schools;
children, including              - development of protocols for diagnosis
immunization.                    and treatment of common diseases for
                                 schools;
                                 - provision of essential drugs for use in
                                 schools;
                                 - study tour to Guinea for School Health
                                 Programme Manager;
                                 - training on immunization for district and
                                 PHU health staff;
8. Carrying out of a nutrition   - purchase of equipment for children
and food supplementation         hospital;
program to reduce childhood      - training of health workers in nutrition
malnutrition including: (i) the  surveillance;
provision of nutrition           - establishment of a therapeutic feeding
education and rehabilitation     center at children hospital;
services; (ii) the provision of  - purchase of drugs and supplements;
iodine and other
micro-nutrients; and (iii)
training, equipment and
assignment of staff to provide



   - 42 -

                              counseling, supplements and
                              support services.
                              9. Improving sanitation and         - contributed to development of
                              access to safe water.               Environmental Health Policy;
                                                                  - provision of logistics for supervision
                                                                  (vehicle, motorbikes, office equipment for
                                                                  central and decentralized offices);
2. Provision of Electricity  1. The acquisition and installation - purchase of three generators were
                             by NPA of three units of 1.2 to      purchased and installed as planned
                             1.5 MW high speed electricity        - generators were not transferred to capitals
                             generators to be utilized first in   districts where hospitals were to be
                             Freetown, on a temporary basis,      rehabilitated due to the fact that (a) they
                             and later, when higher capacity      were still needed by NPA, and (b) the high
                             generators are installed in          operating cost of the generators was
                             Freetown, in district capital cities prohibitive
                             where hospitals are to be
                             equipped, and reconstruction or
                             rehabilitation works are to be
                             carried out, under the project.
                              2. The acquisition of spare         - spare parts were purchased.
                              parts for the rehabilitated or
                              new generating units.
3. Reform Package            1. Carrying out of a health sector   - supported the development of national
                             reform package including the         policies (EPI, Malaria, Cost-Recovery)
                             adoption of the most
                             cost-effective interventions and
                             the carrying out of prevention,
                             family planning and nutrition
                             programs, and of a health care
                             delivery system based on primary
                             health care and sound referral
                             services.
                              2. Increasing the accessibility     - provision of free drugs for the population
                              to services in remote areas and     of difficult access zones (with the help of
                              affordability of care to the        donor-funded airlifts);
                              poor.
                              3. The establishment of a           - Rehabilitation of the Central Medical
                              revitalized drug, vaccines and      Store (CMS):
                              contraceptives procurement,         - rehabilitation and construction of
                              storage and distribution            facilities;
                              system.                             - procurement of essential and specialized
                                                                  drugs (UNICEF contract);
                                                                  - recruitment of three staff and in-service
                                                                  training (supply management, rational drug
                                                                  use);
                                                                  - training of staff (study tours at UNPAC,
                                                                  IDA)
                                                                  - purchase of equipment (vehicles, large
                                                                  truck, fork-lift);
                                                                  - printing of forms for drug management;
                              4. Improvement of                   - facilitation of financial decentralization
                              decentralizing to districts,        through the recruitment, training and
                              supervision at district level and   deployment of district finance officers;
                              effective participation of
                              communities in health facility      - direct disbursement of operating funds to
                              management.                         the District Health Management Teams for
                                                                  the implementation of key operational
                                                                  activities;
                              5. Setting up, on a gradual         - a National Cost Recovery Strategy was



                                 - 43 -

basis, of an efficient cost      designed with support of IHSIP and is
recovery system adequate to      being implement on a gradual basis to
protect the access to the poor   protect the vulnerable population;
to health services and drugs.
6. Carrying out of a             - part (i) of this component could not be
comprehensive rehabilitation     implemented due to the non-refunding of
work program, including: (i)     the $3.4 million transfer to the power
the renovation of health         sector: rehabilitations and large
facilities, and where necessary, procurement package of medical
an expansion of services; and    equipment, vehicles and ambulances were
(iii) the strengthening of the   ready (non-objection received) but could
organization, management and     not materialize due to the lack of
staffing of maintenance and      supplemental funds;
repair units.                    - part (iii) renovation and equipment (tools)
                                 were provided for the maintenance
                                 facilities of Freetown, Bo and Kenema
                                 districts;
7. Establishment of a            - recruiting of contractual staff;
comprehensive human resource     - country-wide MOHS staff inventory;
management function in the       - local training for nurses, midwifes,
health sector to manage the      community health heads;
staffing and development of (i)  - overseas management skills training for
the preparation of a long-term   senior and mid-level management and
manpower plan; and (ii) the      administrative personnel;
establishment of effective       - revision of curricula of the paramedical
mechanisms for coordinating      school and the national school of nursing;
training.
8. Strengthening of the donor    - updating of Health MAP in 1997, being
and NGO coordination             updated again under new project (HSRDP);
functions of the MOHS.           - hiring of a Donor Coordination Officer;
9. Development of planning,      - training of the district health teams in
monitoring and evaluation        planning, monitoring and evaluation
capacities in the districts,     techniques;
including the collection of      - see notes
epidemiological data and
financial management.
10. Provision of efficient       - technical assistance to improve the
central administrative support   planning and budgeting process at all
services including: (i)          levels of the health care delivery system;
accounting and financial
management; (ii) procurement;    - strengthening of audit, architectural and
and (iii) planning, management   procurement functions by recruiting
and statistics services.         additional staff for the Internal Audit
                                 Department, Office of the Architect, and
                                 the Procurement Unit.




   - 44 -

Additional Annex 9. Government's Report




                          GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE

                       MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND SANITATION




                    IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)

        OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (IDA) FUNDED

            INTEGRATED HEALTH SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT (IHSIP)
                                      CR 2827-SL




                                                 FREETOWN, NOVEMBER 2003




                                       - 45 -

                                TABLE OF CONTENTS

I.   INTRODUCTION...............................................................                 3
a. BACKGROUND.................................................................. 3
b. PROJECT DESIGN............................................................... 4
i.   PRE-RESTRUCTURING PERIOD................................................ 4
ii. POST-RESTRUCTURING PERIOD.............................................. 6
II. IMPLEMENTATION, ACHIEVEMENTS AND CONSTRAINTS.........                                        7
a. PRE­RESTRUCTURING PERIOD..............................................7
b. POST­RESTRUCTURING PERIOD........................................... 10
III. DISCUSSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNT....................................                          11
IV. CONCLUDING REMARKS......................................................                     13

ANNEXES:
1. LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS....................................................................     14
2. LIST OF IHSIP-FUNDED INTERNATIONAL FELLOWSHIPS,
   WORKSHOP/ SEMINAR ATTENDANCES...........................................                      15
3. ORGANOGRAM OF THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND
    SANITATION (SHOWING IHSIP-FUNDED KEY POSITIONS SHADED)...                                    18
4. ABBREVIATIONS IN THE ORGANOGRAM OF THE MINISTRY OF
    HEALTH AND SANITATION....................................................................... 19




                                            - 46 -

I. INTRODUCTION

    I.a.     BACKGROUND

In Sierra Leone, the gradual decline in economic performance in the eighties contributed in no small
way to a marked deterioration of the health care delivery system in the early nineties. This economic
decline could also be related to the civil war that was initially characterized by skirmishes on the border
with Liberia, and eventually led to the military overthrow of the 25 year old All Peoples' Congress
(APC) Regime by the National Provisional Ruling Council (NPRC) in April, 1992. Soon after the
NPRC took over, in recognition of this dismal situation in the health sector, a detailed situational
analysis was undertaken to provide information to guide planning for improving the health care delivery
system. This culminated in the elaboration of a National Health Policy (NHP) in 1993, and the
development of a National Health Action Plan (NHAP) in 1994. Soon after the elaboration of these
documents, a Social Sector Roundtable conference (for the Health and Education Sectors) for Donors
was held in Freetown, where the World Bank and other major Donors pledged financial assistance for
the implementation of the NHAP.

The Integrated Health Sector Investment Project (IHSIP) was the second World Bank financed project
in the health sector in Sierra Leone. It was conceived as a continuation of World Bank support to the
health sector with the overall goal of assisting with the implementation of the NHP and the NHAP.
Originally meant to be implemented using a Sector Wide Approach (SWAP), it was eventually
designed as a Sector Investment Project (SIP), with in built flexibility that enabled the programming of
project funds on an annual basis in support of the NHAP. So, in principle, it was agreed that IHSIP
funds would be used to fund gaps after GoSL and other major donors had identified their funding
obligations during the annual planning exercise, i.e., the Bank should be the Donor of last resort.

As with all projects of this nature, some critical assumptions guided the planning process. One of the
most important of these was that the war (which was at that point in time restricted to pockets in the
Eastern parts of Sierra Leone) would be brought to a speedy conclusion, and security would improve
enough to permit the gradual expansion of project activities. It was agreed that the security situation
should be monitored closely through use of indicators such as United Nations assessments, and the
movement of goods and services in the country (especially rice and petrol). The justification for the
implementation of the project in spite of the unpredictability of the security situation centered around
the following:

l The Sector Investment Approach was self­adjusting to any changing needs. For the first year,
    project activities were planned to be restricted to the safety of Freetown and the Western Area, and
    were meant to consist mainly of institutional strengthening measures, training, procurement of
    drugs and supplies, and very limited Civil Works;
l Despite being limited to the safe areas, the project could also cater for the needs of a large
    proportion of the rural poor, as it was intended to address the needs of the displaced (who were
    predominantly from the rural areas) in Freetown, the Western Area, and other urban centers;
l Demand for health services had increased considerably over the last years as the sector had to
    respond to demographic changes and to cater for the special needs of the displaced;
l Activities in the districts (through the decentralization of the management system) were expected to
    increase only slowly, with one district added per year over the lifetime of the project;
l The project could be implemented in Freetown and the Western Area and still operate in a
    meaningful manner and disburse all funds;


                                                 - 47 -

l In case of improvement in the security situation, the Sector Investment Approach was capable of
    putting the project into a unique position to respond quickly and adequately to an extension of the
    project area and a substantive change of needs to be addressed;
l The proposed Credit was not a rigid free-standing project with a focus on rural areas, but a flexible
    sector investment project in support of the NHAP;
l In regards to co-financing, the NHAP had attracted considerable donor interest and support, with
    the World Bank being considered the Donor of last resort;
l The principle of equal treatment, i.e., the investment in the social infrastructure of countries which
    are in difficult situations economically, socially, and very often politically (other examples in
    sub-Saharan Africa include Angola and Mozambique). Investment in the health sector was
    supposed to mitigate the negative impact of the on-going conflict and to address the urgent health
    needs of the population, as well as to create the pre-condition for a speedy recovery after cessation
    of hostilities.

Unfortunately, the war eventually escalated to the point where even the Western Area including the
capital city of Freetown was overrun. As a result, this development­oriented project had to be
drastically redesigned and restructured because the original Development Objectives became
meaningless. In short, the whole project implementation was dictated by the circumstances created by
the escalating war. Here was a case where the legitimate Government was in exile (in neighboring
Guinea), whilst an illegal military junta ruled the country. This adversely affected all project activities,
which were brought to an abrupt standstill. On the re­instatement of the legitimate government, the
situation had changed drastically, making the original objectives irrelevant, and necessitating the
introduction of drastic changes if the needs in the sector were to be met.

The second important critical assumption was that the other major donors would meet their committed
pledges to co­finance the NHAP. Whilst IHSIP was developed and became operational in a relatively
timely manner, the same did not hold true for the other projects supported by other major donors,
notably the African Development Bank (ADB) supported Health Sector Rehabilitation Project (HSRP),
the EU funded Health Sector Support Project (HSSP), and the Provincial Hospitals' Project that was to
have been funded by the Saudi Fund for Development. Coupled with the inability of GoSL to meet its
financial obligations, this often meant that proceeds from the Credit had to be used for purposes outside
the original plans.

I.b. PROJECT DESIGN
I.b.i.       PRE-RESTRUCTURING PERIOD

The IHSIP was designed soon after the elaboration of the NHP and NHAP. These documents clearly
outlined the areas of urgent need in the sector, with the following being recognized as critical problem
areas that needed to be addressed to enable the establishment of the foundation for a sustainable,
equitable, and efficient health care delivery system: (i) poor access to health care services; (ii) poor
quality of health care services; (iii) weak management with inadequate community involvement and
accountability; and (iv) insufficient health care financing. It is also important to underscore that the
project was meant to support the GoSL/ MoHS in the implementation of the NHAP in a consortium
that included other major Donors like the AfDB, EU, UN Agencies, and the Saudi Fund for
Development. In line with this, the objectives of the project were to assist the borrower in: (i)
improving the health status; (ii) increasing access to health care and family planning, particularly in the
rural areas; (iii) improving the quality of health services; (iv) strengthening management, accountability
and community involvement at central and peripheral levels of the health sector; and (v) increasing
efficiency and the financing available for health care.


                                                 - 48 -

The project consisted of the following Parts, which were to be modified as and when agreed upon:

PART A: HEALTH SERVICES PACKAGE

This included: (i) support for MCH/ FP, Underfives, School Health, and EPI services; (ii) treatment of
common ailments like Malaria, RTIs and STIs; improvement of community access to Sanitation and
Safe Water; (iii) improvement of nutrition and dietetic services; (iv) development of nationwide Health
Education Program; (v) improvement of secondary and tertiary health services; and (vi) improvement
of staff performance at district hospitals.

PART B: SUPPORT SERVICES

The following were envisaged: (i) acquisition of Drugs and Medical Supplies including contraceptives,
vaccines and supplies; the establishment of revitalized procurement, storage, and distribution system;
improvement of monitoring and supervision at district level; the appointment of specialized
procurement staff; and the installation of an efficient cost recovery system. (ii) the establishment of a
national food, environmental and clinical laboratory service including the setting up of a national
laboratory to monitor and test standards in prescribed drugs, water quality, the environment and food;
the provision of a public health laboratory service and secondary and tertiary clinical care health
services; and laboratory training and provision of safe blood. (iii) the carrying out of a rehabilitation
work program including the renovation and equipping of health units; the rehabilitation and equipping
of hospitals, the strengthening of the organization, management and staffing of maintenance and repair
units, the establishment of central, regional, and district maintenance and repair departments; and the
installation of management information and control systems.

PART C: INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT

This was supposed to entail: (i) the establishment of a comprehensive human resource management
function including the preparation of a long-term manpower plan; the development of managerial and
technical training plans; the establishment of effective mechanisms for coordinating training and
management development; and the establishment of effective employee relations strategies; (ii) the
strengthening of the Donor/ NGO Relations Office to coordinate the project-related activities of Donors
and NGOs; and monitoring of Donor programs and financial contributions to the health sector; (iii) the
establishment of a district monitoring and evaluation capacity, operational research, and support for
district work plans including the collection of epidemiological data and support for community
management; (iv) the provision of central administrative support services including accounting and
other financial management services; procurement management; and transport administration.

Although the project objectives and scope of planned activities may appear rather ambitious on
hindsight, these must be understood within the context of the groundswell of enthusiasm, optimism and
support that prevailed during the period immediately after the elaboration of the NHP and the
completion of the NHAP. And indeed, concrete steps were initiated immediately after project
effectiveness that could have contributed significantly towards achieving the stated objectives in a
timely manner.
The IDA President's Report to the Executive Directors on the proposed Credit for the IHSIP was
presented in January 1996. The Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was signed in March 1996,
and the project became effective in September 1996, with an expected completion date of 31st
December 2000 and a closing date of 30th June 2001. Project start up and implementation were


                                                 - 49 -

considerably delayed due to several factors, principal amongst which were serious project management
problems, delays in filling key positions in the Ministry of Health, delays in the elaboration of the
project procurement plan which was a condition for initiation of the bidding procedures, and central
government delays of overall decentralization that negatively impacted on the MoH decentralization
plans.

However, the democratically elected government was overthrown in a Coup d'Etat by the Armed
Forces Revolutionary Council/ Revolutionary United Front (AFRC/ RUF) in May 1997, bringing all
project activities to an abrupt standstill. Bank funding was suspended soon after this coup, and this
suspension was only lifted in June 1998, after the reinstatement of the legitimate government. There
was an urgent need to support emergency response activities and the Directorate of Planning and
Information (DPI) elaborated quarterly Immediate Response and Emergency Response Plans. In
August 1999, the World Bank fielded an Appraisal Mission that participated in the National Health
Sector Review; this led to the development of an Annual Health Transition Plan 2000 in consultation
with major partners like the UN agencies, NGOs and other major donors. Another World Bank
Mission was fielded in the first quarter of 2000, principally to conduct the IHSIP Mid-Term Review;
one of the outcomes of this review was the development of a Supplemental Plan for support to the
control programs for STIs/ HIV/ AIDS, Malaria, and Onchocerciasis, as well as to address the needs
of the districts in facilitating decentralized management.

I.b.ii.      POST-RESTRUCTURING PERIOD

The findings of the World Bank Appraisal and Mid-Term Review Missions clearly revealed that
significant changes had occurred in the country generally, and in the health sector in particular, that
rendered the original project objectives and design virtually meaningless. Principal findings included
the following:

i.   Significant deterioration of the health care delivery system, primarily due to mass destruction of
health facilities and staff flight;
ii. Marked increase in the prevalence of common communicable diseases, with an explosion of
Sexually Transmitted Infections (associated with the widespread raping practices of the various
combatant groups). Conditions conducive to the escalation of HIV/ AIDS were also noted; and
iii. Significant increase of the number of physically and psychologically traumatized, especially
women and children (e.g, amputees and cases of post-traumatic psychological disorders).

Based on these findings, the project was restructured in June, 2000, with the following objectives:

1. to improve health status by targeting interventions to tackle major health problems like Malaria,
STIs/ HIV/ AIDS;
2. to provide care for amputees and the psychologically traumatized, especially women and children;
and
3. to reform the system.

The project design was changed to reflect this, and comprised three components:

A. Health Emergency Response;
B. Health Sector Reform; and
C. Provision of Electricity




                                                  - 50 -

Although the Electricity Provision component had little to do with improving health status directly, the
sum of US$3.5M from the IHSIP Credit was allocated to the Energy Sector for its implementation.
This definitely impacted negatively on the implementation of other planned IHSIP activities, although
some improvement was noted in the supply of electricity to the hospitals and other health facilities in
the Western Area.

II. IMPLEMENTATION, ACHIEVEMENTS AND CONSTRAINTS

For convenience, and because of the marked difference between the two periods, project
implementation will be discussed in two phases, i.e., prior to the restructuring of the project and after
the restructuring of the project.

II.a.        PRE-RESTRUCTURING PERIOD

This covers the period from project effectiveness to restructuring, i.e., September 1996 to June 2000; it
must however be noted that virtually no project activities were implemented during the AFRC/ RUF
reign of terror, i.e., from 25th May 1997 when the legitimate government was ousted, to March 1998
when it was re-instated. The following presents the findings of an assessment of the achievements of
the three main parts of the project as originally conceived.

PART A:      HEALTH SERVICES PACKAGE

The main programs that were to be supported under this component included MCH/ EPI, Reproductive
Health/ Family Planning, School Health, Disease Prevention and Control (of diseases like Malaria, TB,
Onchocerciasis, Respiratory Tract Infections, STIs/ HIV/ AIDS), Environmental Sanitation, Nutrition,
Health Education, Clinical Services and Human Resources.

Support provided for this included the following:

l Training of Maternal and Child Health Aides and Traditional Birth Attendants;
l Strengthening School Health Services by procuring First Aid Kits and de-worming tablets, training
    school teachers on First Aid, rehabilitating and furnishing the offices of the Program Manager, and
    providing a 4WD vehicle to assist with transportation;
l Strengthening Environmental Sanitation by funding the development of an Environmental
    Sanitation Policy, providing sanitation tools and disinfectants, constructing polders and refuse
    containers, training staff, supporting supervision and providing a 4WD vehicle and a front-loader;
l Provision of body bags for the burial of decomposing corpses that littered the streets of Freetown
    and other urban centers;
l Provision of prostheses for amputees;
l Counseling of amputees, rape and other victims, prevention and control of Drug Abuse;
l Supporting therapeutic feeding and nutrition surveillance by providing Supplementary Food and
    training; equipping and assigning staff to provide counseling, supplements and support services;
    and providing transportation;
l Supporting nationwide Health Education activities through training programs; development of
    Health Education policy and IEC materials; and provision of transportation;
l Training of hospital staff on various topics like diagnosis and treatment of common ailments;
l Architectural assessment of health facilities in the Western Area;
l Minor repairs to the hospitals in Freetown after the devastation of the invasion, namely Connaught,
    Kissy Mental, Children's and PCM hospitals, and providing drugs, equipment, medical supplies


                                                 - 51 -

     and ambulances;
l Renovation of 10 Peripheral Health Units;
l Support for the provision of health services in the camps for the displaced in the Western Area;
l Fencing of the satellite clinics and the limb-fitting center;
l Renovation of nurses' and doctors' hostels;
l Renovation of the offices of the Onchocerciasis Control Program;
l Provision of drugs and equipment for the Peripheral Health Units in safe areas;
l Provision of reagents for screening for HIV/ AIDS; and
l Revision of the Primary Health Care Operational Handbook.


Only input indicators can measure progress achieved under this package. It must, however, be
appreciated that projects of this nature are usually slow to take off, but pick up momentum with time,
and this was fully anticipated for this project in general, and this component in particular. There were
all reasons to expect that this would have continued if the conflict had not escalated.

PART B:       SUPPORT SERVICES

Support under this component was primarily intended to improve the drugs management system,
improve the laboratory services, and strengthen maintenance and repair capacity country-wide. The
following activities were funded under this component prior to restructuring:

l Renovation of two warehouses at Central Medical Stores;
l Fencing of Central Medical Stores;
l Provision of essential and specialized drugs and contraceptives for countrywide distribution and in
     support of the resuscitation of the Essential Drugs Cost Recovery System;
l Strengthening of monitoring and supervision of the drugs management system through training
     (e.g., on rational drug use) and the provision of transportation;
l Appointment of specialized staff for the Central Medical Stores, namely Stores Accountant,
     Receiving Bay and Dispatch Bay Officers, and the recruitment of a private security firm;
l Consultancy on the management of the Central Medical Stores;
l Strengthening of the Maintenance and Repair Unit at Connaught Hospital, and establishment of a
     Maintenance and Repair Unit at PCM Hospital; and
l Strengthening of the Office for architectural services.


PART C:       INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT

The institutional weaknesses in the MoH were well documented and formed the rationale for this
component. The problems identified included human resource deficiencies with few highly qualified
staff overstretched with responsibilities, over-centralization of management, weak procurement and
financial management systems. The achievements under this component were substantial, and include
the following:

l Establishment of a Management Support Unit (that was subsequently dissolved when the
     international consultants had to depart hastily because of the escalating conflict);
l Strengthening of Financial Management through the recruitment of the Director of Financial
     Resources and a Management Accountant;
l Strengthening of the Audit and internal control mechanisms to ensure transparency and
     accountability in financial transactions;



                                                 - 52 -

l Training of Accounts Clerks on Audit Procedures and Basic Accounting Principles;
l Establishment of a Procurement Unit that was appropriately staffed and equipped. Although the
    international consultants from the International Procurement Consultancy Firm had to leave
    because of the conflict, local consultants were subsequently recruited and performed satisfactorily;
l Establishment of a Directorate for Human Resources;
l Conduction of a staff inventory by the directorate of Human Resources;
l Strengthening of the Donor Relations Office by recruiting needed staff, furnishing the offices, and
    providing transportation;
l Strengthening of district Monitoring and Evaluation through training of district M&E Officers;
    rehabilitation of district M&E offices; development of new and revision of existing data collection
    instruments; printing and distribution of data collection instruments; intensification of supervision;
    and
l Conduction of operational research studies, e.g., on disabilities in the Western Area.


The following table summarizes IHSIP expenditures during this period.

       SUMMARY OF IHSIP EXPENDITURES SEPTEMBER 1996 ­ JUNE 2000 (US$)
 CATEGORY                      PER DCA             ACTUAL               BALANCE             % TOT.
 1. Civil Works                6,300,000.00        653,751.04           5,646, 248.96       10.38
 2.   Drugs,     equipment, 4,400,000.00           2,083,740.71         2,316,259.29        47.36
 furniture, vehicles
 3. Technical Assistance 2,000,000.00              775,778.03           1,224,221.97        38.79
 and Studies
 4. Training and Training 2,900,000.00             1,313,787.03         1,586,212.97        45.30
 Materials
 5. Incremental Operating      1,700,000.00        432,827.18           1,267,172.82        25.46
 Costs
 6. Refunding of PPF 295,000.00                    300,000.00           -5,000.00           101.69
 Funds
 7. Unallocated                2,405,000.00        0.00                 2,405,000.00        0.00
 TOTAL                         20,000,000.00       5,559,883.99         14,440,116.01       27.80

As can be noted from the above table, expenditure at mid-term was very low, totaling only 27.80%. In
view of the fact that this was a Sector Investment Project (SIP), most of the remaining funds were not
specifically allocated, since this was supposed to be done during the annual planning and budgeting
process. This fact, coupled with the overall slow expenditure rate that could be attributed to the war,
definitely contributed to the fact that part of the Credit, i.e., US$3.5M (which formed part of the World
Bank "envelope" for support to Sierra Leone), was eventually allocated for urgent use in the Energy
Sector. The original project completion date was 31st December 2000, and the closing date was 30th
June 2001. Part of the restructuring then involved the extension of the project completion and closing
dates to 31st December 2002 and 30th June 2003 respectively.

II.b:         POST ­ RESTRUCTURING PERIOD

Although the legitimate government was re-instated in March 1998, and project funded activities were
resumed soon after the lifting of suspension in June 1998, the project was not formally restructured
until June 2000. In line with this, the original completion and closing dates were extended by two
years, i.e., to December 2002, and June 2003 respectively. The restructured project had the following



                                                  - 53 -

three components: (i) Health Emergency Response; (ii) Provision of Electricity; and (iii) Health Sector
Reform.

HEALTH EMERGENCY RESPONSE

This component was intended to support the emergency needs in the sector, and contributed
considerably towards providing vital support in a timely manner, especially immediately after the
cessation of hostilities. Activities funded by IHSIP include the following:

l Rehabilitation of Peripheral Health Units (PHUs) and staff quarters;
l Provision of essential and specialized drugs and medical supplies;
l Conduction of assessment studies, especially in the liberated districts;
l Training of PHU staff and community representatives on topics of public health concern, e.g.,
     emergency preparedness and response, control of common communicable diseases, drugs
     management and essential drugs cost-recovery, Oral Rehydration Therapy and First Aid;
l Intensification of country-wide monitoring, supervision, and surveillance;
l Provision of sanitary tools, disinfectants, insecticides, and chlorine for wells; and
l Training of Maternal and Child Health Aides and Traditional Birth Attendants.


PROVISION OF ELECTRICITY

This component does not relate directly to any of the restructured Development Objectives. It was
recognized as an emergency problem that needed to be urgently addressed, and it was "convenient" to
utilize available, non-committed IHSIP funds to address this problem. The total sum of US$3.5M was
disbursed to the Energy Sector for this, with the implicit understanding that the health sector, i.e., the
hospitals and other health facilities in Freetown will benefit from improve electricity supply. The
activities of this component were outside the purview of the Ministry of Health, amd were implemented
without any recourse to communications with the Ministry once the funds were disbursed.

HEALTH SECTOR REFORM

It was recognized that efforts must continue to improve health sector performance through continuation
of the institutional strengthening measures initiated at project inception. Activities implemented with
IHSIP funding to address this important area include the following:

l Facilitation of financial decentralization through the recruitment, training and deployment of
     District Finance Officers;
l Disbursement of discretionary funds to the District Health Management Teams for the
     implementation of key operational activities;
l Strengthening of audit, architectural and procurement functions by recruiting additional staff for
     the Internal Audit Department, Office of the Architect, and the Procurement Unit;
l Technical Assistance to improve the planning and budgeting processes at all levels of the health
     care delivery system.

The following table outlines the expenditure over this period of time.




                                                 - 54 -

                SUMMARY OF EXPENDITURES JULY 2000 ­ JUNE 2003 (US$)
   CATEGORY                                 PER DCA                     ACTUAL             % TOT.
   1. Civil Works                           6,300,000.00                735,217.91         11.67
   2. Drugs, equipment, furniture, 4,400,000.00                         2,062,938.05       46.89
   Vehicles
   3. Technical Assistance and Studies      2,000,000.00                844,290.63         42.22
   4. Training and Training Materials       2,900,000.00                1,378,313.93       47.53
   5. Incremental Operating Costs           1,700,000.00                1,799,830.55       105.87
   6. Refunding of PPF                      295,000.00                  0.00               NA
   7. Unallocated                           2,405,000.00                0.00               NA
   8. Direct payments from WB 0.00                                      6,555,180.00       NA
   (including $3.44M advance to the
   Energy Sector)
   TOTAL                                    20,000,000.00               13,377,771.07 66.89

As can be noted from the above table, about two thirds of the funds were expended during this period,
although not only in the health sector. This includes $3.44M (17.2% of the total Credit) disbursed to
the Energy Sector for electricity generation in Freetown.

III. DISCUSSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNT

Throughout the lifetime of the IHSIP, frequent changes in the Top Management Structure of the
Ministry sometimes led to disruptions in project implementation. This may have impacted more
adversely on project activities because the project was over-integrated, with lines of responsibility
inter-twined with those of the overall Ministry. Although there are clear advantages as opposed to the
existence of a separate Project Implementation Unit (PIU), some project responsibilities must be placed
on more permanent Ministry staff. It was in recognition of this fact that the recently designed Health
Sector Reconstruction and Development Project (HSRDP) identified a project Administrator (the
Director General of Medical Services) and a project coordinator (the Director of Planning and
Information) with specific responsibilities related to the efficient implementation of project activities. It
is also being proposed that a wider group of key MoHS personnel be exposed to training (even if
informal) on World Bank procedures. This will enable top decision-makers to contribute more
meaningfully to the efficient implementation of project activities, as they will be more informed.

An international Financial Management Firm and a Procurement Consultancy Firm were recruited at
project inception, but their services had to be terminated as a result of the coup d'etat of May 1997.
The local replacements performed satisfactorily after they were recruited. Much as the need for
international consultants is appreciated, it is probably prudent to restrict their input to short-term
assignments, especially in unstable countries like Sierra Leone. Based on the fore-mentioned, it is
being advocated that local consultants should be recruited for long-term assignments.

The need to further strengthen internal financial control measures became evident when some
discrepancies were highlighted in the procurement of Civil Works by the Bank Procurement Specialist
during a routine Bank Supervision Mission. Although this resulted in the firing of the Architect who
was found culpable, this definitely emphasized the need to tighten internal control measures to prevent
a repetition of the above. In line with this, relevant personnel are undergoing intensified training on
Bank procurement procedures, and this must be continued to enhance efficiency, transparency and
accountability.




                                                  - 55 -

IHSIP provided much-needed follow-up to the previously IDA-funded Health and Population Project
(HPP) initiatives. For example, the Satellite Clinics constructed with HPP funds in the Western Area
were expanded and strengthened to the level of District Hospitals. Another very strong point was the
continuation of the Capacity Building initiated under the HPP. This is particularly important because
of the deterioration of the staffing situation mostly due to staff flight during the war. IHSIP funded
numerous local and external training courses for key staff. For example, eight Medical Officers
benefited from external post-graduate training (Masters of Public Health); additionally, post-graduate
training courses were also funded for a diverse group of professionals that included Health Planners,
Health Educationists, Sanitary Engineers, Pharmacists, Financial Management Specialists, Auditors,
Procurement Specialists, Architects, and Administrators. Numerous local trainings were funded for
various categories of middle-level and lower-level staff, notably Maternal and Child Health Aides and
Traditional Birth Attendants.

Other major accomplishments of the IHSIP are considered to be in the important area of institutional
strengthening, especially in planning and budgeting, financial management, internal control,
procurement and coordination. IHSIP funded the development of a planning and budgeting process
that has led to marked improvement of the planning and budgeting capacity at all levels of the sector.
With support from international consultants, regular workshops were conducted to train staff,
supervision was considerably improved, and most districts are now capable of elaborating their plans
and budgets satisfactorily. A revised financial and accounting system was designed and implemented
within the MoH, enabling the Ministry to track expenditures more rapidly and precisely. Efforts to
decentralize the planning and budgeting functions included training of district M&E officers;
rehabilitation of M&E offices; strengthening of supervision; recruitment, training and deployment of
district Finance Officers. The disbursement of discretionary funds to the districts definitely contributed
towards improving the health services in the beneficiary districts. Finally, there has been significant
improvement in the procurement and coordination functions in the Ministry. Most of the above can be
attributed to the significant contribution of the locally recruited consultants for the key incremental
positions as outlined in the organogram in the annexes.

CONCLUDING REMARKS

There can be no doubt about the very positive contribution of the IHSIP to the provision of health
services especially during, and soon after the cessation of hostilities. In assessing the merits and
demerits of the project, one must not lose sight of the fact that although this appears to be a stand alone
project, it actually formed part of the overall support for the implementation of the NHAP. This makes
it, therefore, rather difficult to determine its relative contribution to achieving the initial Development
Objectives, which were supposed to be achieved with the input from GoSL primarily, but also from
other stakeholders including other major donors, the UN agencies, and NGOs as clearly outlined in the
original DCA. This assessment is further compounded by the roller coaster situation that characterized
the period of implementation during and immediately after the conflict. Another pitfall relates to the
fact that there has definitely been a deterioration of the overall health status of the population as a
result of the war, despite the very positive input of the IHSIP. This has been determined by the results
of many recent post-conflict studies. The premise here, however, is that the situation would
probably have been considerably worse without the vital support provided by the IHSIP. This is
borne out by the situation as outlined in the progress reports of the MoHS, where the significant
contribution of IHSIP is always highlighted and positively appreciated.

The lessons learnt have already been discussed previously in the report. They were also taken into


                                                    - 56 -

consideration during the design of the follow-up project that is already operational, i.e., the HSRDP.




                                               - 57 -

ANNEX 1: LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS

ADB           AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
AFRC          ARMED FORCES REVOLUTIONARY COUNCIL
AIDS          ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME
APC           ALL PEOPLE'S CONGRESS
DCA           DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
DPI      DIRECTORATE OF PLANNING AND INFORMATION
EPI           EXPANDED PROGRAM ON IMMUNIZATION
EU            EUROPEAN UNION
GoSL          GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE
HIV           HUMAN IMMUNO-DEFICIENCY VIRUS
HPP           HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
HSRDP         HEALTH SECTOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
HSRP          HEALTH SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
HSSP          HEALTH SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
IDA*          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (WORLD BANK
           GROUP)
IDA*          INTERNATIONAL DRUGS' ASSOCIATION (NETHERLANDS)
IEC           INFORMATION, EDUCATION AND COMMUNICATION
IHSIP         INTEGRATED HEALTH SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
MCH/ FP       MATERNAL AND CHILD HEALTH/ FAMILY PLANNING
M&E           MONITORING AND EVALUATION
MoHS          MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND SANITATION
NGO           NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATION
NHAP          NATIONAL HEALTH ACTION PLAN
NHP           NATIONAL HEALTH POLICY
NPRC          NATIONAL PROVISIONAL RULING COUNCIL
PHU           PERIPHERAL HEALTH UNIT
PCMH          PRINCESS CHRISTIAN MATERNITY HOSPITAL
PIU      PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT
PPF           PROJECT PREPARATORY FACILITY
RTI           RESPIRATORY TRACT INFECTION
RUF           REVOLUTIONARY UNITED FRONT
SIP           SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
STI           SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED INFECTION
SWAP          SECTOR WIDE APPROACH
UN            UNITED NATIONS




                                - 58 -

ANNEX 2: LIST OF IHSIP-FUNDED INTERNATIONAL FELLOWSHIPS, WORKSHOP/
SEMINAR ATTENDANCES




                                - 59 -

PARTICIPANT(S)        LOCATION/                 THEME/ SUBJECT       TIME/ DURATION
                      INSTITUTION
1. Mr. Bassie Turay ­ International Drugs       Management of Drugs  October, 1998 ­ 2
Director of Drugs and Association,                                   weeks
Medical Supplies;     Netherlands
Mrs. A. Jalloh ­
Pharmacist

2. Dr. Clifford W.    NASA,                     Study tour on Remote June, 1999 ­ 2 weeks
Kamara ­ Director of  Mountainview,             Sensing and
Planning and          California, USA           Geographical
Information                                     Information Systems
                                                (RS/ GIS)
3. Mr. Barthalomew    Leeds Metropolitan        Masters course in    1999/ 2000 ­ 1
S.S. Hemore ­ Health  University, UK            Health Education     academic year
Education Officer
4. Dr. Abdulai Jalloh Nuffield Institute of     Masters course in    1999/ 2000 ­ 1
­ District Medical    Health, Leeds             Public Health        academic year
Officer               University, UK
5. Dr. J. J. Samba ­  Nuffield Institute of     Masters course in    1999/ 2000 ­ 1
District Medical      Health, Leeds             Public Health        academic year
Officer               University, UK
6. Mr. R. R. Anderson Galillee College,         Health Systems       October, 1999 ­ 2
­ Principal Planning  Israel                    Management           weeks
Officer
7. Dr. Francis        Conakry, Guinea           Study Tour on School November, 1999 ­ 1
Nylander ­ Manager,                             Health               week
School Health
Program
8. Mr. S.N.K. Lansana USA                       Seminar on Financial March, 2000 ­ 3
­ Internal Auditor                              Auditing Systems     weeks
9. Dr. Clifford w.    Gallillee College,        Health Systems       February, 2000 ­ 2
Kamara ­ Director of  Israel                    Management           weeks
Planning and
Information
10. Mrs Fatamata      Crown Agents, UK          Course on            February, 2000 ­ 2
Mustapha ­ Director                             Procurement          weeks
of Support Services
11. Dr. Sarian Kamara Nigeria                   Study Tour on        January, 2000 ­ 2
­ Manager, Malaria                              Malaria Control      weeks
Control Program                                 activities
12. Dr. Sarian Kamara Ghana                     Study Tour on        June, 2000 ­ 2 weeks
­ Manager, Malaria                              Malaria Control
Control Program                                 activities
13. Dr. Murray        American                  Human Resources      September, 2000 ­ 2
Abdulai ­ Director of Management                Management           weeks
Human Resources       International, USA
14. Dr. K.S. Daoh ­   London School of          Masters course on    2000/ 2001 ­ 1
Manager,              Hygiene and Tropical      Public Health        academic year
Reproductive Health/  Medicine, UK



                                           - 60 -

- 61 -

- 62 -

ANNEX 4: ABBREVIATIONS IN THE ORGANOGRAM OF THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH
AND SANITATION


MOHS            MINISTER
DMOHS           DEPUTY MINISTER
DGMED           DIRECTOR GENERAL, MEDICAL SERVICES
DGMAN           DIRECTOR GENERAL, MANAGEMENT SERVICES
DDGMED/ DPHC    DEPUTY DIRECTOR GENERAL, MEDICAL SERVICES/ DIRECTOR
                OF PRIMARY HEALTH CARE SERVICES
DDGMED/ DCLIN   DEPUTY DIRECTOR GENERAL, MEDICAL SERVICES/ DIRECTOR
                CLINICAL SERVICES
DDGMAN/ DSS     DEPUTY DIRECTOR GENERAL, MANAGEMENT SERVICES/
                DIRECTOR OF SUPPORT SERVICES
DPI             DIRECTOR, PLANNING AND INFORMATION
DDMS            DIRECTOR OF DRUGS AND MEDICAL SUPPLIES
DDPC            DIRECTOR OF DISEASE PREVENTION AND CONTROL
DNS             DIRECTOR OF NURSING SERVICES
DIA             DIRECTOR OF INTERNAL AUDIT
DFR             DIRECTOR OF FINANCIAL RESOURCES
MCH             MANAGER, MATERNAL AND CHILD HEALTH SERVICES AND
                EXPANDED PROGRAM ON IMMUNIZATION
RH/FP           MANAGER. REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING
NUTR            MANAGER, FOOD AND NUTRITION
HEDUC           MANAGER, HEALTH EDUCATION
ENSAN           MANAGER, ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION
PPO             PRINCIPAL PLANNING OFFICER
HEC             HEALTH ECONOMIST
MHR             MANAGER, HUMAN RESOURCES
SRO             SENIOR RESEARCH OFFICER
SMIO            SENIOR MANAGEMENT INFORMATION OFFICER
STORES          CHIEF STOREKEEPER
RBO             RECEIVING BAY OFFICER
DBO             DESPATCH BAY OFFICER
DNLO            DONOR/ NGO LIAISON OFFICER
DSURV           MANAGER, DISEASE SURVEILLANCE
DDNS            DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF NURSING SERVICES
MHS             MANAGER, HOSPITAL SERVICES
MLS             MANAGER, LABORATORY SERVICES
ADIA            ASSISTANT INTERNAL AUDITOR
PROC MAN        PROCUREMENT MANAGER
ASST PM         PROCUREMENT ASSISTANT
TRANS MAN       TRANSPORT MANAGER
FM& REPAIRS     MANAGER, FACILITIES MAINTENANCE AND REPAIRS
ARCH            ARCHITECT
A ARCH          ASSISTANT ARCHITECT
ADNLO           ASSISTANT DONOR/ NGO LIAISON OFFICER


                               - 63 -

PACCT    PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT
MACCT    MANAGEMENT ACCOUNTANT
SACCT    STORES ACCOUNTANT
MHCF     MANAGER, HEALTH CARE FINANCING
FOS      FINANCE OFFICERS




                        - 64 -

- 65 -

