Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2827-SL
Project Agreement
(Integrated Health Sector Investment Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
NATIONAL POWER AUTHORITY
Dated October 6, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 2827-SL
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 6, 2000, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and NATIONAL POWER AUTHORITY (NPA). 
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement dated March 21, 1996 
between the Republic of Sierra Leone (the Borrower) and the Association, the 
Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to thirteen million six hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 13,600,00);
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and NPA, part of the proceeds of the credit provided for under the 
Development Credit Agreement will be made available to NPA on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS NPA has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms 
defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and 
in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the term “Agreement Amending the Development Credit Agreement” 
means the Agreement dated October 6, 2000, between the Borrower and the 
Association amending the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) NPA declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to 
this end, shall carry out Part B of the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
engineering, public utility and environmental practices, and shall provide, or 
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this 
Section and except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, 
NPA shall ensure that: (i) the electric generators to be purchased under Part B 
of Project shall first be installed in Freetown (as a temporary solution to the 
capital city's increased needs); and (ii) as soon as higher capacity generators 
have been installed in Freetown, cause the said generators to be installed in 
the district capital cities in which reconstruction or rehabilitation works and 
equipping of district hospitals are to be carried out under the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions 
of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) NPA shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records 
and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the 
Project Agreement and Part B of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, NPA shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association and 
furnish to the Association not later than six 
(6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the 
Association and, a plan for 
the future operation of Part B of the Project; 
and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with NPA 
on said plan.
Section 2.04. NPA shall duly perform all its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, NPA 
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, 
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision 
thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) NPA shall, at the request of the Association, exchange 
views with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
NPA shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part B of the Project, 
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by NPA of 
Page  3
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of NPA
Section 3.01. NPA shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and engineering practices under 
the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent 
staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. NPA shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as 
needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with 
sound engineering, financial, public utility and environmental practices.
Section 3.03. NPA shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, 
or make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against 
such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) NPA shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in 
accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the Association, consistently 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations 
and financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to Part B of the Project.
(b)
NPA shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal 
year, including those for the 
Project Account, audited in accordance with 
auditing standards 
acceptable to the Association consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any 
case not later 
than six months after the end of each such 
year, (A) certified copies of 
its financial statements referred 
to in paragraph (a) of this Section for 
such year as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements and report 
of such 
audit by said auditors of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
said records, 
accounts and financial statements as well as 
the audit thereof, as the 
Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 
of this Agreement, NAP shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to 
the Association for the strengthening of its financial system for Part B of the 
Project in order to enable NAP, not later than June 30, 2001, or such later date 
as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, 
acceptable to the Association. Each such report shall:
(i)
set forth actual sources and application of funds for Part B 
of the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered 
by said report, and 
projected sources and application of 
Page  4
funds for the said Part of the 
Project for the six-month period 
following the period covered by said 
report, and show separately 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the 
Credit during the six-month period following the 
period covered 
by said report;
(ii)
describe physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, and explain 
variances between 
the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and 
(iii)
set forth the status of procurement under the said Part of 
the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit, 
as at the end of the period 
covered by said report.
(b)
Upon completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, NPA shall prepare in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association, not later than 45 days after the 
end of each calendar quarter, a Project Management Report for such period.
Section 4.03 (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, NPA 
shall produce for its fiscal year ending March 31, 2001 total revenues 
equivalent to not less than the sum of its total cash operating expenses and 
interest and other charges on debt.
(b)
Before December 31, 2000, NPA shall, on the basis of forecasts 
prepared by NPA and satisfactory to the Association, review whether it would 
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section in respect of 
fiscal year 2001 and shall furnish to the Association the results of such review 
upon its completion.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
the term “total revenues” means the sum of total operating 
revenues and 
net non-operating income;
(ii)
the term “total operating revenues” means revenues from all 
sources 
related to operations; 
(iii)
the term “non-operating income” means the difference 
between:
(A)
revenues from all sources not related to operations; 
and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of 
taxes, incurred 
in the generation of revenues in (A) 
above; and
(iv)
the term “total cash operating expenses” means all expenses 
related to 
operations, including administration, adequate 
maintenance and taxes and 
payments in lieu of taxes but excluding 
provision for depreciation.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, NPA 
shall produce for its fiscal year ending March 31, 2002 and each of its fiscal 
years following thereafter total revenues equivalent to not less than the sum of 
its total operating expenses and interest and other charges on debt.
(b)
Before April 1, in each fiscal year referred to in paragraph (a) 
above, NPA shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by NPA and satisfactory to 
the Association, review whether it would meet the requirements set forth in said 
paragraph in respect of such year and the next following fiscal year and shall 
furnish to the Association the results of such review upon its completion.
Page  5
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
the term “total revenues” means the sum of total operating 
revenues and 
net non-operating income;
(ii)
the term “total operating revenues” means revenues from all 
sources 
related to operations;
(iii)
the term “net non-operating income” means the difference 
between:
(A)
revenues from all sources not related to operations; 
and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of 
taxes, incurred 
in the generation of revenues in (A) 
above; and
(iv)
the term “total operating expenses” means all expenses 
related to 
operations, including administration, adequate 
maintenance and taxes and 
payments in lieu of taxes, and provision 
for depreciation calculated on 
the basis of NPA’s fixed assets in 
operation as revalued in accordance 
with sound and consistently 
maintained methods of valuation satisfactory 
to the Association.
Section 4.05. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, NPA 
shall take all necessary action to earn for its fiscal year ending March 31, 
2002 and each of its fiscal years following thereafter, annual return for: (i) 
fiscal year 2002 of not less than 4.5% of the average current net value of NPA’s 
fixed assets in operation; and (ii) each of the fiscal years following 
thereafter not less than 6% of the average net value of said fixed assets.
(b)
Before April 1 in each fiscal year referred to in paragraph (a) 
above, NPA shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by NPA and satisfactory to 
the Association, review whether it would meet the requirements set forth in said 
paragraph in respect of such year and the next following fiscal year and shall 
furnish to the Association the results of such review upon its completion.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
the annual return shall be calculated by dividing NPA’s net 
operating 
income for the fiscal year in question by one half of 
the sum of the 
current net value of NPA’s fixed assets in 
operation at the beginning and 
at the end of that fiscal year;
(ii)
the term “net operating income” means total operating 
revenues less total 
operating expenses;
(iii)
the term “total operating revenues” means revenues from all 
sources 
related to operations;
(iv)
the term “total operating expenses” means all expenses 
related to 
operations, including administration, adequate 
maintenance, taxes and 
payments in lieu of taxes, and provision 
for depreciation on a 
straight-line basis at a rate of not 
less than: (A) 4.6% per annum for its 
fiscal years 2001 through 
2004, and (B) 3.2% per annum for its fiscal 
years following 
thereafter, of the average current gross value of NPA’s 
fixed 
assets in operation, or other basis acceptable to the Association, 
but excluding interest and other charges on debt;
(v)
the average current gross value of NPA’s fixed assets in 
operation shall 
be calculated as one-half of the sum of the 
gross value of NPA’s fixed 
assets in operation at the 
beginning and at the end of the fiscal year, as 
valued from 
time to time in accordance with sound and consistently 
Page  6
maintained methods of valuation satisfactory to the Association; and
(vi)
the term “current net value of NPA’s fixed assets in 
operation” means the 
gross value of NPA’s fixed assets in 
operation less the amount of 
accumulated depreciation, as 
valued from time to time in accordance with 
sound and 
consistently  maintained methods of valuation satisfactory to 
the Association.
Section 4.06. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, NPA 
shall not, for each of its fiscal years following next after its fiscal year 
ending on March 31, 2001, incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the 
revenues and expenditures of NPA for each fiscal year during the term of the 
debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.5 times the estimated debt service 
requirements of NPA in such year on all debt of NPA including the debt to be 
incurred.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
the term “debt” means any indebtedness of NPA maturing by 
its terms more 
than one year after the date on which it is 
originally incurred;
(ii)
debt shall be deemed to be incurred:
(A)
under a loan contract or agreement or other instrument 
providing 
for such debt or for the modification of its 
terms of payment on 
the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and
(B)
under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement 
providing 
for such guarantee has been entered into;
(iii)
the term “net revenues” means the difference between:
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to 
operations and net 
non-operating income; and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations 
including 
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and 
payments in lieu of 
taxes, but excluding provision for 
depreciation, other non-cash 
operating charges and 
interest and other charges on debt;
(iv)
the term “net non-operating income” means the difference 
between:
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of 
taxes, incurred 
in the generation of revenues in (A) 
above;
(v)
the term “debt service requirements” means the aggregate of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and 
interest and other 
charges on, debt; and
(vi)
the term “reasonable forecast” means a forecast prepared by 
NPA not 
earlier than twelve months prior to the incurrence of 
the debt in 
question, which both the Association and NPA accept as 
reasonable and as 
to which the Association has notified NPA of 
its acceptability, provided 
that no event has occurred since 
such notification which has, or may 
reasonably be expected in 
the future to have, a material adverse effect on 
the financial 
condition or future operating results of NPA.
Page  7
Section 4.07. Whenever for the purposes of Sections 4.03, 4.04, 4.05 and 
4.06 of this Agreement, it shall be necessary to value, in terms of the currency 
of the Borrower, debt payable in another currency, such valuation shall be made 
on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other 
currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of 
servicing such debt or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Association.
Section 4.08. (a) NPA shall provide in its tariff structure for the 
adjustment, under a formula satisfactory to the Association, of its electricity 
rates to levels appropriate to changes that may occur: (i) in the rates of 
exchange between the dollar and the leone; and (ii) in fuel costs.
(b)
NPA shall: (i) review the levels and structure of its tariffs; and 
(ii) furnish to the Association semi-annually by June 30 and December 31 each 
year a report on (A) the adequacy of its tariffs to meet NPA’s financial 
objectives under the Project, and (B) the effects of its tariffs on 
autogeneration of electricity by consumers.
(c)
NPA shall increase its average tariffs to a level equivalent to: 
(i) at least $0.191 per KWh by October 1, 2002; and (ii) at least $0.222 per KWh 
by April 1, 2001.
Section 4.09. If any such review as is referred to in paragraph (b) of 
Sections 4.03, 4.04, 4.05, 4.07 and 4.08 above shows that NPA would not meet the 
requirements set forth in the said paragraph of the said Sections, NPA shall 
promptly take all necessary measures (including adjustments of the structure or 
levels of its tariffs) in order to meet such requirements.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date 
upon which the Agreement Amending the Development Credit Agreement becomes 
effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association 
and of NPA thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate in 
accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with 
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the 
Association shall promptly notify NPA of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full 
force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or 
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by 
this Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to 
have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, 
telegram, cable, telex or facsimile to the party to which it is required or 
permitted to be given or made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or 
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party 
Page  8
giving such notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For NPA:
National Power Authority
Head Office
Electricity House
36, Siaka Stevens Street
Freetown
Sierra Leone
Cable address:
Telex:
ELECTRON
3628
Freetown
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any 
document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of 
NPA, or by NPA on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, 
may be taken or executed by NPA’s General Manager or such other person or 
persons as NPA shall designate in writing, and NPA shall furnish to the 
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen 
signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each 
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
NATIONAL POWER AUTHORITY
By /s/ John Leigh
Authorized Representative
