Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2827 SL
Development Credit Agreement
(Integrated Health Sector Investment Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated March 21, 1996
CREDIT NUMBER 2827 SL 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 21, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B) 
the Association has received a letter from the Borrower dated February 5, 
1996 (the Policy Letter), describing a program of actions, objectives and policies 
designed to reform its health sector (the Program), and declaring the Borrower's 
commitment to the execution of the Program;
(C) 
the Borrower intends to obtain a loan  from the African Development Bank 
(AfDB) in an approximate principal amount equivalent to $15,000,000 (the AfDB Loan) to 
assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an 
agreement (the AfDB Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and AfDB;
(D) 
the Borrower intends to obtain a grant from the European Union (EU) in an 
approximate principal amount equivalent to $4,000,000 (the EU Grant) to assist in 
financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement 
(the EU Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and EU;
(E) 
the Borrower intends to obtain a loan from the Saudi Fund for Development 
Page  2
(the Saudi Fund) in an approximate principal amount equivalent to $16,000,000 (the 
Saudi Fund Loan) to assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and 
conditions set forth in an agreement (the Saudi Fund Loan Agreement) to be entered 
into between the Borrower and the Saudi Fund;
(F) 
the Borrower intends to obtain a grant from the United Nations 
Development Program (the UNDP) in an approximate principal amount equivalent to 
$2,000,000 (the UNDP Grant) to assist in financing part of the Project on the terms 
and conditions set forth in an agreement (the UNDP Grant Agreement) to be entered into 
between the Borrower and the UNDP;
(G) 
the Borrower intends to obtain a grant from the United Nations Children's 
Fund (the UNICEF) in an approximate principal amount equivalent to $4,900,000 (the 
UNICEF Grant) to assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions 
set forth in an agreement (the UNICEF Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the 
Borrower and the UNICEF;
(H) 
the Borrower intends to obtain a grant from the United Nations Fund for 
Population Activities (the UNFPA) in an approximate principal amount equivalent to 
$4,000,000 (the UNFPA Grant) to assist in financing part of the Project on the terms 
and conditions set forth in an agreement (the UNFPA Grant Agreement) to be entered 
into between the Borrower and the UNFPA;
(I) 
the Borrower intends to obtain a grant from the World Health Organization 
(WHO) in an approximate principal amount equivalent to $4,000,000 (the WHO Grant) to 
assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an 
agreement (the WHO Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and WHO;
(J) 
the Borrower intends to obtain financing from other donors satisfactory 
to the Association in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to $5,000,000 to assist 
in financing parts of the Project on the terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereto 
set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(a)
the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and
(b)
the second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the currency of 
any country which is not a 
member of the Association or for goods produced in, 
or services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a 
decision of the 
United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a) "DOH" means the Department of Health of the Borrower;
Page  3
(b) "DOH Management Team" means the DOH Management Team established by the 
Borrower in 1995 and referred to in paragraph 3 (a) (i) of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement;
(c) "Donor Relations Office" means the Donor Relations Office established by the 
Borrower in 1995 and referred to in paragraph 3 (a) (ii) of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement;
(d) "Management Support Office" means the Management Support Office established 
by the Borrower in 1995 and referred to in paragraph 3 (a) (iii) of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement;
(e) "Financial Management Team" means the Financial Management Team established 
by the Borrower in 1995 and referred to in paragraph 3 (a) (iv) of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement;
(f) "Procurement Unit" means the Procurement Unit established by the Borrower in 
1995 and referred to in paragraph 3 (a) (v) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(g) "PMISU" means the Planning, Monitoring, Information and Statistics Unit 
established by the Borrower in 1985 and referred to in paragraph 3 (a) (vi) of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(h) "District Health Management Teams" means the District Health Management 
Teams established by the Borrower in 1995 and referred to in paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 
to this Agreement;
(i) "NGOs" means Non-Governmental Organizations;
(j) "Project Executing Units" means collectively the DOH Management Team, the 
Donor Relations Office, the Management Support Office, the Financial Management Team, 
the Procurement Unit, PMISU, the District Health Management Teams and such other 
organizational unit or units as the Borrower shall, with the prior agreement of the 
Association, include for the purposes of the Project.
(k) "National Health Action Plan" means the Borrower's National Health Action 
Plan adopted by the Borrower in February 1994;
(l) "Operational Manual" means the operational manual adopted by the Borrower in 
accordance with Section 6.01(d) of this Agreement, and describing, inter alia, the 
arrangements and procedures for carrying out the Project, with any amendments thereto 
as may be agreed upon from time to time by the Borrower and the Association;
(m) "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement;
(n) "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance granted 
by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated September 
21, 1995 and November 2, 1995; and
(p) "leone" means currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to thirteen million six hundred thousand  Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 13,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Page  4
(b) The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself  the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b) The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the 
date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association 
shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the 
territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible 
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to 
the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three\1efourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
March 15 and September 15, commencing March 15, 2006 and ending September 15, 2035. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on March 15, 2016 shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
(b) Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
Page  5
(c) If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall through 
DOH carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial and health sector practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall carry out, not earlier than January 1, 1998 and 
not later than October 31, 1998, a mid-term review of the progress made in carrying 
out the Project. The review shall, among other things, assess:
(i)
the progress made in carrying out the various components of the 
Project, 
including compliance with financial, audit and other 
covenants relating to the 
Project;
(ii)
the performance of consultants;
(iii)
the progress of Project monitoring indicators agreed with the 
Association; and
(iv)
any corrective measures that need to be taken including changes, 
if any, in 
the scope and content of the Project.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
Page  6
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, a certified 
copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account or payment out of the Special Account was 
made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the actions, 
objectives and policies stated in the Policy Letter, or a significant part thereof, 
will be carried out;
(b)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph: (A) the right of 
the Borrower 
to withdraw the proceeds of any loan or grant made to the 
Borrower for the 
financing of the Project (including the ADB 
Loan, the EU Grant, the Saudi Fund 
Loan, the UNDP Grant, the UNICEF 
Grant, the UNFPA Grant and the WHO Grant) 
shall have been 
suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing therefor, or (B) any such 
loan shall have become due and payable prior to the agreed maturity 
thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, 
cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused by the failure of the 
Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and (B) 
adequate funds for 
the Project are available to the Borrower from other 
sources on 
Page  7
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely  the event specified in paragraph (b) 
(i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of 
paragraph (b) (ii) of that Section. \0c
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a) the Borrower has entered into an agreement for the employment, in accordance 
with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, of at least 12 
man-months’ services of: (i) a financial management consulting firm; and (ii) a 
procurement technical assistance agency;
(b) the Borrower has signed, in accordance with Section II of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, a technical assistance agreement with the Sierra Leone Institute for Public 
Administration and Management;
(c) the Borrower has furnished to the Association with respect to the Western 
Region: (i) the training plans to be prepared and carried out under Part C of the 
Project; and (ii) a recruitment and redeployment plan in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association to be used for the Western Region district in which 
health facilities are to be rehabilitated or constructed in the first year of the 
Project;
(d) the Borrower has adopted, and furnished to the Association, an operational 
manual in form and substance satisfactory to the Association;
(e) the Borrower has prepared and furnished to the Association final bidding 
documents, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, for the civil works 
and goods to be procured for the Western Region district in the first 12 months’ 
period after the Effective Date through international competitive bidding procedures 
referred to in Section I of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
(f) the Borrower has: (i) signed a contract for (A) the installation in the 
system of an accounting software for DOH's programs, and (B) the training of DOH's 
staff in the use of the said system;
(g) the Borrower has issued a letter of invitation satisfactory to the 
Association for the employment, in accordance with Section II of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, of an independent auditor to audit the expenditures financed from proceeds 
of the Credit; and
(h) the Borrower has employed suitably qualified and competent persons on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association as: (i) Director of Management Support 
in the Management Support Office, (ii) Director of Financial Resources in the 
Financial Management Team, (iii) Chief Procurement Officer in the Procurement Unit, 
and (iv) senior officer responsible for monitoring and coordinating donor programs and 
budgets in the Donor Relations Office.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary of State for Finance of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Page  8
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Financial Secretary
The Department of Finance
Freetown, Sierra Leone
Cable address: 
Telex:
MINFIN 3363
 Freetown
Telexfax:
225353
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, DC
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
By /s/ Thomas K. Kargbo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Stephen M. Denning
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
   Credit
  Allocated
   % of 
(Expressed in
expenditures 
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
Page  9
(1)
Civil Works 
   4,300,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(2)
Drugs, furniture,
   3,000,000
100% of foreign
equipment, vehicles,
expenditures and
supplies and spare
90% of local
parts
expenditures
 (3)
Technical assistance
   1,400,000
100%
and studies 
(4)
Training including
   2,000,000
100% 
training materials
(5)
Incremental
   1,150,000
90% of local
operating costs
expenditures until 
December 31, 1998 
and thereafter 75% of
local expenditures
(6)
Refunding of
     200,000
Amount due pursuant
Project Preparation
to Section 2.02 (c)
Advance
of this Agreement
(7)
Unallocated
   1,550,000
   =========
TOTAL
  13,600,000
  ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that or the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "incremental operating costs" means the Project-related 
administrative and running costs of the Project Executing Units, comprising: 
(i)
salaries for incremental positions, per diem allowances and travel 
costs of 
Project staff;
(ii)
general supplies for offices;
(iii)
fuel, vehicle and equipment maintenance costs; and
(iv)
other Project related administrative expenses.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (i) goods 
and works not exceeding $100,000 equivalent; and (ii) services of (A) consulting firms 
not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, and (B) individual consultants not exceeding 
$50,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
Page  10
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in: (i) improving the 
health status of its population; (ii) increasing access to health care and family 
planning, particularly in the rural areas; (iii) improving the quality of health 
services delivered under the Program; (iv) strengthening management, accountability 
and community involvement at central and peripheral levels of the health sector; and 
(v) increasing efficiency and the financing available in the Borrower's territories 
for health care.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Health Services Package
1.
The carrying out of a maternal and child health program designed to reduce 
maternal and child morbidity through safe motherhood, family planning, school health 
services, and the follow up of health care provided for infants and under-five year 
old children, including immunization;
2.
The treatment of common ailments in hospitals and clinics available under the 
Program including: (i) the treatment and referral of basic trauma, malaria, diarrhea, 
respiratory infections and sexually-transmitted infections; and (ii) the assessment 
and advice on the alleviation of pain and disability.
3.
Control of communicable diseases through services provided at hospitals and 
clinics by doctors, nurses and other health workers, including the provision of 
preventive services to reduce morbidity and mortality rates, particularly in infants 
and under-five year old and children.
4.
Improving community access to sanitation and safe water through the 
construction, with the cooperation of various agencies and NGOs, of latrines, toilets 
and wells.
5.
The carrying out of a nutrition and dietetics program by doctors, nurses and 
other health workers to reduce childhood malnutrition including: (i) the provision of 
nutrition education and rehabilitation, (ii) the provision of iodine and other 
micro-nutrients, and (iii) the training, equipping and assignment of staff to provide 
counseling, supplements and support services.
6.
The development of a nationwide health education program by DOH including 
community health education, and school health education.
7.
(a) The carrying out of a secondary and tertiary health care program to provide 
referral service for the peripheral health units centered on the district hospitals 
including: (i) the strengthening of hospital services and mental health care, basic 
in-patient care, chronic and curative care, and (ii) the treatment of tuberculosis.
(b) Improving of staff performance at the district hospitals through training of 
staff and the strengthening of supervision and management of the hospitals to ensure 
the establishment and maintenance of quality standards.
Part B:
Support Services
1.
The acquisition of drugs and medical supplies including:
(i)
contraceptives, vaccines and supplies for Primary Health Units 
(PHUs) and 
secondary and tertiary care hospitals;
(ii)
the establishment of a revitalized procurement, storage and 
distribution system;
(iii)
improved monitoring and supervision at district level;
(iv)
the appointment of specialized procurement staff; and
(v)
the installation of an efficient cost recovery system.
Page  11
2.
The establishment of a national food, environmental and clinical laboratory 
service including: (i) the setting up of a national laboratory to monitor and test 
standards in prescribed drugs, water quality, the environment and food, (ii) the 
provision of a public health laboratory service and secondary and tertiary clinical 
care health services, and (iii) laboratory training and provision of safe blood.
3.
The carrying out of a rehabilitation work program including: (i) the renovation 
and re-equipping of health units; (ii) the rehabilitation and equipping of hospitals; 
(iii) the strengthening of the organization, management and staffing of maintenance 
and repair units; (iv) the establishment of (A) a central unit in DOH (the Central 
Facilities Management and Maintenance Unit) to provide services in medical 
electronics, civil works and transport maintenance, (B) regional maintenance and 
repair departments based at the larger hospitals, and (C) district maintenance units; 
and (v) the installation of management information and control systems.
Part C:
Institutional Development
1.
(a)
The establishment of a comprehensive human resource management function 
in the health sector in form and substance satisfactory to the Association to be 
concerned with all activities related to the resourcing and development of personnel, 
and employment relations in the said sector including:
(i)
the preparation of a long-term  manpower plan;
(ii)
the development of managerial and technical training plans;
(iii)  the establishment of effective mechanisms for coordinating 
training and   
management development; and
(iv)
the establishment of effective employee relations strategies.
(b)
The strengthening of the Donor Relations Office's capacity to:
(i)
coordinate the Project-related activities of donors and NGOs; and
(ii)
monitor donor programs and financial contributions to the health 
sector.
2.
The establishment of a district monitoring and evaluation capacity, operational 
research, and support for district work plans including the collection of 
epidemiological data and support for community management.
3.
The provision of central administrative support services, including: (i) 
accounting and other financial management services, (ii) procurement management, and 
(iii) transport administration.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines), and the following provisions of this Section, 
as applicable.
Part B: 
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
 Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall 
Page  12
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
(a)
Grouping of contracts.
To the extent practicable, contracts for: (i) goods shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or more each; and (ii) works shall be 
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $500,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preshipment Price Inspection.
Goods shall be exempted from preshipment price inspection by a third party 
inspection firm.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a) Works for the construction of health centers and rehabilitation of clinics 
and all other works estimated to cost $500,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $4,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines.
(b) Goods estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
Community Participation
Minor rehabilitation and repairs works estimated to cost less than $25,000 
equivalent per contract , up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, 
may be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association..
3.
International Shopping
(a)
Drugs estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $250,000 equivalent may, with the Association's 
prior agreement, be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
(b)
Goods (other than drugs) estimated to cost $25,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $150,000 equivalent may, with the 
Association’s prior agreement, be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 
and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
National Shopping:
Goods (other than drugs) estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent may, with the 
Association's prior agreement, be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 
3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Drugs and contraceptives estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount not 
exceeding $2,000,000 equivalent, may be procured from UNICEF in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
Page  13
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where 
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each, or (b) 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Association review shall 
not apply to (i) the terms of reference for such contracts, (ii) single-source 
selection of consulting firms, (iii) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably 
determined by the Association, (iv) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (v) 
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the 
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or 
above.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program 
1.
(a) The Borrower shall carry out, or cause the Project Executing Units to carry 
out, the Project in accordance with the Operational Manual.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
amend, abrogate or waive any provision of the Operational Manual or any provision 
thereof which, in the opinion of the Association, may materially and adversely affect 
the carrying out of the Project.
2.
The Borrower shall, with respect to the Project, cause DOH to carry out the 
following functions:
(a)
 planning;
 
(b)
the monitoring of the performance of health services;
(c)
donor coordination for the mobilization, and appropriate use, of 
resources;
Page  14
(d)
the provision of: (i) technical expertise in public health, and (ii) 
clinical services including advice to health care providers;
(e)
the provision of administrative support including support in the 
procurement and distribution of goods to be procured under the Project; and
(f)
the provision of budgeting, accounting and audit support.
3.
(a)
The Borrower shall  continue to maintain in DOH the following 
organizational  units with organizations, functions and staffing satisfactory to the 
Association: (i) DOH Management Team; (ii)  Donor Relations Office, (iii) Management 
Support Office, (iv) Financial Management Team, (v) Procurement Unit, and (vi) 
Planning, Monitoring, Information and Statistics Unit.
(b)  The DOH Management Team shall consist of the Secretary of State for Health 
(who shall head the DOH Management Team), the heads of the other organizational units 
referred to in sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph. The DOH Management Team shall be 
responsible for overall coordination of Project implementation.
(c) The Donor Relations Office shall be responsible for: (i) coordination of 
donor financing and donor activities, including liaising with the Association on such 
coordination and activities; and (ii) organizing donor participation in the mid-term 
review required under Section 3.03 of this Agreement and any annual reviews required 
under this Agreement.
(d) The Management Support Office shall be responsible for overseeing: (i) the 
preparation of reports, annual plans, and budgets for DOH, and (ii) the carrying out 
and monitoring of the technical programs included in the Project.
(e) The Financial Management Team shall be responsible for the preparation of 
budgets and for accounting and auditing matters.
(f) The Procurement Unit shall be responsible for handling all procurement 
matters, including the preparation of bidding documents.
(g) The Planning, Monitoring, Information and Statistics Unit shall be 
responsible for: (i) providing support to district level planning and monitoring, and 
(ii) the development of the health information system required for monitoring 
performance and quality improvements in the health services.
4.
The heads of the organizational units referred to in paragraph 3 (a) of this 
Schedule shall have responsibility for:
(i)
assessing technical and support programs improvements and the need 
for research;
(ii)
ensuring that national standards and quality services are 
developed and 
maintained; and 
(iii)
coordinating activities of Project participants to ensure the 
availability to 
communities of information, technical assistance and 
physical resources 
regarding district health services for 
maternal child health, family planning, 
communicable diseases 
(including HIV), other health conditions, good nutrition 
and 
environmental health.
5.
The Borrower shall no later than May 1, 1996 establish District Health 
Management Teams in the Western Region district to be responsible for:
(i)
planning and supervision of the delivery of health services;
(ii)
cooperation with communities in their districts to develop 
appropriate means 
and structures for local problem-solving, 
decision-making, quality assurance 
and accountability;
(iii)
the management of district based services, including the provision 
Page  15
of 
integrated programs to meet local priorities;
(iv)
the preparation of annual health plans and budgets in the light of 
available 
resources, local priorities, and national goals and 
guidelines; and
(v)
collaboration with the local governments, DOH and other Project 
participants and 
agencies.
6.
The Borrower shall each year: (i) cause to be prepared, no later than October 1, 
one additional  district health plan which shall form part of the documentation to be 
discussed at the annual donors meeting to be held that year; (ii) make budgetary 
provisions adequate to meet the full costs of preparing and implementing the said 
plan; and (iii) cause the plan to be implemented in at least one district of the 
Borrower where no such plan has previously been implemented.
7.
The Borrower shall each year:
(a)
no later than October 1 furnish to the Association, for its review and 
comments, an updated 3 year rolling plan and annual work and procurement plans and 
budget for the next following fiscal year (annual implementation plans), all in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
no later than November 1:
(i)
review jointly with the Association and other donors: (A) the 
implementation 
plans; and (B) progress made in meeting the existing 
performance indicators 
for the Project which have been agreed by the 
Borrower and the Association;
(ii)
identify any issues arising from Project execution and propose 
required solutions; 
and
(iii)
revise and update the annual implementations plans, to the 
satisfaction of the 
Association, on the basis of such 
understandings as shall have been reached by 
the participants in the 
joint review referred to in (A) above;
(c)
no later than December 15 furnish to the Association and other donors the 
annual implementation plans, as so revised and updated; and
(d)
carry out the Project on the basis of the revised annual implementation 
plans.
8.
The Borrower shall, no later than October 1 each year, furnish to the 
Association, for the Association's review and comments, a report on the progress of 
the Project in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, including:
(a)
an evaluation of progress achieved in Project execution in accordance 
with the Program and the annual implementation plan;
(b)
progress made in meeting financial targets for the Borrower’s 
expenditures;
(c)
progress made in increasing community participation in the Project;
(d)
progress made in the development of and carrying out of district health 
plans;
(e)
progress made in the development of quality of health care;
(f)
progress made in the training of staff;
(g)
progress made in the rehabilitation of health facilities;
(h)
progress made in the utilization of health services;
Page  16
(i)
progress made in the development of policies, and the implementation of 
support services for essential drugs, human resources, maintenance and repair, and 
health information systems; and
(j)
changes in health outcomes.
9.
The Borrower shall, no later than December 31, 1999, carry out and complete a 
national household survey acceptable to the Association on health behaviors, health 
status and health expenditures.
10.
The Borrower shall: (a) no later than December 31, 1997: (i) prepare a health 
sector financing plan, to identify the public/private mix of resources, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association; and (ii) establish and initiate a process 
(certificate of need process) in form and substance satisfactory to the Association 
which would ensure that the DOH Management Team’s prior approval is requested for any 
capital investments which the Borrower proposes to make in the health sector in excess 
of $25,000 equivalent; and (b) no later than December 31 in each of its fiscal years 
1998 and 2000 cause to be prepared and furnished to the Association a report setting 
out the benefits derived under the Program by users of health services provided 
thereunder.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.  
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) 
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) 
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) 
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of one million five hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 1,500,000).
2.  
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
 After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the 
Page  17
basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account 
and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to 
have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
 For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, 
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
 If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
 The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
Page  18
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
