Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2827-SL
(Amendment)
Agreement Amending
Development Credit Agreement
(Integrated Health Sector Investment Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated October 6, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 2827-SL
(Amendment)
AGREEMENT AMENDING
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 6, 2000 between REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a 
Development Credit Agreement (Integrated Health Sector Investment 
Project) dated March 21, 1996 (the Development Credit Agreement) for the 
purpose of assisting in the financing of the program referred to in 
Recital (B) of the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement (the 
Program);
(B)
the Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the 
restructuring of the Project so as to: (i) provide financial support for 
emergency relief operations; (ii) facilitate the rehabilitation of 
priority infrastructure in the health sector; and (iii) facilitate the 
achievement by the Borrower of the objectives of the Program; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to facilitate the restructuring of the Project upon the terms 
and conditions set forth in this Agreement (hereinafter referred to as 
this Amending Agreement);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
Amendments to the Development Credit Agreement
Section 1.01. The Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement is 
deleted and replaced by the following new Preamble:
“WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the 
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the 
financing of the Project;
(B)
the Association has received a letter from the 
Borrower dated February 5, 1996 (the Policy Letter), describing a 
program of actions, objectives and policies designed to reform its 
health sector (the Program), and declaring the Borrower’s 
commitment to the execution of the Program;
(C)
Part B of the Project will be carried out with the 
Borrower’s assistance by the National Power Authority (NPA), a 
statutory corporation established and operating under the laws of 
the Borrower;
(D)
the Borrower, as part of such assistance, will make 
part of the proceeds of the Credit available to NPA as set forth in 
this Agreement; and
(E)
the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, 
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the 
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in an 
agreement of even date herewith between the Association and NPA;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:”
Section 1.02. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is 
deleted and replaced by the following new Section 1.02:
“Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“MOHS” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health and 
Sanitation;
(b)
“MOHS Management Team” means the MOHS Management Team 
established by the Borrower in 1995 and referred to in paragraphs 3 
(a) (i) and 3 (b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(c)
“NGOs” means non-governmental organizations;
(d)
“HIV” means Human Immuno-Deficiency Virus;
(e)
“AIDS” means Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome;
(f)
“STD” means Sexually Transmitted Disease;
(g)
“NGO and Donor Relations Office” means the Donor 
Relations Office established by the Borrower in 1995 and referred 
to in paragraphs 3 (a) (ii) and 3 (c) of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement;
(h)
“Financial Management Team” means the Financial 
Management Team established by the Borrower in 1995 and referred to 
in paragraphs 3 (a) (iii) and 3 (d) of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement;
Page  3
(i)
“Procurement Unit” means the Procurement Unit 
established by the Borrower in 1995 and referred to in paragraphs 3 
(a) (iv) and 3 (e) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(j)
“PMS” means the Planning, Management and Statistics 
Unit established by the Borrower in 1985 and referred to in 
paragraphs 3 (a) (v) and 3 (f) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(k)
“District Health Management Teams” means the District 
Health Management Teams established by the Borrower in 1995;
(l)
“Project Executing Units” means collectively the MOHS 
Management Team, the NGO and Donor Relations Office, the Financial 
Management Team, the Procurement Unit, PMS, the District Health 
Management Teams and such other organizational unit or units as the 
Borrower shall, with the prior agreement of the Association, 
include for the purposes of the Project;
(m)
“National Health Action Plan” means the Borrower's 
National Health Action Plan adopted by the Borrower in February 
1994;
(n)
“Operational Manual” means the operational manual 
adopted by the Borrower in accordance with Section 6.01 (d) of this 
Agreement, which, inter alia, describes the arrangements and 
procedures for the carrying out of the Project, with any amendments 
thereto as may be agreed upon from time to time by the Borrower and 
the Association;
(o)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in 
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(p)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project 
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower 
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated September 21, 1995 and 
November 2, 1995;
(q)
“leone” means currency of the Borrower;
(r)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the 
Association and NPA dated October 6, 2000, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and 
agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(s)
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be 
entered into between the Borrower and NPA pursuant to Section 3.01 
(c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to 
time; and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement;
(t)
“UNICEF” means the United Nations Children’s Fund;
(u)
“IAPSO” means the Inter-Agency Procurement Services 
Office of the United Nations Development Programme;
(v)
“UNFPA” means the United Nations Fund for Population 
Activities; and
(w)
“WHO” means the World Health Organization.”
Section 1.03. Section 2.03 of the Development Credit Agreement is 
deleted and replaced by the following new Section 2.03:
“Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003 or 
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association 
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.”
Page  4
Section 1.04. Section 3.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is 
deleted and replaced by the following new Section 3.01:
“Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to 
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A and C of the 
Project through MOHS with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and health 
sector practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the said 
Parts of the Project.
(b)
Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its 
other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the 
Borrower shall cause NPA to perform in accordance with the 
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of NPA 
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, 
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable NPA to perform such 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action 
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(c)
The Borrower shall relend to NPA the proceeds of the 
Credit allocated to Category (2) (b) in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and NPA, under terms and conditions which 
shall have been approved by the Association including terms and 
conditions requiring: (i) repayment of principal in 20 years 
(including a grace period of 5 years); (ii) annual interest at 
7.5%; and (iii) the assumption by NPA of any foreign exchange risks 
on proceeds of the Credit made available to NPA under the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the 
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(e)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 
(a) of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association 
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out Parts A and C 
of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set 
forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.”
Section 1.05. Sections 5.01 and 5.02 of the Development Credit 
Agreement are deleted and replaced by the following new Sections 5.01 and 
5.02:
“Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)
a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried 
out;
(b)
NPA shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations under the Project Agreement;
(c)
as a result of events which have occurred after the 
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary 
situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that NPA 
will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement; and
(d)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph: 
Page  5
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the 
proceeds of any loan or grant made to the 
Borrower for the financing of the Project shall 
have been suspended, canceled or terminated in 
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the 
agreement providing therefor; or (B) any such 
loan shall have become due and payable prior to 
the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not 
apply if the Borrower establishes to the 
satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation, termination or 
prematuring is not caused by the failure of the 
Borrower to perform any of its obligations 
under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds 
for the Project are available to the Borrower 
from other sources on terms and conditions 
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower 
under this Agreement.”
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after 
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower; 
and
(b)
the event specified in paragraph (d) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 
of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b) 
(ii) of that Section.”
Section 1.06. Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement is 
deleted and replaced by the new Schedule 1 set forth in Annex I to this 
Amending Agreement.
Section 1.07. Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement is 
deleted and replaced by the new Schedule 2 set forth in Annex II to this 
Amending Agreement.
Section 1.08. Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement is 
deleted and replaced by the new Schedule 3 set forth in Annex III to this 
Amending Agreement.
Section 1.09. Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement is 
deleted and replaced by the new Schedule 4 set forth in Annex IV to this 
Amending Agreement.
Section 1.10. Paragraph 1 (c) of Schedule 5 to the Development 
Credit Agreement is deleted and replaced by the following new paragraph 1 
(c):
“(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means: (i) an amount 
equivalent to $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule
ARTICLE II
Effective Date; Termination
Section 2.01. This Amending Agreement shall not become effective 
until evidence satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished 
to the Association that the execution and delivery of this Amending 
Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have been duly authorized or ratified 
Page  6
by all necessary governmental action.
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to 
Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement, there shall be furnished to the 
Association an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the Association of 
counsel acceptable to the Association showing, on behalf of the Borrower, 
that this Amending Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and 
executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and is legally binding 
upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
Section 2.03. This Amending Agreement shall come into force and 
effect on the date upon which the Association shall dispatch to the 
Borrower notice of its acceptance of the evidence required by Section 
2.01 of this Amending Agreement.
Section 2.04. If this Amending Agreement shall not have come into 
force and effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Amending Agreement, this Amending Agreement and all obligations of the 
parties thereunder shall terminate unless the Association establishes a 
later date for the purposes of this Section. If this Amending Agreement 
shall terminate under the provisions of this Section, the Development 
Credit Agreement shall continue in full force and effect as if this 
Amending Agreement had not been executed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Amending Agreement to be 
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United 
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
By /s/ John Leigh
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa 
ANNEX I
“SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Credit to each Category and the percentage of  expenditures for items so 
to be financed in each Category:
 Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in SDR
Expenditures
Category
   Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil Works
   1,600,000
100% up to
December 31, 2002
and thereafter 100%
of foreign 
expenditures
Page  7
and 90% of local
expenditures
(2)
(a) Drugs, contraceptives
   5,200,000
100% up to
consumables, reagents HIV 
December 31, 2002
test kits, furniture, 
and thereafter 100%
medical equipment, 
of foreign expenditures
vehicles, and other goods 
and 90% of local
under Parts A and C of 
expenditures
the Project
(b) Electric generators
   2,600,000
100%
and spare parts under
Part B of the Project
(3)
Technical assistance,
   2,600,000
100%
training and studies
(4)
Incremental Operating
   1,100,000
100% up to
December 31, 2002
and thereafter 100%
of foreign expenditures
and 90% of local
expenditures
(5)
Refunding of Project
     200,000
Amount due pursuant
Preparation Advance
Section 2.02 (c) of
this Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
     300,000
TOTAL
  13,600,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means the 
Project-related administrative and running costs of the Project Executing 
Units, comprising: 
(i)
salaries for incremental positions, per diem 
allowances and travel costs of Project staff, 
excluding salaries of civil servants;
(ii)
general supplies for offices;
(iii)
fuel, vehicle and equipment maintenance costs; and
(iv)
other Project related administrative expenses.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and
(b)
expenditures under Category (2) (b) unless the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement has been duly executed, in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Association, and a copy thereof furnished to the Association.
Page  8
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to 
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under 
contracts for: (i) goods and works not exceeding $100,000 equivalent; 
(ii) services of (A) consulting firms not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, 
and (B) individual consultants not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, under 
such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower; and (iii) Incremental Operating Costs.”
ANNEX II
“SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower, during 
the post-conflict period, to address the priority health needs of its 
population including the taking of appropriate and urgent measures to: 
(i) deal with major public health issues such as sexually transmitted 
diseases, HIV/AIDs, malaria, onchocerciasis, and other infectious 
diseases; and (ii) provide care for amputees and psychologically 
traumatized women and children; and (iii) reform the health system and 
ultimately improve the health status of the population.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon 
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Health Emergency Package
1.
The acquisition of drugs, vaccines, contraceptives, consumables, 
bio-medical equipment, furniture, water pumps and electricity generators 
for health facilities, as well as ambulances and other logistic means to 
resume the delivery of health care in public health facilities.
2.
Treatment of major ailments in hospitals and clinics, including: 
(i) the treatment and referral of amputees, and other physical and 
psychological trauma cases; (ii) the assessment, advice and care to 
alleviate pain, psychological suffering and disability; and (iii) the 
provision of good quality and affordable primary and referral services 
with emphasis on reducing maternal mortality.
3.
Development of a nationwide STD/HIV/AIDS prevention program by 
MOHS, local communities and all concerned sectors.
4.
Control of communicable diseases including: (i) provision of 
preventive services to reduce current epidemics and prevent new 
outbreaks; (ii) improved case management; and (iii) epidemic 
surveillance.
5.
Rehabilitation of essential health services such as district 
hospitals, chiefdom health centers, and provision of equipment, drugs and 
furniture to such health facilities as the Borrower and the Association 
shall determine.
6.
Strengthening of mental health services at central level and in 
districts to provide counseling, support and treatment to war victims and 
other mentally ill persons with focus on women, children, and amputees.
7.
The carrying out of a maternal and child health program designed to 
reduce maternal and child health problems through safe motherhood, family 
planning, school health services, and the follow-up of health care 
provided for infants and under-five year old children, including 
immunization.
8.
The carrying out of a nutrition and food supplementation program to 
Page  9
reduce childhood malnutrition including: (i) the provision of nutrition 
education and rehabilitation services; (ii) the provision of iodine and 
other micro-nutrients; and (iii) training, equipping and assignment of 
staff to provide counseling, supplements and support services.
9.
Improving sanitation and access to safe water.
Part B:
Provision of Electricity
The provision by NPA of electricity to key health facilities in 
Freetown and the districts to be rehabilitated under the Project with 
particular focus on the emergency wards and surgical theaters, including: 
(i) the acquisition and installation by NPA of three units of 1.2 to 1.5 
MW high speed electricity generators to be utilized first in Freetown, on 
a temporary basis, and later, when higher capacity generators are 
installed in Freetown, in district capital cities where hospitals are to 
be equipped, and reconstruction or rehabilitation works are to be carried 
out, under the Project; and (ii) the acquisition of spare parts for the 
rehabilitated or new generating units.
Part C:
The Reform Package
1.
The carrying out of a health sector reform package including the 
adoption of the most cost-effective interventions and the carrying out of 
prevention, family planning and nutrition programs, and of a health care 
delivery system based on primary health care and sound referral services.
2.
Increasing the accessibility to services in remote areas and 
affordability of care to the poor. 
3.
The establishment of a revitalized drug, vaccines and contraceptive 
procurement, storage and distribution system.
4.
Improvement of decentralizing to districts, supervision at district 
level and effective participation of communities in health facility 
management.
5.
The setting up, on a gradual basis, of an efficient cost recovery 
system adequate to protect the access of the poor to health services and 
drugs.
6.
The carrying out of a comprehensive rehabilitation work program, 
including: (i) the renovation of health facilities and, where necessary, 
an expansion of services; and (ii) the strengthening of the organization, 
management and staffing of maintenance and repair units.
7.
The establishment of a comprehensive human resource management 
function in the health sector to manage the staffing and development of 
personnel, and the employment relations in the said sector, including: 
(i) the preparation of a long-term manpower plan; and (ii) the 
establishment of effective mechanisms for coordinating training.
8.
The strengthening of the donor and NGO coordination functions of 
the MOHS.
9.
The development of planning, monitoring and evaluation capacities 
in the districts, including the collection of epidemiological data and 
financial management.
10.
the provision of efficient central administrative support services, 
including: (i) accounting and financial management; (ii) procurement; and 
(iii) planning, management and statistics services.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.”
Page  10
ANNEX III
“SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines), and the 
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B: 
International Competitive Bidding
1.
 Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and 
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 
thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of this Part B:
(a)
Grouping of Contracts.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in 
bid packages estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preshipment Price Inspection.
Goods shall be exempted from preshipment price inspection by a 
third party inspection firm.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Limited International Bidding
The following items may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines, 
namely: (i) drugs, contraceptives, reagents, consumables, medical 
equipment, vehicles and other goods estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent 
or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $600,000 
equivalent; and (ii) electric generators and spare parts to be procured 
by NPA under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, up to an aggregate amount not 
to exceed $3,500,000 equivalent.
2.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Works for the construction of health centers and 
rehabilitation of clinics and all other works estimated to cost $700,000 
equivalent or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$1,300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines.
(b)
Goods estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or less per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
3.
Community Participation
Minor rehabilitation and repair works estimated to cost less than 
Page  11
$25,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$700,000 equivalent, may be procured in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Association..
4.
International Shopping
(a)
Drugs, contraceptives, consumables, reagents and HIV test 
kits estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $350,000 equivalent may, with the 
Association's prior agreement, be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Goods (other than drugs, contraceptives, consumables, 
reagents and HIV test kits) estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $800,000 equivalent 
may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
5.
National Shopping:
The following items may, with the Association's prior agreement, be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of 
the Guidelines: (i) drugs, contraceptives, consumables, reagents, HIV 
test kits estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000 equivalent; and (ii) goods 
(other than drugs, contraceptives, consumables, reagents, HIV test kits 
estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $450,000 equivalent.
6.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Drugs, contraceptives, reagents, medical equipment and vehicles 
estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount not exceeding $2,500,000 
equivalent, may be procured from UNICEF, IAPSO and UNFPA in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding 
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project 
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  
Page  12
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
published by the Association in January 1997 and revised in September 
1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in 
paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines), and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Section.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to 
“Bank member countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be 
references, respectively, to “Participating Countries” and “Participating 
Country”.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the 
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association 
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters 
of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not 
apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Association review 
shall not apply to: (i) the terms of reference for such contracts; (ii) 
single-source selection of consulting firms; (iii) assignments of a 
critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Association; (iv) 
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising 
the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or (v) amendments to 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the 
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
4.
Services estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured from WHO and NGOs in accordance 
with procedures satisfactory to the Association.”
ANNEX IV
“SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
(a)
The Borrower shall carry out, or cause the Project Executing 
Units to carry out, the Project in accordance with the Operational 
Manual.
(b)
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not amend, abrogate or waive any provision of the 
Operational Manual or any provision thereof which, in the opinion of the 
Association, may materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the 
Project.
2.
The Borrower shall, with respect to the Project, cause MOHS to 
carry out the following functions:
(a)
the rapid assessment of health needs and planning to respond 
to emergency needs during the period of post-conflict transition to 
peace;
(b)
the monitoring of the health services response to the health 
needs of the population;
(c)
donor coordination for the mobilization, and appropriate 
use, of resources;
(d)
the provision of technical support in public health matters, 
and in clinical services including advice and support to health care 
providers of public, private for profit and non-for profit facilities;
(e)
the provision of administrative support including support in 
the procurement and distribution of goods to be procured under the 
Project; and
Page  13
(f)
the provision of budgeting, accounting and audit support.
3.
(a)
The Borrower shall continue to maintain in MOHS the 
following organizational teams and units with organizations, functions 
and staffing satisfactory to the Association: (i) MOHS Management Team; 
(ii) NGO and Donor Relations Unit; (iii) Financial Management Team; (iv) 
Procurement Unit; and (v) Planning, Management and Statistics Unit. The 
said teams and units shall: (A) provide efficient management and planning 
support to the Project Executing Units; and (B) be concerned with the 
integration of NGOs and donors’ activities into the annual budget of the 
Borrower and the activity plan of the health sector.
(b)
The MOHS Management Team shall consist of: (i) the Minister 
of Health and Sanitation; (ii) the Secretary of State for Health (who 
shall head the MOHS Management Team); (iii) the Director General of 
health services; (iv) the Director General for management services; and 
(v) the heads of the other organizational units referred to in 
sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph. The MOHS Management Team shall be 
responsible for overall coordination of Project implementation.
(c)
The NGO and Donor Relations Unit shall be responsible for: 
(i) collecting information on donor and NGO activities, including 
liaising with the Association; and (ii) organizing donor and NGOs 
participation in any annual review required under this Agreement; and 
(iii) collaborating with Planning, Management and Statistics Unit to 
coordinate donor and NGOs activities in the health sector, required under 
this Agreement.
(d)
The Financial Management Team shall be responsible for 
overseeing the preparation of budgets and for accounting and auditing 
matters.
(e)
The Procurement Unit shall be responsible for handling all 
procurement matters, including the preparation of bidding documents.
(f)
The Planning, Management and Statistics Unit shall be 
responsible for: (i) providing support to district level planning and 
monitoring; (ii) the development of the health information system 
required for monitoring performance and quality improvements in the 
health services; and (iii) providing management support to MOHS and the 
districts.
4.
The heads of the organizational units referred to in paragraph 3 
(a) of this Schedule shall have responsibility for:
(i)
assessing technical and support programs improvements 
and the need for 
research;
(ii)
ensuring that national standards and quality services 
are developed and 
maintained; and
(iii)
coordinating activities of Project participants to 
ensure the availability to 
communities of information, 
technical assistance and physical resources 
regarding district health services for maternal child health, family 
planning, 
communicable diseases (including STD/HIV/AIDS), 
other health conditions, good 
nutrition and improved 
sanitation and access to safe water. environmental 
health.
5.
The Borrower shall each year: (i) cause to be prepared, no later 
than October 15 district health plans which shall form part of the sector 
annual plan to be discussed at the annual NGO and donor meeting to be 
held that year; and (ii) make budgetary provisions adequate to meet the 
full costs of preparing and implementing the said plan.
Page  14
6.
The Borrower shall each year:
(a)
no later than October 1 furnish to the Association, for its 
review and comments, an annual draft budget and work plan for the next 
following fiscal year (annual budget and activity plans), all in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
no later than November 1:
(i)
review jointly with the Association and other donors: 
(A) the implementation of the annual budget and 
activity plan; and (B) the progress made in meeting 
the existing performance indicators;
(ii)
identify any issues arising from Project execution 
and propose required solutions; and
(iii)
revise and update the annual budget and activity 
plans, to the satisfaction of the Association, on the 
basis of such understandings as shall have been 
reached by the participants in the joint review 
referred to in subparagraph (b) (i) above;
(c)
no later than December 15 furnish to the Association and 
other donors the annual budget and activity plan, as so revised and 
updated; and
(d)
carry out the Project on the basis of the revised annual 
implementation plans.
7.
The Borrower shall prepare annually and furnish to the Association, 
for its review and comments, no later than December 31, a procurement and 
a disbursement plan in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association. The said plans shall include all activities of the agreed 
annual budget and activity plans proposed to be executed during the 
following year utilizing the proceeds of the Credit.
8.
The electric generators to be purchased under Part B of the Project 
utilizing the proceeds of the Credit shall first be installed in Freetown 
(as a temporary solution to the capital city’s increased needs). As soon 
as higher capacity generators shall be installed in Freetown, the said 
generators shall be installed in the district capital cities in which 
reconstruction or rehabilitation works and equipping of district 
hospitals shall be carried out.”
