Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15479
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
BACON MANITO GEOTHERMAL POWER PROJECT
(LOAN 29690-PH & LOAN 29691-PH)
February 27, 1996
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Philippine Pesos (P)
At Appraisal:   P20.50 = US$1
At Completion: P27.12 = US$1 (December 1993)
P25.70 = US$1 (December 1995)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB            Asian Development Bank
BOI            Board of Investments
BOT            build-operate-transfer
DENR           Department of Energy and Natural Resources
ECC            Environmental Clearance Certificate
ERB            Energy Regulatory Board
ERR            economic rate of return
FRR            financial rate of return
ICB            international competitive bidding
ICG            internal cash generation
ICR            Implementation Completion Report
ID             institutional development
GOP            Government of the Philippines
KfW            Kreditstantalt fur Wiederaufbau
km             kilometers
kV             kilovolt
kWh            kilowatt-hours
LOLP           loss of load probability
LRMC           long-run marginal cost
MERALCO        Manila Electric Company
MIS            management information system
MMBOE          million barrels oil equivalent
MOE            Ministry of Energy
MW             megawatts
MWh            megawatt-hours
NPC            National Power Corporation
OISF           Oil Industry Special Fund
PD             Presidential Decree
PEP            Productivity Enhancement Program
PNOC           Philippine National Oil Company
PNOC-EDC       PNOC Energy Development Corporation
PNPP           Philippine Nuclear Power Plant
REC            Rural Electric Cooperative
ROR            rate of return
ROW            right-of-way
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
SGS            steam gathering system



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Preface .........................................................i
Evaluation Summary ........................................................                                                                                     ii
Bacon Manito Geothermal Power Project Implementation Assessment
A.  Statement/Evaluation of Objectives ..........................................................1
B.  Achievement of Objectives .........................................................                                                                         2'
C.  Major Factors Affecting the Project ..........................................................5
D.  Project Sustainability ..........................................................6
E.  Bank Performance ..........................................................7
F.  Borrower Performance ..........................................................8
G.  Assessment of Outcome ..........................................................9
H.  Future Operation ..........................................................9
I.   Key Lessons Learned .........................................................                                                                            10
Annexes
Annex A: Statistical Tables
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .1
Table 2: Related Bank Loans .12
Table 3: Project Timetable .12
Table 4:  Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual                                                                  .13
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation .13
Table 6A:  Key Indicators for Project Operation -  PNOC & PNOC-EDC ..................................... 14
Table 6B:   Key Indicators for Project Operation -    NPC ........................................................                                      15
Table 7:           Studies Included  in Project ........................................................                                               16
Table 8A:  Project Costs ........................................................                                                                      17
Table 8B:  Project Financing ........................................................                                                                  17
Table 9A:   Financial Costs and  Benefits ........................................................                                                     18
Table 9B:   Economic Costs and  Benefits ........................................................                                                      19
Table  10:    Status of Legal Covenants ........................................................                                                       20
Table  11:    Compliance with  Operational Manual Statements ........................................................ 22
Table  12:    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ........................................................                                                    22
Table  13:    Bank Resources: Missions ........................................................                                                       23
Annex B: Sector Specific Data
Table  1:         Energy  Production  and Consumption  1984-2000 ........................................................    24
Table 2:          Geothermn al Sector Highlights 1993-2010  ........................................................                                   25
Table 3:          Cumulative Installed  Generating Capacity  1993-2010 ................................................... 25
Table 4:          Phases of Power Sector Restructuring  and  Privatization ................................................ 26
Annex C: Completion Mission's Aide Memoire ........................................................                                                           27.
Annex  D:  PNOC-EDC's Contribution to the ICR  (excluding  appendices) ................................................ 28
Annex E: NPC's Contribution to the ICR  (excluding  appendices) ........................................................    39
Maps
IBRD 20275 - Grid Map of National Power Corporation
IBRD 20278 - Existing Geothermal Power Projects in Operation
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties.
Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
BACON MANITO GEOTHERMAL POWER PROJECT
(Ln. 2969-0-PH and Ln. 2969-1-PH)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Bacon Manito Geothermal Power
Project in the Philippines, for which Loan 29690-PH in the amount of US$41 million equivalent and
Loan 29691-PH in the amount of US$59 million equivalent were approved on June 23, 1988 and made
effective on December 12, 1988.
Loan 29690-PH to the Philippine National Oil Company (PNOC) was closed on December 31,
1993, as planned. It was fully disbursed, and the last disbursement took place on December 1, 1993.
Loan 29691-PH to the National Power Corporation (NPC) was closed on December 31, 1995, after two
extensions of the original closing date of December 31, 1993. The first extension was to December 31,
1994. Final disbursement will take place on March 31, 1996, at which time a balance of US$3.9 million
equivalent will be canceled. A protocol soft loan of US$74.7 million for the power plant component of
the project was provided by the Government of Italy.
The ICR was prepared by Jose R. Escay, Consultant, under the supervision of John Irving,
Senior Power Engineer in the Infrastructure Operations Division of Country Department 1, East Asia and
Pacific Region, and reviewed by Jayasankar Shivakumar, Chief, Infrastructure Operations Division, and
Walter Schwermer, Project Adviser. The borrowers provided comments that are included as Annexes D
and E to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR, based on material in the project file, was begun in October 1995 prior to
the Bank's completion mission in February 1996. Comments were received from Anil Malhotra and P.
Venugopal, who also participated in the appraisal mission. The Borrowers contributed to preparation of
the ICR by contributing views reflected in the mission's aide-memoire and preparing their own
evaluation of the project's execution.



I



ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
BACON MANITO GEOTHERMAL POWER PROJECT
(Ln. 2969-0-PH and Ln. 2969-1-PH)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
i.    Large scale geothermal power production in the Philippines began in 1979 with a joint venture
between the National Power Corporation (NPC) and a US-based company. The Government of the
Philippines (GOP) perceived vast scope for geothermal resource identification and development, and
sought the Bank's assistance. Following an identification mission by the Bank in 1979, and an energy
assessment study (1980) carried out jointly by the Bank and the Asian Development Bank (ADB), a
US$36 million Geothermal Exploration Project (Loan 2203-PH) was approved in 1982, which comprised
a 25-well exploration program in the highly prospective Bacon Manito and Palinpinon areas.
ii.   In 1984-86, several Bank missions, in conjunction with NPC, Philippine National Oil Company
(PNOC) and PNOC Energy Development Corporation (PNOC-EDC), reviewed the development of the
power and geothermal sectors. At that time, no new generating plant was under construction in the
Philippines, despite a projected increase in power demand, and a decrease in installed capacity due to the
unexpected retiring of the geothermal units at Tiwi and the mothballing of the 620 MW Philippine
Nuclear Power Plant (PNPP) in 1986. Furthermore, it was anticipated that system reliability would fall
sharply as the loss of load probability (LOLP) was expected to increase from a level of two days/year in
1987 to more than 30 days/year in 1991.
iii.    An examination of NPC's least cost power development program in 1987 indicated that the
development of a 110 megawatt (MW) power plant at Bacon Manito in southern Luzon should be NPC's
next development priority. Further, to optimize the investments in generation, there was a need to
upgrade and expand the facilities of NPC's transmission system. However, the deteriorating condition
of NPC's finances posed a significant constraint to addressing these needs, and was further aggravated by
serious accounts receivable problems. Thus, the Bank and NPC agreed to implement financial recovery
efforts and relieve NPC's cash constraints within a comprehensive and consolidated framework.
Project Objectives
iv.    The main objectives of the project were to: (a) support the delineation and assessment of
geothermal resources for use in Luzon, and thereby reduce the need to rely on imported fuel for power
generation; (b) develop an existing geothermal steam field at Bacon Manito I and an associated 110 MW
base load power plant that would provide a new source to meet demand growth in the Luzon grid; (c)
support measures for upgrading and expanding NPC's system facilities; and (d) support institution-
building and financial recovery efforts at NPC.
v.    In 1988, achieving these project objectives was critical to ensuring the country's economic
recovery. The statement of objectives was clear and their achievement realistic, except for the
institutional development (ID) objective, which was not explicitly supported by any project component



iii
and for which there were neither implementation schedules nor milestones. The loose integration of ID
components within an infrastructure project is not uncommon, particularly when there are obvious
requirements for ID at the project's inception and the specific scope and magnitude are not known during
project preparation. The major drawback of such a design is that it provides too much flexibility and
vulnerability to commitment during project implementation.
vi.    NPC's financial weakness posed a risk to securing counterpart funds and, thereby, to keeping to
the project implementation schedule. Moreover, an effective remedy of this situation would require
considerable effort since the root of the problem was not confined within NPC, but stemmed from the
chain of inter-company arrears in the energy sector which included Manila Electric Company
(MERALCO), the Rural Electric Cooperatives (RECs), PNOC and other fuel suppliers. Hence, the
financial recovery of NPC required action on a broader, sectoral context. This increased the project's
complexity and imposed high demands on Bank and NPC staff during implementation.
vii.   By contrast, PNOC-EDC was in a stronger position due to the support it could draw on from its
holding company, namely PNOC, which was in good financial health. PNOC-EDC itself had capable
technical and professional staff who had gained extensive experience in geothermal technology from the
Philippine experience, training extended through bilateral agreements and an ongoing technical
collaboration with a reputed company from New Zealand.
Results and Bank/Borrower Performance
viii.  The overall outcome of the project was satisfactory. The project has achieved most of its major
objectives and is likely to maintain satisfactory results despite completion delays of more than two years
for the NPC component and a 32% increase in project costs, for a new total of $289.5 million. For the
PNOC-EDC component, the project is expected to achieve a 7.0% Financial Rate of Return (FRR)
against the 7.1% estimated at appraisal. Overall, the project has a satisfactory 13.7% Economic Rate of
Return (ERR), despite cost overruns which prevented realization of the estimated 19% at appraisal. The
project proved instrumental in fostering the development of geothermal resources in the Philippines. It
also served as an important catalyst in improving the sustainability of the overall power sector through
its success in facilitating the financial recovery of NPC. It must be emphasized that such recovery is
genuine, in that it included electricity tariff increases with automatic adjustment mechanisms, rather than
relying on significant and distorting subsidies, and direct budgetary transfers from the Govemment.
ix.    Notably, the specific project components from which the above-mentioned rates of return were
computed are the ones which encountered significant cost overruns and delays. They included the steam
gathering system (SGS) with a 160% cost overrun and 18-month delay, power plant (54% and 31
months) and associated transmission (32 months). The causes for completion delays and cost overruns
include: (a) delays in construction activities of the SGS due to the inability of the contractor to meet the
schedule which resulted in a contract takeover by PNOC-EDC; (b) a 22-month delay in Italian
cofinancing for the power plant, which became effective on October 5, 1990; (c) additional wells and
requirements for civil works, project administration, geoscientific, and well development activities in
Bacon Manito I; (d) difficulties in obtaining ROWs for transmission lines, failure of supplied materials
quality test requirements, and rebidding some equipment because of the conflict in the former Yugoslav
Republic; and (e) slow procurement procedures by NPC and a lack of corporate interest in implementing
ID components.
x.    Bank performance during preparation was satisfactory. Appraisal of the technical, financial,
economic and environmental aspects of the project was tight and straightforward, while the institutional



iv
component remained less defined (para. v). Its performance during supervision was highly satisfactory
particularly due to its exemplary efforts in assisting NPC with its financial recovery. Implementation
progress was adequately assessed and reported, and sufficient attention was given not only to the
project's development impact, but also to the overall development of the power sector. Further, loan
covenants were enforced, although the Bank initially waived the 8% rate of return covenant due to the
political instability which prevented GOP from approving sudden increases in electricity tariffs, and the
drought increased NPC's fuel expenses.
xi.    PNOC-EDC's performance during preparation and implementation was highly satisfactory. The
technical, financial, institutional and environmental requirements of the project were adequately
assessed, and the drilling program  and list of studies were laid-out at the onset.  Problems in
procurement were corrected in the early stages of project implementation.
xii.   NPC's performance during preparation and implementation was satisfactory. While technical
and financial requirements were adequately evaluated, there were deficiencies in identifying its
institutional constraints and requirements prior to implementation. Despite a two year completion delay,
the major components of the project were successfully completed, and compliance with loan covenants
and financial recovery of NPC were effected in 1992.
Sustainability, Future Operations and Lessons Learned
xiii.   The economic benefits of the project, combined with the facts that geothermal energy is both
indigenous to the country and is environmentally attractive, support, if not reinforce, the likelihood that
the project will be sustainable during its operational phase. The project has also allowed the Bank to
serve as a catalyst in geothermal-based power generation in the Philippines, and was instrumental in
facilitating a geothermal pricing arrangement between NPC and PNOC. The Energy Sector Project,
which included a significant geothermal component, was approved in 1990, and the Leyte-Cebu and
Leyte-Luzon Geothermal Projects were both approved in 1994. Further, GOP support and policies have
helped to ensure the country's future geothermal program. In December 1995, the Board of Investments
(BOI) approved income tax breaks, among other incentives, for two PNOC-EDC geothermal power
projects (120 MW in Mount Labo and 40 MW in Negros).
xiv.   For the SGS component, a drilling program should be maintained to ensure the availability of
contracted capacity with the power plant over the life of the project. Further, PNOC-EDC should
provide sufficient funds for the adequate management and maintenance of the SGS. For the power plant,
performance targets are laid-out during the first quarter of each year and good performnance is rewarded
in the form of bonuses granted by NPC's Board.
xv.   The most important lesson to be learned from  this project underscores the fundamental
difference between development banking and commercial banking. Whereas commercial banking looks
into the financial outcome of a project, development banking, as exemplified by these loans (particularly
to NPC), focuses, in addition to the financial outcome, on using projects to develop and improve
institutions with the hope that such action will have favorable spillover effects on the sector and the
country's economy. Other lessons include the following:
* There is a need to incorporate flexibility in geothermal and other natural resource projects.
* An integrated approach should be followed when both fuel supply infrastructure and generation plant
are constructed in concert.



v
*  ID components of a project should be given equal, if not higher, priority to the levels accorded to
other project components.
* During project preparation, the Bank should strictly assess the capacity of the borrower's project
management team and the effectiveness of its procurement procedures.
*  The Bank should obtain sufficient assurances to ensure the availability and timeliness of cofinancing
funds prior to implementation.
*  Despite the satisfactory position of NPC's finances at present, close monitoring should be continued
by the Bank.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
BACON MANITO GEOTHERMAL POWER PROJECT
(Ln. 2969-0-PH and Ln. 2969-1-PH)
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
1.    Project Background. Large scale geothermal power production in the Philippines began in 1979 with
a joint venture between the National Power Corporation (NPC) and a US-based company. In order to realize
the full potential of the country's geothermal resources, the Government of the Philippines (GOP) requested
Bank assistance in resource identification and development. Following an identification mission by the Bank
in 1979, and an energy assessment study (1980) carried out jointly by the Bank and the Asian Development
Bank (ADB), a US$36 million Geothermal Exploration Project (Loan 2203-PH) was approved in 1982, which
comprised a 25-well exploration program in the highly prospective Bacon Manito and Palinpinon areas.
2.    In 1984-86, several Bank missions, in conjunction with NPC, Philippine National Oil Company
(PNOC) and PNOC Energy Development Corporation (PNOC-EDC), reviewed the development of the power
and geothermal sectors. At that time, no new generating plant was under construction in the Philippines,
despite a projected increase in power demand, and a decrease in installed capacity due to the unexpected
retiring of the geothermal units at Tiwi and the mothballing of the 620 MW Philippine Nuclear Power Plant
(PNPP) in 1986. Furthernore, it was anticipated that system reliability would fall sharply as the loss of load
probability (LOLP) was expected to increase from a level of two days/year in 1987 to seven days/year in 1989,
and to more than 30 days/year in 1991.
3.    An examination of NPC's least cost power development program  in 1987 indicated that the
development of a 110 MW power plant at Bacon Manito in southern Luzon should be NPC's next development
priority. At that time, PNOC had already invested US$51.5 million in developing the Bacon Manito
geothermal steam field to sustain a production level of 70 MW, and which needed an incremental investment of
about US$24 million to upgrade the field to 110 MW. Furthermore, to optimize the investments in generation,
there was a need to upgrade and expand the facilities of NPC's transmission system.
4.    NPC's financial performance, however, was rapidly deteriorating and the Corporation had serious
accounts receivable problems. In response, NPC stretched its accounts payable beyond reasonable limits to
meet some of its working capital requirements. Further, NPC was undercapitalized and could not raise Peso-
denominated long-term loans. With GOP support, NPC began to implement measures to relieve its cash
constraints. Nevertheless, the Bank and NPC agreed to implement financial recovery measures and relieve
NPC's cash constraints within a comprehensive and consolidated framework. Further, these organizations
approached the Bank to conduct a sector study to address medium- and long-term energy issues.
s.    Project Objectives. The main objectives of the project were to:
(a)  support the delineation and assessment of geothermal resources for use in Luzon, and thereby
reduce the need to rely on imported fuel for power generation;
(b)  develop an existing geothermal steam field at Bacon Manito I and an associated 110 MW base
load power plant that would provide a new source to meet demand growth in the Luzon grid;
(c)  support measures for upgrading and expanding NPC's system facilities; and



2
(d)  support institution-building and financial recovery efforts at NPC during this critical stage of the
economic recovery period.
6.    Evaluation of Objectives. In 1988, achieving these project objectives was critical for the country due
to: (a) the expected deterioration of power system reliability; (b) a policy focus on developing geothermal
energy resources; (c) confirmation by NPC's least cost development program and the Bank's Energy Sector
Review (1988) that geothermal energy from Bacon Manito I was the least cost option; and (d) the financial
deterioration of NPC. The statement of objectives was clear and their achievement realistic, except for the
institutional development (ID) objective, which was not explicitly supported by any project component and for
which there were neither implementation schedules nor milestones. The loose integration of ID components
within an infrastructure project is not uncommon, particularly when there are obvious requirements for ID at
the project's inception and the specific scope and magnitude are not known during project preparation. The
major drawback of this design is that it provides too much flexibility and vulnerability to commitment during
project implementation.
7.    NPC's financial weakness posed a risk to securing counterpart funds and, thereby, to keeping to the
project implementation schedule. Moreover, an effective remedy of this situation would require considerable
effort since the root of the problem was not confined within NPC, but stemmed from the chain of inter-
company arrears in the energy sector which included Manila Electric Company (MERALCO), the Rural
Electric Cooperatives (RECs), PNOC and other fuel suppliers. Hence, the financial recovery of NPC required
action on a broader, sectoral context. This increased the project's complexity and imposed high demands on
Bank and NPC staff during implementation.
8.    By contrast, PNOC-EDC was in a stronger position due to the support it could draw on from its holding
company, namely PNOC, which was in good financial health. PNOC-EDC itself had capable technical and
professional staff who had gained extensive experience in geothermal technology from the Philippine
experience, training extended through bilateral agreements and an ongoing technical collaboration with a
reputed company from New Zealand.
B. Achievement of Objectives
9.    Overall, the project substantially achieved its objectives (para. 5). The first three are physical
objectives, and the fourth is a combination of ID and financial objectives. The Financial Rate of Retum (FRR)
and Economic Rate of Return (ERR) are also discussed below.
10.   Objective: Delineation and appraisal of geothermal resources for use in Luzon. This objective, which
included drilling 18 delineation/appraisal wells, was partially achieved. Five prospects were drilled with a total
of only 12 wells. One of these areas is the Bacon Manito field, where 3 wells were completed for the supply of
a second power plant, Bacon Manito II. The drilling of the 4 remaining Luzon prospects yielded disappointing
results. Nine wells were drilled, with 2 in Pinatubo, 2 in Natib, 2 in Cagua and 3 in Labo. Due to the strongly
acidic and corrosive steam in Pinatubo, poor permeability and waning heat in Natib, and limited thermal zone
and mix of volcanic fluids in Cagua, these prospects were deemed non-commercial and abandoned. In Labo,
wells produced either acidic fluids or mediocre flows, and appraisal drilling was to continue under the Energy
Sector Project (Ln. 3164) for final evaluation. The balance of 6 wells was not drilled due to this record of
disappointing results and to environmental considerations. As a result, actual costs for this component were
only $38.7 million, 28% lower than the $53.4 million estimated at appraisal.
11.   Objective: Development of Bacon Manito I steam field. and associated power plant and transmission.
This objective was substantially achieved despite considerable delays and cost overruns. Regarding the steam
gathering system (SGS) component, Units I and 2 were commissioned in October 1992, with delays from SAR
estimates of 18 and 15 months, respectively. As of end-1993, steam generation was adequate to sustain power



3
generation of 90 MW only, against the project target of 110 MW. The target capacity was attained during 1994
after three wells were drilled in addition to the number scheduled originally. Despite delays in NPC's
construction of the complementary power plant and transmission lines, the revenues of PNOC-EDC were not
affected. On the other hand, investment cost overruns of the Bacon Manito I field development component
were high. The final costs were $70.3 million compared to $27.3 million as initially estimated, or an overrun
of about 1.6 times. The main reasons were: (a) delays in construction activities of the SGS due to the inability
of the contractor to meet the schedule, which resulted to contract takeover by PNOC-EDC in November 1990;
(b) an increase in the number of wells drilled in Bacon Manito I; and (c) additional requirements for civil
works, project administration, geoscientific, and well development activities.
12.   The 2x55 MW associated Bacon Manito I power plant was commissioned in July 1993 (Unit 1) and
February 1994 (Unit 2), representing delays of 27 months and 31 months, respectively. Total costs for the
power plant reached $107.9 million, 54% higher than the appraisal estimate of $70.2 million. These were
primarily caused by the 22-month delay in Italian cofinancing, which became effective on October 5, 1990 and
slow procurement procedures of NPC. The length of the associated 230 kV transmission line was increased
from 32 km to 43.7 km since the line needed rerouting because of right-of-way (ROW) problems, which
delayed completion until August 1993, 32 months from the timetable schedule.
13.   Obiective: Uperading and expansion of NPC system facilities. This objective was partially achieved
(in terms of completion) and implementation was far from satisfactory, with delays caused by difficulties in
obtaining ROWs for transmission lines, deficient quality test requirements for supplied materials, the need to
rebid some items of equipment because of the conflict in the former Yugoslav Republic, and overall
inefficiencies in NPC's existing organization structure. Delays for some subcomponents lasted up to 36
months. Construction of a 115 kV transmission line and substation is expected to be completed by June 1996,
a delay of 4.5 years. The enhancement of NPC's management information system (MIS), which was planned to
be completed by June 1991, is still ongoing and contributed to NPC's request for a second extension of the loan
closing date to December 31, 1995. These delays have forced NPC to expend 24% more than the $47.6 million
originally planned for this component.
14.   Objective: Institution building and financial recovery of NPC. The objective of supporting the
financial recovery of NPC was not only substantially achieved but was, in fact, exemplary, due to the
commendable efforts of the Bank, NPC and GOP. This success was all the more laudable, given that there
were neither specific project components nor measurable milestones (mentioned earlier) to support this
objective. Moreover, the economy was still recovering and the political climate was tenuous following several
coup attempts; and tariff increases, which are inherently politically sensitive, were successfully implemented
- and during election season. An ambitious Reform Program was supported by GOP which, besides other
measures, allowed NPC to raise tariffs and meet loan covenants of international financial institutions, and to
implement automatic fuel and exchange rate cost adjustments. As a result, NPC's finances significantly
improved relative to its crisis situation in 1991, as shown in Figure I below (see Annex 1, Table 6B for details).
These achievements greatly facilitated NPC's present efforts at privatization.



4
Figure 1: NPC Financial Ratios, 1991 & 1994
Current Ratio
* 1994
Operating Ratio
* 1991
Debt/Debt Plus Equity
Debt Service
Coverage
Self-Financing Ratio
Rate of Retumr
-0.2    0     0.2    0.4   0.6    0.8      1     1.2    1.4
15.    Other ID subcomponents can be characterized as being substantially achieved even though there were
no specific evaluation criteria for them. However, significant delays have occurred in their implementation,
resulting in the need for a closing date extension, and indicating a lack of corporate interest in these important
institutional functions. These included, besides the MIS component (para. 13), the Training Center building
project wherein 50% of civil works costs were funded by the loan and the Integrated Training Program for
NPC's Engineering and Operations group. The Training Center is not yet complete, but NPC expects to
commission the Center before the end of 1996. Regarding the training program, the Engineering Modules have
just been completed and NPC has decided to transfer funding of the Maintenance Modules to Kreditstantalt fur
Wiederaufbau (KfW), which is also funding the Operation Modules. Further, while the ARTEMIS program for
project management has been completed for some time now, it has not been utilized fully by the project
directors due to the lack of logistics coordination, which is currently being addressed by the new management.
At present, the software is used for reports generation rather than its intended purpose as an interactive project
management tool.
16.   It should also be noted that the training components of the project made significant contributions to the
institutional strengthening of PNOC, the scale and scope of which allowed that entity to weather more
effectively the changes and adversities associated with changing presidents five times and having many key
personnel resign.
17.   Financial Rate of Return (FRR) to PNOC-EDC. Despite slippage in project completion and significant
cost overruns, the contracted steam price of $0.0382/kWh allowed PNOC-EDC to generate a rate of return of
7.0% under existing fiscal regulations (PD 1442), which compares with 7.1% in the SAR. If the proposed
Geothermal Bill (HB 2354) is approved, which includes additional incentives through tax and royalty holidays,
the FRR would reach 9.6%.
18.   Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of Power Supply. The project has a satisfactory 13.7% ERR, despite
cost overruns which prevented realization of the 19.5% return estimated at appraisal. The ERR was
recalculated based on prevailing tariffs and on actual investments in geothermal resource development, power
plant and associated transmission at Bacon Manito I. Consumer surplus, as exists, was not taken into
reckoning.



5
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project
19.   Total project costs are expected to reach $289.5 million, 34% higher than the SAR estimate of $216.3
million. This represents the combined effects of a 37% increase in the project costs of the PNOC-EDC
component and a 32% increase in NPC's. While the loan closing date for NPC was extended by two years,
some components will not yet be completed by this date. Table I below highlights some of the cost increases
and completion delays. Major factors affecting the project follow.
Table 1: Cost Increases and Completion Delays
Cost Increase(  Completion Dela
Steam gathering system     160%           18 months
Power plant                 54%           31 months
Associated transmission                    32 months
NPC upgrading                          36 months for some
of which: transmission                more than 4 years*
MIS                         more than 4.5 years*
* Not completed as of loan closing date.
20.   Factors Not Generally Subject to Government Control. Factors that are not generally subject to
government control affected the project's implementation and accelerated NPC's financial deterioration. Those
that significantly affected project implementation included the 22-month cofinancing delay for the power plant;
the substandard performance of PNOC-EDC's contractor in constructing the SGS, which prompted the takeover
by PNOC-EDC; the replacement of materials sourced from the former Yugoslav Republic due to the conflict in
that country; poor supply of some materials for the NPC transmission upgrading component; and disappointing
results of the delineation component since the wells revealed acidic fluids and mediocre source properties.
21.   Factors that accelerated NPC's financial deterioration included the substantial devaluation of the
Philippine Peso against the US Dollar (as much as 25%) and other currencies due to GOP's economic reform
efforts in 1990; low power demand growth for NPC; droughts in Mindanao; and the sudden increase in
international oil prices caused by the Gulf War.
22.   Factors Generally Subject to Government Control. In general, GOP has been responsive to
ensuring the smooth implementation of major project components. GOP assistance could have been very
helpful in expediting the Environmental Clearance Certificates (ECCs) for PNOC-EDC (as the Department of
Energy and Natural Resources [DENR] conducted protracted public hearings), and for reducing the delays in
obtaining Rights of Way (ROWs) for NPC.
23.   GOP's reluctance, however, in allowing NPC to increase tariffs was a substantial factor leading to
NPC's financial crisis in 1991. Other factors outside NPC's control which contributed to its poor financial
.situation were the foreign exchange rate devaluation, high local inflation, fuel cost increases and the
elimination of NPC tax subsidies. While GOP may have played a significant role in rectifying these problems,
its options were not clear due to the existing delicate political situation and GOP's efforts at economic reform.
Nevertheless, GOP made substantial efforts to support NPC's Reform Program.
24.   Factors Generally Subject to PNOC-EDC Control. There were no major factors which could have
been averted under PNOC-EDC's control. Apart from delays caused by external factors mentioned above, there
were implementation delays caused by problems in road construction, but these were minor in nature and
eventually rectified.
25.   Factors Generally Subject to NPC Control. Apart from implementation delays caused by outside
forces, the NPC component of the project was beset with procurement and disbursement delays at the onset.
The average time between bid opening and contract awarding was 200 days. These delays were caused by poor



6
coordination among the various NPC officers and the departments involved; weak project management;
cumbersome procurement procedures; and repeated and protracted bid evaluations by technical and non-
technical groups, and at the board level. While significant progress has been made in areas that involve top
management (such as implementation of NPC's Reform Program), action at project management levels has
been lacking, given a general lack of corporate interest.
26.   NPC was responsible for a number of factors which contributed to its financial distress in 1991. These
included poor integration of financial, planning and treasury functions; lack of accountability; significant
overhead; and weak accounting management, particularly of its foreign debt. Moreover, while NPC had
revalued its assets in 1987, it did not conduct another revaluation until 1990, making it difficult for NPC to
obtain approvals for tariff increases from the Energy Regulatory Board (ERB) based on the 10% rate of return
cap mandated by law. In addition to the burden of politically sensitive tariff increases, NPC's credibility was
tarnished by a major financial scandal in 1991. To date, however, NPC's assets have been revalued since 1993,
and a thorough Reform Program is ongoing.
D. Project Sustainability
27.   Prospects for project sustainability are good. The economic benefits of the project, combined with the
facts that geothermal energy is indigenous to the country and is environmentally attractive, support, if not
reinforce, the likelihood that the project will be sustainable during its operational phase. Moreover, the project
allowed the Bank to serve as a catalyst in geothermal-based power generation in the Philippines. This was
particularly true regarding its role in facilitating a geothermal pricing arrangement between NPC and PNOC, a
development which was not only critical to the formulation of this project, but also paved the way for future
geothermal developments. The Energy Sector Project (approved in 1990) included further development of the
Bacon Manito field, appraisal of other geothermal resources in Luzon and the Visayas, and a time-slice
investment program in power generation which included an additional five geothermal power plants totaling
320 MW. The Leyte-Cebu and Leyte-Luzon Geothermal Projects (both approved in 1994) included
development of 185 MW and 440 MW geothermal energy fields, respectively. In line with NPC's Reforn
Program, private sector participation in the power plants was conducted under Build-Operate-Transfer (BOT)
arrangements.
28.   Governmental support and policy actions also favor the sustainability of the project and the country's
future geothermal program. Due to significant delays and cost overruns, GOP allowed adjustment of the steam
price to enable PNOC-EDC to achieve its planned rate of return. Electricity tariffs were increased, which
allowed achievement of a satisfactory ERR, despite significant cost overruns incurred by NPC in the power
plant component. The Geothermal Bill (para. 17) was refiled in the Lower House under the Tenth Congress as
HB 2354 and is now with the House Ways and Means Committee following its approval in late 1995 by the
House Committee on Energy. In December 1995, the Board of Investments (BOI) approved income tax breaks,
among other incentives, for two PNOC-EDC geothermal power projects (120 MW in Mount Labo and 40 MW
in Negros).
29.   However, the long-term sustainability of the project and of the country's overall geothermal program is
not immune from future disruptions. First, NPC has tended to treat ID issues (including project and operations
management) as a low priority. In 1992, brownouts of 3-4 hours per day in Luzon due to unexpected outages
of Sucat 1-4 (450 MW) and Manila (200 MW) provide evidence of NPC's neglect of proper maintenance
procedures, despite language in NPC's contribution to the ICR (Annex E) which explicitly states that the
project's sustainability "...depends primarily on NPC's provision of adequate maintenance funds and on
personnel at the geothermal facilities..." While NPC's Reform Program contains a significant ID focus, its
benefits will be realized based on the commitment of top management to ID, and a corresponding commitmnent
by lower levels of management to enforce ID.



7
30.   Second, besides hydro, geothermal steam was the country's sole indigenous commercial energy
resource until 1993, when the Camago-Malampaya natural gas field was declared commercially viable with a
capacity of more than 3,000 MW. While this discovery does not yet pose an outright threat to geothermal
energy as a priority energy resource, this may change over time. Gas development will certainly attract many
BOT developers. But, more importantly, as the power sector transforms to accommodate competition,
particularly in generation, sustainability of further geothermal energy expansion will depend on a new set of
factors, e.g. competitive pricing.
E. Bank Performance
31.   Bank performance in the project was satisfactory. Despite the diligent efforts by the Bank to reform
NPC, shortcomings during preparation and implementation delays during supervision cannot substantiate a
higher rating.
32.   Identification and Preparation. Bank performance in project identification was highly satisfactory.
While the project's scope could no longer be considered innovative at that time, project identification was
crucial since it involved concerted/coordinated efforts between separate implementing agencies from the
hydrocarbon and power subsectors. Further, the project clearly meshed with GOP's energy policy to develop
geothermal energy and the Bank's strategy to utilize geothermal energy resources from Bacon Manito I as the
least cost option.
33.   Bank assistance to PNOC-EDC and NPC in project preparation was satisfactory. Significant effort was
undertaken through missions with the requisite skills mix to evaluate and ascertain the technical, financial and
economic soundness of the project. An Environmental Impact Statement was also issued. However, Bank
assistance in evaluating the institutional requirements of the project and of the implementing agencies was
deficient, and Bank missions never included an institutional development/human resources specialist. Further,
considering the precarious financial situation of NPC, the Bank should have obtained formal or more concrete
assurances on the availability of cofinancing from the Government of Italy (para. 7).
34.   Appraisal. Bank performance during the appraisal phase was satisfactory. As expected, based on
project preparation, appraisal of the technical, financial, economic and environmental aspects of the project was
tight and straightforward, while the institutional component remained less defined. Up to the appraisal stage,
$49 million was earmarked for distribution system improvements of MERALCO. However, since MERALCO
was a hybrid government entity whose ownership was not clear-cut, and both the Bank and GOP could not
agree on an approach for channeling the loan to MERALCO, this component was eventually dropped from the
project. It was subsequently included in the Manila Power Distribution Project (Ln. 3084) in 1989.
35.   Supervision. Bank performance during supervision was highly satisfactory. Its efforts in facilitating
the financial recovery of NPC were exemplary, and greatly enhanced the long-term viability of the nation's
largest utility. Bank supervision also covered (a) the use of Bank specialists to improve borrower performance;
(b) project flexibility in response to drilling results and changing field situations; (c) the use of new techniques
such as directional drilling; and (d) the design of coordination mechanisms for the two agencies.
Implementation progress was adequately assessed and reported, and sufficient attention was accorded not only
to the project's development impact, but also to the overall development of the power sector.
36.   While the Bank did not have an explicit mandate under the project to restore the financial viability of
NPC, it nevertheless used the rate of return (ROR) covenant to achieve this goal - to great effect. Initially, in
September 1990, the Bank waived the covenanted 8% ROR due to the political instability which prevented
GOP from approving electricity tariff increases and the drought which caused higher fuel expenses for NPC.
By end-1990, however, NPC's financial situation deteriorated substantially due to the cumulative effects of
local inflation, a currency devaluation, previous debt rescheduling, increased fuel costs, postponed tariff



8
increases, the elimination of previous tax subsidies, and weak accounting management (of foreign debt). In
response, the Bank aggressively promoted the financial recovery of NPC. Persistent reminders were made
about suspending disbursements under both the Bacon Manito and Energy Sector Loans, and appraisal of the
Leyte-Luzon Geothermal Project was postponed. ADB lent further support, as did bilateral donors. The GOP
also threw considerable weight into this effort. In 1991, it provided a $280 million bailout for NPC and, in
September, it agreed to a comprehensive Reform Program, which eventually allowed NPC to reach the
covenanted 8% ROR in 1992.
37.   It is unclear what additional efforts the Bank could have undertaken to reduce project delays and cost
overruns. For the SGS component, the selection of the contractor was transparent and cleared with the Bank,
and an independent consultant was hired to ascertain its capabilities. For the power plant, the delay in securing
Italian cofinancing was caused by diligent adherence to processes mandated by Bank directives: (a) NPC had to
establish that the Italian manufacturer (GIE) was the only vendor through ICB; (b) this caused a delay
increasing the contract price by $5 million; (c) the contract was amended; (d) the financing arrangements were
finalized; and (e) negotiations were pursued between GOP and the Italian Government that were outside the
control of both NPC and the Bank. Aspects relating to procurement and institution building at NPC received
inadequate attention due to the following: (a) there was a lack of coordination between NPC's departments to
begin with; (b) NPC was embarking on a massive reorganization; (c) NPC began implementing a
comprehensive Reform Program; and (d) there was an overwhelming focus in pursuing NPC's financial
recovery.
F. Borrower Performance
38.   Preparafion.  PNOC-EDC's performance during project preparation was highly satisfactory,
particularly in its assessment of the technical, financial, institutional and environmental requirements of the
project. The drilling program and list of studies were laid-out at the onset. Further, its commitment to the
project cannot be underestimated since it had already invested $51.5 million in the Bacon Manito field. While
it became evident during project implementation that securing the necessary ECCs required greater lead-time,
it is unclear if this fact could have been ascertained earlier.
39.   NPC's overall performance was satisfactory in project preparation.  Technical and financial
requirements were adequately evaluated. However, there were deficiencies in identifying NPC's institutional
constraints and requirements prior to implementation. These included: (a) identifying ID requirements of the
Corporation for the purpose of including specific project components and milestones; (b) identifying training
needs and streamlining requirements for its procurement procedures, which largely contributed to project
delays and cost overruns during implementation; and (c) failing to desegregate the NPC system strengthening
component from the rest of the Bacon Manito Project and to appoint a group to oversee their separate
implementation, a shortcoming which eventually resulted in extending the closing date. However, it should be
noted that after the changeover to a democratic form of government in 1986, there were substantial staff
changes in NPC, particularly at the upper management levels, and that there had been no Bank loans to NPC
for more than 10 years prior to this project.
40.   Implmentatin. The overall performance of PNOC-EDC during project implementation was highly
satisfactory. Problems in procurement were identified in the first year of implementation and were corrected
accordingly. implementation was delayed by more than one year by PNOC-EDC's decision to take over the
construction of the SGS from its contractor, and project costs subsequently doubled. However, PNOC-EDC's
management was fully justified in making this decision given the nonperformance of the original contractor
and considering the range of alternatives available to PNOC-EDC's management -- findings which were
echoed in a report examining this situation by an independent third party.



9
41.   On the other hand, NPC's performance during implementation appeared deficient. The transmission
system strengthening component was appraised on the basis that technical preparations were well advanced,
but NPC did little work after appraisal on the constituents of this component, delaying its implementation by 14
months. This development, combined with corporate lack of interest in implementing ID components, caused
the NPC loan closing date to be extended twice.  Further, there is no explicit evidence that procurement
problems were eventually corrected upon loan closing. However, it should be noted that (a) the major
components of the project were successfully completed, and (b) compliance with loan covenants and financial
recovery of NPC was eventually reached beginning 1992. Thus, the overall performance of NPC in project
implementation warrants a satisfactory rating.
G. Assessment of Outcome
42.   The overall outcome of the project was satisfactory. The project has achieved most of its major
objectives and is likely to maintain satisfactory results, with only a few minor shortcomings, as mentioned
above. The PNOC-EDC component is expected to achieve a 7.0% FRR against the 7.1% estimated at
appraisal. Overall, a 13.7% ERR is expected, despite significant cost overruns. Further, with the continued
support of the GOP, as evidenced by measures designed to promote geothermal development, the project's
sustainability is favorable.
43.   The project proved instrumental in fostering the development of geothermal resources in the
Philippines. It also served as an important catalyst in improving the sustainability of the overall power sector
through its successful efforts in effecting the financial recovery of NPC. More so, it must be emphasized that
such recovery is genuine in that it included electricity tariff increases with automatic adjustment mechanisms,
rather than relying on significant and distorting subsidies or direct budgetary transfers from the govemment.
H. Future Operation
44.   In 1994, generation from the Bacon Manito I Power Plant totaled 479,797 MWh. For the next 24
years, it is expected to produce at least around 2,000 MWh per day. Since the inception of this project, the
Bank has extended two loans for geothermal-based power generation totaling almost 700 MW. The GOP
continues to accord geothermal power a high priority as the country diversifies its energy mix. Growing at a
rate of 16% per year, geothermal energy's share of the country's total indigenous energy production is expected
to increase from 7% in 1994 to 12% in the year 2000.
45.   For the SGS component, a drilling program should be maintained to ensure the availability of
contracted capacity with the power plant over the life of the project. Further, PNOC-EDC should provide
sufficient funds for the adequate management and maintenance of the SGS.
46.   For the power plant, NPC has adopted a Productivity Enhancement Program (PEP), which is an
incentive mechanism for rewarding staff for good performance. Within the first quarter of each year, the
Corporation sets annual performance targets from the corporate to the power plant levels by progress in the
following areas: (a) energy sales, (b) gross and net generation, (c) station use, (d) conversion loss, and (e)
outage duration. Evaluations are conducted every six months, and NPC's Board grants bonuses for good
performance based on results at the end of each year.
47.   At present, it is difficult to pinpoint the optimum timing of a future impact evaluation by OED due to
the ongoing restructuring and privatization in both the hydrocarbon and power sectors. Ideally, such evaluation
should be undertaken two years subsequent to the completion of these changes. Since reforms in the power
sector should be completed in the year 2004, OED should conduct its evaluation around 10 years following the
date of this ICR.



10
I. Key Lessons Learned
48.    The most important lesson to be learned from this project underscores the fundamental difference
between development banking and commercial banking. Whereas commercial banking looks into the financial
outcome of a project, development banking, as exemplified by these loans (particularly to NPC), focuses, in
addition to the financial outcome, on using projects to develop and improve institutions with the hope that such
action will have favorable spillover effects on the sector and the country's economy. Other lessons include the
following:
* There is a need to incorporate a degree of flexibility in geothermal and other natural resource projects since
exploration during implementation can lead to changes in project design (e.g., location and number of
wells).
* An integrated approach should be followed in projects where the fuel supply infrastructure would need to
be constructed in concert with the generation plant. This is important since such infrastructure would vary
depending on the type of fuel utilized, such as steam or gas. Moreover, this approach should encompass
project design and institutional design in implementation.
* During ID components of a project should be given equal, if not higher, priority to the levels accorded to
other project components. NPC's lack of interest in implementing ID components is a common
institutional reaction of state-owned utilities in many countries, and becomes more pronounced as these
institAtions attempt to maximize infrastructure investments within their financial constraints. However,
Bank cxperience shows that neglect of such areas as manpower development and training severely affects
the sustainability of projects. Thus, it is critical that ID requirements be sufficiently evaluated during
project preparation and adequately specified as project components in the SAR, with explicit time
schedules and milestones for project implementation. To ensure commitment and enforce implementation,
such requirements may be specified in the loan covenants.
* During project preparation, the Bank should strictly assess the capacity of the borrower's project
management team  and the effectiveness of its procurement procedures.  Deficiencies in project
management and cumbersome procurement procedures are common causes for delays and cost overruns.
The Bank should pay close attention to the staffing of the project management team, particularly with
regard to its capabilities, authority over the various departments involved in implementing the project, and,
if possible, commitment to expedite its completion.  Furthermore, if the effectiveness of existing
procurement procedures cannot be ascertained, alternative back-up procurement procedures should be
agreed prior to project implementation.
* The Bank should obtain sufficient assurances to ensure the availability and timeliness of cofinancing funds
prior to implementation. Financial weakness on the part of a borrower already poses a significant risk
when undertaking expensive infrastructure investments. The possibility of slippages in cofinancing adds
further to that risk. Although a significant proportion of cofinancing agreements are through bilateral
arrangements, the Bank should exert its influence as a major contributor to the project.
* Despite the satisfactory position of NPC's finances at present, the Bank should continue monitoring the
situation closely. Particularly given the rapid pace of reform in the power sector, it is critical that NPC
maintain adequate cash generation to sufficiently finance the timely implementation of its investment
program. To do so, NPC must ensure that tariff levels are broadly in line with long-run marginal costs
(LRMC).



11                                        AnexA
Page 1 of 13
ANNEX A: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A.  Achievement of Objectives
.____________    Substantial  Partial      Negligible    appNlictble
Macro policies                                                               VI'
Sector policies                 V                                  .
Financial obiectives            V
Institutional development        V                             l        _    _ _
Phvsical obiectives             V    -
Poverty reduction                                                            /
Gender Issues                            _
Other social obiectives                                              .
Environmental obiectives .
Public sector management                 _
Private sector management                _
Other (Financial Recovery)       V
B.  Project Sustainability               Likely____            ikelv____ erta _
I   Likely           Unlikely        I Uncertain 
Proiect sustainabili                  V
C.  Bank Performance
Highly
satisfactory      Satisfactory         Deficient
Identification                       V
Preparation assistance        _
Appraisal                     _V
Supervision                           V
D.  (a)   Borrower Performance (PNOC-EDC)
Highly
satisfactorv      Satisfactory         Deficient
Preparation                           V
Implementation                        V
Covenant compliance                   V         _                  _______
Operation (if applicable)                                V__
(b)   Borrower Performance (NPC)
Highly
I  ~~~~~~~~satisfactory                   Satisfactory        Deficient
Preparation                                             V/
Implementation                                          VI'
Covenant compliance                                      / V
Operation (if applicable)                                VI
E. Assessment of Outcome
HlgRblY                                   i    Highsy
satisfactory   Satisfactory I Unsatistactory  unsatistactorv
Assessment of outcome                      V



12                                       Annex A
Page 2 of 13
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Year of
Loan/credit title                          ur Pose                      approval  Status
Preceding operations
1. Petroleum Exploration  Aeromagnetic and offshore seismic surveys, and regional  1982  Closed
Promotion Project       basin evaluations over 15 areas integrating the newly
Ln. 2201-PH & 2202-PH   acquired data
2. Geothermal Exploration    Geoscientific studies and drilling of 25 geothermal  1982  Closed
Project Ln. 2203-PH    exploration wells.
Following operations
1. Manila Power Distribution Construction and upgrading of subtransmission lines,  1989  Closed
Project Ln. 3084        substations, distribution networks, radio-multiplex
facilities, and equipment and vehicles.
2. Energy Sector Project  Time slice of energy sector investments for 1989-1993  1990   Closed
Ln. 3163-PH, 3164-PH   comprising geothermal fields development, power plant
& 3165-PH          construction, transmission & distribution, rural
electrification, institutional development, TA & studies.
3. Power Transmission &   Plant rehabilitation and transmission expansion and  1993    Ongoing
Rehabilitation Project  reinforcement in Bataan and Batangas, TA to prepare
Ln. 3626                master plan for the 500 kV EHV system, and improving
NPC's institutional systems.
4. Leyte Cebu Geothermal    Develop 185 MW geothermal energy field & enter into  1994    Ongoing
Project                 BOT for the 185 MW power plant, Leyte & Cebu
Ln. 3700-PH & 3702-PH   transmission lines, submarine transmission line linking
Ieyte-Cebu lines & TA for design.
5. Leyte Luzon Geothernal   D)evelop 440 MW geothermal energy field & enter in to  1994    Ongoing
Project                BOT for 440 MW power plant, SGS, 2 HVDC converter
Ln. 3746-PH & 3747-PH   stations & substations at Ormoc & Naga, submarine
transmission line linking ILeyte-Luzon lines, HVDC lines
for Ormoc-Matnog & Cabacungan-Naga, transmnission
rehab, design of Casecnan hydroelectric project.
Table 3: Project Timetable
l Date actual/
Steps in project cycle          |  Date planned      latest etimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                          4/27/87
Preparation                                                          5/8/87
Appraisal                                                           8/17/87
Negotiations                                      3/15/88           5/24/88
Board presentation                                5/3/88            6/23/88
Signing                                                              9/1/88
Effectiveness                                      10/88            12/12/88
Project completion  - PNOC-EDC                     12/91             10/92
- NPC                            12/91              12/96
Loan closing - PNOC-EDC                           12/31/93          12/31/93
-NPC                                  12/31/93          12/31/95



13                                     Annex A
Page 3 of 13
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
1988 1 1989 1 1990 1 19911 19921 19931 19941 1995   1996]
PNOC-EDC
Appraisal estimate      5.50  32.90  39.30  41.00
Actual                         8.77  23.75  34.71  40.35  41.00
Actual as % of estimate  0%    27%    60%    85%    98%   100%
NPC
Appraisal estimate             5.30  18.20  32.20  43.50  51.60  59.00
Actual                         0.68   3.54   8.65  21.41  39.30  50.64  53.61  53.61
Actualas%ofestimate            13%   19%    27%    49%    76%    86%   91%    91%
TOTAL
Appraisal estimate      5.50  38.20  57.50  73.20  84.50  92.60 100.00
Actual                         9.45  27.29  43.36  61.76  80.30  91.64  94.61  94.61
Actual as % of estimate  0%   25%    47%    59%    73%    87%    92%    95%    95%
Date of final disbursement: December 1993 (PNOC-EDC); March 1996 (NPC).
Note: Data for 1996 is provisional.
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
..-Estimated  I   Actual
Completion   Completion
Key implementation activities in SAR              IDate           Date
A. Steamfield Development
1. Detailed engineering, bid preparation & invitation of bids    8/31/88  12/88
2. Completion of bid evaluation and approval by Bank        1/31/89       1/16/90
3. Drilling of production wells commencement                5/30/89       3/28/89
4. Steam-gathering system completion                       10/30/90        8/92
5. Steam blow line flushing and testing                     4/1/91         12/91
6. Commissioning of Unit 1                                  4/1/91         10/92
7. Commissioning of Unit 2                                  7/1/91         10/92
B. Power Plant
1. Invitation of turnkey bids                               12/1/87      11/29/88
2. Completion of bid evaluation and approval by Bank        6/1/87        3/14/89
3. Signing of contract                                     8/30/88        3/21/89
4. Start of civil works at site                             12/1/88       9/13/90
5. Commencement of delivery of turbine generators and
condensers -  Unit 1                                    10/1/89       6/27/92
-  Unit 2                                    12/1/89       8/10/92
6. Start of plant erection  -  Unit 1                       4/1/90        9/15/92
-  Unit 2                         6/1/90        10/27/92
7. Start of trial operation  -  Unit 1                      3/1/91        9/4/93
-  Unit 2                          5/1/91       8/15/93



Table 6A: Key Indicators for Project Operation    PNOC (Consolidated) & PNOC-EDC Financial Indicators
estimated                      ~~~~~~Actual
Ke- overai:0f hdcators 92 in0 SAR         1987  1 988  199190  191t 1.992  1i98   1988  1989 19:190  191  1992
PNOC (Consolidated)
Physical Assumpions
Petroleum Product Sales (MM Bbl)      23.0  23.A  24.7  25.8  27.2  27.2  28.0  32.1  36.3  40.4  40.3  46.2
Coal Sales (MM Tons)                   590   331   284   255   316   350   532   781   578   726   853   575
Geothermal Sales (GWh)                 723  1,131  1,139  1,264  1,700  2,405   722   738  1,486  1,487  1,498  1,493
Financial Data (P Million)
Revenues                             16,439 20,688 22,794 25,103 27,601 29,177 18,312 20,544 21,329 33,742 46,777 43,218
Net Earnings                           719   850   978   897  1,061  1,318   749  1,276  1,583  1,714  2,035  2,497
Net Working Capital                  4,074  4,259  4,400  4,516  4,624  5,171  3,261  5,725  6,871  7,953 10,107 10,949
Property, Plant & Equipment          6,005  6,490  6,858  7,297  7,902  8,028  6,163  5,992  6,268  8,236  7,912  7,616
Long TermDebt                        6,415  7,138  7,821  8,114  8,541  8,668  6,035  6,139  6,071  7,509  8,206  7,337
Stockholder's Equity                 7,220  8,070  9,048  9,945 11,006 12,324  7,785  9,357 10,774 12,488 14,360 16,647
Total Assets                      26A172 27.960 31.222 34.003 37.005 39.275 279627.73  34.041 43.052 4097  42.227
Current Ratio                         1.35   1.36   1.32   1.30   1.27   1.29   1.48   1.74   1.52   1.37   1.60   1.62
Long Term Debt/Equity                46:54  45:55  44:56  43:57  41:59  39:61  47:53  40:60  36:64  38:62  36:64  31:69
Capital Expenditures                 1,110  1,503  1,532  1,131  1,837  1,394   335   468  1,086  1,353  1,315  1,498
InternalCashGeneration(netof debtservice)    770   952   969   700   881  1,218  1,171  1,254  2,371  3,209  3,668  4,359
PNOC-EDC
Financial Data (P Million)
Revenues                               458   800   870  1,040  1,503  2,286   462   544  1,041  1,211  1,367  1,500
Net Earnings                           121   268   297   176   259   668   107   114   276   386   395   421
NetWorking Capital                     458   309    196    47    114    86   401   360   860   425   614    16
Property, Plant & Equipment            398   381   636   964  1,656  1,881   394   383   596   821  1,395  5,070
Exploration & Development Costs      6,465  7,432  8,672  9,541 10,581 11,585  4,268  4,930  5,567  6,574  7,349  7,426
Long Term Debt -  Foreign            2,618  3,031  3,758  4,269  5,044  5,488  2,875  2,848  2,837  4,043  4,859  5,084
-  LocalfromPNOC       2,331  2,184  2,114  2,176  2,928  3,017  3,030  3,490  3.649  2,848  3,231  2,078
Stockholder's Equity                 2,370  2,907  3,632  4,107  4,380  5,047  1,678  1,792  2,656  3,654  4,009  6,388
Current Ratio                         5.70   3.10   1.80   1.10   1.30   1.20   2.64   2.31   3.54   1.77   1.58   1.02
DeWt/Equity Ratio                    64:36  62:38  61:39  65:35  63:37  56:44  78:22  78:22  71:29  65:35  67:33  53:47
Debt Service Coverage                 3.30   4.00   2.60   1.20   1.50   2.30  NA      2.31   5.87   3.70   2.77   2.73     a 
______________________________~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ f
____ ___ ___ ___ ____ ___ ___ ___ ___   o



Table 6B:  Key Indicators for Project Operation -  NPC Financial Indicators
Key operatiDg indicators in SAR               1987  | 1988 | 1989    1990   1 1991  | 1992  1 1993  f 1994  | 1995
Estimated
Power Sold (MlWh)                           18,359   18,837   20,024   21,191   22,382   24,414   25,909   27,515   29,194
Average Revenue (Ctvs./kWh)                 99.50   116.24   121.31   128.84   139.69   143.00   145.91   149.04   154.10
Operating Revenue (P Million)               18,268   21,713   24,126   27,232   30,778   33,714   36,535   39,765   43,195
Net Operating Income (PMillion)             4,914    6,794    7,431    7,991    8,228    8,769    9,591   10,224   11,765
Net Income (P Million)                       1,084    3,208    3,030    3,371    4,011    5,099    5,276    5,126    5,718
Rate Base (P Million)                      63,312   66,159   72,318   77,612   79,497   84,598   92,609   98,648  113,865
Rate of Return - Revalued Assets              8%       10%      10%      10%      10%      10%      10%       10%      10%
Self-Financing Ratio                         90%      39%       34%      45%      36%      34%      21%      21%      35%
Debt Service Coverage                          1.8      1.6      1.6      1.6      1.7      1.9      1.6       1.4      1.4
Debt/Debt Plus Equity                        67%      65%       62%      60%      59%      59%      60%    * 60%       58%
Operating Ratio                              73%      69%       69%      71%      73%      74%      74%      74%      73%
Current Ratio                                141%     116%      86%      91%      98%      90%      92%      98%      104%
Accounts Receivable (Months)                  2.6       2.5      2.6      2.6      2.6      2.7      2.7      2.8       2.8
Accounts Payable (Months)                     2.5       1.7      1.7      1.7      1.7      1.7      1.7       1.7      1.7
Actual*
Power Sold (MkWh)                           19337   21,180   21,971   22,889   23,191   23,958   24,897   28,743   30,682
AverageRevenue(Ctvs.IkWh)                   90.38    93.54    93.81   112.63   139.55   157.13   162.63   175.80   178.39
Operating Revenue (P Million)               17,475   19,810   20,609   25,778   32,363   37,645   40,490   50,530   54,733
Net Operating Income (P Million)            4,696    5,585    5,298    4,118    2,577    7,078    6,665   12,088    9,843
Netlncome(PMillion)                           975    1,671    1,661      (65)  (2,930)    4,118    1,365    7,561    2,992
Rate Base (P Million)                      66,090   70,792   66,901   68,409   75,236   88,279  106,927  144,829  155,489
Rate of Retum - Revalued Assets             7.11%    7.89%    7.92%    6.02%    3.43%     8.0%      6.2%     8.3%     6.3%
Self-Financing Ratio                                                   0.99%   (0.75%)    0.0%      0.0%    13.9%     4.8%
Debt Service Coverage                        0.87     0.91      0.85     0.89     0.54     0.80     0.90      1.26     1.08
Debt/Debt Plus Equity                        73%      75%       74%      79%      78%      84%      86%      78%      81%
Operating Ratio                              73%      72%       74%      84%      92%      81%      84%      76%      82%
Current Ratio                                0.61     0.96      1.13     0.71     0.70     0.91     1.25     1.14      1.00
Accounts Receivable (Months)                  2.4       1.4      1.4      1.5      1.4      1.3      1.3       1.2      1.1
Accounts Payable (Months)                     5.1       1.3      4.0      3.6      3.3      3.4      3.4      3.5      3.6
* Source: For 1987-1991, NPC; for 1992 and thereafter, Transmission Grid Reinforcement Project SAR; 1995 data are estimates.



16                                         AnnexA
Page 6 of 13
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
Purpose as defined at
Study                 appraisal/redefined           Status           Impact of study.,
1. Feasibility of        To determine the feasibility of    Completed    An HVDC transmission link
transmitting power from  transmitting 500-1200 MW blocks               was considered feasible and
Leyte to Luzon        of power from the Tongonan                       the least cost option.
Geotherrnal Project in Leyte to the             Results eventually led to the
Luzon grid over a distance of 460              Leyte-Luzon Geothermal
km (23 kn submarine).                           Project (Ln.3747-PH) which
became effective on 3/12/95.
2. Tongonan Geothernal   To determine the least cost         Canceled
Power Plant siting &  technically feasible alternative for
development           siting, sizing and interconnection of
power plants in the vast geothermnal
steam complex at Tongonan.
3. Feasibility of        To determine the feasibility of    Completed    Formulated long range
transmission          transmitting electricity from the                transmission master plan for
interconnections to the   mainland grids to these nearby              inter-island grid. NPC
islands of Masbate,   islands, thus mitigating the need for           discussed results with ADB
Mindoro, Marinduque,   expensive local diesel power                   for the possibility of
Romblon, Catanduanes   generation on the islands.                     financing.
and Basilan
4. Cost estimating       To establish techniques for        Completed    Prepared a Cost Estimating
techniques for power  estimating the cost of major power              Manual outlining procedures
system components and  system components such as thermal              for preparation of estimates
a computerized database  power plants, hydroelectric power            at various levels of design.
plants, transmission lines,                     Developed and implemented a
substations and civil works. To                database system for preparing
prepare a computerized database and            cost estimates.
a cost estimated manual to assist
NPC in major planning exercises
for power system development.
5. Norms for cost of power To establish norms for the        Canceled
supply outages        determination of cost of power
supply outages in various grids to
assist NPC in developing its future
generation expansion plans.
6. Feasibility of the latest  To detennine the applicability of  Completed    Used as basis in establishing
techniques in the      latest dam construction in the                 future courses of action for
construction of        country with particular reference to            dam projects.
hydroelectric dams     the application of Roller Compacted
Concrete.



17                                      Annex A
Page 7 of 13
Table 8A: Project Costs
(US$ million)
Appraisal estimate*        Actual/latest estimate
Item                 Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign    Total
PNOC-EDC
Development of Bacon Manito 1       5.6      27.1      27.3     38.6      31.7      70.3
Delineation-Cum-Appraisal          34.1      19.3      53.4     30.3       8.4      38.7
Other**                             -         -         -        -         1.2       1.2
Total PNOC-EDC                   39.7      41.0      80.7     68.9      41.3    110.2
Bacon Manito Thermal Power Plant   15.0      55.2      70.2     28.3      79.6    107.9
Bacon Manito Transmission System    3.4       9.9      13.3      5.1       3.4       8.5
NPC System Upgrading & Expansion    9.7      37.9      47.6     11.8      47.0      58.8
Consultancy Services                1.0       3.5       4.5      0.3       3.8       4.1
Total N!PC                       29.1      106.5    135.6    45 5       133.8    179.3
Total                 68.8      147.5    216.3    114.4    175.1    289.5
* For comparison with actuals, contingencies are prorated in appraisal estimates.
** Procurement of heavy equipment which was supposedly charged against Ln 3164 (Energy Sector Loan) but was
erroneously charged against Ln 2969.
Table 8B: Project Financing
(US$ million)
ApPraisal estimate         Actual/latest estimate
Source                Local I Foreign I Total   Local I Foreign I Total
IBRD/IDA                              7.7      92.3    100.0       2.5      93.6      96.1
Cofinancing Institutions (Italy)    4.8      55.2      60.0      -        74.7      74.7
Other external sources (USTDA)      -         -         -        -         0.3       0.3
Domestic Contribution - PNOC-EDC    39.7      3.0      42.7     68.9       -        68.9
- NPC           16.6      7.7      24.3     43.0       6.5      49.5
Total                 68.8      158.2    227.0    114.4    175.1    289.5



18                                    Annex A
Page 8 of 13
Table 9A: Financial Costs and Benefits
(US$ million)
CInvest. ;000Gross    O&M      Govt..  Net Cash   O&M         Govt.   Net Cash
00Xi1Year        Revenu 4Costs0   Take*   :Fow*   Co ts*    Take"*   Flow**
1987    52.00                                   -52.00                         -52.00
1988     1.01                                     -1.07                          -1.07
1989    11.87                                   -11.87                          -11.87
1990     5.90                                    -5.90                          -5.90
1991    19.77                                   -19.77                         -19.77
1992    22.54                                   -22.54                         -22.54
1993     5.52     26.20       4.50      1.57     14.61       5.18      0.79     14.71
1994              27.59       5.40      1.66     20.53       6.12      0.83     20.64
1995              27.59       5.40      1.66     20.53       6.12      0.83     20.64
1996              27.59       5.40      1.66     20.53       6.12      0.83     20.64
1997              27.59       5.40     11.22     10.97       6.12      0.83     20.64
1998              27.59       5.41     13.15      9.03       6.72      2.77     18.10
1999              27.59       5.41     13.15      9.03       6.72      4.41      16.46
2000               27.59      5.41     13.15       9.03      6.72      4.41      16.46
2001               27.59      5.41     13.15       9.03      6.72      4.41      16.46
2002               27.59      5.41     13.15       9.03      6.72      4.41      16.46
2003               27.59      5.51     13.22       8.86      6.88      4.45      16.26
2004               27.59      5.54     13.23       8.82      6.92      4.45      16.22
2005               27.59      5.54     13.23      8.82       6.92      4.45      16.22
2006               27.59      5.54     13.23       8.82      6.92      4.45      16.22
2007               27.59      5.54     13.23       8.82      6.92      4.45      16.22
2008               27.59      5.54     13.23      8.82       6.91     12.41      8.27
2009               27.59      5.54     13.23      8.82       6.91     12.41      8.27
2010               27.59      5.54     13.23      8.82       6.91     12.41      8.27
2011               27.59      5.54     13.23       8.82      6.91     12.41      8.27
2012               27.59      5.54     13.23      8.82       6.91     12.41      8.27
2013               27.59      5.54     13.23       8.82      6.91     12.41      8.27
2014               27.59      5.54     13.23      8.82       6.91     12.41      8.27
2015               27.59      5.54     13.23      8.82       6.91     12.41      8.27
2016               27.59      5.54     13.23      8.82       6.91     12.41      8.27
2017               27.59      5.54     13.23      8.82       6.91     12.41      8.27
FRR                                               6.98%                          9.58%
Notes: *  Under existing PD 1440
** Under proposed Geothermal Bill



19                                    AmnneA
Page 9 of 13
Table 9B: Economic Costs and Benerits
(US$ million)
Geothermal    Field    Power Plant   T Trans,      Sales       Sales       Net
Yeat  Investment    O&M       Investment    O&M          GWh       Revenues   Benefit
1988      1.01                                                                  -1.01
1989     11.87                    2.77                                          -14.64
1990      5.90                   22.45                                         -28.35
1991     19.77                    7.01                                         -26.78
1992     22.54                   21.87                                         -44.41
1993      5.52        4.50       67.37                                         -77.39
1994                  5.40        3.59        2.35      446.04       31.03       19.69
1995                  5.40                    2.96      557.70       38.80      30.43
1996                  5.40                    3.50      657.66       45.75      36.86
1997                  5.40                    3.50      657.66       45.75      36.86
1998                  5.41                    3.50      657.66       45.75      36.85
1999                  5.41                    3.50      657.66       45.75      36.85
2000                  5.41                    3.50      657.66       45.75       36.85
2001                  5.41                    3.50      657.66       45.75       36.85
2002                  5.41                    3.50      657.66       45.75       36.85
2003                  5.51                    3.50       657.66      45.75       36.85
2004                  5.54                    3.50      657.66       45.75       36.72
2005                  5.54                    3.50      657.66       45.75       36.72
2006                  5.54                    3.50      657.66       45.75       36.72
2007                  5.54                    3.50      657.66       45.75       36.72
2008                  5.54                    3.50      657.66       45.75       36.72
2009                  5.54                    3.50      657.66       45.75       36.72
2010                  5.54                    3.50      657.66       45.75       36.72
2011                  5.54                    3.50      657.66       45.75       36.72
2012                  5.54                    3.50      657.66       45.75       36.72
2013                  5.54                    3.50      657.66       45.75       36.72
2014                  5.54                    3.50      657.66       45.75       36.72
ERR                                                                              13.70%



20                                         Annex A
Page 10 of 13
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Philippines
Bacon Manito Geothermal Project (Ln. 2969)
Loan No.                          Original    Revised
Agreement Covenant Present fulfillment fulfillment   Description  of
Section      type      Status       date         date          covenant          Comments.
2969-0-PH       5         C                                PNOC to maintain   Satisfactory.
Loan                                                     insurance against
4.03                                                    risks and in amounts
consistent with
appropriate practice.
2969-0-PH       1        CD       7/1/89 &                 PNOC to furnish     Delayed by C.OA.
Loan                            annually                audited financial
5.01 (b)                         thereafter               statements for the
year concluded, with
the report of an
acceptable auditor.
2969-0-PH       I        CD                                PNOC to ensure that Delayed by COA.
Loan                                                    records of
5.01 (c)                                                  disbursements are
audited together with
annual financial
statements.
2969-0-PH       3         C                                PNOC to do all it   Satisfactory.
Loan                                                     can, including
5.02                                                    increasing PNOC-
EDC's share capital,
to enable PNOC-
EDC to execute its
obligations under the
Project Agreement.
2969-0-PH       2         C                                PNOC-EDC to         Completed.
Loan                                                     conclude its steam
5.03                                                    supply contract with
NPC for the project.
2969-0-PH       4        CD        12/31/88                The Italian loan to    Effectiveness on
Loan                                                     finance Bacon       10/5/90.
6.01 (g)                                                  Manito I will
become effective.
2969-0-PH       12        C       Annually                 PNOC-EDC to         None.
Project                                                  furnish the Bank for
2.01                                                    review and comment
its exploration
program for the
coming year.
2969-0-PH       5         C                                PNOC to maintain   Satisfactory.
Project                                                  insurance against
3.03                                                    risks and in amounts
consistent with
appropriate prctice.
2969-0-PH       I        CD       7/1/89 &                 PNOC to furnish     Delayed by COA.
Project                          annually                audited financial
4.01 (b)                         thereafter               statements for the
year concluded, with
the report of an
acceptable auditor.



21                                         Amnex A
Page II of 13
Loan No.                           Original    Revised
Agreement Covenant Present fulfillment fulfillment   Description of
Section       type     Status       date   .     date           covenant          Comments
2969-0-PH       2          C       Annually                 PNOC-EDC to         Satisfactory.
Project                                                    eaintain a current
4.02                                                     ratio of not less than
2969-0-PH       2          C       AeUariY                  PNOC-EDC not to   Satisfactory.
Project                                                   exceed a debt/equity
4.03                                                     ratio of 70J30.
2969-0-PH       2          C       Period of                PNOC-EDC not to   Satisfactory.
Project                            loan                   incur any debt unless
4.04                                                     it can maintain a debt
service ratio of at
least 1.2.
2969-1-PH       2          C                                NPC to implement a  Satisfactory. NPC
Loan                                                     program to maintain  has been
3.01 (b)                                                  receivables and      disconnecting some
payables at levels    defaulting
consistent with     cooperatives. AR
sound commercial    reduced from 52 to
practices.          38 days (1990-94).
AP reduced from
276 to 108 in same
period.
2969-1-PH       1          C       12/1/88 &                NPC to furnish the   Satisfactory.
Loan                             annually                next year's budget    Projections being
3.01 (b)                         thereafter                and projections for   updated quarterly.
the next 5 years to
the Bank for review
and comment.
2969-1-PH       2          C                                NPC to conclude a    Completed.
Loan                                                     steam supply        Contract was signed
3.03                                                     contract with PNOC- in 11/88. Steam
EDC on a timely     price was increased
basis.              to compensate for
proiect delay.
2969-1-PH       12         C       Annually                 NPC to fumish its   Power Development
Loan                                                     investment program   Program has been
4.04                                                     to the Bank for     provided annually to
review and comment. the Bank.
2969-1-PH       1         CD       7/1/89 &                 NPC to fumish       Satisfactory.
Loan                             annually                audited financial   Delays were minor.
5.01 (b)                         thereafter               statements to the
year concluded, with
the report of an
acceptable auditor.
2969-1-PH       I         CD                                NPC to ensure that   Satisfactory. Some
Loan                                                     records of          delays.
5.01 (c)                                                  disbursements are
audited together with
annual financial
statements.



22                                         Annex A
Page 12 of 13
Loan No.                          Original    Revised
Agreement Covenant Present fulfillment fulfillment   Description  of
Section      type      Status      date          date          covenant          Comments
2969-1-PH       2        CD        1989 &                  NPC to earn a rate of Complied with
Loan                            annually                return of at least 8%   beginning in 1992.
5.02                            thereafter              on revalued assets.   Previously, this was
waived by the Bank
down to 6%.
2969-1-PH       2        CD       Period of                NPC not to incur    Higher than 1.3
Loan                              loan                  any debt unless a   only since 1992
5.03                                                    reasonable forecast   after rescheduling of
affirns that it will   loan payments under
maintain a debt    Paris Club
service ratio of at    agreements.
least 1.3.
2969-1-PH       4        CD        12/31/88                The Italian loan to    Effectiveness on
Loan                                                    finance Bacon        10/5/90.
6.01 (c)                                                  Manito I will
become effective.
Covenant types: I  = Accounts/audits
2  = Financial performance/revenue generation from beneficiaries
3  = Flow and utilization of project funds
4  = Counterpart funding
5  = Management aspects of the project or executing agency
12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/institutional action
Present status: C   = Covenant complied with
CD  = Complied with after delay
Table 11:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title         Description and comment on lack of compliance
None                         No significant lack of compliance with
an applicable Bank manual statement.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Actual*
Stage of project cycle        Weeks        US  (000)
Through appraisal                   10.7            20.5
Appraisal-Board                     46.2            92.6
Board-effectiveness
Supervision                        100.5          218.8
Completion                           5.4             9.1
TOTAL                          162.8           341.0
* As of 1/5/96.



23                                            Annex A
Page 13 of 13
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
(i 0i
Stage of             Number  Davs  Snectalized  staff  Imvlemen  Develon-   Tvves of
vroiect  Monthl    of          in fld        skills          -tation      ment       problems
cycle      year   Persons .(i)    represented  (ii)    status    obecive               (iv)
Through      3/79        1        7             11              _            _
appraisal    2/84       4        14/3      18,20,21,26          -            -            -
8-9/84      6       14/2    7,14,17,18,20,26        -           -            12
11/84       3       16           4,7,29            -            -            -
5/85       3       14/3         18,20,26           -           -          2,11,12
5/86       2       12/2          20,26             -            -         2,11,12
3/87       7        25    1,2,10,13,19,28,29       -           -             -
Appraisal   8-9/87       7        19     1,3,8,13,19,25,26      -            -            _
- Board      1/88       4       28/4        1,5,15,19           -            -            _
Super-    11-12/88      4        20         1,19,23,26          S            S         2,4,5,12
vision       6/89       4        13         1,9,23,26           S            S          3,4,5
11-12/89     3        19           1,9,26            S           S         3,5,12,13
3/91       3       12/4         6,9,13             S           U         2,3,5,12
5-6/91      1        15             1               na          na          12,14
6/91        1      14/3            6               na          ria       1,2,5,9,12
9/91        1      10/3            6               na          na         2,5,12
11/91       4       11          1,6,9,24           S            U          1,2,3,9
7/92       3        8/6         6,26,27            S           U        2,3,5,11,12
11/92       2       14/2          6,12             na          na            na
8/93       2       14/2          6,27              S            S            3
6/94       3      25/10         16,22,26           S            S         3,15,16
6/95       -        -      update by J. Irving     S            S            3
Comple-
I tion                                                                               L
Notes:
(i)  Days in Field: (xly), x = total number of days of mission, y = number of projects.
(ii)  1= A. Malhotra (Energy Specialist); 2= A. Ramadan (Loan Officer); 3= A. Rozali (Consultant); 4= B.K. Thomas
(Financial Analyst); 5= C. Berge (Geothermal Specialist); 6= C. Fernandez (Financial Analyst); 7= D. Lumb (System
Planner); 8= D. Mehta (Power Engineer); 9= E. Linard (Engineer); 10= E. McCarthy (Division Chief); 11= E.S.
Daffern (Financial Analyst); 12= H. Morsli (Petroleum Engineer); 13= H. Razavi (Energy Economist); 14= H.
Wheeler (Drilling Engineer); 15= J-P. Pinard (Operations Officer); 16= J. Irving (Power Engineer); 17= J. McHugh-
Bodyiski (Petroleum Consultant); 18= J. McNitt (Geothermal Specialist); 19= J. Sopher (Financial Amialyst); 20=
J.A. Koch (Economist); 21= M. Ashraf (Consultant); 22= M. Hassan (Energy/Reservoir Engineer); 23= M. Mitra
(Engineer); 24= P. Auffret (YP); 25= P. Dyson (Coal Specialist); 26= P. Venugopal (Financial Analyst); 27= S.
Chatterjee (Engineer); 28= V. Nayyar (Division Chief); 29% W. Cao (Power Engineer).
(iii) S [under Implementation Progress]= (Satisfactory) most components are in substantial compliance with original SAR
or revised implementation plan except for a few that are subject to remedial action; S [under Development
Objectivesl= (Satisfactory) project is expected to achieve most of its major development objectives and to yield
satisfactory development benefits without major shortcomings; U= (Unsatisfactory) use of this classification varies
from definition in the Guidelines for the Enhanced Form 590-although most of the objectives were being met, NPC's
financial situation was substantially deteriorating due mostly to external factors that if not corrected would jeopardize
the completion/effective operation of the project; na= Not applicable, no Form 590 was issued.
(iv) I= Accounts/audits; 2= Financial performance/revenue generation from beiieficiaries; 3= Flow and utilization of
project funds; 4= Counterpart funding; 5= Management aspects of the project or executing agency; 9= Monitoring,
review and reporting; 11= Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation; 12= Sectoral or cross-
sectoral policy/regulatory/institutonal action; 13= Local unrest; 14= Nonperformance of contractor; 15= Supply
delays due to war in Yugoslavia (supplier); 16= Loan extended due to TA components for lack of corporate interest;
na= BTOR only from H. Morsli for PNOC component which was running smoothly, no BTOR for NPC component.



ANNEX B: SECTOR SPECIFIC DATA
Table 1: Energy Production and Consumption 1984-2000
Philippines Energy Statists                                      Hitorical Data                                                 DOE Fonceal                     Growth Rates
(MMN    )                     194    98    1986  19 7  1    t 1           199    1991 | 19 92   1993 1 1994   199    1996   1997 1 1998 1 1999 | 2000  1984-94 1 1994-00
Indigineous Energy                39.4   41.6   41.3   38.2   40.3   41.8   41.3   40.4   38.0   40.2   41.1   48.1   55.6   59.3   78.7   87.5  101.6  -0.2%           16.4%
% Total                           42%   45%    44%   38%    37%    36%   33%    33%   31%    31%    29%    33%   36%    35%   42%    43%   46%
Conventional                      24.4   25.1   25.1   22.8   25.8   26.3   25.2   24.8   23.0   25.7   27.9   34.5   41.5   44.5   63.3   71.4   84.8  0.1%            20.5%
Oil                                3.5    2.6    2.9    1.8    1.9    1.7    1.5    1.1    0.5    1.2    1.9    3.4    6.1    7.3   17.8   24.3   35.0  -14.7%    63.1%
Coal                               4.1    4.5    4.0    4.3    4.8    4.2    3.8    5.2    5.0    6.0    5.4    6.4    9.4    9.5   10.5   11.9   12.7  3.2%            15.0%
Hydro                              9.0    9.5   10.4    9.0   10.8   11.2   10.5    8.6    7.7    8.7   10.1    9.8    9.9   10.2   10.3   10.4   10.5  -1.4%            1.0%
Hydroas%Total                     10%    10%    11%      9%    10%    10%      8%      7%     6%     7%      7%     7%      6%     6%     5%      5%     5%
Geothemal                          7.8    8.5    7.9    7.8    8.4    9.2    9.4    9.9    9.8    9.8   10.4   14.9   16.1   17.6   24.7   24.8   26.5  3.0%            16.4%
Geothermalas%Total                 8%     9%      8%     8%      8%     8%     8%      8%     8%     7%      7%    10%    10%    10%    13%    12%    12%
Non Conventional                  15.0   16.5   16.2   15.4   14.4   15.5   16.1   15.6   15.0   14.5   13.3   13.6   14.2   14.8   15.4   16.1   16.9  -0.6%            4.2%
Bagasses                           6.6    4.4    4.1    3.5    4.6    6.1    5.4    6.2    5.1    5.1    5.2    5.2    5.5    5.7    6.0    6.3    6.6   1.5%            4.5%
Agrwaste                           8.2   12.0   11.7   11.2    9.3    9.1   10.4    9.1    9.5    8.9    7.6    7.9    8.1    8.4    8.7    9.0    9.3  -1.5%            3.4%
Others                             0.2    0.2    0.5    0.6    0.5    0.3    0.3    0.4    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.6    0.7    0.7    0.8    1.0  6.3%            11.0%
Imported Energy                   54.3   50.9   51.9   62.1   67.9   75.5   82.3   81.8   86.6   90.9  100.6   99.8  100.5  111.8  110.2  117.7  119.3  7.3%             3.4%
011                               52.7   47.0   49.8   59.6   64.1   72.5   79.2   78.5   83.9   88.2   97.8   96.5   90.3  101.6   94.9   93.9   96.3  7.5%            -0.2%
Coal                               1.6    4.0    2.2    2.5    3.7    3.0    3.1    3.3    2.7    2.8    2.8    3.4   10.1   10.3   15.3   23.8   22.9  2.8%            46.5%               1%
Total Energy Consumption          93.7   92.6   93.3  100.3  108.2  117.3  123.6  122.1  124.6  131.1  141.7  147.9  156.1  171.1  188.9  205.2  220.9  4.4%             8.1%
PowerUse                          36.5   39.3   37.6   39.0   42.3   44.1   45.4   44.5   44.6   45.8   52.0   55.0   39.2   69.4   79.3   89.9   96.   2.6%            13.5%
Oil Share in Power ise            16.3   13.7   13.0   17.7   18.1   21.4   22.0   23.1   24.0   53.9   28.4   25.9   31.9   26.0   21.5   19.8   14.0  11.8%    -10.3%
Population (million)              53.4   54.7   56.0   57.4   59.1   60.8   61.5   63.4   64.3   65.7   67.1   68.5   69.9   71.3   72.8   74.2   75.6  2.4%             2.0%
GDP (Billion Peso)               616.9  571.8  591.4  616.9  658.5  699.4  718.0  716.5  718.9  734.3  765.7  805.5  849.8  896.6  945.9  997.9 1052.8  2.9%             5.5%
GDPlncrease%                            -7.3%   3.4%   4.3%   6.7%   6.2%   2.7%  -0.2%   0.3%   2.1%   4.3%   5.2%   5.5%   5.5%   5.5%   5.5%   5.5%
Electrication
Towns                            1,415  1,418  1,419  1,430    135  1,443  1,452  1,464  1,446
Barangays                       18,783 19,226 19,680 20,155 20,602 20,951 21,314 21,868 22,847 23,001 23,155 24,913 25,813 26,488 27,028 26.168 29,308   2.3%            3.1%
Households                       8,223  8,417  8,616  8,717  8,800  8,864  9,180  9,307  9,584  9,790  9,995 10,151 10,307 10,463 10.619 10,776 10,933   1.9%            1 5%
Electrified Househols            4,929  5,045  5,164  5,404  5,607  5,825  6,254  6,475  5,785  6,095  6,404  6,938  7,165  7,356  7,537  7,739  7,942   2.4%            3.3%
%electrified                      57%    59%    60%   62%    64%    66%    68%    70%    60%    62%    64%    68%    70%    70%    71%    72%   73%   0.5%               1.8%
Power Generation (GWh)
Hydro                            5,278  5,553  6,017  5,247  6,264  6,485  6,062  6,145  4,440  5,030  6,081  5,869  5,923  6.095  6,167  6,266  6,321  -0.9%            1.0%
Coal                             1,083  3,347  2,643  2,246  2,582  2,413  1,934  1,942  1,791  2,015  1,81   2,682  9,474  9,401 13,661 20.845 20,46   -0.5%           52.1%
Geothermal                       4,532  4,929  4,576  4,532  4,844  5,316  5,466  5,757  5,700  5,667  6,220  8,945  9,647 10,550 14,836 14,900 15,891   3.0%           16.5%
Diesel/Oil                       9,460  7,947  7,565 10,242 10,471 10,966 12,434 12,810 11,238  9,415 11,304 11,276  7,607 11,163  9,133  7,717  5,210   3.5%           -9.8%
Gas Turbine                                                                                 2,701  4.452  5.756  4,240    101  4,417  3,764  4.182  3,206                6.8%
Non Conventional                   827    990    996    374    377    393    432
Total                           21,180 22,766 21,797 22,641 24,538 25,573 26,328 26,654 25,870 26,579 31,175 33,012 32.752 41,626 47,561 53,910 51,092   2.7%           10.7%
% Increase                               7.5%  -4.3%   3.9%   8.4%   4.2%   3.0%   1.2%  -2.9%   2.7%  17.3%   5.9%  -0.8%  27.1%  14.3%  13.3%  -5.2%
Elasticity                                -1.0   -1.2    0.9    1.2    0.7    1.1   -5.9   -8.8    1.3    4.0    1.1   -0.1    4.9    2.6    2.4   -1.0                         I
Source: Philippine Energy Plan, Department of Energy
1. For 1984-1993 statistics, see PEP 1993-2000
2. For 1993-94 statistics and forecast to 2000, see PEP 1994-2000                                                                                                               i,L



Table 2: Geothermal Sector Highlights 1993-2010
Adcal                                                     DOE Forecast
Steanm Producdon & Power Genertlon       1g93  1994  1995  19961 1997| 1991  1999  20001 200   2002  20031 204  200.  2006  200   2108  2009  2010
FIELD
NumberofWellsDrilled                       37    42    40    21    13    15    15    14    111   11    11    10    10    10    10    10    10    II
Steam Availability (Cum. MW)             1,589  1,791  1,943  2,021  2,049  2,087  2,108  2,125  2,121  2,118  2,114  2,105  2,096  2,086  2,076  2,066  2,063  2,065
POWER
Installed Generating Capacity (Cum. MW)  1,018  1,094  1,211  1,431  1,471  1,991  1,991  2,111  2,111  2,111  2,111  2,111  2,151  2,151  2,151  1,926  1,926  1,926
Equiv. Fuel Oil Displacement (MMBOENYR)    9.77  10.37  14.91  16.08  17.58  24.73  24.83  26.49  26.73  26.70  26.66  26.72  27.31  27.52  27.41  24.40  24.54  24.56
Source: Philippine Energy Plan 1994-2000, Department of Energy.
Table 3: Cumulative Installed Generating Capacity 1993-2010                                                                              C
Megawatts (MW)
Adunl                                                             DOE Forecast
TYp                     1993   1994  1995   1  99   1997   1998   19991  2000 1  20011  20021  20031  20041  2005   V  2             20071  20018  20091  2010
Hydro                  2,259   2,323   2,325   2,332   2,360   2,374   2,390   2,397   2,700   3,089   3,246   3,553   4,456   4,919   4,927   4,930   4,933   4,989
Coal                     441    441   1,441   1,441   1,441   2,041   3,241   3,541   3,841   3,991   5,236   6,236   6,736   7,236   9,236  12,036  15,436  18,036
Geothermal              1,018   1,094   1.211  1431   1,471   1,991   1,991   2,111   2,111   2,111   2,111   2,111   2,151   2,151   2,151   1,926   1,926   1,926
Oil-Tbermal             1,985   1,985   1,985   1,685   1,685   1,485   1,135    285    285     60      60      60      60     60      60      60      60      60
Diesel                  1,016   1,967   1,967   2,001   2,089   2,171   2,165   2,122   2,103   2,103   2,103   2,103   2,103   2,103   2,103   2,103   2,103   2,103
Combined-Cycle (CC)      -       180    180    180    180    180    330    330    330    330    330    330    330    330    330    330    330    330
Gas Turbine             1,295   1,295   1,295   1,325   1,385   1,385   1,385   1,985   2,135   2,135   2,135   2,435   2,735   3,785   4,235   4,535   4,535   4,985
Gas Combined-Cycle       -       -      -       -       -       -       -     1,350   1,800   2,700   3,150   3,150   3,150   3,150   3,150   3,150   3,150   3,150
Nonconventional          -       -      -       -       -       -       -        25     25      50      50      75      75    100    100    125    125    125
TOTAL         8,014   9,285  10,404  10,395  10,611  11,627  12,637  14,146  15,330  16,569  18,421  20,053  21,796  23,834  26,292  29,195  32,598  35,704
Source: Philippine Energy Plan 1994-2000, Department of Energy.
r
Cs 



Table 4:  Phases of Power Sector Restructuring  and  Privatization
Phase  I: Strengthen and restructure industry.       Phase   2: Evaluate  results, implement further  Phase   3: Move  into  final  structures  and
restructuring and privatize.                       competitive environments.
Time Frame: 1994-1998 (4-5 years)                    Time Frame: 1998-199 (2 yeafs,                     Time Frame:  1999-2004 (4-5 years)
Objectives: Strengthen all sectors and participants in  Objectives:    Evaluate  results  and  industry  Objectives:   .Achieve  full restructuring  and
the industry; restructure generation and transmission;    performance; set final restructuring goals; adopt    decentralized planning; establish fully effective
establish coordination and arrangements and prepare    policies that accelerate participants' growth into    competition  in  generation, retail  sales  and
industry for increased competition, privatization and    new  structure  and  responsibilities;  privatize    resource planning; monitor competitiveness and
decentralization.                                    generation.                                        industry performance.
Major  Activities:                                   Major  Activities:                                 Major  Activities:
* UJnbundle generation horizontally and vertically   * Conduct  key  evaluation  (e.g.,  competitive  * Implement programs determined  by  assessing
* UJnbundle transmission                               conditions; success of utility IRP, coordination    development  of  the  industry   under  the
* Unbundle hydroelectric to Hydro Authority            arrangements and regulatory programs               restructuring and privatization initiatives
* Decentralizc planning responsibility and adopt all  * Make  structural   goal  adjustments;  re-visit * Extend practices such as retail wheeling and retail
source IRP                                           workability of "English" model in Luzon; improve    sales competition
* Establish operations coordination afrangements       coordination arrangements                        * Adopt incentive regulatory schemes proven to be
* Rationalize pricing                                * Privatize Generation: sell Mindanao and Visayas    effective
* Strengthen distribution sector                       subsidiaries; select and implement final Luzon  * Monitor competitiveness, market behavior and
* Promote private participation  in generation  (IPP    generation privatization plan                     the potential for market dominance
bidding, ROMs, etc.)                              * Expand retail wheeling
* Strengthen regulatory and policy agencies          * Implement policies to accelerate utilities' adoption
* Streamline NPC  through  additional  subsidiaries;   to new structure
rationalize staffing levels
Major Results:                                       Major Results:                                     Major Results:
* NPC power supply subsidiaries in Mindanao, Visayas  * Adjustments to structural and ownership goals   * Full functioning of all utilities under decentralized
and Luzon                                         * Adjustments to regulatory oversight and  policy    decision making
* NPC national transmission subsidiary responsible for    programs                                      * Competitive generation markets
transmission, dispatch and operations coordination  * Improved IRP and coordinated utility planning   * Competitive retail sales markets
of planning from national perspective             * Enhanced operations coordination; full economic  * Widely practiced, state of the art IRP
* RP Hydro Development Authority                       dispatch on all grids                            * Innovative regulatory incentive programs
* Integrated resource planning by all utilities      * Privatized generation                            * Efficient inter- and intra-grid coordinated
* Coordination  arrangements  to  achieve  efficient  * Increased  competition: generation, retail sales,    operations
operations and planning                              supply side vs. Demand side resources
* Transparent, unbundled prices                      e Improvements in structure and  performance of
 Increased private participation in generation        distribution sector
 Regulatory programs that improve distribution
performance and rationalize structure
 Improved regulatory and policy capabilities                                                                                                                  x
* Streamline NPC                                                                                             ._.__                         __
Source: Philippine Energy Plan 1994-2000, Department of Energy.



27                                  Annex C
Page i of I
Bacon Manito Geothermal Power Project (Loans 29690-PH and 29691-PH)
Energy Sector Project (Loans 3163-PH, 3164-PH and 316S-PH)
February 1996 ICR Completion Mission
AIDE-MEMOIRE
1.    A World Bank Completion Mission comprising Messrs. John Irving (Senior Power
Engineer - Task Manager), Jose R. Escay (Consultant) and P. Venugopal (Consultant) visited
Manila, with overlapping stays, during the period February 12-27, 1996, to hold discussions with
the following entities, and (a) complete the ICR of the Bacon Manito Geothermal Power Project
and (b) collect the balance of data and borrowers' evaluation reports for the ICR of the Energy
Sector Project:
(a)  Department of Energy (DOE) - Loan 3165-PH
-   Office of the DOE
-   National Electrification Administration (NEA)
-   Energy Regulatory Board (ERB)
-   Environmental Management Bureau (EMB)
(b)  National Power Corporation (NPC) - Loans 29691-PH and 3163-PH
(c)  Philippine National Oil Company (PNOC) - Loans 29690-PH and 3164-PH
- PNOC Holding Company
- PNOC-Energy Development Corporation (PNOC-EDC)
-   PETRON Corporation (PETRON)
2.    The mission wishes to express its deep appreciation for the cooperation and hospitality
extended to it by the above entities. The list of officials met by the mission is given in Annex 1.
This Aide-Memoire summarizes the findings and conclusions of the mission, that are subject to
confirmation by Bank management.
Bacon Manito Geothermal Power Project
3.    NPC and PNOC-EDC, on behalf of PNOC (borrower), presented the mission with
abbreviated versions of their respective evaluation reports, that will form part of the ICR. The
ICR, finalized in the field, was given to NPC and PNOC-EDC for review. Letters have been
received from them accepting the ICR (Annex 2).
Energy Sector Project
4.    For Loan 3165-PH, DOE prepared a combined borrower's evaluation report covering its
own subprojects with those of NEA and ERB. A separate evaluation report was provided by
ERB. For Loan 3164-PH, PNOC-EDC and PETRON provided their individual evaluation reports
to the mission. For Loan 3163-PH, NPC prepared a final evaluation report.
5.    For calculation of the Economic Rate of Return (ERR), the mission obtained from PNOC-
EDC and NPC the required data relating to energy sector investments during the project time-slice.
Both entities have agreed to fumish the Bank with any other information and data that may be
required for this purpose.
6.    Prior to finalization of the ICR in Washington, draft copies will be sent to the borrowers
for their review and comments.



28                             Amex
Page I of 11
The BORROWER'S
SUMMARY IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
for
WORLD BANK LOAN 2969-0-PH
The Bacon Manito Geothermal Project
Philippine National Oil Company
February 20, 1996



29                                    AnnexD
Page 2 of 11
PART I
A. STATEMENTIEVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
The Bacon Manito Geothermal Power Project constitutes an integrated approach to geothermal
resource development power generation and transmission. The project's main objectives are to:
1. develop an existing geothermal steamfield and a new  110 MW power plant at Bacon Manito;
2. support the delineation and assessment of geothermal sites for future power supply to the Luzon
grid,
3. support measure for upgrading and expanding NPC's system facilities; and
4. support institution-building and financial recovery efforts of NPC.
Two agencies of the govemment are involved in the execution of the project. The PNOC Energy
Development Corporation (PNOC EDC), a subsidiary of the Philippine National Oil Company
(PNOC) is in charge of implementing the geothermal steamfield component while the National Power
Corporation (NPC) is in charge of the power generation and transmission component of the project.
The geothermal steamfield component of the Bacon-Manito project implemented by PNOC EDC
has two parts:
1. the development of the Bacon Manito I geothermal field including drilling of additional
production  and  injection  wells, and  engineering,   procurement,  installation    and
commissioning of the Fluid Collection and Disposal System (FCDS); and
2. the delineation/appraisal of geothermal sites to be developed for future power supply to the
Luzon grid.
Part I represents the exploration and development of the Bacon Manito I geothermal steamfield
which was undertaken starting in 1979. The Bank supported investments in said activity partly
through Loan 2203-PH (Geothermal Exploration Project). The said loan financed the drilling of 11
exploratory wells in the area.   These wells proved the existence of geothermal resource in the
Bacon-Manito area.
World Bank Loan 2969-0-PH to PNOC amounting to US$41.0 million was approved by the WB
Board on June 23, 1988, the loan agreement was signed on September 1, 1988 and was declared
effective on December 12, 1988. Financing was retroactive for eligible expenditures beginning
March 31, 1988.
1B. ACIllEVEMIENT OF OBJECTIVES
1. Physical Objectives
a. Geothermal Exploration and Development Drilling
The original drilling program for the project envisaged the drilling of 21 wells in Bacman
(The terms Bacon Manito and Bacman will be used interchangeably in this report.) and in various
geothermal areas in Luzoni. However, in view of the unsuccessful results of Pinatubo and Natib
and the delays in obtaining environmental clearances for Bulusan, the target number of wells to
be drilled under the project was initially reduced to 15. Subsequently, 4 additional wells on top



30                                     Annex D
Page 3 of 11
of the 3 originally programmed in Bacman L were drilled thereby bringing the number of wells
under the Loan to 19.
Geoscientific  studies, including geological, geophysical and  geochemical  studies were
conducted. These studies were aimed to identify appropriate locations and targets for drilling
operations and for delineation and appraisal of geothermal sites for the supply of power to
the Luzon Grid. Wells were drilled based on the above geoscientific studies and the results of
drilling that were undertaken earlier.
Six wells were drilled to an average depth of 8,700 feet in the Bacman I area from 1989 to
1994. As of the project completion date, June 30, 1994 drilling activities for the last well, Pal
19D in Bacman I was still on-going.   Three wells with an average depth of 8,000 feet were
drilled in the Bacman II area from August 1989 to June 1990. Nine wells were drilled in other
Luzon areas as follows:   Pinatubo- 2; Natib - 2; Labo- 3; Cagua - 2. (Please refer to
Annex I for details of wsells drilled under the pro]ect.)
b. Dacman I Fluid Collection And Disposal System (FCDSJ
Bacman I FCDS is comprised of piping network, three separator stations,  cross-country
steamlines and reinjection lines. The contract for the FCDS was awarded to China State
Engineering and Construction Services (CSCEC) under Bid 36.0/1. Bacman I FCDS contract
became effective on January 16, 1990 and was expected to terminate on September 15, 1991.
The contractor arrived in Manila on February 20, 1990. Necessary equipment were delivered
from port to the project site in March 1990. Completion of the project was originally
expected to be May 1992 with the commissioning date for the steam field in September 1992.
Substantial delays however, occurred during the installation of the system, such that, as of the
ihird quarter of 1990, actual accomplishment was only 11.47% as compared to target of 21.15%.
This prompted PNOC EDC  as suggested by the Bank  in  its October 9, 1990  letter to
commission PECLBECHTEL to conduct a third party assessment of the project and make
recommendations to PNOC EDC and the Bank with regard to the situation. Meanwhile,
the slippage in the progress of the project continued such that by  October  31,  1990,
actual accomplishment was only  12.7%wo as against the target of 26.7  %  or an unfavorable
variance of 14%. This eventually resulted to the issuance by PNOC EDC of Notice of Take-
over in November 1990 as mandated by General Conditions No. 37 of the contract. PNOC
EDC then outlined the mechanics of the take-over as follows.
1. Take-over the complete management of the Project and reorganize the construction
Management Group. Provide the organization with all key personnel necessary to run the
project smoothly.
2. Classify existing Manpower as may be needed. The same shall be done fdr the constructional
plant equipment, sub contractors and suppliers.
3. Reconcile with CSCEC the followving as of the time of actual takeover:
i. Actual accomplishments
ii Accomplishments/billings of sub-contractors including outstanding accountabilities
iii. Suppliers payables/accountabi lities
iv. Inventory of equipment, materials, supplies, tools, etc.
v. Inventory of plant equipment
T'he construction arrangements made by PNOC EDC to take over the project was embodied in the
"hIiplemenitation of 'F'ake-over of Contract 31.0/6 ...". Contained in the write-up are the work



31                                    Annex D
Page 4 of 1 
organization chart,  procurement procedures, work schedules, estimated  expenditures and
funding procedures. Copy of this document was furnished to the Bank in January 1991. The
arrangements worked satisfactorily despite considerable additional work load to PNOC EDC
staff. PNOC EDC also  utilized  the services  of  the project execution   consultant,
BECHTEL/PECL to assist in the transition and in the subsequent execution of the project.
Construction of Bacman I FCDS which was taken over by PNOC EDC in November 1990, was
completed in August 1992 and the Geothermal Power Plant was inaugurated by Pres. Fidel
Ramos on October 2, 1992. The work performed by PNOC EDC included the construction of
the Bacman Administration Complex. The following are the milestones of the Bacman I FCDS
project.
_ ~VET .    .          .  .. .A.E
1.   FCDS Pipeline Flushing         Dec 1991
2.   Pressurization                 Jan 1992
3.   FCDS Inauguration              Apr 1992
4.   FCDS Commissioning             Oct 1992
5.   NPC Steam Acceptance
Unit I                     May 1993
Unit 2                     Jul 1993
6.    Synchronization to the Grid
Unit I                     Jul 1993
Unit 2                     Feb 1994
The take-over by PNOC EDC from CSCEC did not transpire smoothly. Conflict in settlement
between PNOC EDC and CSCEC arose which turned into court arbitration. This was referred to
the Office of the Solicitor General where a decision in favor of CSCEC was made in July 1992. The
case was then elevated to the Supreme Court and the final decision came out on December 7,
1994 declaring  PNOC EDC to be liable to CSCEC for a total of approximately P180 million.
This amount accounts for unpaid progress billings, demobilization fees, repairs of equipment,
reimbursement for the construction of the temporary facilities, and interest charges.
2. Financial Objectives
The total cost of the project was originally estimated at US$80.8 million, of which US$ 41.1
million is the foreign exchange component and US$39.7 million, the local component. To
finance the  foreign exchange component, the Bank  extended  Loan 2969-0-PH to PNOC
amounting  to  US$41.0  million.   (Please refer to Tables 8A & 8B for the projects
expenditures/financing.) Through the execution of a subsidiary agreement, a pre-condition to the
loan effectivity, the total amount was relent by PNOC to PNOC EDC on the same terms and
conditions as contained in the loan agreement between the Bank and PNOC. PNOC EDC,
assumed the foreign exchange risk. The term of the loan is 20 years including a five year grace
penod of principal repayment, at the standard variable interest rate.
Although the project was exempted from duties and taxes on direct imports, the total cost
included taxes on rig rentals, professional services and locally procured materials such as fuel.
As per the original estimate major portion of the project's local costs were associated with
engineering and administrative expenses for Bacman II and other Luzon areas such as Natib,
IPinatubo and Cagua Actual local expenses, revealed however, that Bacman I FCDS accounted
for the biggest portion of the actual expenditures whichi amounted to US$18.78 million or
27.2% of the total US$68.91 million.



32                                    Annex D
Page 5 of 11
Bacman I FCDS also took a big chunk of the foreign costs. Out of the total US41.0 million loan
drawdowns, US$25.68 or 62.6% went to Bacman I FCDS. The upsurge in Bacman I FCDS total
costs to US$44.47 million from the original estimate of US$17.20 million was mainly due to the
delays incurred in the construction activities and the takeover by PNOC EDC from CSCEC.
Actual well drilling costs for Bacman I is US$11.65 million. This exceeded the original estimate of
US$4.8 million by US$6.85 due to increase in the number of wells from the original target of
three to the actual of seven.
For Bacman II, total well drilling costs for the three wells amounted to US$5.63 million, slightly
higher than the original estimate of US$4.80 million by US$0.83 million. For Pinatubo, only
US$2.51 million of the total original estimate of US$7.90 million for drilling were expended. This
was basically due to the reduction of wells from five to three. For other Luzon areas, only
US$5.61 million of the original estimate of US$7.40 million local expenditures, and US$2.99
million of the original estimate of US$8.80 million foreign component . were used up due to the
decrease in the number of wells drilled from ten to seven.
There were no foreign training expenditures as foreign training was restricted during the early
part of the implementation of the project in compliance to the government's National Economy
Measures Order No. 24 (NEMO 24). Training and seminars were funded by institutions such as the
USAID, the IAEA or through the NZ-RP Bilateral Agreements. Foreign training costs in the latter
part of the project were funded by the succeeding WB loan, ESL.
Engineering and Administrative expenditures which include project administration, geoscientific,
civil works and well development were all financed by PNOC EDC's intemal cash generation.
Engineering and Administrative expenses for other Luzon areas totaled US$19.86 million in
contrast to the original estimate of US$16.70 million.
Local component for consultancy reached US$0.26 million as compared to the original estimate of
US$0.20 million, while the foreign component reached US$1.56 million as against the original
estimate of US$0.90 million. Succeeding disbursements related to consultancy were charged against
the ESL.
There were no studies actually conducted under the Loan as evidenced by zero disbursement for this
item. The US$.023 million expenditures financed by PNOC EDC represent KRTA local
charges incurred while the latter was undergoing review of the detailed engineering design for
Bacman I FCeDS. The US$0.268 million foreign expenditures are costs associated with resource
assessment and development strategy for various geothermal areas conducted by Mesquite
group of consultants funded by the United Nations Development Program.
Foreign exchange loss amounting to US$12.59 thousand associated with the special dollar
account (SDA) drawdown and another US$1.33 thousand on various drawdowns were absorbed by
PNOC EDC. The total amount of US$13.92 thousand forms part of the capitalized cost of of
Bacman I project, to be amortized over the productive life of the project which is 25 years. Yearly
amortization will be included in '"Non-operating Expenses" in the income statement.



33                                    Annes D
Page 6 of 11
Loan Disbursements
The first application for disbursement was made on January 9, 1989 and was debited against the
loan account on February 8, 1989. SDA amounting to US$2.0 million was applied and disbursed in
June 1989. This was deposited with the Philippine National Bank. The last disbursement,
Application No. 89 was debited against the loan account on December 1, 1993. (Annex 2 shows
the semestral disbursement of Loan 2969). Recovery of SDA started as early as February 1992
under Application No. 81 and was fully recovered by November 1993.
Financial Internal Rate of Return of the Geothermal Component
Based on full commissioning in January 1991, the financial internal rate of return (FIRR) of the
geothermal component of Bacman I was calculated in the Staff Appraisal Report considering two
scenarios on tax and royalty fees to be paid to government. Using two sets of steam prices, the
following FIRR were computed:
: ::::: ::-. :ComDutedFl::
.. ...A ... ...d'C: . ' .' ''--X'X'*X-z .............. . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . . . .   Xi.XX2X2 ,i'X4 Z XXq zF Ztx
9.f-'. -.';. '.S..wA
a)   Under  existing   fiscal
regulations (P.D. 1442)       8.8%             7.1%
b)   Tax &  Government fee
holiday  for  6  years,      14.1%            12.0%
followed     by   40%
Government fee in the 7th
L    I Year
Bacman I was actually commissioned in March 1993 (first 55 MW) and June 1993 (second 55 MW).
A recalculation of the FIRR in 1994 prices using the contracted steam price yielded the following
results (Please refer to Annexes 3A and 3B):
a)   Under existing fiscal regulations               7.0%
(P.D. 1442)
___ Under the proposed geothermal                   9.8%
In 1994 new geothermal bill was passed by the Lower House and is now pending in the Senate
which grants incentives to geothermal service contractors. The new bill aims to attract private
investors into geothermal exploration and development and contains the following features:
o 6-year income tax holiday
o 8-year holiday on the national government share of the royalty (local government units to
continue to receive royalty share)
o development uplift allowance of 60%
o Filipino participation incentive allowance of 60%
o Cross recovery of costs in abandoned areas.
'Fhe lower actual FIRR computed for Bacman I can be attributed to the higher investment costs
incurred for the project (US$119 million) compared to the appraisal estimates (US$73 milliori). The
most significant overrun was in the steam gathering system (US$17.2) million appraised vs. US$44.5
million actual). Also, the delay in the implementation of the power plant component by the National



34                                    AnnmexD
Page 7 of II
Power Corporation greatly affected the FIRR as PNOC EDC also had to delay some of its activities,
thus delaying the realization of cash inflows for the project. (Please rfer toAnnexes 3C and 3D)
3. Institutional Objectives
From a low geothermal generation of about 1 gigawatt-hour (equivalent to I million kilowatt-
hours) in 1978, the contribution of geothermal in 1992 had risen to 5,819 Gwh, or 22.0/e of total
country energy generation. Of the total geothermal energy generation in 1992, 4,600 Gwh (79.1%/.)
was generated in Luzon while 1,219 Gwh (20.1%) was generated in the Visayas. In terms of
contribution to the country's economy, geothermal generation displaced about 9 million barrels of
imported oil in 1992.
Based on exploration results to date, total geothermal resource in the Philippines is at 8,000 Mwe.
Five geothermal fields with a total combined generating capacity of 1,041 Mwe are currently in
operation as follows:
Mw..C C dacty
PGI        . ....,,-,
'iwi                    330
Makban                 330
PNOCXD ED:C - i
-   .     .. . .   .. . .   .. . . . .. . . .
Tongonanl             112.5
Palinpinon I          112.5
Palinpinon Pilot        6
Palinpinon II          80
Bacman I               110
The share of geothermal in total energy use has steadily increased from 891 Mwe during the period
1977 to 1984 to 1,041 Mwe in 1994.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING TTIE PROJECT
1. Procurement in Accordance with World Bank Procedures/Guidelines
PNOC EDC considered three categories in its procurement program as follows: 1) purchases
of materials and equipment, 2) acquisition of services, and 3) hiring of consultants. PNOC EDC's
procurements were done accordingly on the basis of Bank's procedures, subject to its review and
acceptance. UJnder the Loan, major packages procured under International Competitive Bidding
(ICB) were mostly materials used for Bacman I FCDS. These packages are the following:
a. Steam gathering system installation, erection and construction on a single responsibility basis
b. Materials and equipment including pipes, fittings, valves, pressure vessels, instumentation
and power supply. Mechanical equipment procured through five independent packages for
supply to the installation contractor as client supplied material.
c. Nondestructive testing services
d. Mud chemicals for drilling
e. Cement and cement additives for drilling
f. Bits and reamers
g. Casings and wellheads
PNOC EDC, as approved by the Bank, retained Kingston, Reynolds, Thom and Allardyce
(KRTA) as its third party consultant to provide experienced personnel to assist PNOC EDC staff
in the specialized field of geosciences, drilling, production and systems engineering. KRTA has
been providing in- house consultancy since 1981. This first came under a technical assistance
program of the New Zealand Government. Since then its contract is being extended on a yearly



35                                    Ann=xD
Page 8 of 11
basis until 1989 when PNOC EDC management approved the extension of its contract for five
years, covering the period, 1990 to 1995. PNOC EDC personnel benefited a lot from close working
relationship and interaction with KRTA experts as well as from the training arranged for them by
KRTA in New Zealand.
EKRTA provided PNOC EDC with project engineering and management support for the fluid
collection and disposal system  for Bacman I.  The design and detailed engineering for the
Bacman I FCDS was completed by PNOC EDC and was reviewed by KRTA
2. Government's National Economy Measure
On May 19, 1990 NEMO 24, a national economy measure was issued by the government such that
restictions were imposed on the travel and training abroad. This resulted to a minimal number
(only 4 in 1990) of staff sent to professional training abroad despite the fact that PNOC was
expanding its geothermal operations rapidly and needed considerable strengthening of its
technical and operational staff. These foreign training programs were sponsored by the UNDP, the
NZ-MFA and the IAEA (Please refer to Annex 4 for List of EDC personnel who availed of
theforeign training programs under Loan 2969.)
3. Environmental Safety
Environmental issues have always been extremely important in the development strategy of the
steam fields. The Bacon Manito geothermal reservation is environmentally sensitive because the
topography, soil type end weather conditions result in severe erosion and land slip/slide potential
in the headwater catchment. PNOC  has carried out a geothechnical hazards study for the
project. A PNOCADENR non-government organization task force was set up to discuss the social
and socio-economic concerns of local residents in and around the Bacon Manito Geothermal
reservation.
In Bacman and also in other sites, maximum use of directional drilling technique was made to
minimize the amount of land to be  leveled. Safety procedures such as the use of reinjection
wells for disposal of fluids recovered in tests were also designed.  PNOC EDC was able to
secure Environmental Compliance Certificate for all its project sites in compliance with the
Environmental Impact Assessment.
In Pinatubo, water quality monitoring were implemented in three major river systems (Marunot,
Lubso, Bucao rivers) which embraced the location of PN  3D.   There were continued
monitoring of ground drinking water, hydrogen sulfide gas emissions, rainfall at the project
site, and environmental dissemination not only in Pinatubo but the rest of the geothernal areas.
After the withdrawal of PNOC from Mt. Natib, PNOC as directed by DENR closed the road it
previously constructed and restored all open areas and regular monitoring of the area was carried
out until a month after plugging operations were completed.
EDC furnished the Bank updated environmental reports showing that it has indeed incorporated
the design parameters needed to enable compliance with the regulations of the Environmental
Management Board wilh environmental standards satisfactory to the Bank.
4. Mt Pinatubo Eruption
After drilling of three wells in the area (one funded by WB Loan 2203, two by WB Loan 2969) four
more wells were programmed for drilling to support the estimated 60 Mwe generation capacity.



36                                    An=D
Page 9 of 11
3. Perfonrance of Hired Contractor s
EDC contracted out specialized technical works and services which include among others
cementing, directional drilling, inspection and hardbanding based on the Bank's procurement of
services procedures.  Reputed contractors of intemational caliber were engaged for these works
and services.  All contractors performed competently and efficiently, being technically capable
on each of their own fields.
4. Financial Performance
PNOC EDC was able to comply with financial covenants which include among others, having a
liability to equity ratio of not more than 70:30 and current ratio of at least 1. As  beneficiary of
the Loan, PNOC EDC has carried out geothermal exploration and development activities in
accordance with the terms and conditions set in the loan agreement. PNOC EDC was able to
utilize the US$41.0 million loan from the Bank for the project and supply the necessary local
currency requirement . (Detailedfinancial objective accomplishments are discussed in detail in
Part l.B.2.)
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
PNOC EDC agrees with the Bank's evaluation during its November 1992 mission of the Bacon
Manito Project that the overall project implementation has been satisfactory. The project has achieved
all the project's major objectives, that is, a) the development and commissioning of the Bacon Manito
geothermal steam field through the drilling of seven additional wells and the construction of the 1 10
Mwe FCDS, and b) the delineation and appraisal of other geothermal sites in Luzon by drilling a total
of twelve wells.
PNOC EDC was able to fully utilize the US$41.0 million extended by the Bank to finance the foreign
investment requirement of the project. The loan was fully disbursed in December 1993, just in time
for the loan closing date. For the local currency counterpart, PNOC EDC adequately provided the
funds from its intemal cash generation.
11. FUJTtURE OPERZATION
Bacman I has a total of 12 production wells hooked-up to the power plant. Two more wells, Pal 19D
and Pal 21D are being set for hook-up. Total generation from September to December 1993 reached
53,194, Mwh for the two 55 Mwe turbine generator units. ln 1994 generation totaled 479,797 Mwh.
For the next 24 years, it is expected to produce at least around 2,000 Mwh equivalent electrical power
per day.
The 20 Mwe Cawayan module of Bacman n1 has currently 3 production wells hooked-np to the power
plant. One more production well, CN 5D will be hooked-up. In November 1994 steam generation
was 232 Mwh, increasing it to 9,430 Mwh in February 1995. For the other 20 Mwe Botong module,
6 production wells are expected to be hooked-up to the power plant which is expected to be
completed by NPC in September 1996. Each module is expected to produce at least around 360 Mwh
of equivalent electrical power per day.
Note: 1. The Bank as used here in this report means the World Bank.
9. The Loan means World Bank Loan 2969+-PH (Bacon AManito Geothermal Project).



37                                    Annex
Page 10 of 11
However, due to unfavorable drilling results, PNOC EDC started to abandon the area in June 1990.
Subsequently, the uneventful eruption of Mt. Pinatubo in July 1991 finally phased out Pinatubo
from among PNOC EDC's list of prospective geothermal areas.
5. Delays in the Implementation and Commissioning of the Bacman I Power Plant by NPC
Although PNOC EDC was able to commission the FCDS for Bacman I in October 1992, actual
delivery of steam however, started only upon acceptance by NPC in May 1993 for Unit I and July
1993 for Unit 2. What brought about the lag between PNOC EDC's commissioning and NPC's
acceptance is the delay in the approval of NPC's Italian loan to finance its procurement for power
station equipment. The Bank in its Aide Momoire for June 1990 Mission recognized this
substantial delay in the final approval of the loan and expressed concem over the possible adverse
effect on the overall Bacon Manito project. The Bank even invited NPC for alternative options of
financing. The said Italian loan financing became effective only on October 5, 1990, and it was only
then that NPC's contract with GIE to supply power station equipment which was signed in 1989
became effective and implementation of the project proceeded in accordance with the revised
schedule of commissioning (March 1, 1993 for Unit I and June 1, 1993 for Unit 2 as agreed
between PNOC EDC in October 1995) proceeded.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
Continuous energy sector study has been conducted by the Bank in coordination with various
government agencies such as the OEA, ERB, NPC, PNOC NEA and EMB. One project which evolved
out of the study was the Energy Sector Project (ESP) which is the continuation of the Bacman
Geothermal Project. As such, the ESP has the following objectives: 1) to continue the development of
Bacon Manito geothermal field to supply steam to the Bacon Manito II power plant, and 2) to continue
to support the appraisal of additional geothermal resource in other fields in Luzon and Visayas. This is
funded by the Energy Sector Loan (ESL) or World Bank Loan 3164-0-PH.
To further sustain the continuity of the development of geothermal projects in the country, the Bank
extended to PNOC EDC 2 more loans, World Bank Loan 3702 for the Leyte-Cebu Geothermal Project
and World Bank Loan 3747 for the Leyte-Luzon Geothermal Project in 1994 and in 1995.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
I'he Bankl has been very supportive to the government's macro-economic program of developing
geothermal as an alternative source of the much needed electricity in the country. For the Bacman I
Geothermal Project, the Bank provided PNOC EDC with the foreign exchange component of
investments required by the project. The Bank also extended the necessary assistance for operational
inmprovement to those implementing the project.  The Bank through its mission representatives
continuously assessed the progress of the project and discussed with PNOC EDC management the
problems and issues conceming the project.
During its Jwue 1989 mission, the Bank noted PNOC EDC's practice of retaining consultants to
augment its capabilities specifically for its drilling activities. This prompted the Bank representatives to
recommend to PNOC EDC to broaden its existing training program, specially for the project
management and also enhance PNOC EDC's training units. For monitoring purposes, the Bank
required PNOC EDC to include the status of its training program in the quarterly progress report.



38
Page 11 of 11
In February 1992 the Bank sent Mr. Morsli, its Drilling Specialist for an operational mission. As an
outcome, he came up with his finding and recommendations on the drilling performance of the company
which was endorsed to management and was discussed, reviewed and addressed to accordingly by
personnel concemed.
The Bank played an important role in facilitating interaction between PNOC EDC and NPC to closely
cooperate and coordinate in a bid to develop the Philippine power sector through the utilization of
geothermal resource.
The Bank exercised a certain degree of flexibility in ascertaining compliance of PNOC EDC with the
terms and conditions of the loan agreement. To cite an example, i.e., the submission of the Audit
Report prepared by the Philippine Commission on Audit (COA). The Bank gave extension for
submission of the Audit Report prepared by COA if reports were not yet available by June 30 of the
following year as provided for in the loan agreement, due to reasons beyond PNOC EDC's control.
Throughout the project implementation, the Bank, through Mrsrs. Nayyar, Malhotra, Venogupal and the
late Claudio Femandez, exhibited its readiness to provide any assistance that PNOC EDC called for to
expedite the accomplishment of the project objectives.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
1. Project Management
PNOC EDC took the overall responsibility in carrying out the project financed by Loan 2969. The
company was organized in four technical operating staff who acquired extensive knowledge and
experience in geothermal technology both in the Philippines and abroad through training
extended by different bilateral agreements with New Zealand Iceland, Italy, Japan and the USA.
PNOC EDC had basically the same corporate structure as that during the development of
Palinpinon I and Tongonan I Geothermal Projects. Except for the fact that one of the technical
operating groups, the PNOC Energy Drilling Inc. (EDr), originally a subsidiary of PNOC,
became a division (now Energy Drilling Division-EDD) of PNOC EDC. In 1985, EDD had planned
to drill the 21 wells under the project using its own manpower and rigs. However, due to
unavailability of its rigs, EDD was able to drill only 16 wells out of the 19 actually drilled. The
other 3 wells were drilled using rented rigs owned  by Parker Drilling Co., a United States
company. PNOC EDC has existing contract for rig rental with Parker since 1993.
Overall engineering design for Bacman I FCDS was developed by PNOC EDC and reviewed by
KRTA after optimization studies have been carried out in consultation with NPC..
2. Performance in Complying with Covenants
As agreed during the negotiations, PNOC EDC satisfactorily complied with the Bank's
requirement on the proper monitoring of the progress of the project by submitting to the
Bank the quarterly progress report based on the Bank's suggested format.
As required by the Bank during its Mission in the latter part of 1991, PNOC EDC commissioned
the Philippine Commission on Audit to perform the examination of its Statement of Expenditures on
a yearly basis. Thus in April 1992, PNOC EDC submitted to the Bank its first SOE Audit Report
for WB Loan 2969. The last Audit Report submitted by PNOC EDC to the Bank for the project
was in June 1994. lThis repoit covers the period ending December 31,1993.



39            Apex 
Page I of 7
BORROWER'S IMPLEMENTATION
COMPLETION REPORT
FOR WORLD BANK LOAN 2969-iPHI
SAU4MANflO GEUIE-tMkJL
.=POEI MALEC
;ravvE P oiT
NATIONAL POWER CORPORATION
February 16, 1996



40
Page 2 of 7
A.   STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
The main objectives of the project are to:
a.  Support the delineation and assessment of geothermal resources for use in Luzon,
and thereby reduce the need to rely on imported fuel for power generation;
b.  Develop an existing geothermal steam field at Bacon Manito I and an associated
110 MW base load power plant that would provide a new source to meet demand
growth in the Luzon grid;
c.  Support measures for upgrading and expanding NPC's system facilities; and
d.  Support institutioni-buildinig and financial recovery efforts at NPC during this
critical stage of the economic recovery period.
The project consists of three (3) parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the
Bank and the Borrower may agree upon from time to time to achieve the objectives. PNOC
Energy Development Corporation (PNOC-EDC), a subsidiary of the Philippine National Oil
Company (PNOC) is in charge of Part A in implementing the geothermal steam exploitation
and distribution while the National Power Corporation (NPC) is in charge of Part B, power
plant and associated transmission system and Part C, upgrading and expansion of NPC's
system facilities.
The Project objective of reducing the country's dependence on imported oil and
providing base load power plant that would provide a new source to meet demand growth in
the Luzon grid was fully achieved. The level of energy generated from the indigenous
resources, whicil displaced expensive oil based generation particularly in luzon is significant.
As a result of the Project, the country is able to accumulate considerable savings in foreign
excliange expenditures.
NPC's generation will took a dramatic turn in favor of geothermal generation. As an
initial impact of the Project, small and medium scale industries emerged around the Bicol
Region. Based on these observations and the very satisfactory results of. the Economic
Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) and Financial Internal Rate of Return (FIRR), the Project is
rated as generally successful.
B.   ACHIIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
The 2 x 55 MW power planit, sometiine on December 1987 in Washington, an Italian
techliical mission took with the World Bank the study of the proposed project for co-financing
in the Asian Region. In the course of the conversation, special attention was given to the
Bacon-Maiiito Geotherinal Power Project of the Philippine Government.



41                                 Annex
Page 3 of 7
In thlis regard, the World Bank referred that it has been officially informed by the
National Power Corporation about the agreement reached between the Philippine and Italian
Governments on the financing of the project. Contract signing between NPC and Ansaldo-
GIE Spa was done on March 21, 1989. NPC obtained loans from Mediocredito Centrale
(Italian Government) for the foreign costs of the plant and the local currency portions will
be taken from Internal Cash Generation (ICG) of NPC. Construction of the power plant was
started in August 31, 1990 and was provisionally accepted on February 24 and April 15, 1994
for units 2 and I respectively.
With the operation of 110 MW Bacon Manito I Luzon Grid's generating capacity will
be increased, thus this will augment the aggregate capacity of the existing generating power
plants and stations.
The benefits that could be derived from the operation of Bacon Manito I cannot be
over emphasized. Local population will benefit from employment opportunities and the
increasing demand for power will greatly contribute to thle rapid industrialization of our
country, tlhus, the movement of its economy into a more positive direction.
For upgrading and expansion of NPC's System facilities, NPC was responsible for
securing necessary materials and equipment for the erection/construction of transmission lines
and substations, to be used by contractors. In order to ensure early start of the work, the
Bank approved advance procurement action for these materials and equipment. However,
because of the time consuming procurement procedures of NPC and the Government, awards
of supply contracts were delayed substantially, and the advance procurement action did not
achieved its purpose.
Conistruction of 115 KV San Esteban-Bantay-Laoag line and 115 KV Luzon substation
expansion are still going on and expected to be completed by June 1996. Due to civil war
in Yugoslavia, TOMEN has been unable to supply some of the equipments sourced from the
country resulting from the need to re-bid a portion of undelivered portion, thus, resulting to
the delay of completion date.
Consultancy and supply of hardware and software for NPC's Management Information
System (MIS) is still on-goinig. This is bellind schedule due to NPC's ongoing plan for
restructuring and privatization.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Major problems encountered (luring the implementation of the Project were as follows:
1.  In Making the Loan Effective
a. I)clay in olhiaininig approval 1rom tile ratifying agency.



42
Page 4 of 7
b. Delay in complying with special conditions for loan effectiveness such as
organization of a project office, appointment of a Project Manager, and
acquisition of land or right-of-way.
2.  In Organizing and Staffing of Project Office
a. Weak or inappropriate organizational structure.
b. Staff appointed for project implementation not being involved in the
preparation or appraisal of the project.
3.  In procuring Goods and Works
a. Complex and cumbersome procurement procedures.
b. Rigid governmenit procurement procedures.
c. Difficulties or delays in obtaining approvals from higher authcrities.
d. Lack of counterpart funds for local procurement.
e. Failure of supplier to comply withi the provisions of the contract.
f.  Cost overruns.
4.  In Construction Management
a. Delay in providing enginieerinig designs.
b. Chaniges in work specifications/conitract conditions.
c. Poor quality of contractor's works.
d. Finanicial problems on tde part of the contractor.
e. Right-of-Way problems.
D.   PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
The project generated beniefits instanitly as the newly operation of I 10 MW  Bacon
Manito I and the constructed transmission line circuits were energized. Significant savings
were acihieved in fuel used by diesel plants, gas turbines and mobile power barges along
Luzon Grid, whiicih were no longer required to operate during peak load periods. The
Project's sustainiability appears to be assured, althoughi it depends on the realization of



43                                 Annex
Page 5 of 7
assumptions used in the economic re-evaluation, including: 1) continued routine maintenance
by NPC of all grid network components from the geothermal fields in Albay to the NPC
distribution facilities in Ilocos, for the towers, transmission lines and substations (which
should be inspected from time to time), and 2) the ability of the geothermal facilities at
Bacon Manito I to continue generating electricity. This depends primarily on NPC's
provision of adequate maintenance funds and on personnel at the geothermal facilities until
the end of the Project's life. NPC is aware of its commitment to adequately maintain at
Bacon Manito facilities and it is currently involved in further developing the geothermal
resources.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
The Bank's performance in administerinig the implementation of the project was
generally satisfactory. NPC's request for changes in allocations, extensions of loan closing
dates were treated withi flexibility. However, it is noted that the Bank had limited review
mission.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
The performance of the Borrower/Executing  Agency (NPC), was generally
satisfactory. However, NPC was not able to ensure timely acquisition of lands and right-of-
way, causing delays in erection/construction works. also, time-consuming procurement
procedures of NPC and the Government were among the major causes for delays in
implementation. Further, pre- qualification procedures of NPC were not effective enough to
eliminate contractors/suppliers with financial problems.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
The Project is generally considered successful on the basis of its satisfactory Economic
Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) and Financial Internal Rate of Return (FIRR) results, and
because it has fully acihieved its objectives.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
NPC Management, in its effort to direct the overall employee efforts towards the
achievemilenit of the corporate mlissioni of providing efficient,reliable and economic to the
country, developed and adopted in April 1995 the Productivity Enhancement Program (PEP),
a mechaniism to reward good performance. The program components and brief description
of the procedtires follows:



44                                    Annex
Page 6 of 7
Performaiice Targets
Within the first quarter of every year, the Corporate sets the annual corporate
performance targets which should result from consultation and discussion with all
the functional groups. The targets are made in the following performance factors
or key indicators
1995 Targets
a. Capacity Addition
- generation capacity in megawatts            =        1228 MW
- transmission lines in circuit kilometers             705 ckm
- substation capacity in million volt-ampere  =        1000 MVA
b. System Efficiency                              =       96.92
c.  Reliability Indicator                         =       0.31
d. Operating Ratio                                =       0.80
e. Collection Efficiency                          =       39 days
f.  Others
Eachi work group (i.e., functional group/regional center, department and division)
sliall prepare its performance targets and work program in support of the
corporate target. Such targets and standards shall be agreed upon by both the
head of the work group and his/her immediate superior, and confirmed by the
next higlher supervisor.
2. Performance Standards
Performanice standards are indicators of desirability and acceptability in relation
to targets established. The targets are expressed in terms of average or normal
expectation or as an ideal expectation. To ensure common understanding in the
performance standards and to forestall confusion in the assessment of actual
performance, the standards for the ratings of Outstanding, Very Satisfactory, and
Satisfactory shall be establislied in each performance factor at the time of target
setting.
3.  Performance Evaluation and Appraisal
Every six (6) monitlhs, an evaluation of performance will be conducted and the
accomplishmenits will be appraised vis-a-vis targets and standards. The corporate
performance shall be appraised by the Management Committee and reviewed by
the NP Board and, at the national government, the Government Corporations
Monitoring and Coordinating Committee. In assessing achievement level of
performance targets, the actual performance shall be compared against standard
set.



45                                 Annex
Page 7 of 7
4.  Performance Incentive Bonus
The actual performance levels on the corporate and group targets shall determine
the actual amount of bonus to be granted.
The overall corporate performance for the period January - November 1995 reached
a SATISFACTORY level. Based on this satisfactory performance and consistent with the
pertinent orders from the national government (24 March 1994 Memorandum Order No. 198
of Malacafiang), the NP Board approved the grant of two (2) month performance bonus to
all qualified NPC officials and empioyees.
It is worthy to take note that this PEP is to a great extent assures the corporation of
a from its employees a continuous effort to strive for good performance due to the incentive
bonus component of the program. From the utility operations' point of view this effort for
good performance is manifested by maintaining the reliability and efficiency of NPC
generating units.
I.   KEY LESSONS LEARNED
For NPC to maintain sufficient cash flows to service satisfactorily future borrowing,
it must continlue to ensure that tariff levels are broadly in line with the Long-Run Marginal
Cost (LRMC) of generation and transmission anid that all user groups are charged a tariff that
matclhes the average LRMC of generation and transmission. NPC must continue to design
power projects where the financial and economic benefits are transparent and were subsidies
from the Government are not required for any developmental works.
When procurement contracts contain construction materials that experience a sudden,
unexpected increase in price on World markets, concerted efforts should be undertaken by
the executing agency and the Bank to minimize the time of bid processing and evaluation and
to award the contract without delay.
For projects containing a difficult techniical component, such as.. installing the
Managemenit Information System, it is particularly important to ascertain that'available studies
are suitable for project appraisal. This will help to minimize if not totally avoid problems
during implementation.






MAP SECTION






1;6'~~i& li2
1 16-                                             120-
P  H  I L I P  P  I N  E  S
BACON MANITO GEOTHERMAL POWER PROJECT
*     Geothermal appraised/delineation locations
*    Geothermal sites under euplorotion
*    E.isting geothermal power prolects in operation
__   Foults
I  -  -   International boundories
|K,Iurelers 0      100         200        300
L UZONV                                 Ms                                          200
16'                                                                                                                                                                16'
Bolungo    .
*AMt. Pnatubo\    +/,                           Mobile Zone
Mariveles A      0Manila
* Makbrxn          A vMt. Labo
*Mabini             *Del GaIlego
TiwiE
Montelogo *                     \         Bacon Manita Geothermal Power Project
\           -A  Bacon - Manito 11
MI NDORO                            \            Irosin
SAMAR
on
o   \            PANA Y                          \          Tongonan
\ocErrE,
~~~~~~~~0~~~~~~~
a            \ NE\AGROS\
PALAWAN                                                              1   NPalinpinon1
. '          .  .       , .1                       \hl~~~~~~~~~~~~~P3inpinon 1   , 
M/NDANAO
AMt. ApA
C HI NA                                                               A/(_                >rr1:l          1      \     
VIET NAM          lUZ ON                                        ,             I                                                    ,
I ., ~~PHIL  lPPINES zK'     
\'V,SAYAS                                                            
PAA4WA'4        '
_   M/NDANAO                                                    ;\
BeUNEI
o MAlAYSIA                                                                                     T nh.   u.s bun prne   rY ma BIAn Ha.*    -n-'a  1ia1 cDnrara 01
0nd aa~n~ In alr     na  Th ma Wand sn ad ira  b  slmnatnn i,
m~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~r .                                    fb. on Ih C.1 The Wed U.- .-d M. lht FrA     F-- C>Wr . tOO, AY    nf
0      I N  D 0 N  E                                                        S I A  'tcr. tn                            n, St     f W.,- r   1  n                          02
an                                                       120                                                    124d






PHILIPPINES
BACON-MANITO GEOTHERMAL POWER PROJECT
*Lr,vo                                                   GRID MAP OF NATIONAL POWER CORPORATION
I,nO>rorlhl                                            1                                             POWER PLANTS
RB Y  L C                                                      EtC         Ole)         UtH)                   Hydro
* 8Ar                                                  31U                      ECOGIZ)     *0C        retero
M,cC E|C)                                      Co1 Therm-l
lO)                                             O1 Iher-ol
(H)&ge                 le}arboe/CIECU )                                            .. D.esel
TRANS CSSION LINES.
230 kV
See koq...  I
uodrs,         CCC  *(o)    /          rId                                                                                     15--___  ----.--    ------  115-138 kV
W^-                                        O                \    f ?                                                                                                SUBSTATIONS-
rC; rA.orserI                                                      0                        0          230 kV
\  t  U    ZM  Mo._o0   S            *         115-138 kV
Bolo-or   oAr-T      C kebo=                                                                                             PocCIsoes .o bo Upgproded  ede,
Celerees,er_Ihlbe Pr-)ec,                                         -
E-sCCng hCydIo po-e  tlo
\oonderes                   * . t    _ In4i  E-iCeg 230 LV sob.CoCoos
U   \DK \                                                                                  |      ODs} * E.5ismg 115.138 kV soV .or
Oe, *                                                                                                                         1e-5    1138 LV sobeCoCion -rder
(O1Tg      ooCCa .                                                                              A            E-CO  n9 L,9   V skl sIoes (ocly
erIe)  *        OCChorHO)                                                                                        peojeot shobtelCes or.r soren)
4-~~~~                                                              ~               ~            ~~~~~~~ CU    C _ s reS c a
.,  ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I,                                       , "'i.
MINDORO                                                      e          e b.eI(GI
- C                         ;MASBATE
ir                                                                                                    ,                                                SAM-AR    - .
- CE ,
PAAAWAN                                                                                 C               C *
Co ;>           S    u                                                                 I u                    -                   "
CEB                    .,-l
BOHOL _  -C
__r~~~~~~~~~~~~~_*                                                    I~~~~~~~~~~~~        I4*C MeHOI                                    ,
NEGROS                        U   Lo0                              C-         -
-~~~~~~~~~~~~ me  CC                                                                    CoCSZ.                  AC CC     ,      C        _      1 -'  - _-re ,
-  --                                                                                                             W0.&eOCOI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~( IIID
d-S<w*-                                          _s====s                    J        pKWh) (hi~~~~~~~~'sm   I N",D  A  N  A   O 0
-                                                                            iC  -, 7C       ,              '"                                   t"eIv     H)'
sos r.          IoI.~II
O    i0    40    11        so    IDO MllS                                       ,                                                   |lq       o
-< -J@^                                         t         thU  I    D- Ct
Sr~Cf~                                                                                                  .r-A        D tI                         UPb      e        r     ' RU        1 .     r
(;I^NDh ,<T h_  b  PHILIPPINES"                                                                                                                |
-                                .,-                                                                                                      I                              -
_    -                                                                                                                                           W1      0TD G_ rolfS
174                                            126
C ~ ~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ - - - - 









IMAG ING
Report No:       15479
Type: ICR



