Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             LOAN NUMBER 2969-1 PH
              (Bacon-Manito Geothermal Power Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                    NATIONAL POWER CORPORATION
                      Dated September 1, 1988
                        NPC LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated September 1, 1988 between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  (the  Bank) and NATIONAL POWER
CORPORATION (the Borrower).
     WHEREAS (A) Republic of  the  Philippines (the Guarantor) and
the Borrower, having  been  satisfied  as  to  the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
have requested the Bank to  assist  in the financing of Parts (B),
and (C) of the Project;
     (B)  Part (A) of  the  Project  will  be  carried out by PNOC
Energy  Development  Corporation   (PNOC-EDC),   a  subsidiary  of
Philippine National Oil Company (PNOC), with the assistance of the
Bank and, as part of such  assistance, the Bank has agreed to make
a loan  (the  PNOC  Loan)  under  a  Loan  Agreement  of even date
herewith between the Bank and PNOC (PNOC Loan Agreement) under the
terms and conditions therein set forth;
     (C)  the Guarantor intends to  contract  from the Republic of
Italy (Italy) a loan (the Italian Loan) in an amount equivalent to
$60,000,000 to assist in financing  of  Part (B) of the Project on
the terms and conditions  set  forth  in an agreement (the Italian
Page  2
Loan Agreement)  to  be  entered  into  between  the Guarantor and
Italy;
     (D)  by an agreement (the  Guarantee  Agreement) of even date
herewith between the  Guarantor  and  the  Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations of the respective Borrowers in
respect of the respective Loans  and to undertake such other obli-
gations as set forth in the Guarantee Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (b)  "NPC" means  the  National  Power  Corporation, a state-
owned company duly authorized and  operating under the laws of the
Republic of the Philippines;
     (c)  "PNOC" means  the  Philippine  National  Oil  Company, a
state-owned company duly authorized  and  operating under the laws
of the Republic of the Philippines;
     (d)  "PNOC-EDC" means PNOC  Energy Development Corporation, a
subsidiary of PNOC; and
     (e)  "PIC" means the  Project Implementation Committee estab-
lished by an agreement between  NPC  and PNOC and confirmed by the
Republic of the Philippines, dated May 27, 1988.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth  or  referred to in the Loan Agree-
ment, an amount  in  various  currencies  equivalent to fifty-nine
million dollars ($59,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and  services  required  for  Parts  (B)  and  (C) of the
Project described  in  Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement  and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall, for  the  purposes  of Parts (B) and
(C) of the Project, open and maintain in dollars a special account
in a bank, and on  terms  and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out  of,  the Special Account shall be
made in accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  6 to this
Agreement.
Page  3
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date  shall be December 31, 1993 or
such later  date  as  the  Bank  shall  establish.  The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one-
half  of  one  percent  per  annum  above  the  Cost  of Qualified
Borrowings for the last Semester  ending prior to the commencement
of such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the  Guarantor  and the Borrower of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest  Period"   means   the  six-month  period
               commencing on each  date  specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                  Execution of Parts (B) and (C)
                          of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall  carry out Parts (B) and (C) of
the Project with due  diligence  and  efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and public
utility practices,  and  shall  provide,  promptly  as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and  other  resources required for the
Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and  except  as  the  Bank  and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out Parts (B) and (C) of
the Project in accordance with: (i) the Implementation Program set
forth in Schedule 5  to  this  Agreement;  and (ii) sound environ-
mental protection measures including those  set forth in an action
plan agreed with the Bank.
     Section 3.02. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the  goods,  works  and consultants' services required
for Parts (B) and (C) of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of  the  Loan  shall  be  governed  by  the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower shall take all action which may be
required on its part to ensure  the timely conclusion of a soundly
Page  4
based agreement between itself and PNOC or PNOC-EDC for the supply
of steam needed for the Project.
                            ARTICLE IV
             Management and Operations of the Borrower
     Section 4.01. The Borrower shall  carry on its operations and
conduct  its  affairs  in  accordance  with  sound administrative,
financial, engineering  and  public  utility  practices  under the
supervision of qualified  and  experienced  management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers.
     Section 4.02. The  Borrower  shall  at  all times operate and
maintain its plants, machinery,  equipment and other property, and
from time to time, promptly  as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof,  all  in  accordance with sound engineering,
financial and public utility practices.
     Section 4.03. The Borrower  shall  take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make  other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance  against  such  risks  and  in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
     Section  4.04.  The  Borrower  shall  furnish  its investment
programs on  an  annual  basis  to  the  Bank  for  its review and
comment.
                             ARTICLE V
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 5.01. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect  in  accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and  related  statements)   and   the  records  and
               accounts for the  Special  Account  for each fiscal
               year  audited,   in   accordance  with  appropriate
               auditing principles consistently  applied, by inde-
               pendent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each  such  year:  (A)   certified  copies  of  its
               financial statements for  such  year as so audited;
               and (B) the report of  such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in  such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
               ing said records, accounts and financial statements
               as well as the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
               time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain, in accordance with  paragraph (a) of this
               Section, records and  accounts  reflecting such ex-
               penditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
Page  5
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls  involved in their pre-
               paration, can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.
     Section 5.02. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall earn, for  each  of  its fiscal years after its
fiscal year ending on December  31,  1988, an annual return of not
less than 8% of the  average  current  net value of the Borrower's
fixed assets in operation.
     (b)  Before December  1  in  each  of  its  fiscal years, the
Borrower shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower
and satisfactory to the  Bank,  review  whether  it would meet the
requirements set forth in  paragraph  (a)  in respect of such year
and the next following fiscal  year  and shall furnish to the Bank
the results of such review upon its completion.
     (c)  If any such  review  shows  that  the Borrower would not
meet  the  requirements  set  forth   in  paragraph  (a)  for  the
Borrower's fiscal years covered by such review, the Borrower shall
promptly take all  necessary  measures (including, without limita-
tion, adjustments of  the  structure  or  levels  of its rates) in
order to meet such requirements.
     (d)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The annual return  shall  be calculated by dividing
               the Borrower's net operating  income for the fiscal
               year in question  by  one  half  of  the sum of the
               current net value of the Borrower's fixed assets in
               operation at the beginning  and  at the end of that
               fiscal year.
         (ii)  The  term  "net   operating   income"  means  total
               operating revenues less total operating expenses.
        (iii)  The term "total  operating revenues" means revenues
               from all sources related to operations.
         (iv)  The  term  "total  operating  expenses"  means  all
               expenses related  to  operations, including admini-
               stration, adequate maintenance,  taxes and payments
               in lieu of taxes, and provision for depreciation in
               a manner  consistent  with  the  generally accepted
               accounting principles in the Philippines.
          (v)  The average current  gross  value of the Borrower's
               fixed assets in  operation  shall  be calculated as
               one half of  the  sum  of  the  gross  value of the
               Borrower's  fixed  assets   in   operation  at  the
               beginning and at  the  end  of  the fiscal year, as
               valued from time to  time  in accordance with sound
               and consistently  maintained  methods  of valuation
               satisfactory to the Bank.
         (vi)  The term "current net value of the Borrower's fixed
               assets in operation" means  the  gross value of the
               Borrower's  fixed  assets  in  operation  less  the
               amount of accumulated  depreciation, as valued from
               time to time in  accordance  with sound and consis-
               tently maintained methods of valuation satisfactory
Page  6
               to the Bank.
     Section 5.03. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast
of the revenues and  expenditures  of  the Borrower shows that the
estimated net revenues of the Borrower for each fiscal year during
the term of the debt to  be  incurred  shall be at least 1.3 times
the estimated debt service  requirements  of  the Borrower in such
year on  all  debt  of  the  Borrower  including  the  debt  to be
incurred.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The  term  "debt"  means  any  indebtedness  of the
               Borrower maturing by its  terms  more than one year
               after the date on which it is originally incurred.
         (ii)  Debt shall be deemed  to  be  incurred: (A) under a
               loan  contract  or  agreement  or  other instrument
               providing for such debt  or for the modification of
               its terms of payment on  the date of such contract,
               agreement or instrument; and  (B) under a guarantee
               agreement, on the date  the agreement providing for
               such guarantee has been entered into.
        (iii)  The  term  "net   revenues"  means  the  difference
               between:
               (A)  the sum of  revenues  from all sources related
                    to operations  and  net  non-operating income;
                    and
               (B)  the sum of all  expenses related to operations
                    including   administration,   adequate   main-
                    tenance, taxes and payments  in lieu of taxes,
                    but  excluding   provision  for  depreciation,
                    other non-cash operating  charges and interest
                    and other charges on debt.
         (iv)  The  term  "net  non-operating  income"  means  the
               difference between:
               (A)  revenues from  all  sources  other  than those
                    related to operations; and
               (B)  expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu
                    of  taxes,  incurred   in  the  generation  of
                    revenues in (A) above.
          (v)  The  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means the
               aggregate amount  of  repayments (including sinking
               fund payments, if any)  of,  and interest and other
               charges on, debt.
         (vi)  The term  "reasonable  forecast"  means  a forecast
               prepared  by  the  Borrower  not  earlier  than six
               months prior  to  the  incurrence  of  the  debt in
               question, which  both  the  Bank  and  the Borrower
               accept as reasonable and  as  to which the Bank has
               notified  the   Borrower   of   its  acceptability,
               provided that  no  event  has  occurred  since such
               notification  which  has,   or  may  reasonably  be
               expected in the future  to have, a material adverse
               effect  on  the   financial   condition  or  future
               operating results of the Borrower.
        (vii)  Whenever for the purposes  of this Section it shall
               be necessary to value, in  terms of the currency of
               the Guarantor,  debt  payable  in another currency,
               such valuation shall be  made  on  the basis of the
               prevailing lawful rate  of  exchange  at which such
               other currency is, at  the  time of such valuation,
Page  7
               obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
               or, in the absence of such  rate, on the basis of a
               rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
                            ARTICLE VI
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 6.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  The Guarantor or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any  action  for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of NPC, or for the  suspension  of  all or part of the opera-
tions of NPC.
     (b)  A Governing Regulation  or  any  provision thereof shall
have been repealed, amended, suspended  or waived, so as to affect
adversely: (i) the  carrying  out  of  Parts  (B)  and  (C) of the
Project; and (ii)  the  performance  of  NPC  of  any other of its
obligations under this Agreement.
     (c)  The Italian Loan Agreement  shall  have failed to become
effective by December 31, 1988, or such later date as the Bank may
agree; provided, however,  that  the  provisions of this paragraph
shall not apply if  the  Borrower  establishes to the satisfaction
of the Bank that adequate  funds  for  Part (B) of the Project are
available to the Borrower from  other  sources on terms and condi-
tions consistent with the  obligations  of the Borrower under this
Agreement.
    (d)   (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
               (A)  the right  of  the  Guarantor  to withdraw the
                    proceeds of any loan made to the Guarantor for
                    the financing of  the  Project shall have been
                    suspended, cancelled  or  terminated  in whole
                    or in  part,  pursuant  to  the  terms  of the
                    agreement providing therefor; or
               (B)  any  such  loan  shall  have  become  due  and
                    payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
         (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this  paragraph shall not apply
               if the Borrower establishes  to the satisfaction of
               the Bank that:  (A)  such suspension, cancellation,
               termination or  prematuring  is  not  caused by the
               failure of  the  Guarantor  to  perform  any of its
               obligations under such  agreement; and (B) adequate
               funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
               from  other   sources   on   terms  and  conditions
               consistent with  the  obligations  of  the Borrower
               under this Agreement.
     Section 6.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph  (c) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and  shall  continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower;
     (b)  any of the events specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
     (c)  the event specified in paragraph  (d) (i) (B) of Section
6.01 of this  Agreement  shall  occur,  subject  to the proviso of
paragraph (d) (ii) of that Section.
                            ARTICLE VII
                    Effective Date; Termination
Page  8
     Section  7.01.  The   following   events   are  specified  as
additional conditions to the  effectiveness  of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  all conditions  precedent  to  the  effectiveness of the
PNOC Loan  Agreement  between  the  Bank  and  PNOC  of  even date
herewith (other than those  related  to  the effectiveness of this
Agreement) have been fulfilled; and
     (b)  the contract for the sale  of steam specified in Section
3.03 of this Agreement has  been executed in accordance with terms
satisfactory to the Bank.
     Section 7.02. The  date  (90)  days  after  the  date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                           ARTICLE VIII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 8.01. The President of  the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower  for  the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
     Section 8.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     For the Borrower:
          National Power Corporation
          Quezon Avenue
          East Triangle, Diliman
          Quezon City, Philippines
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               NAPOCOR                           742-40120
               Manila
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
Page  9
                    NATIONAL POWER CORPORATION
                    By /s/ Emmanuel Pelaez
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each  Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Equipment and              40,000,000      100% of foreign
     materials                                  expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 50%
                                                of local ex-
                                                penditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally
(2)  Civil works                11,000,000      50%
(3)  Consultants'                3,000,000      100%
     services
(4)  Unallocated                 5,000,000
                                __________
     TOTAL                      59,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than that of the Guarantor for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Guarantor; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Guarantor.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of  this  Agreement, except that withdrawals, in
an aggregate amount  not  exceeding  the equivalent of $2,000,000,
may be made on  account  of  payments made for expenditures before
that date but after March 31, 1988.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to:
     (a)  support the  delineation  and  assessment  of geothermal
          resources for use in Luzon;
     (b)  develop an  existing  geothermal  steam  field at Bacon-
Page  10
          Manito I and the associated power plant;
     (c)  support  measures  for  upgrading  and  expanding  NPC's
          system facilities; and
     (d)  support  institution-building   and  financial  recovery
          efforts of NPC and PNOC-EDC.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Bank  and the Borrower may agree upon
from time to time, to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Geothermal Steam Exploitation and Distribution
          (1)  Development of the  Bacon-Manito I geothermal field
               including  drilling  of  additional  production and
               injection  wells,   and  engineering,  procurement,
               installation  and   commissioning   of  the  steam-
               gathering system.
          (2)  Delineation/appraisal of geothermal sites for power
               supply to the Luzon grid. This includes drilling of
               about 18 wells to an average depth of 2,800 meters,
               and studies for assessing  the extent of geothermal
               resources and the feasibility of their development.
Part B:   Power Plant and Associated Transmission System
          (1)  Construction of the  2  X  55  MW Bacon-Manito geo-
               thermal power  plant  including turbine generators,
               auxiliary  equipment,  steam   condensing  and  gas
               extraction systems, cooling  towers  and the 230 kV
               transformers.
          (2)  Construction  of  about  32  km  of  double circuit
               230 kV transmission line  for evacuating power from
               the generating  station  and  the  230  kV terminal
               equipment at  the  generating  stations  and at the
               Daraga switchyards.
Part C:   Upgrading and Expansion of NPC's System Facilities
          (1)  Expansion   of    substations   including   Bantay,
               Balintawak, San Jose, San Esteban, Laoag, Olongapo,
               Dasmarinas  and   Binan,   construction   of  lines
               including about  21  km  of  230  kV double circuit
               Balintawak-San Jose  and  about  121  km  of 115 kV
               single circuit San Esteban-Laoag transmission lines
               and rehabilitation  of  substation transformers and
               switchgear  in  the   Luzon   grid;  expansions  of
               substations including  Lugait,  General  Santos and
               Davao  in  the  Mindano  grid;  and  expansions  of
               substations   including   Tunga,   Santa   Barbara,
               Panitan, Medellin and Bacolod in the Visayas grid.
          (2)  Extension of  communication  link  to  Mindanao and
               Visayas and  expanding telecommunication facilities
               of the Luzon grid  1  load dispatch system; instal-
               lation  of  computer   hardware  and  software  for
               enhancing  NPC's   Management   Information  System
               (MIS);  and  procurement  of  mobile  environmental
               monitoring units for NPC's environmental division.
          (3)  Rehabilitation of instrumentation  and controls for
               the 50 MW coal/oil-fired  unit  at the Naga thermal
               power station.
          (4)  The carrying out of consultancy studies for:
              (i)   establishing the  feasibility  of transmitting
                    power from Leyte to Luzon;
Page  11
             (ii)   Tongonan  geothermal  power  plants  study and
                    development;
            (iii)   establishing the  feasibility  of transmission
                    interconnections to  the  islands  of Masbate,
                    Mindoro, Marinduque,  Romblon, Catanduanes and
                    Basilan;
             (iv)   developing  cost   estimating  techniques  for
                    Power System  components,  and  a Computerised
                    Data Base;
              (v)   developing  norms  for  cost  of  power supply
                    outages; and
             (vi)   establishing   feasibility   of   the   latest
                    techniques  in  the   construction  of  hydro-
                    electric dams.
                           *    *     *
          The Project is  expected  to  be  completed  by June 30,
1993.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                            Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
February 1, 1994                                   1,075,000
August 1, 1994                                     1,120,000
February 1, 1995                                   1,160,000
August 1, 1995                                     1,205,000
February 1, 1996                                   1,255,000
August 1, 1996                                     1,300,000
February 1, 1997                                   1,350,000
August 1, 1997                                     1,405,000
February 1, 1998                                   1,460,000
August 1, 1998                                     1,515,000
February 1, 1999                                   1,575,000
August 1, 1999                                     1,635,000
February 1, 2000                                   1,695,000
August 1, 2000                                     1,760,000
February 1, 2001                                   1,830,000
August 1, 2001                                     1,900,000
February 1, 2002                                   1,975,000
August 1, 2002                                     2,050,000
February 1, 2003                                   2,130,000
August 1, 2003                                     2,210,000
February 1, 2004                                   2,295,000
August 1, 2004                                     2,385,000
February 1, 2005                                   2,475,000
August 1, 2005                                     2,575,000
February 1, 2006                                   2,670,000
August 1, 2006                                     2,775,000
February 1, 2007                                   2,885,000
August 1, 2007                                     2,995,000
February 1, 2008                                   3,110,000
August 1, 2008                                     3,230,000
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Page  12
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                            Premium
                                           The interest  rate (ex-
                                           pressed as a percentage
                                           per  annum)  applicable
                                           to  the   balance  out-
                                           standing on the Loan on
                                           the  day  of prepayment
                                           multiplied by:
Not more than three years                            0.15
     before maturity
More than three years but                            0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                              0.55
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                           0.80
     more than 16 years
     before maturity
More than 16 years but not                           0.90
     more than 18 years
     before maturity
More than 18 years before                            1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
                            Procurement
Section I:   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured  in the Republic of
of the Philippines may be granted a margin of preference in accor-
dance with, and subject to,  the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and
2.56 of the Guidelines and  paragraphs  1  through 4 of Appendix 2
thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
     Packages for equipment, materials  and services not exceeding
$200,000 per contract and up  to an aggregate amount of $3,000,000
and poles for transmission lines  and civil works for transmission
lines and substations may  be  procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of  local  competitive  bidding,  advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to  each  contract for equipment, materials
Page  13
and civil works estimated to  cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1
to the Guidelines shall  apply.  Where  payments for such contract
are to be made out  of  the Special Account, such procedures shall
be modified  to  ensure  that  the  two  conformed  copies  of the
contract required to be  furnished  to  the  Bank pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making
of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to  the  Bank  as  part  of  the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 5.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:    Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist NPC  in  carrying  out Part (C) (4) of the
Project,  NPC  shall   employ  consultants  whose  qualifications,
experience  and  terms  and  conditions  of  employment  shall  be
satisfactory to the Bank.  Such  consultants  shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of  the  "Guidelines  for  the  Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and  by  the  World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                      Implementation Program
1.   In order to  maintain  its  accounts  receivable and accounts
payable at levels consistent with proper commercial practices, the
Borrower shall implement an action  program which is acceptable to
the Bank.
2.   By December 1 of each year, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank for its review  and  comments:  (a) Borrower's budget for the
coming fiscal year;  and  (b)  Borrower's  financial  plan for the
coming five fiscal years.
                            SCHEDULE 6
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories"  means the Categories set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
Parts B and  C  of  the  Project  and  to  be  financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan allocated  from  time to time to the eligible
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to US$4 million to  be  withdrawn from the Loan Account
Page  14
and deposited in the Special  Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Bank  a  request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which  do  not  exceed the aggregate amount of
the  Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of  such  request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and deposit  into the Special Account such amount
or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)    For replenishment  of  the  Special  Account, the
                 Borrower shall furnish  to  the Bank requests for
                 deposits into the Special  Account at such inter-
                 vals as the Bank shall specify.
         (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                 Borrower shall furnish to  the Bank the documents
                 and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph
                 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in
                 respect of which replenishment  is requested.  On
                 the basis of each  such  request, the Bank shall,
                 on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
                 Account and deposit into the Special Account such
                 amount as the  Borrower  shall have requested and
                 as shall have  been  shown  by said documents and
                 other evidence  to  have  been  made  out  of the
                 Special Account for  eligible  expenditures.  All
                 such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from
                 the Loan  Account  under  the respective eligible
                 Categories,  and  in  the  respective  equivalent
                 amounts, as  shall  have  been  justified by said
                 documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the  Borrower  shall,  at  such  time  as  the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the  Bank such documents and other
evidence  showing  that  such  payment  was  made  exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Bank shall not  be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be  made  by the Borrower directly from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph  (a)  of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn  amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories for Parts  B and C of the Project, less
the amount of any  outstanding  special commitment entered into by
the Bank pursuant to Section  5.02  of the General Conditions with
respect  to  Parts  B  and  C  of  the  Project,  shall  equal the
equivalent of  twice  the  amount  of  the  Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  of the remaining
unwithdrawn  amount  of  the   Loan   allocated  to  the  eligible
Categories for Parts B  and  C  of  the  Project shall follow such
procedures as the Bank  shall  specify  by notice to the Borrower.
Such further withdrawals  shall  be  made  only  after  and to the
extent that the  Bank  shall  have  been  satisfied  that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the dateof such notice will  
Page  15
be  utilized  in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment  out  of  the  Special   Account:  (i)  was  made  for  an
expenditure or in an amount  not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule;  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished to the Bank,  the  Borrower  shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A)  provide  such  additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit  into  the Special Account (or, if the
Bank shall so request, refund to  the Bank) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or  the  portion thereof not so eligible or
justified.  Unless  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree, no further
deposit by the Bank into  the  Special Account shall be made until
the Borrower has provided  such  evidence  or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice  to  the Bank and with the
Bank's consent, refund to the Bank all or any portion of the funds
on deposit in the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank  made  pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for  cancellation  or  subsequent   withdrawal  as  the  Bank  may
determine.
