Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             LOAN NUMBER 2969-0 PH
              (Bacon-Manito Geothermal Power Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                PNOC ENERGY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
                      Dated September 1, 1988
                    PNOC-EDC PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated  September  1,  1988,  between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and PNOC ENERGY
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (PNOC-EDC).
     WHEREAS (A)  by  the  Loan  Agreement  of  even date herewith
between the Philippine National Oil Company (the Borrower) and the
Bank, the Bank has  agreed  to  make  available to the Borrower an
amount  in  various  currencies  equivalent  to  forty-one million
dollars ($41,000,000), on the  terms  and  conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement, but only  on  condition that PNOC-EDC agree to
undertake such obligations toward  the  Bank  as  are set forth in
this Agreement;
     (B)  by  a  subsidiary  loan  agreement  to  be  entered into
between the  Borrower  and  PNOC-EDC,  the  proceeds  of  the loan
provided for under the  Loan  Agreement  will be made available to
PNOC-EDC on the terms and  conditions set forth in said Subsidiary
Loan Agreement; and
     WHEREAS PNOC-EDC,  in  consideration  of  the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
Page  2
the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in the  Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this
Agreement and the  General  Conditions  (as  so  defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
               Execution of Part (A) of the Project
     Section 2.01. (a)  PNOC-EDC  declares  its  commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set  forth  in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and, to  this  end,  shall  carry  out  Part (A) of the
Project with due diligence  and  efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and geothermal
industry practices, and shall  provide,  or  cause to be provided,
promptly as  needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services and other
resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except  as  the Bank and PNOC-EDC shall other-
wise agree, PNOC-EDC shall carry  out  Part  (A) of the Project in
accordance with:  (i)  the  Implementation  Program  set  forth in
Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement;  and  (ii)  sound  environmental
protection measures including those  set  forth  in an action plan
agreed with the Bank.
     Section 2.02.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for Part (A) of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be governed  by  the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. PNOC-EDC  shall  carry  out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.04,  9.05,  9.06,  9.07,  9.08 and 9.09 of the
General  Conditions  (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and
services, plans and  schedules,  records  and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition,  respectively)  in  respect  of the PNOC-EDC
Project Agreement and Part (A) of the Project.
     Section 2.04. PNOC-EDC shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement.  Except  as  the Bank shall
otherwise agree, PNOC-EDC shall not  take  or concur in any action
which would have the effect  of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 2.05. (a) PNOC-EDC shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views  with  the  Bank  with  regard  to  progress of the
Project, the performance of  its  obligations under this Agreement
and  under  the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement,  and  other  matters
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
     (b)  PNOC-EDC shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens  to  interfere  with the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment  of  the  purposes of Loan, or the
performance by PNOC-EDC  of  its  obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
               Management and Operations of PNOC-EDC
     Section 3.01.  PNOC-EDC  shall  carry  on  its operations and
conduct  its  affairs  in  accordance  with  sound administrative,
financial, engineering and  geothermal  industry   practices under
Page  3
the supervision of  qualified  and experienced management assisted
by competent staff in adequate numbers.
     Section  3.02.  PNOC-EDC  shall  at  all  times  operate  and
maintain its plant, machinery,  equipment  and other property, and
from time to time, promptly  as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof,  all  in  accordance with sound engineering,
financial and geothermal industry practices.
     Section 3.03.  PNOC-EDC  shall  take  out  and  maintain with
responsible insurers, or make  other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance  against  such  risks  and  in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
     Section 3.04. (a) PNOC-EDC  shall take all necessary measures
to ensure that its operations (including those operations included
under the Project) shall be carried out with due regard to safety,
health, ecological and environmental factors.
     (b)  In the event of any accident  in the carrying out of its
operations, PNOC-EDC  shall  promptly  acquire  all  equipment and
employ  all  services  as  shall   be  required  to  mitigate  the
consequences of such accident.
     Section 3.05. (a) PNOC-EDC  shall  at  all times maintain its
corporate existence and right to carry on its operations, and take
all steps necessary  to  acquire,  maintain  and renew all rights,
powers, privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful in
the conduct of its business and for the execution of the Project.
     (b)  Except in the  normal  course  of its business, PNOC-EDC
shall not, without the  prior  approval  of the Bank, sell, lease,
transfer or otherwise dispose of  any  of its properties or assets
which shall or may adversely  affect, in a substantial manner, the
efficient operation of its business and undertaking.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section  4.01.  (a)  PNOC-EDC   shall  maintain  records  and
accounts adequate to reflect  in  accordance with sound accounting
practices  its  operations   and  financial  condition,  including
without limitation to the  foregoing, separate accounts in respect
of each area covered under Part (A) of the Project.
     (b)  PNOC-EDC shall:
          (i)  have said  records,  accounts  and financial state-
               ments (balance  sheets,  statements  of  income and
               expenses and  related  statements)  for each fiscal
               year  audited,   in   accordance  with  appropriate
               auditing   principles   consistently   applied,  by
               independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each  such  year,  (A)   certified  copies  of  its
               financial statements for  such  year as so audited,
               and (B) the report  of  such audit by said auditors
               of such scope and in  such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to  the  Bank  such  other information con-
               cerning  said   records,   accounts  and  financial
               statements as well  as  the  audit  thereof, as the
               Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
     Section 4.02. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
PNOC-EDC shall  maintain  a  ratio  of  current  assets to current
liabilities of not less than 1.0.
Page  4
     (b)  Before November 15 in each of its fiscal years, PNOC-EDC
shall,  on  the  basis  of  forecasts  prepared  by  PNOC-EDC  and
satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  review  whether  it  would  meet the
requirements set forth in  paragraph  (a)  in respect of such year
and the next following fiscal  year  and shall furnish to the Bank
the results of such review upon its completion.
     (c)  If any such review  shows  that  PNOC-EDC would not meet
the requirements set forth in  paragraph (a) for PNOC-EDC's fiscal
years covered by  such  review,  PNOC-EDC  shall promptly take all
necessary measures (including,  without limitation, adjustments of
the structure or  levels  of  its  rates)  in  order  to meet such
requirements.
     (d)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The term "current  assets"  means  cash, all assets
               which could in the  ordinary  course of business be
               converted into cash within twelve months, including
               accounts receivable,  marketable securities, inven-
               tories and pre-paid expenses properly chargeable to
               operating expenses within the next fiscal year.
         (ii)  The term "current  liabilities"  means all liabili-
               ties which will  become  due  and  payable or could
               under circumstances  then  existing  be  called for
               payment within  twelve  months,  including accounts
               payable, customer  advances,  debt service require-
               ments, taxes and  payments  in  lieu  of taxes, and
               dividends.
        (iii)  The  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means the
               aggregate amount  of  repayments (including sinking
               fund payments, if any)  of,  and interest and other
               charges on, debt.
         (iv)  Whenever for the purposes  of this Section it shall
               be necessary to value, in  terms of the currency of
               the Guarantor,  debt  payable  in another currency,
               such valuation shall be  made  on  the basis of the
               prevailing lawful rate  of  exchange  at which such
               other currency is, at  the  time of such valuation,
               obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
               or, in the absence of such  rate, on the basis of a
               rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
     Section 4.03. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
PNOC-EDC shall not incur any debt, if after the incurrence of such
debt the ratio of debt to equity shall be greater than 70 to 30.
     (b)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The term "debt" means  any indebtedness of PNOC-EDC
               maturing by its terms more  than one year after the
               date on which it  is  originally incurred and inter
               company advances classified as debt.
         (ii)  Debt shall be deemed  to  be  incurred: (A) under a
               loan  contract  or  agreement  or  other instrument
               providing for such debt  or for the modification of
               its terms  of  payment,  on  the  date,  and to the
               extent, the amount  of  such  debt  has become out-
               standing pursuant  to  such  contract, agreement or
               instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, on
               the date the agreement providing for such guarantee
               has been entered into  but  only to the extent that
               the guaranteed debt is outstanding.
        (iii)  The term "equity" means  the  sum  of the total un-
               impaired  paid-up  capital,  retained  earnings and
               reserves  of  PNOC-EDC   not   allocated  to  cover
               specific liabilities.
Page  5
         (iv)  Whenever for the purposes  of this Section it shall
               be necessary to value, in  terms of the currency of
               the Guarantor,  debt  payable  in another currency,
               such valuation shall be  made  on  the basis of the
               prevailing lawful rate  of  exchange  at which such
               other currency is, at  the  time of such valuation,
               obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
               or, in the absence of such  rate, on the basis of a
               rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
     Section 4.04. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
PNOC-EDC shall not incur any  debt unless a reasonable forecast of
the revenues and expenditures of PNOC-EDC shows that the estimated
net revenues of PNOC-EDC for  each  fiscal year during the term of
the debt to be incurred shall  be at least 1.2 times the estimated
debt service requirements of PNOC-EDC in  such year on all debt of
PNOC-EDC including the debt to be incurred.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The term "debt" means  any indebtedness of PNOC-EDC
               maturing by its terms more  than one year after the
               date on which  it  is originally incurred excluding
               inter company advances classified as debt.
         (ii)  Debt shall be deemed  to  be  incurred: (A) under a
               loan  contract  or  agreement  or  other instrument
               providing for such debt  or for the modification of
               its terms of payment on  the date of such contract,
               agreement or instrument; and  (B) under a guarantee
               agreement, on the date  the agreement providing for
               such guarantee has been entered into.
        (iii)  The  term  "net   revenues"  means  the  difference
               between:
               (A)  the sum of  revenues  from all sources related
                    to operations  and  net  non-operating income;
                    and
               (B)  the sum of all  expenses related to operations
                    including   administration,   adequate   main-
                    tenance, taxes and payments  in lieu of taxes,
                    but  excluding   provision  for  depreciation,
                    other non-cash operating  charges and interest
                    and other charges on debt.
         (iv)  The  term  "net  non-operating  income"  means  the
               difference between:
               (A)  revenues from  all  sources  other  than those
                    related to operations; and
               (B)  expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu
                    of taxes, incurred in  the generation of reve-
                    nues in (A) above.
          (v)  The  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means the
               aggregate amount  of  repayments (including sinking
               fund payments, if any)  of,  and interest and other
               charges on, debt.
         (vi)  The term  "reasonable  forecast"  means  a forecast
               prepared by PNOC-EDC  not  earlier  than six months
               prior to the  incurrence  of  the debt in question,
               which  both  the   Bank   and  PNOC-EDC  accept  as
               reasonable and as  to  which  the Bank has notified
               PNOC-EDC of  its  acceptability,  provided  that no
               event has  occurred  since  such notification which
               has, or may reasonably be expected in the future to
               have, a material  adverse  effect  on the financial
Page  6
               condition or future operating results of PNOC-EDC.
        (vii)  Whenever for the purposes  of this Section it shall
               be necessary to value, in  terms of the currency of
               the Guarantor,  debt  payable  in another currency,
               such valuation shall be  made  on  the basis of the
               prevailing lawful rate  of  exchange  at which such
               other currency is, at  the  time of such valuation,
               obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
               or, in the absence of such  rate, on the basis of a
               rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 5.O2. This Agreement and  all obligations of the Bank
and of PNOC-EDC thereunder  shall  terminate  on the date on which
the Loan Agreement shall  terminate  in accordance with its terms,
and the Bank shall promptly notify PNOC-EDC thereof.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or  at  such  other  address  as  such  party shall have
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                      440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     For PNOC Energy Development Corporation:
          Merritt Road
          Fort Bonifacio
          Makati, Metro Manila
          Philippines
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               PNOC-EDC                        22666 EDC PH
               Makati, Metro Manila
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Page  7
Agreement on behalf of PNOC-EDC,  or  by PNOC-EDC on behalf of the
Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by the
President of PNOC-EDC  or  such  other  person  or  persons as the
President of PNOC-EDC  shall  designate  in  writing, and PNOC-EDC
shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and
the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts,  each  of  which  shall  be  an  original,  and  all
collectively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                    PNOC ENERGY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
                    By /s/ Emmanuel Pelaez
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof,  goods manufactured in the Republic of
Philippines may be granted  a  margin  of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the  provisions  of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56
of the  Guidelines  and  paragraphs  1  through  4  of  Appendix 2
thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
     Packages  for  equipment,  materials   and  services  may  be
procured under contracts awarded on  the basis of either (a) local
competitive  bidding,  advertised   locally,  in  accordance  with
procedures satisfactory  to  the  Bank  said  contracts  shall not
exceed $200,000 per contract and up  to an amount of $2,000,000 in
the  aggregate,  or  (b)  through  limited  international  bidding
procedures on  the  basis  of  evaluation  and  comparison of bids
invited from a list of at least three qualified suppliers eligible
under the Guidelines and  in  accordance with procedures set forth
in Sections I and II  of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8,
Page  8
2.9, 2.55  and  2.56  thereof),  said  contracts  shall not exceed
$4,000,000 in  the  aggregate,  or  (c)  on  the  basis  of direct
contracting for proprietary equipment  not  exceeding an amount of
$1,000,000 in the aggregate.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to  each  contract for equipment, materials
and civil works estimated to  cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1
to the Guidelines shall  apply.  Where  payments for such contract
are to be made out  of  the Special Account, such procedures shall
be modified  to  ensure  that  the  two  conformed  copies  of the
contract required to be  furnished  to  the  Bank pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making
of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to  the  Bank  as  part  of  the evidence to be
furnished pursuant  to  paragraph  4  of  Schedule  4  to the Loan
Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (a) (ii) of the Loan Agreement.
2. The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist PNOC-EDC  in  carrying out Part (A) of the
Project, PNOC-EDC shall  employ  consultants whose qualifications,
experience  and  terms  and  conditions  of  employment  shall  be
satisfactory to the Bank.  Such  consultants  shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of  the  "Guidelines  for  the  Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and  by  the  World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                      Implementation Program
     PNOC-EDC shall furnish annually  to  the  Bank for its review
and comments the exploration program for the coming year for areas
covered under the Project.
