Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             LOAN NUMBER 2969-0 PH
              (Bacon-Manito Geothermal Power Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                  PHILIPPINE NATIONAL OIL COMPANY
                      Dated September 1, 1988
                                             LOAN NUMBER 2969-0 PH
                        PNOC LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated September 1, 1988 between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  (the  Bank)  and PHILIPPINE
NATIONAL OIL COMPANY (the Borrower).
     WHEREAS (A) Republic of  the  Philippines (the Guarantor) and
the Borrower, having  been  satisfied  as  to  the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
have requested the Bank to assist in the financing Part (A) of the
Project;
     (B)  Part (A) of  the  Project  will  be  carried out by PNOC
Energy  Development  Corporation   (PNOC-EDC),   a  subsidiary  of
Philippine  National  Oil  Company  (PNOC),  with  the  Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to PNOC-EDC proceeds  of  the  Loan  as provided in this
Agreement;
     (C)  Parts (B) and (C) of the  Project will be carried out by
Page  2
National Power Corporation (NPC), with  the assistance of the Bank
and, as part of such  assistance,  the  Bank  has agreed to make a
loan (the NPC Loan) under  a  Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between the Bank and NPC (NPC  Loan Agreement) under the terms and
conditions therein set forth;
     (D)  the Guarantor intends to  contract  from the Republic of
Italy (Italy) a loan (the Italian Loan) in an amount equivalent to
$60,000,000 to assist in financing  of  Part (B) of the Project on
the terms and conditions  set  forth  in an agreement (the Italian
Loan Agreement)  to  be  entered  into  between  the Guarantor and
Italy;
     (E)  by an agreement (the  Guarantee  Agreement) of even date
herewith between the  Guarantor  and  the  Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations of the respective Borrowers in
respect of the Loans  and  to  undertake such other obligations as
set forth in the Guarantee Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (b)  "PNOC-EDC Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Bank and PNOC-EDC of  even  date  herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time,  and  such terms includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the PNOC-EDC Project Agreement;
     (c)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement"  means  the  agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and PNOC-EDC pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as  the  same may be amended from time
to time, and such terms  includes  all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
     (d)  "NPC" means the National Power Corporation a state-owned
company duly  established  and  operating  under  the  laws of the
Republic of the Philippines;
     (e)  "PNOC"  means  the  Philippine  National  Oil  Company a
state-owned company duly established  and operating under the laws
of the Republic of the Philippines;
     (f)  "PNOC-EDC" means PNOC  Energy  Development Corporation a
subsidiary of PNOC; and
     (g)  "PIC" means the  Project Implementation Committee estab-
lished by an agreement  among  NPC  and  PNOC and confirmed by the
Republic of the Philippines, dated May 27, 1988.
                            ARTICLE II
Page  3
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth  or  referred to in the Loan Agree-
ment, an  amount  in  various  currencies  equivalent to forty-one
million dollars ($41,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for Part A of the Project described
in Schedule 2 to  this  Agreement  and  to  be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall, for the  purposes of Part (A) of the
Project, open and maintain in dollars a special account in a bank,
and on terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to the Bank. Deposits
into, and payments out of,  the  Special  Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date  shall be December 31, 1993 or
such later  date  as  the  Bank  shall  establish.  The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a  rate  per  annum  for  each Interest Period equal to
one-half of one  percent  per  annum  above  the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for the last Semester  ending prior to the commencement
of such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the  Guarantor  and the Borrower of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest  Period"   means   the  six-month  period
               commencing on each  date  specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
               Execution of Part (A) of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other  obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall
cause PNOC-EDC to perform in accordance with the provisions of the
Page  4
PNOC-EDC Project Agreement all the obligations of PNOC-EDC therein
set forth, shall take or  cause  to be taken all action, including
the provision of funds,  facilities, services and other resources,
necessary  or  appropriate  to  enable  PNOC-EDC  to  perform such
obligations, and shall not take  or  permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
     (b)  The Borrower shall relend  the  proceeds  of the Loan to
PNOC-EDC under a  subsidiary  loan  agreement  to  be entered into
between the  Borrower  and  PNOC-EDC,  under  terms and conditions
which shall have been approved by the Bank.
     (c)  The  Borrower  shall  exercise   its  rights  under  the
Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  in  such  manner  as  to  protect the
interests of the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  and  to accomplish the
purposes of the  Loan,  and  except  as  the  Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 3.02. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the  goods,  works  and consultants' services required
for Part (A) of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be governed by  the provisions of Schedule  1 to
the PNOC-EDC Project Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Section  9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the  General  Conditions  (relating  to  insurance, use of
goods and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records and reports,
maintenance and  land  acquisition,  respectively)  in  respect to
Part (A) of the Project shall  be carried out by PNOC-EDC pursuant
to Section 2.03 of the PNOC-EDC Project Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
             Management and Operations of the Borrower
     Section 4.01. The Borrower shall  carry on its operations and
conduct  its  affairs  in  accordance  with  sound administrative,
engineering,   financial   and   industry   practices   under  the
supervision of qualified  and  experienced  management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers.
     Section 4.02. The  Borrower  shall  at  all times operate and
maintain its plants, machinery,  equipment and other property, and
from time to time, promptly  as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof,  all  in  accordance with sound engineering,
financial and industry practices.
     Section 4.03. The Borrower  shall  take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make  other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance  against  such  risks  and  in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
                             ARTICLE V
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 5.01. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect  in  accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have  its   records   corporate   and  consolidated
               accounts and financial  statements (balance sheets,
               statements  of  income  and  expenses  and  related
               statements) and the  records  and  accounts for the
               Special Account for  each  fiscal  year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;
Page  5
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each  such  year:  (A)   certified  copies  of  its
               financial statements for  such  year as so audited,
               and (B) the report of  such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in  such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
               ing said records, accounts and financial statements
               as well as the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
               time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain, in accordance with  paragraph (a) of this
               Section, records and  accounts  reflecting such ex-
               penditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls  involved in their pre-
               paration, can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.
     Section 5.02. The Borrower  shall  take all measures required
on its part  to  increase  PNOC-EDC's share capital, inter-company
loans and other  means  for  raising  funds  to enable PNOC-EDC to
carry out its obligations pursuant to Sections 4.02, 4.03 and 4.04
of the PNOC-EDC Project Agreement.
     Section 5.03. The Borrower shall, or shall cause PNOC-EDC to,
take all action which may  be  required  on its part to ensure the
timely conclusion of  a  soundly  based agreement between PNOC-EDC
and NPC for the supply of steam needed for the Project.
                            ARTICLE VI
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 6.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  The Guarantor or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any  action  for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of  PNOC,  or  for  the  suspension  of  all  or  part of the
operations of PNOC.
     (b)  PNOC shall have been  unable  to  pay  its debts as they
mature or any action or  proceeding  shall have been taken whereby
any of  its  properties  shall  or  may  be  distributed among its
creditors.
     (c)  PNOC-EDC  shall  have  failed  to  perform  any  of  its
obligations under the PNOC-EDC Project Agreement.
Page  6
     (d)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the  Loan  Agreement,  an  extraordinary  situation  shall have
arisen which shall make it  improbable  that PNOC-EDC will be able
to perform its obligations under the PNOC-EDC Project Agreement.
     (e)  Presidential Decree No. 334  as  amended shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived, so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of PNOC-EDC to perform any of
its obligations under the PNOC-EDC Project Agreement.
     (f)  The Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action  for the dissolution and disestablish-
ment of PNOC-EDC or for the suspension of its operations.
     (g)  The Italian Loan Agreement  shall  have failed to become
effective by December 31, 1988, or such later date as the Bank may
agree; provided, however,  that  the  provisions of this paragraph
shall not apply if NPC establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank
that adequate funds for Part  (B)  of the Project are available to
NPC from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the
obligations of NPC under the NPC Loan Agreement.
    (h)   (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
               (A)  the right  of  the  Guarantor  to withdraw the
                    proceeds of any loan made to the Guarantor for
                    the financing of  the  Project shall have been
                    suspended, cancelled  or  terminated  in whole
                    or in  part,  pursuant  to  the  terms  of the
                    agreement providing therefor; or
               (B)  any  such  loan  shall  have  become  due  and
                    payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
         (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this  paragraph shall not apply
               if the Borrower establishes  to the satisfaction of
               the Bank that:  (A)  such suspension, cancellation,
               termination or  prematuring  is  not  caused by the
               failure of  the  Guarantor  to  perform  any of its
               obligations under such  agreement; and (B) adequate
               funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
               from  other   sources   on   terms  and  conditions
               consistent with  the  obligations  of  the Borrower
               under this Agreement.
     Section 6.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph  (c) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and  shall  continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower;
     (b)  any of the events specified  in paragraphs (a), (b), (e)
and (f) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
     (c)  the event specified in paragraph  (h) (i) (B) of Section
6.01 of this  Agreement  shall  occur,  subject  to the proviso of
paragraph (h) (ii) of that Section.
                            ARTICLE VII
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  7.01.  The   following   events   are  specified  as
additional conditions to the  effectiveness  of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  has  been  executed on
behalf of the Borrower and PNOC-EDC;
Page  7
     (b)  the contract for the sale  of steam specified in Section
5.03 of this Agreement has  been executed in accordance with terms
satisfactory to the Bank; and
     (c)  all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the NPC
Loan Agreement between  the  Bank  and  NPC  of even date herewith
(other than those related to  the effectiveness of this Agreement)
have been fulfilled.
     Section  7.02.  The  following  are  specified  as additional
matters, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
     (a)  that  the  PNOC-EDC  Project  Agreement  has  been  duly
authorized or ratified by  PNOC-EDC,  and  is legally binding upon
PNOC-EDC in accordance with its terms; and
     (b)  that  the  Subsidiary  Loan   Agreement  has  been  duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and PNOC-EDC and is legally
binding upon the  Borrower  and  PNOC-EDC  in  accordance with its
terms.
     Section 7.03. The  date  (90)  days  after  the  date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                           ARTICLE VIII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 8.01. The President of  the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower  for  the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
     Section 8.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     For the Borrower:
          Philippine National Oil Company
          7901 Makati Avenue
          Makati, Metro Manila
          Philippines
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               PNOC                              22259
               Makati
               Manila, Philippines
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
Page  8
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                    PHILIPPINE NATIONAL OIL COMPANY
                    By /s/ Emmanuel Pelaez
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each  Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Equipment and              32,200,000      100% of foreign
     materials includ-                          expenditures,
     ing installation                           100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 80%
                                                of local ex-
                                                penditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally
(2)  Technical                   4,000,000      100%
     assistance
(3)  Fuel                          800,000      50%
(4)  Unallocated                 4,000,000
                                __________
     TOTAL                      41,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than that of the Guarantor for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Guarantor; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Guarantor.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of  this  Agreement, except that withdrawals, in
an aggregate amount  not  exceeding  the equivalent of $1,000,000,
may be made on  account  of  payments made for expenditures before
that date but after March 31, 1988.
Page  9
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to:
     (a)  support the  delineation  and  assessment  of geothermal
          resources for use in Luzon;
     (b)  develop an  existing  geothermal  steam  field at Bacon-
          Manito I and the Associated power plant;
     (c)  support  measures  for  upgrading  and  expanding  NPC's
          system facilities; and
     (d)  support  institution-building   and  financial  recovery
          efforts of NPC and PNOC-EDC.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Bank  and the Borrower may agree upon
from time to time, to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Geothermal Steam Exploitation and Distribution
          (1)  Development of the  Bacon-Manito I geothermal field
               including  drilling  of  additional  production and
               injection  wells,   and  engineering,  procurement,
               installation  and   commissioning   of  the  steam-
               gathering system.
          (2)  Delineation/appraisal of geothermal sites for power
               supply to the Luzon grid. This includes drilling of
               about 18 wells to an average depth of 2,800 meters,
               and studies for assessing  the extent of geothermal
               resources and the feasibility of their development.
Part B:   Power Plant and Associated Transmission System
          (1)  Construction of the  2  X  55  MW Bacon Manito geo-
               thermal power  plant  including turbine generators,
               auxiliary  equipment,  steam   condensing  and  gas
               extraction systems, cooling  towers  and the 230 kV
               transformers.
          (2)  Construction  of  about  32  km  of  double circuit
               230 kV transmission line  for evacuating power from
               the generating  station  and  the  230  kV terminal
               equipment at the  generating  station at the Daraga
               switchyard.
Part C:   Upgrading and Expansion of NPC's System Facilities
          (1)  Expansion   of   substations,   including   Bantay,
               Balintawak, San Jose, San Esteban, Laoag, Olongapo,
               Dasmarinas  and   Binan,   construction   of  lines
               including, about 21  km  of  230  kV double circuit
               Balintawak-San Jose  and  about  121  km  of 115 kV
               single circuit San Esteban-Laoag transmission lines
               and rehabilitation  of  substation transformers and
               switchgear  in  the   Luzon   grid;  expansions  of
               substations including  Lugait,  General  Santos and
               Davao  in  the  Mindanao  grid;  and  expansions of
               substations   including   Tunga,   Santa   Barbara,
               Panitan, Medellin  and  Bacolod  substations in the
               Visayas grid.
          (2)  Extension of  communication  link  to  Mindanao and
               Visayas and  expanding telecommunication facilities
               of the Luzon grid  1  load dispatch system; instal-
               lation  of  computer   hardware  and  software  for
               enhancing  NPC's   Management   Information  System
Page  10
               (MIS);  and  procurement  of  mobile  environmental
               monitoring units for NPC's environmental division.
          (3)  Rehabilitation of instrumentation  and controls for
               the 50 MW coal/oil-fired  unit  at the Naga thermal
               power station.
          (4)  The carrying out of consultancy studies for:
              (i)   establishing the  feasibility  of transmitting
                    power from Leyte to Luzon;
             (ii)   Tongonan  geothermal  power  plants  study and
                    development;
            (iii)   establishing the  feasibility  of transmission
                    interconnections to  the  islands  of Masbate,
                    Mindoro, Marinduque,  Romblon, Catanduanes and
                    Basilan;
             (iv)   developing  cost   estimating  techniques  for
                    Power System  components,  and  a Computerised
                    Data Base;
              (v)   developing  norms  for  cost  of  power supply
                    outages; and
             (vi)   establishing   feasibility   of   the   latest
                    techniques  in  the   construction  of  hydro-
                    electric dams.
                           *    *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1993.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                            Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
February 1, 1994                                     750,000
August 1, 1994                                       775,000
February 1, 1995                                     805,000
August 1, 1995                                       840,000
February 1, 1996                                     870,000
August 1, 1996                                       905,000
February 1, 1997                                     940,000
August 1, 1997                                       975,000
February 1, 1998                                   1,015,000
August 1, 1998                                     1,050,000
February 1, 1999                                   1,095,000
August 1, 1999                                     1,135,000
February 1, 2000                                   1,180,000
August 1, 2000                                     1,225,000
February 1, 2001                                   1,270,000
August 1, 2001                                     1,320,000
February 1, 2002                                   1,370,000
August 1, 2002                                     1,425,000
February 1, 2003                                   1,480,000
August 1, 2003                                     1,535,000
February 1, 2004                                   1,595,000
August 1, 2004                                     1,660,000
February 1, 2005                                   1,720,000
August 1, 2005                                     1,790,000
February 1, 2006                                   1,855,000
August 1, 2006                                     1,930,000
February 1, 2007                                   2,005,000
August 1, 2007                                     2,080,000
February 1, 2008                                   2,160,000
August 1, 2008                                     2,245,000
Page  11
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                            Premium
                                           The interest  rate (ex-
                                           pressed as a percentage
                                           per  annum)  applicable
                                           to  the   balance  out-
                                           standing on the Loan on
                                           the  day  of prepayment
                                           multiplied by:
Not more than three years                            0.15
     before maturity
More than three years but                            0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                              0.55
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                           0.80
     more than 16 years
     before maturity
More than 16 years but not                           0.90
     more than 18 years
     before maturity
More than 18 years before                            1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the  term  "eligible  Categories"  means  Categories set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
Part A of the Project and  to  be  financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to US$2 million to  be  withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited in the Special  Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Page  12
Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Bank  a  request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which  do  not  exceed the aggregate amount of
the  Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of  such  request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and deposit  into the Special Account such amount
or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)    For replenishment  of  the  Special  Account, the
                 Borrower shall furnish  to  the Bank requests for
                 deposits  into  the   Special   Account  at  such
                 intervals as the Bank shall specify.
         (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                 Borrower shall furnish to  the Bank the documents
                 and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph
                 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in
                 respect of which replenishment  is requested.  On
                 the basis of each  such  request, the Bank shall,
                 on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
                 Account and deposit into the Special Account such
                 amount as the  Borrower  shall have requested and
                 as shall have  been  shown  by said documents and
                 other evidence  to  have  been  made  out  of the
                 Special Account for  eligible  expenditures.  All
                 such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from
                 the Loan  Account  under  the respective eligible
                 Categories,  and  in  the  respective  equivalent
                 amounts, as  shall  have  been  justified by said
                 documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the  Borrower  shall,  at  such  time  as  the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the  Bank such documents and other
evidence  showing  that  such  payment  was  made  exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Bank shall not  be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be  made  by the Borrower directly from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph  (a)  of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn  amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories  for  Part  A  of the Project, less the
amount of any outstanding  special  commitment entered into by the
Bank pursuant  to  Section  5.02  of  the  General Conditions with
respect to Part A of  the  Project,  shall equal the equivalent of
twice  the  amount  of   the  Authorized  Allocation.  Thereafter,
withdrawal from  the  Loan  Account  of  the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories for Part A
of the Project  shall  follow  such  procedures  as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the  Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been
satisfied that  all  such  amounts  remaining  on  deposit  in the
Special Account as of the date  of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment  out  of  the  Special   Account:  (i)  was  made  for  an
expenditure or in an amount  not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule;  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished to the Bank,  the  Borrower  shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A)  provide  such  additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit  into  the Special Account (or, if the
Bank shall so request, refund to  the Bank) an amount equal to the
Page  13
amount of such payment or  the  portion thereof not so eligible or
justified.  Unless  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree, no further
deposit by the Bank into  the  Special Account shall be made until
the Borrower has provided  such  evidence  or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice  to  the Bank and with the
Bank's consent, refund to the Bank all or any portion of the funds
on deposit in the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank  made  pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for  cancellation  or  subsequent   withdrawal  as  the  Bank  may
determine.
