Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15523-SE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
HIGHER EDUCATION PROJECT
May 7, 1996
Population and Human Resources
Operations Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)/ US$I = 490 CFAF
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
A GETIP      Agence d'execution des travaux d 'intret public contre le souis emploi
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CNES         National Policy Dialogue on Higher Education (Concertation nationale sur
lenseignement superieur)
COUD         Student services center of Dakar (Centre des oeuvres universitaires de
Dakar)
CRE4         Center for Research in Applied Economics (Centre de recherche en
economie appliquee)
CROUS        Student services center of Saint-Louis (Centre regional des oeuvres
universitaires de Saint-Louis)
ENSUT        National School of Technology (Ecole Nationale Superieure UJniversitaire
de Technologie)
ENSETP       National School of Vocational and Technical Training (Ecole Nationale
Superieure dEEnseignement Technique et Professionnel)
EPT          Polytechnical School of Thies (Ecole polylechnique de Thies)
ESP          Polytechnical Institute (Ecole superieur polylechnique)
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
IBRD         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
IDA          International Development Association
IT          Implementation Team
LCB          Local Competitive Bidding
MIS          Management Information System
MNE          Ministry of National Education
PCM          Private Contract Management Firm
PDRH 2       Human Resources Development Program 2 (Programme de
developpement des ressources humaines 2)
PPF          Project Preparation Facility
SAL          Structural Adjustment Loan
SOE          Statement of Expenditures
SSA          Sub Saharan Africa
TOR          Terms of Reference
UCAD        Cheikh Anta Diop University of Dakar
USL          Saint-Louis University
FISCAL YEAR                                         UNIVERSITY YEAR
January 1-December 3 1                                    October-June



REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
HIGHER EDUCATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY .......................................................i
1. INTRODUCTION .......................................................1
2. SECTORAL CONTEXT .......................................................2
A. General Background .......................................................2
B.  Economic Development and Training  Needs .......................................................2
C.  Sector Capacity .......................................................3
D.  Toward  a National Reformn  Agenda ......................................................1  1
3. THE PROJECT .......................................................                                                                                      15
A. Project Origin ......................................................                                                                                15
B. Scope and Objectives ......................................................                                                                          16
C. Project Description ......................................................                                                                           16
4. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING ......................................................                                                                        23
A. Project Costs ......................................................                                                                                 23
B. Project Financing ......................................................                                                                             25
5. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ......................................................                                                                             25
A.  Status of Project Preparation  and  Readiness ......................................................                                                25
B.  Project Coordination  and Management ......................................................                                                         25
C. Implementation Schedule ......................................................                                                                       27
D. Procurement ......................................................                                                                                   27
E. Disbursements ......................................................                                                                                 30
F.  Accounting, Auditing, and  Reporting ......................................................                                                         31
G. Monitoring and Supervision ......................................................                                                                    32
H. Environmental Impact ......................................................                                                                          32
6. BENEFITS AND RISKS ......................................................                                                                                34
7. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ............................................... 35
This report is based on the appraisal missions that visited Senegal in December 1995 and February 1996 comprising
Messrs. R. Prouty, (AF5PH), S. Theunynck, A. Tabah, J. Fine (Consultants), C. Diallo (AF5GN) and A. Diawara
(AF5SE) and on pre-appraisal missions in 1995 including E. Baranshamaje (AFTHR), H. Abadzi (OEDD I), and G.
Hadjicostas, Consultant. Messrs. Birger Fredriksen and Ok Pannenborg are the Acting Department Director and
Managing Division Chief, respectively for the operation; Mr. Thomas Eisemon (HDD) is the Lead Advisor,
Mimes/Messrs Helen Abadzi (OEDD1), Jamil Salmi (LA2HR), Brigitte Duces (EA3PH) and William Saint (AF4PH)
are the peer reviewers. R. Prouty (AF5PH) is the task team leader. Technical support was provided by Ms. Ghislaine
Baghdadi, Language Staff Assistant (AF5PH).



ANNEXES
Annex I      Basic Data
Annex 2A    Terms of Reference--Implementation Team
Annex 2B    Training and Skills Transfer
Annex 3      Project Cost and Financing Tables
Annex 4A    Input and Outcome Indicators
Annex 4B    Mid-Term Review
Annex SA    Procurement Plan
Annex SB    Implementation Schedule
Annex 6      Higher Education Policy Statement/Performance Indicators
Annex 7      Research Fund Arrangements
Annex 8A    Operating Budgets
Annex 8B    UCAD Unit Costs by Faculty
Annex 9      Higher Education Enrollment by Institution
Annex 10    Implementation Manual: Table of Contents
Annex 1A   Status of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
Annex 1lB   Disbursement Profiles
Annex 12    Selected Documents Available in the Project File



REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
HIGHER EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Republic of Senegal
Beneficiary:         Ministry of National Education (MNE)
Credit
Amount:              SDR 18.4 million (US$ 26.5 million equivalent)
Terms:               Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity
Project
Objectives:          The long-term objective of the project is to improve higher education
graduation rates and gender equity, with greater cost-effectiveness and more
relevance for Senegal's economic development. This will be done within
the context of an education sector policy which places a priority on basic
education. The project will help the Government refocus the activities of its
two universities around their pedagogic mission, while reinforcing
management capacity and quality control.  Specific objectives are as
follows: (a) to reinforce knowledge and library services; (b) to improve
teaching; (c) to improve research; (d) to develop a maintenance system; (e)
to strengthen sector management and financing; and (f) to complete the
reorganization of student services.
Project
Description:         The project is designed to consolidate ongoing reforms of the "social
campus"--cafeteria services, scholarships, etc.-and to help shift the focus
of reform efforts to the "pedagogical campus"--the teaching and learning
process. It includes three main components: (a) the strengthening of library
services, (b) the upgrading of teaching and research, and (c) the stregting of
management capacity. It will be implemented over a period of six years, with
annual reviews. A mid-term review will examine the extent to which sectoral
reform initiatves have been implemented. For all project components, the
planned activities are premised on support for a process of consensus
development and reflection.
Benefits:           In addition to helping the sector increase the proportion of financing going
to qualitative inputs such as library books and science equipment, the
project will free up funds for the expansion of primary education (higher
education's share of the overall education budget will drop from 27% to
20%). By improving living and study conditions for students, and the
professional atmosphere in which teachers work, it will result in increased
stability for the education sector as a whole by reducing student unrest and
teacher strikes. Many of these sustainable benefits have already become
apparent during project preparation. Additional benefits include improved
graduation rates (grade repetition is expected to decline from 54% to 35%),



ii
greater gender equity, increased productivity of research, more cost-
effective provision of services, maintenance of university assets, and
increased self-financing. The project will also assist NMNE in promoting
private higher education institutions which will increase from 5% to at least
15% of the student population. Improvements to higher education will
increase the skills of the labor force and make available a better pool of
post-secondarv graduates to facilitate the transition of the Senegalese
economy to a higher level of technology and productivity. Closer links with
employers will help to meet the changing demands of an increasingly
complex and dynamic private sector.
Risks:              Implementation of "social campus" reforms was vigorously opposed by
some groups of students and junior academic staff and further resistance to
scholarship cuts and increases in teaching hours can be expected. However,
the Government, assured of support for the reform forged through the
national consultation dialogue, has held its ground to date. The likelihood
of continued success is strengthened by the following: (i) many difficult
reform measures have already been put in place and are at a stage where
they are virtually irreversible; (ii) there are already tangible positive effects
from the reform, such as student satisfaction with the food services under
private contract; (iii) visible IDA support of a home-grown reform program
has bolstered the credibility and confidence of reformers; and (iv) the
consensus-building process which brought about the reform has created a
growing constituency for change within the university community.
Environmental
Impact:              No environmental risks are foreseen (see para. 5.23).
Economic Rate
of Return:           (see economic analysis beginning para. 5.24).
Poverty Category:    Not applicable.
Program Objectives
Category:            Human resource development.
Map:                IBRD No 27975



iii
Summary of IDA Financed Project Cost Estimates'
(US$ million equivalent, including taxes and duties)
Foreign     Local    Total   % of Total
Base Cost
1. Improve Library Services            8.0        5.2       13.3      52%
2. Upgrade Teaching and Research       5.0        2.4       7.4       29%
3. Strengthen Management Capacity      1.6        1.5       3.2       12%
4. Refinance PPF                       1.8         -         1.8       7%
TOTAL BASE COSTS:                  16.5        9.2      25.7       100%
Physical Contingencies:             1.0        0.6       1.5       6%
Price Contingencies:                1.2        2 5       3.7       14%
TOTAL PROJECT COST:                 18.7       12.2      30.9      120%
Financing Plan
(US$ million equivalent, includin taxes and duties)
Foreign         Local         Taxes &          Total
IDA     18.7           7.8      I   ~~~~~~Duties _______
IDA                 18.7            7.8            0.0            26.5
Government          0.0             2.0            2.4             4.3
TOTAL         |     18.7            9.8      |     2.4      [     30.9
Estimated IDA Disbursements
FY97   FY98  FY99  FY00   FY01    FY02
Annual        3.3    2.3    4.7    6.8        5.9      3.5
|   Cumulative      3.3     5.6    10.3   17.1    23.0       26.5
'Slight differences in the amounts may occur due to rounding of figures.



.IL



REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
HIGHER EDUCATION PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1   The Government of Senegal has requested IDA financing over six years for a credit to support the
development and initial implementation of a reform program for its higher education and research sector.
This operation has been designed to provide support for development and implementation of a new policy
framework in Senegalese higher education, and for institutional capacity-building. This will be the first
IDA credit for higher education, although support for sectoral policy reform has been provided in the
context of the PDRH 2. The project will cover the period 1996-2002 and will include support for
improvements to the University's library and knowledge retention systems, feasibility studies, management
training, strengthening of science teaching and increased cost-effectiveness at the institutions of higher
education managed by the Ministere de I Education Nationale. A decision will be made at the time of the
mid-term review regarding a reconfiguration and streamlining of the Ministry, with the expected closing of
some programs and the realigning of others.
1.2    The project is consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) discussed by the Board on
February 16, 1995. Higher education reform is given high priority in the Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) for Senegal, which calls for a reduction in the share of the higher education budget devoted to
student services and a reform of the scholarship system, with resulting savings to be allocated to primary
education. Significant progress in these areas has already been made during the course of project
preparation, and in 1995, Senegal became one of the first countries in the region to transfer budgetary
savings from higher education directly to primary schooling. Recognizing the links between education and
economic growth, IDA has taken the initiative at the pre-university level of ensuring that donors have
worked at high levels of collaboration with one another and with Government, ensuring that sectoral
investments and donor coordination occur within a supportive policy environmnent. This project will extend
the collaborative approach to higher education and will strengthen ongoing Bank support for improving
policy articulation and resource allocation. The project will be the sixth IDA-financed operation for
educational development in Senegal. It will be implemented simultaneously with the PDRH2.
1.3   The proposed IDA credit of US$26.5 million will finance 86% of the total program cost, including
100% of the foreign exchange cost (US$ 18.7 million.equivalent) and 80% of the local cost (US$7.8 million
equivalent). Total program cost is estimated at US$30.9 million equivalent, with a foreign exchange
component of USS18.7 million equivalent. Senegal (the Government) will finance 14% of the program
cost, including 20 % of local cost (USS2.0 rnillion equivalent), plus taxes and duties (USS2.4 million
equivalent).



2
2. SECTORAL CONTEXT
A. General Background
2.1    Senegal is a coastal semi-arid country situated in Africa's Sahelian zone. Its GDP of $611 per
capita places it among the lower-middle-income economies, with a population of 8.3 million growing at a
high but declining rate of about 2.7% a year. This is greater than the rate of growth of Gross Domestic
Product (GDP) which was 1.9% over the period from 1985 through 1995. The level of urbanization is
42% and growing, placing it well above the sub-Saharan African average of 28%. A total of 47% of the
population is under the age of 15. The country's social indicators are low and stagnant. The adult literacy
rate is 38%; primary gross enrollment is at 56%. The average lifespan is 49 years and infant mortality is
68 out of 1000 births. Modem sector activities are concentrated around Dakar and along the coast.
Foreign exchange reserves are earned principally from groundnut, phosphate, chemical, and fish exports,
and from tourism. Agriculture accounts for about 20% of GDP, and 60% of manpower. Groundnuts are
the most important crop, accounting for 75% of farm cash income. The most recent presidential and
legislative elections took place in 1993, with the Socialist Party maintaining its control of the presidency
and its majority in the National Assembly. Following stabilization reforms in 1993 and the devaluation of
the currency by half in 1994, political life was relatively unsettled. Nevertheless, Senegal's privileged
geographic location and good communication infrastructure give it the potential to become a.gateway
service center in the region and to benefit from its proximity to European markets.
B. Economic Development and Training Needs
Macroeconomic Environment
2.2    Since the beginning of the eighties, the Senegalese economy has suffered deep structural difficulties
reflected in low growth rates, persistent macroeconomic disequilibrium, growing unemployment, and
declining human resource indicators. The progressive deterioration of Senegalese terms of trade during the
eighties and nineties, coupled with Senegal's lack of competitiveness on the international market as a result
of an overvalued currency, high transaction costs and lack of technical capacity, led to a declining market
share and decreased export revenues.
2.3    Senegal has recently strengthened its structural adjustment strategy with a view to restoring
competitiveness. In January 1994, it devalued the CFAF by 50%, dismantled most monopolies through the
abolition of special conventions, amended the labor code, and undertook adjustment in agriculture. In order
to maintain economic expansion and to create employment, the government of Senegal now intends to
develop a strong private sector. It is understood that strong institutional support will facilitate the ability of
the private sector to respond to changing economic conditions. For these measures to generate the expected
supply response, however, enterprises must respond to new demands and engage in high value-added
activities that generate foreign exchange, create employment and reduce demands on public finances. This
is predicated, among other things, on the ability of the education system to provide relevant training and
essential skills which are necessary for the structural transformation of the economy. Fundamental changes
in the education system are therefore imperative to supporting progressive economnic reform.
Micro- Level Response
2.4    Senegal's ability to respond to competitive market conditions will be determined in large part by
the ability of its education system to supply trainees that meet market needs. In the past, the primary



3
objective of the higher education system in Senegal, as elsewhere in Sub-Saharan Africa, was to train for
employment in the public sector. Times have changed, however; the public sector is shrinking, and the
higher education sector must adapt to new realities.
2.5    There is an immediate need for university graduates with training in scientific fields. The
application and development (or adaptation) of new technologies will require new engineering skills in
research, design and production. Training must be reoriented to fill current gaps and to meet the demand
for skills such as: the ability to screen and select new technologies that will be cost-effective once adapted
to local labor and material conditions; the ability to establish testing and quality control schemes based on
modern instrunentation, and to develop modem integrated production systems that go beyond simple batch
processing and which exploit opportunities for joint production and creating economies of scale. Similarly,
new management skills in finance, marketing and organizational methods are also required to raise
industrial productivity.
2.6   In previous years, an impaired adjustment policy and the absence of an innovative entrepreneurial
class and skilled labor force have hindered the nation's ability to maximize economic progress and benefit
from changing economic conditions. Senegal's stagnant and rigid education system has proven ineffective
in meeting the manpower needs of its developing economv. Funding to education has been insufficient to
provide for generalized primary and expanded secondary education, and post-secondary education has
proven outdated and unresponsive to current needs. To meet the nation's constantly evolving labor market
demands requires a more flexible and efficient system of human resource production than is currently in
place. The proposed reform will target the higher education sub-sector, improving national capacity to
more closely match labor needs with training, as well as establishing a new emphasis on scientific and
technical skills which are essential to economic development and growth. A draft policy statement for
higher education including proposals acceptable to IDA to increase teaching hours, reallocate spending
away from scholarships, and contain enrollments were submitted to IDA as a condition of negotiations
[para. 7.1(a)]. Agreement on the policy statement for higher education, including monitorable performance
criteria and a policy reform agenda, was reached during negotiations [para. 7.2(a)].
C. Sector Capacity
Structure and Administration
2.7    The education system in Senegal consists of a six-year cycle of primary education, a four-year
lower-secondary cycle and a three-year upper cycle of general or technical education. Higher education is
provided through two- or four-year programs at the Universities of Dakar and Saint-Louis, at specialized
training institutions, and more recently through a few private institutions. The Ministry of National
Education (MNE) has supervisory responsibility for all levels of education. Despite the centralized nature
and concentration of resources in a single ministry however, the various levels of the education system lack
any significant curricular or pedagogical cohesion, a situation which has prevented the system from
efficiently supplying relevant skills which meet labor market demands.
Resources
2.8    The deepening education crisis in Senegal was long characterized by the inefficient management of
insufficient funding for ineffective programs. Yet after holding steady near 20% for much of the eighties,
total allocations to the education sector increased dramatically in the early 90's, peaking at almost 33% in
1993. Down slightly in 1994, public expenditure on education was nevertheless equivalent to 3.5% of



4
GDP and represented 30.7 % of the government budget. Much of this recent growth in spending is
attributable to higher education. After hovering near 15% for much of the 80's, its share of the overall
education budget skyrocketed to a peak of 33.3% in 1991-92 before declining slightly to 28.2% budget in
1994. These levels are almost unmatched in sub-Saharan Africa. Yet the system has remained unable to
produce either the quantity or quality of graduates needed in the labor market. Poor instructional quality
has led to high repetition and drop-out rates which are evidence of the tremendously low internal efficiency
of the entire system. The proportion of the budget spent on wages compared to non-salary recurrent
expenditures grew considerably in the decade between 1980 and 1990 (the wage bill having increased by
13% while the supplies and maintenance budget declined by 27%), and the proportion spent on social
transfers grew at an even greater rate (averaging 26% in the 90's), exemplifying the inefficient use of
scarce financial resources evident throughout the system. Although the higher education sector absorbed
the lion's share of budgetary increases, uncontrolled enrollments and poor allocation of funds have done
little to improve either the quality or efficacy of the instructional process.
2.9    The proposed reform will redirect funding within the higher education sub-sector, reducing inflated
subsidies to social services, and maximizing appropriations for improving educational quality and facilities.
Government funding to education has long been the predominant means of support to the system, and
current needs system-wide far outweigh available resources. The proposed reform will encourage support
for higher education from private sector business and industry by institutionalizing a working dialogue
between both groups, establishing important channels through which to communicate specific needs.
Throughout the course of the project, emphasis will be placed on developing an institutionalized national
capacity to define and implement viable strategies for maximizing benefits from available funds as well as
exploring alternatives to public financing of higher education.
Past Priorities
2.10   IDA has been involved in the education sector in Senegal since 1971. Four completed projects
have supported vocational, technical, agricultural and primary education. The Second Human Resource
Development Project (PDRH2 - Cr. 2473-SE), a continuation of the fourth education project, is currently
ongoing. The focus of this project is on primary education with particular emphasis on expanding access in
rural areas, raising the primary enrollment rate from its 1990-91 level of 58% to the goal of 65% in 1998,
increasing enrollrnent of girls, improving quality and internal efficiency, and containing costs through
continued use of double-shift and multi-grade teaching.
2.11   Although higher education has not been the focus of past efforts to improve the quality and
expansion of education, limited financing through the ongoing project was made available to support initial
steps in the process of higher education reform deemed necessary by the government. Funding to higher
education through the PDRH2 has contributed (i) a minimum supply of books and professional journals to
the central library at the Cheikh Anta Diop University of Dakar (UCAD); (ii) urgently needed building
repairs at the UCAD; and (iii) resources necessary for the preparation of the proposed project on higher
education reform. Four PPF advances were additionally provided by IDA to finance the preparation of the
proposed project, including the process of a national debate on higher education, the outcome of which will
be supported by the proposed reform. An adult literacy project focusing on women is being prepared in
recognition of their importance for economic development.
2.12   In the past, operations in the education sector have been hindered by inadequate implementation of
a largely inarticulated policy framework. Government budgetary provision has also been a serious
impediment to the timely execution of IDA-financed projects both in the education sector as well as in other
sectors of the economy. Weak project management has been the most significant reason for unsatisfactory



5
project results; to prevent a recurrent scenario, the MNE cabinet has contracted with an Implementation
Team to ensure timely procurement and to provide training in implementation for ministry and institutional
personnel. It has also placed specific attention on strong national ownership of the reform effort.
Speciric Sector Weaknesses
(a)    System-wide
2.13   Despite national efforts to improve the education system in Senegal, several factors have proven
particularly difficult to overcome and have served to limit the extent of overall progress which has been
achieved within the entire sector as well as specifically at the university level. Much of the inflexibility and
unresponsiveness currently experienced in higher education is directly linked to system-wide problems such
as low internal efficiency, inadequate student preparation, and a general weakness in terms of coordination
between the various levels of the system.
2.14   Enrollments. Overall, primary school enrollment rates in Senegal have been in decline. Although
the country had one of the highest primary education enrollment rates at the time of its independence, it has
dropped to one of the lowest in Africa with a 56% primary level enrollment rate in 1994, well below the
average of 68% in sub-Saharan Africa. The most disproportionately low enrollment figures, however, are
currently experienced at the secondary school level. About 16.3% of the relevant age group attend
secondary schools in Senegal, compared to an average of 43.8% in sub-Saharan Africa. A mere 2.9%
pursue post-secondary education, whereas 5.4% is the average for comparable middle-income oil
importers. Despite high expenditures in the education sector and the emergence of private schools,
.enrollments have not kept pace with the high population growth (2.7% per year).
2.15   Gender. In addition, enrollment figures demonstrate that access to education between boys and
girls in both urban and rural populations, although unequal, continues to improve. In 1992, girls
constituted 43% of total primary school enrollrnent, relatively high by regional standards. However, in
rural areas, the figure dropped to 35%. At secondary school, girls constituted only 35% of total
enrollment, as compared to the sub-Saharan Africa average of 42%. In higher education, they represent
only 24% of total enrollment, as compared to an average for middle income oil-importing countries of 43%.
Boys tend to enroll more frequently in scientific streams, whereas girls more often choose the humanities, a
specialization for which labor market demand has been greatly reduced.
2.16   Low internal efficiency. High repetition and drop-out rates are chronic at all levels of the
education system. At the primary level about 16% of students either repeat or do not continue their
education (10% in grade 1, 32% in grade 6). Similarly, about 16% of students either repeat or discontinue
their studies during the lower and upper secondary levels (12% in grade 9, 20% in grade 12). Entrance
exams must be passed before students may continue to each subsequent level and repetition is particularly
prevalent in the grades preceding exarns due to the large number of students who are eliminated and opt to
try again. Repetition is also ranpant at the university level (54% overall) where until the introduction of
the present reformns, there was no limit to the number of years one could repeat. The inefficiency of the
present system contributes significantly to the cost of education borne by the government, depleting
resources which could be used for expansion and pedagogical improvements.
2.17   Inadequate student preparation. The quality of pre-university education appears to be
deteriorating at all levels, and many students enter the university without the requisite knowledge that will
enable them to pass. As a result, many students have problems understanding curricular content, an
important contributing factor to the chronically low academic success rates experienced at the university



6
level. University instruction is based largely on independent study for which students have had insufficient
preparation in secondary school, and for which required reading materials are not available.
2.18   Lack of system-wide coordination. The inadequate preparation of students for university-level
studies indicates a more serious problem of coordination between the various levels of national education.
To facilitate student success, specific attention is needed to more closely align classroom pedagogy and
curricular structures used in secondary and university-level education.
(b)    Issues in Higher Education
2.19   Higher education is currently facing a nwnber of specific problems that the proposed project will
address. At this stage of reform, particular efforts are necessary to respond to budget issues, to the lack of
supplies, and to the need for improvement in teaching. University reform will facilitate economic reform
efforts currently under way in the country by creating a more flexible national system of university training.
2.20   Higher education institutions in Senegal have significant autonomy in their resource management,
personnel decisions, curriculum design and governance structure. Faculties are responsible for a number of
functions including building maintenance, procurement and student administration, although they have
lacked decision-making power in student admissions until recently. MNE has overall responsibility for
strategic and regulatory matters such as budget and investment decisions, personnel terms of service,
curricula and performance criteria. The inappropriate decentralization of some functions, such as
procurement and maintenance, has been a source of inefficiency in the system. Although most higher
education institutions are found in the capital, about 8% of the student population is located outside of
Dakar. The Senegalese higher education sub-sector comprises:
1) The Cheikh Anta Diop University of Dakar (UCAD), with its affiliated institutes, is the
country's major university. Founded in 1918, the University of Dakar is one of the oldest and
most prestigious universities in Africa. In 1994-95 it had 23,369 students and 938 professors.
The university has five main faculties (humanities, sciences, law, economics and medicine) and
six affiliated institutes, including the recently restructured Ecole Superieure Polytechnique
(ESP). These institutes had a total student population of 1371 in 1995.
2) The University of Saint-Louis (USL) was established in 1990. It had a student population of
1814 in 1994-95 and it employed 215 professors, 146 of whom were temporary or visiting.
The university offers degrees in applied mathematics, computer science, economics, law, and
humanities (English, French, geography and sociology).
3) Seven private sedor institutions were created after laws allowing them to operate were
enacted in 1993/94. Six of these currently offer two-year courses and although student
enrollment is presently low, it is expected to expand rapidly.
Management and budgetary issues
2.21   Uncontrolled enrollments. The increasing numbers of students enrolled in higher education has
strained limited financial and material resources available at the university level. UCAD faculties for
example, have experienced a marked increase in enrollments between 1986 and 1991, rising from 13,568 to
19,151 students. Until 1994, anyone obtaining a baccalaur6at was eligible for admission to higher
education and most secondary school graduates who do not go abroad enrolled at the university. In
response to student pressure, a law limiting repetition was rescinded in 1984, allowing students to register



7
an indefinite number of times, and thereby further swelling the campus population. The Government has
faced tremendous difficulty in introducing effective means to stem the flow of students, with the first
meaningful steps having being taken only very recently, with students graduating from high school no
longer receiving automatic admission to the public universities. The situation has resulted in enormous
internal problems, with the budget remaining completely insufficient to respond to the needs of such a large
student population. In addition, improvements in teaching and learning were not given priority
consideration during budget allocations, giving rise to a predictable decline in quality.
2.22   A product of uncontrolled and disproportionate enrollments, and underutilization of teaching
personnel, student:staff ratios have risen to 60:1 in the law school, 40:1 in the faculty of humanities, 18:1 in
the faculty of science, and 10: 1 in the medical school. Moreover, wide disparities exist between the various
cycles of undergraduate studies and freshman and sophomore classes of 600 to 1000 students are not
uncommon.
2.23   Efforts at keeping track of the number of students and their academic progress have become
increasingly complicated due to the size of the student body. Inefficient and unreliable means of
registration have served to further compound the problem. While efforts at computerizing student
enrollments and course completion were started some time ago, an updated, comprehensive system has
neither been sufficiently explored nor implemented.
2.24   Inadequate personnel management. In an attempt to serve the exploding student population,
large numbers of junior faculty members, or teaching assistants, were recruited in the 1980s. Despite the
increase in teaching staff which this measure has enabled, employment of junior faculty has not been
adequately monitored and junior staff members have come to outnumber tenured faculty. Unfortunately,
the result has been a marked decline in academic standards. In particular, inexperienced junior faculty
have been unable to guide students in the acquisition of information and skills most valuable in the labor
market. They also lack the skills to present material to students and to effectively monitor performance.
Relaxed regulations have enabled junior faculty to obtain secure employment through the introduction of
tenured assistantships. As a result, incentive to work towards advanced degrees and conduct badly needed
research has been curtailed. Staff development and research opportunities for these staff members are
virtually nonexistent. Teaching assistants are expected to teach six hours per week; full and associate
professors are expected to teach four hours per week, although most work more than this and receive
overtime pay. Professors conduct almost no research whatsoever. Under these conditions, to remain within
the context of international nonns will require more than doubling of the number of hours taught each
week.
2.25   Inefficient allocation of financial resources. Public higher education in Senegal currently
consumes almost 28% of the overall education budget, down slightly from 33% in 1993. It is characterized
by an extensive social welfare system that until recently was subsidized at the rate of 96%. Most students
pay registration fees equivalent to US$ 8 per year, with medical students paying US$ 100. Until recently,
medical services were free for all higher education students. During the 1993-94 academic year, the system
subsidized 12,200 students with room and board and either full scholarships worth US$ 125 per month or
partial scholarships worth US$ 60 per month. In 1994-95, the number of scholarships was greatly
reduced, with only 800 full scholarships worth about US$ 150 per month given out and 1,200 half
scholarships worth about US$ 80 per month. The devaluation of the CFA franc has reduced the dollar
value of these scholarships by half, to about US$ 75 and $US 40 per month respectively. Students with
overseas scholarships were given a supplement equivalent to about US$ 280 per month in addition to the
scholarship granted by the host country. The government of Senegal pays 2.8 billion CFAF (US$ 5.6
million) each year for these overseas scholarships, forty percent of which have gone to undergraduate



8
students in disciplines provided locally. Until recently, scholarships granted on the basis of financial
difficulty were neither monitored nor linked to academic performance. The social subsidies provided by the
system remain inflated, in spite of the initial efforts to eliminate certain categories of expenditure (for
example, the payment of subsidies during vacations, and the payment of biennial trips to Europe for
professors). Social subsidies represent the single largest budget item and constitute the basic resources to
be reallocated in order to improve teaching quality at the university.
2.26   Social services are provided by the Centre des Oeuvres Universitaires de Dakar (COUD) and the
Centre Regional des Oeuvres Universitaires de Saint-Louis (CROUS), which receive a budget separate
from that of the universities. Uncontrolled enrollments, extensive mismanagement and unwillingness to
deny student demands have produced an extremely overinflated, wasteful social welfare budget. Until
recently, subsidies enabled students to buy for US$ 0.35 meals which cost $8.75 to produce, although as
few as one-third of all students dined in university cafeterias regularly due to their poor quality. Following
the devaluation of the CFA franc, privatization of cafeteria management and an increase in meal charges,
students now pav US$ 0.30 for meals which cost US$ 1.60 to produce, yet quality has improved
dramatically and student satisfaction has soared. Unnecessary and wasteful expenditure has also been
evident in the provision of student housing. In order to supplement COUD-owned dormitories, the
University rented off-campus units for student accommodation, yet recovered barely any of the cost, and
made little effort to collect outstanding debts from students, who frequently sublet their rooms to
individuals and families who had no connection with the University. Finally, university staff receive
competitive salaries equivalent to about US$ 600 per month for professors and US$ 350 monthly for
assistant professors in addition to housing and transportation benefits, but are required to perforrn very
little work. A decision taken during the CNES to increase teaching hours from four to six per week for
professors was rescinded in the face of union opposition.
2.27   The factors already cited have resulted in severely reduced allocations for instructional inputs and
maintenance. In 1994, materials and equipment accounted for less than 4.5% of the education budget;
maintenance less than 1%. For example, transportation costs for library staff exceeded the budget for
library acquisitions in 1993 and overtime payments to academic staff, in compensation for time lost during
strikes and vacations, absorbed more than the funds allocated for scientific equipment and laboratory
supplies.
2.28   Management difficulties. The university has major shortcomings in the conduct of its core
functions and its management procedures, as well as its supporting functions (budget management,
financial management and controls, human resource management). University and social service accounts
were declared unreliable when, in a recent management audit conducted by external consultants, figures
were found to be incomplete, inaccurate, and outdated. Accounting methods were found to be ill-suited to
providing the information needed to manage a university institution. There is no management information
system (MIS).
2.29   The sector budget has not been used to set priorities and reinforce institutional missions. Until
recently, no overall ceiling had been set with respect to the magnitude of the budget, its proportion of the
MNE budget, or rate of annual increase. Budget discipline has not been enforced and unplanned
expenditures are often incurred by managing entities without prior authorization. Ad hoc budget decisions
made in the middle of the year in response to student or teacher strikes have led to unplanned and
uncontrolled expenditures and resulted in significant arrears which the government has been unable to
clear.



9
Material conditions
2.30   Facilities and maintenance. Inefficient utilization of university buildings and facilities is a big
problem in Senegal. The UCAD pedagogical buildings, originally constructed to house 3,500 students,
housed more than six times that number in 1995. Approximately half of the existing space is used as
offices for staff and administrative purposes, leaving insufficient space for teaching and reading.
Classrooms are often too small or too large for current needs, resulting in both overcrowded and under-
utilized facilities. Buildings have been traditionally used by a single faculty, and there has been no
university-wide scheduling of classes except for voluntary, inter-faculty agreements. Although large-scale
construction is not required to accommodate the projected future student population of 15,000,
considerable space reconfiguration is necessary.
2.31   While overcrowding is prevalent at UCAD, other institutions of higher learning affiliated with
UCAD (chiefly professional and vocational) have under-utilized facilities and few students. Many of these
were financed by donors without adequate long-term planning. Several of them duplicate each other's
functions. As donor support withdrew, the quality of instruction and physical state of these schools
deteriorated significantly. Donor-financed, capital-intensive engineering schools which have been operating
well below capacity are a particularly relevant exarnple. There is an urgent need to coordinate academic
program offerings between UCAD and the University of Saint Louis as well as to monitor enrollments.
Doing so will help to eliminate duplication of programs and over/under enrollments.
2.32   Maintenance, which has been a faculty-level responsibility, has generally been under-budgeted and
only sporadically implemented. The absence of an effective maintenance system and strategy have resulted
in maintenance neglect, and many buildings are in dire need of extensive rehabilitation to become functional
and meet safety regulations.
2.33   Inadequate library facilities. The central library is the heart and soul of any academic campus.
It is what brings the universe to the university, at once a repository of acquired knowledge and a wellspring
of future knowledge. But at the University of Dakar, the heart is hurting. The library collection is old and
covered with dust. It is inaccessible to students and teachers alike. Vandalism is taking its toll. Air
conditioning is limited to the office areas and the heat and humidity affect book and browser alike. In
short, the system is badly in need of resources in order to update the current facilities and collections,
develop library information and student programs, increase new acquisitions and audio-visual services, and
respond to the research needs of university students and faculty.
2.34   The UCAD library was completed in 1965 and has an area of approximately 4,000 square meters
and seats about 350 persons or less than 2% of the student body. It is increasingly insufficient in both size
and services and offers limited support to professors and researchers.
2.35   There has been no modernization and little maintenance of the library since its construction.
Although the building is sound, most equipment is in poor condition or out of order. Library technology is
virtually non-existent. With the exception of recently automated periodicals catalogues, all library
catalogues are kept by hand on stock cards. There is no audio-visual capability within the library, and the
technical service areas are limited and maintain minimal equipment for the rebinding or repairing of
existing collections. The chronic shortage of photocopiers leads to significant problems with pages being
torn out of documents. Although there is a formal information-sharing agreement between the small
network of libraries and reading collections in the country, this has almost no operational significance.
Assessment of the University of Dakar library financed under the PPF concluded that major changes in the
library's functioning are needed, along with rehabilitation and extension.



l0
2.36   The library is currently organized as two collections, with separate personnel for literature and
science. This is inconsistent with modem practice which recognizes no such arbitrary divisions, and will be
completely revamped under the proposed project. Library personnel will receive training to help them
manage a much broader range of client-oriented activities and a vastly increased volume of book
acquisition. The existing facilities will be completely overhauled and extended to provide greater access to
the collections, increased collection security, far more seating and study space, and a range of new
pedagogically-oriented functions. Some upgrading of satellite libraries and reading rooms in the various
faculties and departments will be included, but the University has clearly opted for a central library focus,
an orientation which will be supported and strengthened under the project. A new computerized
cataloguing system will link the resources of the various branches, facilitating the location of specific
articles within the system. Major emphasis will be placed on reorienting the mission of the library system
so as to reinforce university curricula and support university teaching and learning. Reserve copies of
syllabi and textbooks will be made available and a stronger emphasis on academic research will encourage
students to maximize use of the facilities. In-service training for professors in the use of library facilities
for course development and teaching will be an integral aspect of the endeavor.
Pedagogical and curricular issues
2.37   Student success rates. The present situation of inadequate preparation for university studies,
overcrowded classes, ineffective instructional delivery, and lack of academic support have created a higher
education system plagued by low internal efficiency. Very few students pass first-year examinations. For
example, in 1992-93, the passing rate from the first year was 8.7% in law, 20.5% in economics, 18.4% in
the humanities, 19.4% in sciences, 37.3% in the medical/pharmacology departments, and 82% in under-
enrolled engineering and professional schools. As a result of system-wide patterns of academic failure,
only 800 of the total enrollment of 24,000 students graduated in 1992-93. The large numbers of students
who remain in the system prevent a more effective utilization of resources and further lower the probability
that other students will graduate.
2.38   Lack of textbooks and reference materials. Almost no university-level textbooks are produced in
Senegal. The few which are even written in the country have encountered great difficulties getting
published. Imported textbooks are extremely expensive and most students rarely own copies. Occasionally
copies of textbooks can be found in the central and faculty libraries. However, the limited operating hours
(10 hours a day during the week, much less on weekends) of the central library and insufficient size has
meant that relatively few students go there consistently to consult books. Instead, students study from
notes and photocopied materials. Unfortunately, the low success rates indicate that few students are
capable of organizing a domain of information from unstructured materials. Changes are desired to
increase the availability of textbooks and research materials in order to improve instructional delivery and
effectiveness. The emphasis placed on research is hoped to increase the amount of books and other
publications by Senegalese scholars.
2.39   Lack of scientific equipment, laboratory supplies and maintenance. Just as there is little
budgetary provision for pedagogical inputs (textbooks and scientific information), so is there little funding
for scientific equipment, supplies and maintenance. UCAD has traditionally relied on random and faculty-
specific generosity of bilateral donors for the acquisition of scientific equipment and the supply of goods.
These interventions have often resulted in excessive fragmentation, giving rise to excessive administrative
overhead, poor utilization of academic staff, under-use of physical assets and the undermining of staff
ownership of material so donated. Another consequence has been that equipment obtained was of many
different types and has not been maintained. Since the acquisition of scientific equipment has not been
systematic, professors are often unable to obtain for their classes the instructional materials needed to teach



11
effectively. There is no stock of supplies such as glassware and chemical products, or regularly needed
spare parts such as bulbs for overhead projectors. The humanities faculties have virtually no technical
equipment since they do not attract the interest of the donor community.
2.40   Links between training and market needs. There is growing concem in Senegal for the necessity
of linking curricula and enrollment to market needs. Senegalese universities at present are isolated from the
productive sector, maintain little contact with public or private sector business or industry, and conduct
little research. Although labor market demands are constantly evolving, universities continue to deliver,
almost exclusively, outdated scholarly material which has little relevance to labor market needs.
2.41    Changes in the macroeconomic environment have produced a need for technical skills in
engineering and management. Enrollment figures remain the highest however, in the humanities and law,
disciplines for which limited demand exists. In 1995, only 19% of first-year entrants enrolled in science-
related courses. This has been partly attributed to early specialization and insufficient science facilities at
the secondary-school level. The present situation has made it difficult to emphasize academic programs in
science, engineering and management at all levels of the education system. As a result, students graduate
without marketable skills and the labor market does not get the quality of professionals it needs.
2.42   The autonomous nature of higher education has enabled it to operate with little regard for national
training needs. Limited coordination between university personnel and professionals from business and
industry has meant that important information on labor market needs and potential university support is not
shared. The proposed reform will increase communication between both parties by introducing structured
means of mutually beneficial cooperation.
2.43   Evaluations. The high student:teacher ratio in many faculties, particularly in the first year, has
made it extremely difficult to assess student performance frequently. The university does not have an
examination system that facilitates scoring large numbers of examinations quickly and reliably. Students
are thus assessed only once, in July, at the end of the academic year and may repeat the examination in
October if they are unsuccessful. In addition, teacher-developed essay exams for large student cohorts
often have low validity and reliability, and take considerable time and effort to score. Exam results are
therefore received too late for any significant performance feedback. The effort required to score a large
number of essay exams in the first year of undergraduate schooling has prevented the switch to a semester
system, which is considered more conducive to student learning.
D. Toward a National Reform Agenda
2.44 The focus on education in Senegal has underscored specific challenges facing higher education in
particular. Higher education reform is long overdue, and past and present conditions make the proposed
reform of this sub-sector especially opportune. Students and faculty members unsatisfied with the
provision of higher education have expressed serious discontent, generating national interest in reform
efforts. Initial steps have been taken through the two-year national consultation process funded through the
PPF, yet specific assistance is desired by the government to develop and implement a comprehensive
strategy for reform.



12
Mounting dissatisfaction
2.45   Student and faculty unrest. Despite the extravagant attention to student welfare--perhaps, indeed.
because of it--the interests of the student body have for the most part remained unserved. Increased welfare
appropriations and the difficulty finding jobs to match unmarketable skills have encouraged students to stay
enrolled in the universitv system almost indefinitely. Increasing numbers of student are added each year
while few leave. In the past, students not occupied in intensive studies became heavily involved in political
activities.
2.46   Gradually, the situation became explosive, particularly after 1984. Idle, dissatisfied male students
created a perpetually confrontational atmosphere on the campus. They were joined by junior faculty who
demanded more benefits. Frequent and prolonged strikes by students and professors resulted in violence
and anarchy, creating an atmosphere of fear and a domination of special interest groups. The Government
repeatedly conceded to student and teacher unions' demands for new regulations that destroyed academic
performance and discipline. For example, students were allowed to repeat classes indefinitely. The
composition of university and faculty senates was changed to make room for an overwhelming presence of
students and junior faculty. Teaching assistants were granted tenure upon recruitment, thereby nullifying
the requirement to carry out research to earn career promotion. Research trips were granted irrespective of
whether any research was being carried out. Senior university professors, increasingly disenchanted with
government interference in academic matters to appease students, neglected their own programs.
Absenteeism on the part of both professors and students was tolerated. As a result of these changes, the
university focus moved away from academic excellence to become an institution protecting the personal
interests of radical students, unionized academic staff and managers of student welfare agencies. The
absence of an effective mechanism to enforce compliance led to blatant disregard for existing rules and
procedures.
National policy dialogue on higher education
2.47   In 1991, following the recommendation of the 1989 World Bank Long Tern Perspective Study of
Sub-Saharan Africa, IDA recommended that the government organize a national debate on higher
education to define and build broad-based support for reform. IDA and the government of Senegal
convened a retreat to outline the terms of their cooperation. One item agreed upon during this retreat
(Journees de Reflexion-- January 1992) was the principle of consensus-building for reform through open
discussion with the public. Higher education reforn was to be the first test case.
2.48   In April 1992, President Diouf launched a national policy dialogue on higher education called the
"Concertation Nationale sur l'Enseignement Superieur" (CNES). The CNES brought together all
segments of Senegalese society (the university communitv, political parties, labor unions, parent
associations, the private sector, and the press) to examine the issues and opportunities in the higher
education sub-sector. IDA provided two Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advances (745-0-SE and 745-
I-SE) to finance the dialogue and studies managed by Senegalese experts on intemal management,
admission policies, teaching practices, financial management and budget procedures, and student social
services. etc.
2.49   The studies, undertaken by a joint team of Senegalese professors and foreign consultants, contained
anple and vivid illustrations of the system's many weaknesses and articulated a compelling case for
reform. The report findings were discussed at the final session of the CNES, and extensively covered in the
press. A reform agenda was adopted by an overwhelming majority of participants in the CNES, in spite of
opposition from students and unionized staff. The reform agenda was subsequently endorsed and



13
implemented by the government, with IDA support through four PPF's. Following a three-month
student/teacher strike protesting the reform, the government cancelled the 1993-94 school year in August
1994 and closed down the campuses, expelling all students from university dormitories. Only students
meeting new cnteria that limnited repetition were re-admitted for the 1994-95 academic vear. In so doing,
the Government had finally asserted its will against university unrest.
National commitment to reform efforts
2.50   The objective of the government's reform is to create an atmosphere conducive to learning, with
measures addressing a wide span of issues including the respect for individual and collective liberties,
stronger and more transparent financial and administrative management, and the adherence to professional
standards in academic work. The reform fosters a cultural shift towards academic integrity, responsibility,
transparency, and accountability. Significant decisions already implemented include the following.
2.51   Limited enrollments and repetition. Admission decisions have been transferred to individual
faculties and enrollments are to be based on academic requirements and capacity quotas. The application
of this new rule in the 1994-95 academic year, combined with tougher repetition rules, led to a decline in
enrollments in UCAD faculties of more than 1,200 students, despite the admission of 7,750 new
baccalaureat holders. The University of Dakar foresees an annual net reduction of 2,000 students, leveling
out at an optimal 15,000 students. In addition, new rules will govern repetition. Under the new reform,
first- and second-year students may repeat a year only once. Implementation of the new measures resulted
in 9007 students being expelled from UCAD at the beginning of 1994-95.
2.52   Elimination/ consolidation of academic programs. Three technical colleges and engineering
schools have been merged to reduce redundancy and under-enrollment. These are Ecole Nationale
Superieure Universitaire de Technologie (ENSUT), Ecole Polytechnique de Thies (EPT), Ecole
Nationale Sup6rieure d'Enseignement Technique et Professionnel (ENSETP). Programs have been
amalgamated by incorporating both the short (two year) and long (four or five year) cycles of scientific and
engineering schools into one single institution, thereby combining laboratory equipment, classrooms, and
academic staff. In addition, engineering schools will no longer teach foundation courses in science and
mathematics as students can receive this preparation at the faculty of science. Finally, the planned
introduction of a credit transfer system between the Universities of Dakar and St. Louis, combined with
more stringent procedures for opening new programs of study, is hoped to eliminate much of the current
redundancy and under-enrolled programs. It should be noted, however, that these changes have not yet
resulted in increased efficiency, and there are still more staff members than students on the campus of the
former EPT, for instance.
2.53   Merit-based scholarships. Scholarships will hereafter be awarded to the best scoring students
and renewed annually. The number of in-country scholarships awarded will decline to about 8,000, down
from over 10,000 in 1995. New overseas scholarships are reserved entirely for graduate studies in
disciplines beyond the capacity of the national system of higher education and will decline from about 2000
to about 1000 over a five-year period. Savings on the scholarship budget are calculated at CFAF I billion
annually.
2.54 Increased cost recovery and privatization of selected services. There has been a significant
effort to cut costs on student social welfare measures. Management of the cafeterias has been privatized
through local bidding, resulting in a 70% drop in food cost for the universities. Prices of meals for students
have been increased and the cost of housing has gone up by about 50%, the first increase in over 30 years.
The combination of meal price increases and lower unit costs of meals led to an increase in cost recovery



14
from students from 4% to about 20%. The budget for student cafeterias was thus reduced from CFAF 5.3
billion in 1992-93 to CFAF 1.6 billion in 1994-95.
2.55   Improved allocation and management of resources. Access to the student social services is now
restricted to regular students who show academic excellence or specific financial needs. Management was
tightened, expensive leases for student dormitories with private landlords were canceled, and tuition fees
were increased for certain categories of foreign students. The savings from housing and meals will free
funds for research and teaching materials. As technical and engineering schools merge, better use will be
made of academic staff and facilities, thereby reducing the demand for more part-time professors and
investments in additional buildings and facilities.
2.56   Teaching hours and study trips. If the higher education system in Senegal has in general become
more efficient in the use of financial resources, some important areas of inefficiency remain. Professors
teach only five hours per week (receiving overtime pay for the fifth hour) and teaching assistants teach only
six hours per week. In addition, until recently, each professor had the right to one study trip to Europe
every second year. These trips amounted to little more than a paid vacation, since no study proposals were
required and no reports were provided. The automatic right to these trips has been done away with, and
criteria based on submission of research projects are being prepared, but it is not yet clear to what extent
the proposed reforms will result in relevant research.
2.57   Restoration of academic mores. Recent reforms have also moved in the direction of restoring
normal appointment and promotion practices for academic staff. The new composition of faculty and
university senates represent a shift in power towards majority representation by senior, tenured staff.
Deans are now selected by a college of tenured faculty only. Teaching assistants are no longer granted
tenure upon appointment. Tenure is again viewed as a privilege to be eamed through excellence in
teaching, research, and promotion through the ranks. However, the regular teaching load for tenured
faculty remains far too low and far too much is spent on overtime pay to underworked professors. This is a
major handicap in terms of financing and obligates funds that could be made available for other pedagogic
purposes. Most teachers at Saint Louis are full-time professors on the Dakar faculty as well, with
predictable results in terms of quality and cost. During negotiations, agreement was reached that the
average teaching hours of professors will be increased by at least one hour per week by December 31,
1998, and by at least two hours per week by December 31, 1999 [para. 7.2(b)].
Toward institutionalized change
2.58  WVhile the government of Senegal has made the transition from a system of higher education on the
verge of irnplosion to systemic positive changes, there is an unfinished reform agenda which includes the
articulation of a comprehensive strategy for the long-term development of the sector. At issue is the
definition of a viable means of creating an education system with greater balance between primary,
secondary and tertiary programs and financing . The demographic trend and its associated financing
challenge remain by far the most intractable problems which the government must face. At present, the
government devotes about 7 percent of the national budget, and 30 percent of the education budget, to
provide access to higher education to only 2.6 percent of the relevant age group.
2.59   The imperative of working toward systemic change in education is underscored by problems and
concerns affecting every level of the system. Some of the most pressing issues include: developing new
means of increasing resources to all three levels of the education system, regulating enrollments, meeting
the accelerating labor market demand for training in scientific and engineering disciplines, institutionalizing
research, and establishing an appropriate role for burgeoning private tertiary institutions. Assisting the



15
govemment to define a strategy which will address these issues in a comprehensive manner is one of the
key objectives pursued under the proposed project.
Challenges and potential risk
2.60   In the past, operations in the education sectors have suffered from inadequate implementation of
the policy framework, especially where there were conditionalities relating to the reform of the highly
politicized higher education sector. For example, the fourth education project linked disbursements for
investment in primary education to reductions in spending for higher education, an objective which was not
achieved. Project implementation was also hampered by the inadequate capacity and inefficient procedures
of the concerned government departments with regard to school construction programs. Finally
government budgetary provision has been a serious bottleneck in the execution of IDA-financed projects,
not only in the education sector but in other sectors of the economy as well.
2.61   For the proposed Higher Education Project these risks are minimized because the project is at an
advanced stage of preparation. Bidding documents for the investment component are being prepared in
advance using PPF resources and funds from the higher education component of the Second Human
Resource Development Project. Draft terms of reference for consultant services and studies for the first
year of the project were submitted to IDA as a condition of negotiations [para. 7. 1(b)]. Agreement on the
terms of reference was reached during negotiations [para. 7.2(c)]. Funding for recurrent costs will be made
available through the reallocation of savings realized on the student welfare budget. Agreement on annual
counterpart financing requirements and annual budget provisions sufficient to cover additional recurrent
costs resulting from the project was reached during negotiations [para. 7.2(d)]. Payment of the counterpart
financing requirement of US$ 250,000 for the first project year into a project account is a condition of
effectiveness [para. 7.3 (a)]. Most importantly, the consensus-building achieved through the process of
policy dialogue on higher education has created strong national ownership of the proposed reform.
3. THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin
3.1    The proposed project emerged from the National Consultation process, a series of consultative
meetings organized by Government with all concerned stakeholders over an intensive 18-month period. It
builds on the reform prograrn adopted by Government as a result of the National Consultation process, and
on Government's further elaboration of its reforrn program in its draft statement of higher education policy.
The proposed project directly addresses the major issues in the higher education sector and will help shift
the focus of reform efforts from what has been referred to as the "social campus"--cafeteria services,
scholarships, etc.-to what is often referred to as the "pedagogical campus"--the conditions under which
teaching and learning occurs. The project includes three main components: (a) the improvement of library
services, (b) the upgrading of teaching and research, and (c) the strengthening of management capacity. It
will be implemented over a period of six years, with annual reviews. A mid-term review will examine the
extent to which sectoral reform initiatives have been implemented (see Annex 4). For all project
components, the planned activities are premised on the existence of a process of consensus development
and reflection. Detailed explanations of activities planned under each component are provided below.



16
B. Scope and Objectives
3.2    In line with the conclusions of the national consultation process described above, the long-termi
objective of the project is to improve higher education graduation rates and gender equity, with greater
cost-effectiveness and more relevance for Senegal's economic development. To this end, the project will
help the Government refocus the activities of its two universities around their pedagogic mission, while
reinforcing management capacity and quality control. Specific objectives are as follows: a) to reinforce
library services; b) to improve teaching; c) to improve research; d) to develop a maintenance system; e) to
strengthen management and public and private financing; and f) to complete the reorganization of student
services.
C. Project Description
3.3    The following summary presents the project components:
Project Summary (Total Cost US$ 30.9 million)'
1. Improvement of library services (US$ 15.6 million)
* expansion and rehabilitation of the UCAD central library (US$ 11.2 million);
* acquisition of books and periodicals/library management (USS 4.4 million).
2. Upgrading of teaching and research (US$ 9.4 million)
*  reinforcement of applied science teaching (US$4.0 million);
*  development and pilot testing of an accreditation system (USS 0.3 million);
*  management of a university research fund (USS 2.9 million);
* study of alternative models for teaching and financing (US$ 0.3 million);
* installation of computerized information service (USS 1.8 million).
3. Strengthening of management capacity (US$ 4.1 million)
 reorganization of student services (USS 2.2 million)
* development of maintenance system (USS 1.3 million)
. project administration (USS 0.6 million).
4. Refinancing of 3 PPF advances (USS 1.8 million)
a/ Including taxes and ee, bas costs, and continlencles
Component 1:          Improvement of Library Services (USS 15.6
million)
3.4    Scope and objectives. The core business of universities is the quest for knowledge. They remain
relevant and contribute to economic, social and cultural development to the extent that they are able to
serve as a conduit for the exchange of information. This means that the university must be connected at all
times to its immediate community and to the broader community of the world at large. The library, of
course, has a key role to play in this. Without library reforn, there can be no sustainable university
reform. This component will help restore a positive learning environment for university students at Dakar
by changing the way the library conducts its business. It will provide direct access to collections for
students and professors alike. It will link an expansion of library holdings and computerized information
services to in-service training for university professors and a new focus on course content. At present, the
central library is the repository for a static, aging collection of documents used on a daily basis by only



17
about 3% of students. Textbooks and supporting documents are generally unavailable, contributing to pass
rates as low as 6% for some undergraduate courses.
3.5    Under this component, the library collection will be rejuvenated as part of an effort to revitalize
teaching and learning on the campus. The existing collection (it numbers about 300,000 books and other
documents, most of which are over thirty years old) will be completely reorganized, moving from the
current literature/science dichotomy to a modern interdisciplinary approach. The existing collection will be
weeded out and a core collection of 80,000 new books will be purchased and catalogued. Adequate
budgetary resources will be made available annually by Government to renew this core set of books as a
living, evolving source of information and inspiration, along with a core set of about 1000 paid periodical
subscriptions. The three main departmental and faculty libraries will require upgrading for access to
intemational data bases through the Internet. The provision of textbooks and supporting documentation to
be placed on reserve by professors, and the extension of study facilities will strengthen the contribution of
the library system to improved teaching. A textbook distribution and buyback system will be developed on
a cost recovery basis. In-service training and logistical support will be given to professors for preparation
of outlines and syllabuses for all courses, and for more effectively using the library and other information
services in their teaching.
3.6   In line with Government's statement of higher education policy, the reconfigured library system
will be at the heart of the teaching program on campus. Library management will be restructured and
progressively computerized to provide it the flexibility needed to respond to changing programs and course
content. The number of operating hours of all libraries will be greatly increased.
3.7    The Government has established the ultimate goal of reaching an 80% usage rate for the library,
with an average user entering the library 100 times per year. This will require seating room for
approximnately 2400 users. As a first step toward this goal, the phase of library expansion proposed for
financing under this project, will provide seating for 1600 users. Presentation of a functional study of the
library system acceptable to IDA was a condition of negotiations [para. 7. 1(c)]).
3.8    Automation of library system management at the will be a progressive undertaking at both the
UCAD and the USL. At the UCAD, this will be accomplished in four phases, only the first two of which
will be completed under the current project. The first phase will consist of computerizing the process of
cataloguing books using the universal decimal code system (CDU) which was introduced at the central
library in 1990. To the extent possible, "shelf-ready" new books will be purchased, with accession
numbers already assigned and affixed. Only a small number of key books from the existing collection will
be retro-catalogued. Card catalogs for library users will be produced automatically through this process,
and made available at the central library and the main satellite libraries. Book spines will also be fitted
with magnetic strips during this phase, and security panels will be put in place at the library exit to ensure
the physical security of the collection as direct access to books is introduced. The second phase of
automation will consist of developing a computerized system of cataloguing and controlling periodical use.
The third phase--computerizing circulation control--requires a detailed data base of all library holdings, as
well as all library users (teachers, students, and others). The planning for this phase will begin under the
current project. The fourth stage of automation, the installation of an open-access catalog system (OPAC)
by which library users will learn the status of individual books by using a computer terminal, will require
the successful implementation of the earlier phases and is not considered an urgent need at present. At the
USL, automation will follow the same phases with adaptations as appropriate. On both campuses, in
addition to improved library system management, the first phase of computerization will provide access to
extemal collections worldwide through the Intemet.



18
(a)    Expansion and rehabilitation of the UCAD central library ($US 11.2 million)
3.9    The project will finance the rehabilitation of the existing central library structure and the first
phase of a proposed two-phase extension program. Under this phase, the student seating capacity in the
central library will be increased from 350 to about 1600, and new shelf space will provide direct access to
upwards of 100,000 volumes. Access to the library will also be given to students of private institutions of
higher education and. on-a pilot basis, to last-year secondary school students. The need for a second phase
of construction, potentially providing 800 additional study places and direct access to an additional
100,000 books, will be determined in the future depending on evolving user patterns and the financial
capacity of the system to ensure an adequate recurrent budget. The first phase will include construction of
an audio-visual room, rehabilitation of office space, and facilities for repairing and binding books and
periodicals. Current library holdings will be culled to remove outdated books and free up shelf space.
3.10   Project Support. The project will finance: (a) rehabilitation of the existing central library,
including installation of an air-conditioning system in the book storage and computer areas, replacement of
elevators in the storage area, and transformation of the current reference room into a modular office and
work area; (b) construction increasing overall seating capacity from 350 to about 1600; (c) construction of
an audio-visual room; (d) construction of a workroom for repairing and binding books and periodicals; (e)
installation of computer networks at the UCAD and the USL for cataloguing and for links with satellite
libraries and international data bases; and (f) architectural studies, design and control.
(b)    Acquisition of books and periodicals/library management ($US 4.4 million)
3.11   This initiative dovetails both with the physical expansion of the library, which in its first phase will
provide space for an additional 100,000 volumes (not counting space liberated for a minimum of 50,000
additional volumes by weeding out the existing collection), and with the linking of library functions to
specific course content. It has been designed around the expected financial capacity of the university,
within the constraints of the projected recurrent budget, to maintain and renew a core collection of 150,000
books and a core subscription list of 1000 periodicals. The unit cost of books is set at $40 ($35 for initial
purchase and $5 for shipping and shelf-readiness). The unit cost of periodical subscriptions is set at $150
per year.
3.12   There are at present an estimated 300,000 volumes in the library. Assuming an average useful
shelf life of fifteen years, the maintenance of the collection at this numerical strength will require the annual
purchase of 20,000 volumes, for about $800,000 each year. Maintaining the current subscription list of
600 journals requires an additional outlay of $90,000 each year. These figures are well in excess of the
current annual budget allocation of $200,000, sufficient to maintain the subscription list but only allows
the purchase of between three and four thousand books per year. This is the equivalent to maintaining a
collection of fewer than 40,000 volumes. Not surprisingly under such conditions, most of the current
collection consists of old books of minimal value for educational purposes.
3.13   Under the proposed project, a stock of 80,000 new books will be purchased and maintained, or
20,000 per year by the end of the project. IDA's share of costs will decline from 90% to 50% over the life
of the project. By the end of the project, the Government will be providing a sufficient budget for the
annual purchase of 10,000 books. It will then continue to provide the sane level of funding beyond the
project, sufficient to maintain an evolving stock of 150,000 books. Assuming a unit cost of $40 per book,
this will require approximately $600,000 per year. An additional $150,000 annually will be required for
1000 periodical subscriptions. In addition to these books, a total of 12,500 textbooks will be purchased for



19
placement on reserve in the library. Funds will also be provided for printing of course syllabi to be placed
on reserve, and for purchase of CD-ROM's providing access to indexes and abstracts.
3.14   Project Support. The project will finance: (a) the purchase of 80,000 library books; (b) purchase
of 12,500 textbooks; (c) subscriptions to 1000 periodicals, (d) staff training, and (e) incremental recurrent
costs for the printing of course syllabi, purchase of CD-ROM's, and execution of data base searches.
Component 2:          Upgrading of Teaching and Research (US$ 9.4 million)
3.15   Scope and objectives. As a result of the numerous crises over the past ten years relating to
student and other social services, administrators have had little time to devote to the resolution of pedagogic
issues. Although few hard indicators are available, it is generally agreed that this has resulted in a
continuing deterioration in the quality of teaching and learning. With the resolution of the most pressing
social issues during project preparation, this component will help shift the focus of attention to issues
related to teaching and learning as a complement to the approach described above under the library
component. In this respect, the Govenunent has already decided, on the basis of priorities identified during
the national consultation process, to progressively shift a portion of financing from the humanities to the
sciences, to revitalize its research programs, and to develop a system of ongoing evaluation. Key activities
in support of these purposes will include the purchase of scientific equipment to support a program of
curriculum revision, the development and pilot testing of a system of institutional and program
accreditation, the complete overhaul of the existing research programs, including establishment of research
funding on a competitive basis, and support for development of alternative models of teaching and
financing.
(a)    Reinforcement of applied science teaching ($US 4.0 million)
3.16   The proposed project will support the university's goal to shift its emphasis from humanities to
science and technology, and to alleviate the acute shortage of laboratory equipment and teaching materials.
In-service training support will be given for professors and teaching/laboratory assistants to reform the way
tutorials and laboratory classes (travaux diriges) are taught, making these practical experiences the
centerpiece of the science courses, closely linked with and driving the theoretical aspects of the curriculum.
Professors will be helped to (a) formulate concrete and realistic study syllabi for their students, (b) use
textbooks effectively in their classes, and (c) emphasize comprehension of material, analysis, synthesis, and
evaluation rather than mere memorization of facts. The project will also finance the consolidation and
sharing of equipment through the centralization of laboratories where possible, provide additional
laboratory equipment (audio-visual equipment, computer hardware and software, laboratory kits and
demonstration materials) and supplies, and organize n'aintenance of scientific equipment and laboratories.
3.17   Project Support. The project will finance: (a) purchase of laboratory equipment, (b) purchase of
teaching materials, (c) establishment of an incentives-based program for maintenance of equipment and
replacement of supplies, (d) in-service training for professors and teaching/laboratory assistants.
(b)    Development and pilot testing of an accreditation system
($US 0.3 million)
3.18   The Directorate of Higher Education will develop guidelines for assuming its mission of quality
control. This activity will take place over the six-year project lifespan. During the first year, two forms of
technical assistance are envisaged: (i) the services of a regional accreditation agency or its equivalent
(from the United States or Europe) will be secured in order to develop initial accreditation protocols. These



20
protocols will include provisions for institutional self-evaluation and external inspection according to
criteria to be established; (ii) a national team will be trained to test draft protocols with selected faculties.
While this team may ultimately evolve into the role of an independent accrediting agency, it will work
initially under the aegis of the Directorate of Higher Education. Over the next two years of the project, all
existing institutions will be evaluated (including a self-evaluation). Agreement was reached during
negotiations to establish MNE quality control and program accreditation mechanisms by Dec. 31, 1999
[para. 7.2(e)]. By the fourth project year, it is expected that these will be a routine feature of ministry
activity and responsibilities.
3.19   Project Support. The project will finance: (a) missions conducted by accrediting teams, (b)
design and printing of accreditation protocols, (c) study visits, and (d) purchase of equipment and a vehicle
for the Directorate of Higher Education.
(c)    Management of a university research fund ($US 2.9 million)
3.20   The project will make a contribution to the research fund as a complement to government
financing. Results of research projects should be publishable in international peer-reviewed journals.
Funds will be made available on a competitive basis to professors or groups of professors who present
research proposals deemed acceptable by the research committee created in 1995. Eligibility will be limited
to proposals that are cost-efficient. The adoption of an operational manual acceptable to IDA containing
guidelines, criteria, and procedures governing the grants and allocations to be made through the university
research fund is a condition of credit effectiveness [para. 7.3(b)].
3.21   Project Support. The project will finance contributions to the research fund on a matching basis
for: (a) research proposals, (b) organization of seminars, and (c) publication of scientific journals.
(d)    Study of alternative models for teaching and financing
(US $0.3 million)
3.22   This component will provide for ongoing economic analysis as an integral part of the project,
including a survey of employers and a tracer study of graduates in order to refine unit cost estimates and
develop credible estimates of private and social rates of return. Models to be tested will include: (a)
greater cost-recovery, (b) the emergence of private universities, (c) distance education and the use of
interactive technologies as an enhancement or alternative to the current teaching model, and (d) recurrent
and investment cost implications of a proposed master plan for development of regional campuses.
Agreement was reached during negotiations that a functional evaluation of all major institutions and
faculties will be conducted by Dec. 31, 1998, including recommendations for cost-recovery [para. 7.2(f)].
3.23   As a result of the studies, the universities will develop much greater accountability, and cost-
effectiveness. Cost-recovery will be introduced and specific self-financing targets will be established for
each sub-sector and for each institution. Government will develop a focused plan to support the emergence
of private sector institutions through streamlined accrediting procedures and other measures as identified
through the studies, with a goal of helping enrollments in private institutions of higher education move from
a current level of 5% of overall enrollment to at least 15%.
3.24   The national consultation process made the case for participation of stakeholders in the formulation
of policy to generate consensus for reform. The proposed project will therefore finance dissemination
workshops for students and professors to discuss results of the economic analyses and associated studies
and recommendations and thus provide the opportunity for stakeholders to participate in the elaboration of



21
long-range development plans for the sub-sector and its institutions. The press will inform the Senegalese
public about the proceedings.
3.25   Project Support. The project will finance: (a) ongoing economic analysis, including an employer
survey and a tracer study of graduates, (b) training of DAGE staff in preparation of budget simulations and
projections, (c) incremental costs for workshops and seminars, and (d) national and international technical
assistance for conducting needed studies.
(e)    Installation of computerized information systems ($US 1.8 million)
3.26   The UCAD recently decided to develop a coordinated approach to its overall computer systems.
The French Ministry of Cooperation has helped develop a master plan for computer services for the
academic administration of the University. The current project complements this approach with computer
support for the library system, the DAGE, the Directorate of Grants and Fellowships, and the student
services. The central library and the departmental and faculty libraries will work under a unified
management structure, with a shared budget and a common data base. This will represent a radical
departure from current practice, under which the various entities have functioned in virtual isolation, with
duplication of collections and no sharing of services or information. As a first step in the process of
bringing the various libraries and book collections together into a coordinated system, support for three
activities is planned under the project: (i) coordination between the central UCAD library and the satellite
libraries to work out a proposed budget distribution and synchronize purchases, (ii) joint definition of
training needs, and (iii) preparation of a master catalog, with the satellite libraries receiving support for
inputting their own collections on diskettes for integration with the overall computerized catalog.
3.27   Under the project, the expansion of library facilities and holdings will be closely coordinated with
training programs for students, faculty and library personnel. The purpose of the training programs will be
to ensure that the investments in the library translate into greater attention to teaching and learning, and
significant improvements in pass rates. A module will be prepared to provide first-year students with
appropriate study skills. This module will also be pilot tested for use with last-year secondary school
students to help prepare the transition to university, as part of a strategy to improve pass rates for
university students. A series of seminars will be held to assist professors in developing new syllabi and
course materials and new approaches to teaching based on the additional information sources available.
Training modules for library staff (including part-time student help, which will in itself be an innovation for
the UCAD and the USL) will place special emphasis on the development of a client orientation. Training
will also be organized for the utilization of the Internet and other computerized services. Finally,
departments and faculties will develop "virtual" courses in collaboration with external teaching partners
(including public universities, private sector firrns, etc.). These "virtual" courses will be taught via Internet
using computer networks to be installed in satellite libraries for this purpose, thus freeing up both human
and financial resources for other purposes.
3.28   Project Support. The project will finance: (a) rehabilitation of the principal satellite libraries; (b)
installation of computer networks linked to the Internet; (c) purchase of furnishings and equipment; (d)
pilot testing of "virtual" courses; (e) incremental recurrent costs for cataloguing collections; and (f)
overseas and local training.
Component 3:          Strengthening of management capacity (US$ 4.1 million)
3.29   Scope and objectives. During the course of project preparation, a remarkable amount of progress
was made in reforming the operation of student services, essentially, what is referred to as the "social



22
campus". In particular, the cost of providing cafeteria services was dramatically reduced, and the quality
of services provided was dramatically increased. This was done through privatizing the management of
cafeteria services and investing in significant improvements in equipment and facilities. Similarly,
significant reforns were undertaken in the management of dormitories, of which the university had virtually
lost control in the past. Subletting of rooms was abolished, facilities were closed for maintenance and
repair during the summer, and strict criteria were developed for according dormitory privileges. Special
privileges and subsidies for married students, which had been the subject of considerable abuse, were
removed. As a result, the overall number of students living in the dornitories or married student
apartments was greatly reduced. All 23 external housing units rented by the university were closed. This
meant that the facilities remaining open on campus required upgrading or, in the case of married student
housing, reconversion for use by single students.
3.30   Important reforms have also been undertaken in the management of scholarships. The total amount
granted for in-country scholarships was reduced from near CFAF 5 billion in 1994 to CFAF
4,086,000,000 in 1995 and to CFAF 3,153,000,000 under the 1996 budget. The total amount of overseas
scholarships was frozen at CFAF 2.8 billion. Tickets for overseas vacations and the very generous familv
supplements have been abolished. Criteria for granting scholarships have been developed, to ensure that
they support sectors considered as priorities for economic and social development (medicine, economics
and science).
(a)    Reorganization of student services ($2.2 million)
3.31   Under the current project, these reforms will be continued. The Department of Grants and
Fellowships will be computerized and streamlined, allowing the better application of eligibility criteria and
up-to-date monitoring of grants. The student services departments at Dakar (COUD) and at Saint Louis
(CROUS) will also be computerized. In addition, the structure of the COUD will be streamlined from 16 to
6 or 7 separate services. Given the changing demographics of the students, two married student housing
units will be converted to single student housing, and the upgrading of cafeteria buildings will be continued.
Selective rehabilitation of buildings will include those managed by the COUD at the University of Dakar
and at the former EPT in Thies and by the CROUS at the University of Saint Louis.
3.32   Project Support. The project will finance: (a) computerization of the Departnent of Grants and
Fellowships, (b) civil works for rehabilitation of student services buildings, (c) national and international
technical assistance, and (d) training of staff.
(b)    Development of a maintenance system ($1.3 million)
3.33   Scope and objectives. The institutionalization of preventive, corrective and emergency
mamtenance is necessary to protect the long-term value of the University's property assets in order to
safeguard the investment made in land and buildings, and to maintain the University's facilities to a
satisfactory standard in order to support the safe and cost-efficient delivery of the University's educational
mission. At present, this is not being done. The budget for maintenance activities represented only 0.6% of
the overall budget in 1994, with no overall prioritizing or targeting based on an assessment of needs.
Inspections are carried out only on an ad hoc basis, with virtually no funds available for the small
expenditures needed for adjustment, lubrication, cleaning, painting, replacement of parts, and minor
repairs. To resolve problems of facilities maintenance and management, the project will support the
implementation of an efficient system of procurement, maintenance, and space allocation management.



23
3.34   The project will finance a complete study of the function of maintenance and the management of
the university infrastructure, including a review of recommendations prepared during the project
preparation stage. Several engineering buildings at the former EPT in Thies will be upgraded as a part of
this process. Agreement was reached at negotiations regarding preparation and implementation of an
action plan by Dec. 31, 1998, for outsourcing all major maintenance functions at UCAD and USL [para.
7.2(g)]. The project will provide support on a declining basis for initial costs under this program. Support
will also be given for training of managers/quality control specialists. The responsibility for overseeing the
maintenance program will remain with the university, with each unit within the system responsible for
routine maintenance functions.
3.35   Project Support. The project will finance: (a) incremental costs on a declining basis for
maintenance, (b) technical assistance, (c) rehabilitation of engineering buildings at the former EPT of
Thies, (d) purchase of supplies and equipment, and (e) local training for managers/quality control
specialists.
(c)    Project administration ($0.6 million)
3.36   During project preparation, the MNE cabinet contracted with an Implementation Team (IT) to
manage the resources provided under four PPFs. The IT currently comprises a director, an accountant, a
secretary and a messenger. It will be strengthened by the addition of procurement specialist and a driver
and will ensure the initial coordination of the project on behalf of MNE. Agreement on the transfer of the
functions of the IT to the UCAD and MNE at the time of the project mid-term review was reached during
negotiations [para. 7.2 (h)J. The IT will be responsible for the routine functioning of the project. It will
organize working group seminars; it will handle IDA-specific implementation matters, such as
procurement, disbursements and project accounting. The IT will also be responsible for helping to develop
the working agendas for meetings of the steering committee. Job descriptions for implementation team
personnel were prepared during project preparation. These job descriptions are subject to annual review.
3.37 Project Support. The project will finance: (a) the salaries of the Implementation Team staff (IT),
(b) training in project management, procurement, and disbursement of the IT staff, and (c) incremental
operating expenditures for the IT, including office equipment, supplies and maintenance.
4. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Project Costs
4.1    Summary of Project Costs. The total project cost is estimated at US$ 30.9 million equivalent,
including contingencies and taxes on supplies procured locally. The base cost is estimated at US$ 25.7
million. Total contingencies (US$ 5.2 million) represent 20% of the base cost. Detailed project costs by
year, purpose, component and category can be found in Annex 3.
4.2    A detailed implementation plan for the extension and rehabilitation of the library was prepared by
the architectural firn in 1995, but requires revision as a result of comments received regarding overall cost,
space use efficiency, and the fit between the implementation plan and Government's capacity to purchase
books and to ensure the maintenance of the building and of the book collection. A mission comprising the
building architects, a library collection development specialist, an AGETIP architect, and a consulting
architect hired by IDA comprised part of the February 1996 appraisal mission. This mission proposed a



24
new architectural approach with major revisions to the cost estimates. The detailed implementation plans
will be completed prior to project effectiveness.
4.3    Cost estimates for the rehabilitation of other buildings, sanitary facilities, etc., are based on a
report prepared by international consultants, appointed under PDRH 2 (Cr 2473-SE) financing. These
costs correspond with recently completed rehabilitation of UCAD restaurants and dormitories. The base
costs for the rehabilitation of these buildings are estimated at US$ 300 per M2. The costs of
computerization are based on the estimate provided by the library computerization specialist recruited by
the firm of architects in charge of designing the library.
4.4    The cost estimate for science materials and equipment was prepared by consultants recruited under
the higher education component of the PDRH 2 to review the academic needs of the university. Equipment
and supply lists were prepared by each faculty on the basis of their plans to improve instructional delivery.
The lists were prioritized according to need and projected student cohorts. They were costed on the basis of
recent catalogue listings. During the appraisal mission, the overall estimates were revised downward by a
factor of three as a reflection of the University's limited capacity to finance the recurrent costs.
4.5    Costs of library books and periodicals are based on recent purchases by the University of Dakar
library under the PDRH 2 and are in line with international norms. The cost of a book was estimnated at
$35 for the initial purchase and $5 for shipping and various other costs to make it shelf-ready. The annual
cost of a journal subscription was estimated at $150.
4.6    The unit costs of foreign consultants (US$ 12,000 per month) and of local consultants (US$ 500
per month--fees only) are based on actual costs for similar services during project preparation. Unit costs
for the Implementation Team are based on actual cost.
4.7    Contingency Allowances. Project costs include a physical contingency allowance (US$ 1.5
million) equal to a 6% increase in the estimated cost of all project inputs. Price contingencies are estimated
on the basis of the implementation schedule (Annex 5B) and on a price increase of 2.5 % per annum for
local costs and 2.4% per annum for foreign costs. Total price contingencies represent 14% of the base line
costs and physical contingencies.
4.8    Foreign Exchange Costs. The foreign exchange component (direct and indirect) of US$ 18.7
million or about 60.5% of total estimated project cost was estimated as follows for each type of
expenditure: (i) civil works USS 6.9 million; (ii) equipment and vehicles US$ 4.2 million; (iii) furniture and
materials US$ 0.3 million; (iv) textbooks and other pedagogic materials US$ 2.1 million; (v) research fund
US$ 1.2 million; (vi) consultant services US$ 1.5 million; (vii) training US$ 0.5 million; and (viii)
incremental operating costs USS 0.3 million.
4.9    Taxes. Project costs include local direct and indirect taxes on supplies procured locally which are
estimated to be about US$ 2.4 million equivalent. Direct imports and consultants' fees will be exempt from
tax and duties.
4.10   Incremental Recurrent Costs. Agreement on annual counterpart financing requirements and
annual budget provisions sufficient to cover additional recurrent costs resulting from the project was
reached during negotiations [para. 7.2(d)]. The financial impact of the project will be carefully examined
during annual reviews and at the time of the mid-tern review.



25
B. Project Financing
4.11   The proposed IDA credit of US$ 26.5 million will finance 100% of foreign costs and about 80% of
local costs, representing 86% of total project costs. The government will finance 14% of total project costs
(including taxes, which represent 7.8% of total project costs). IDA financing will cover investment
expenditures in construction and equipment, the provision of library books and supplies, technical
assistance, training and research.
5. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Status of Project Preparation and Readiness
5.1   Just as the policy reform process has been intensively participatory in nature, the project,
particularly the improved student learning component, was prepared and will be implemented with
continuing stakeholder input. The definition of needs was based on an extensive analysis of the present
situation vis-a-vis the goals each of the universities has set for itself to achieve by the end of the project.
These goals include better pass rates and a more balanced distribution of students among the four years of
undergraduate education (as opposed to the present situation where the bulk of students are in the first two
years), a much larger percentage of enrollees in science and engineering, which will represent 40% of the
total student population in six years; and a renovation in the methods of instructional delivery. The medical
faculty will expanded in line with goals for increased coverage throughout the country. Ongoing economic
analysis, tracer studies of graduates, and employer surveys will provide the higher education system with a
tool for responding to market needs and stakeholder concerns.
B. Project Coordination and Management
5.2    A draft implementation manual was submitted to IDA as a condition of negotiations [para. 7.1 (d)l.
Agreement on the implementation manual was reached during negotiations [para. 7.2 (i)]. Its adoption is a
condition of effectiveness [para. 7.3 (c)]. MNE will be responsible for the project and has employed an
Implementation Team (IT) to handle procurement, overall coordination, etc., and to provide training to
MNE and university personnel. The IT responsibilities will be taken over by MNE and university
personnel by the time of the mid-term review. The Government has named a steering committee with
responsibility for reviewing progress, voting annual work plans, ensuring donor coordination, and
conducting the mid-term review. The IT will be responsible for convening an ad hoc committee including
those responsible for individual project components as well as representatives of teachers and students.
5.3    Responsibilities for implementing individual components are as follows: (i) expansion and
rehabilitation of the UCAD central library: a private contract management firm (PCM). The extension and
renovation will be supervised by the architects who prepared the architectural and engineering design--
including bidding documents--during project preparation, with ongoing participation of library officials and
personnel; (ii) acquisition of books and periodicals/library management: UCAD head librarian; (iii)
reinforcement of applied science teaching: Dean of Faculty of Science; (iv) development and pilot testing
of an accreditation system: Director of Higher Education; (v) management of a university research fund:
head of Research Committee; (vi) study of alternative models for teaching and financing: Director of
Higher Education; (vii) installation of computerized information service: IT; (viii) reorganization of
student services: Directors of COUD, CROUS; (ix) development of maintenance system: Director of



26
DGDU; and (x) project administration: head of Implementation Team. These individuals will be members
of the ad hoc team convened by the IT. At the level of each institution, the project will work through
existing organizations, e.g. faculties and departments, building on their strengths and including appropriate
checks and balances. Bidding documents, acceptable to IDA, for all civil works planned during the first
year of project execution will be submitted as a condition of effectiveness [para. 7.3(d)]. The project will
be implemented over six years. Schedules of implementation and procurement responsibilities, tasks, and
activities have been developed (Annexes 5A and 5B).
5.4    The steering committee. The steering committee is chaired by the Minister of National Education
and includes the following additional members or their representatives: Minister of Economy, Finance and
Planning, Minister of Public Health and Social Action, Minister of State Modernization, Minister of Labor
and Employment, Minister of Scientific Research and Technology, Minister delegated for Basic Education
and National Languages, Minister delegated for Vocational Training and Technical Education, Rector of
UCAD, Rector of USL, Education Advisor of the President of the Republic, Education Advisor of the
Prime Minister, Director of Higher Education, Director of the COUD, Director of the CROUS, Director of
General Administration and Equipment, Director of Educational Planning and Reform, Inspector of
Administrative and Financial Affairs, and the Administrator of the PAES. The steering committee will
meet at least four times annually. Members of the ad hoc committee convened by the IT will take part in
these meetings as appropriate.
5.5    The head of the IT will be the secretary of the steering committee and will be responsible with the
chair for preparing meeting agendas. The committee will receive technical and logistic support from the
IT. The primary mandate of the steering committee is planning, problem solving, and evaluation; its role is
to act quickly and effectively to facilitate project implementation and to ensure that problems are discussed
and addressed in a timely manner. It will be responsible for monitoring and evaluating the transfer of
technical capacity from the advisors provided under the project. It will also approve annual working plans
and project budget proposals and ensuring interministerial coordination during project implementation.
During project negotiations, agreement was reached with Government regarding the steering committee's
responsibility for ensuring that a mid-term review to evaluate the progress made in implementing the
project is carried out with IDA by October 1999, and for prompt implementation of all measures agreed
upon with IDA as a result of the mid-term review [para. 7.2 (j)] (see also Annex 4B). Minutes of meetings
will be submitted to IDA as part of the progress reports (para. 5.6).
5.6    The Implementation Team (IT). A small IT comprising an administrator, an accountant, a
secretary and a messenger was established to manage the resources provided under four PPFs. This unit
will be strengthened by the addition of a procurement specialist and a chauffeur and will employ technical
consultants as necessary. The IT will be responsible for the routine functioning of the project and will
ensure the overall coordination of the project on behalf of MNE. It will organize working group seminars;
it will handle IDA-specific implementation matters, such as procurement, disbursements and project
accounting. It will be responsible for helping to develop the working agendas for meetings of the steering
committee and will convene the ad hoc committee described in para. 5.2 as necessary. During negotiations,
agreement will be reached with the Government on submission to IDA of: (i) progress reports on the
implementation of the project not later than May 31 and November 30 of each year; (ii) annual projected
work programs and budgets not later than November 30 of each year; and (iii) background documents for
an annual progress review to be organized and carried out with IDA during the fourth quarter of each
calendar year [para. 7.2 (k)]. A primary goal of the IT will be to move towards integration of its functions
within the organizational structure of the MNE by the time of the mid-term review. Job descriptions for



27
Inplementation Team personnel were prepared during project preparation. These job descriptions are
subject to annual review.
C. Implementation Schedule
5.7    The project will be implemented over a six-year period (1996-2002). This time period has been
selected to provide ample time for the policy reform initiatives supported under the project and the
accompanying capacity-building activities. Annexes 5A and 5B provide the framework for implementation
activities and the basis for planning the physical aspects of project implementation. The disbursement
profiles are provided in Annex II B.
D. Procurement
5.8    All Bank-financed procurement of goods and services under the Project will be in accordance with
Bank Guidelines. Table I summarizes the project elements as well as their estimated costs and proposed
methods of procurement. The Borrower's procurement regulations and procedures have been reviewed by
IDA (CPAR of September 1994), and new regulations are currently being adopted. IDA standard bidding
documents will continue to be systematically used for local procurement. ICB procurement will use the
Bank's relevant Standard Bidding Documents (January 1995). Selection of consulting firms for complex,
time-based assignments will be done on the basis of the Bank's standard letter of invitation and form of
contract. Under the project, procurement procedures will be undertaken as described in the following
paragraphs. The aggregate amounts provided include taxes and duties. The submission of bidding
documents acceptable to IDA for all major packages to be procured through ICB during the first year of
the project will be a condition of effectiveness [para. 7.3 (d)].



28
Table 1
Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(USS million, inclding ts and dutie) al b/
Categories                   ICB        NCB         Other        TOTAL
1. Civil Works                               11.9        0.2                      12.1
(10.4)     (0.2)          -          (10.6)
2. Equipment and Vehicles                    5.3         0.9         0.2           6.4
(4.8)      (0.8)       (0.2)         (5.8)
3. Textbooks and Instructional Materials c/  3.9                                   3.9
(3.3)                    -           (3.3)
4. Consultant Services                                               1.8           1.8
-  -      (1.8)         (1.8)
5. Training                                                          0.8           0.8
(0.8)        (0.8)
6. Research Fund                                                     2.8           2.8
-  -      (1.4)         (1.4)
7. Operating Costs                                                   1.2           1.2
(1.0)        (1.0)
8. PPF                                                               1.8           1.8
-  -      (1.8)         (1.8)
TOTAL                                        21.1        1.1         8.6          30.9
_18.5       (1.0)       (7.0)        (26.5)
a/ Slight differences in amounts may occur due to rounding of figures.
b/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts financed by IDA.
c/ Following prequalification of suppliers.
5.9    Civil Works. They include: (i) construction works for the expansion/ rehabilitation of the UCAD
Central Library (USS 9.2 million equivalent) ; (ii) refurbishing existing faculty or departmental libraries in
order to install a computer network (US$ 0.2 million); (iii) rehabilitation of student services buildings at the
UCAD and USL (US$ 2.0 million), (iv) rehabilitation of academic buildings at the former EPT (US$ 0.6
million and architectural/engineering studies related to (ii) and (iii). It is expected that procurement of all
civil works will be managed by a private contract management firm (PCM) by delegation from NINE.
Detailed procurement procedures followed by PCM will be governed by a Convention of Mattrise
d'Ouvrage Deleguee to be signed between the MNE and PCM for the purpose of the project civil works.
All works will be monitored by a certificated quality control firm (Bureau de contr6le agre), selected by
the PCM through procedures acceptable to IDA.
UCAD Central Library. The architectural and engineering studies -- including preparation of
bidding documents - were carried out during project preparation by a Canadian consultant contracted by
AGETIP with PPF and PDRH- 2 funds. They are currently being revised as a result of comments received
regarding overall cost and space use efficiency, and Goverment's ability to finance recurrent costs.
Procurement of the works will be carried out by a PCM through international competitive bidding (ICB)
including prequalification of the bidders, due to the importance of the operation and its complexity



29
(particularly the built-in network wiring for the computerized information system). Procedures will follow
the Bank Procurement Guidelines (January 1995).
Other civil works. The PCM will procure the architecturaUengineering studies, including site
supervision, through its current procedure for the selection of construction management (Maitres
d'Oeuvres). The construction works will be procured by PCM through ICB, except for contracts under
USS 100,000 equivalent, which will be procured through National Competitive Bidding (NCB) up to an
aggregate amnount of $250,000.
5.10   Goods. The goods financed by the project (US$ 6.4 million) include: (i) equipment and furniture
for the UCAD central library (US$ 1.3 million) ; (ii) laboratory, teaching, and scientific equipment (US$
3.8 million); (iii) computerized information services in the central and satellite libraries (US$ 0.8 million);
(iv) materials and maintenance equipment (US$ 0.4 million); and (v) various materials for the pilot
accreditation system and for project administration (total US$ 0. 1 million). To the extent possible, goods
will be grouped into packages of USS 0.1 million or more, and procured through ICB in accordance with
Bank Procurement Procedures (January 1995). Goods which cannot be grouped into these packages will
be grouped to the extent possible in packages of at least US$ 25,000 per contract, and will be procured
through NCB, provided the aggregate amount of such procurement does not exceed US$ 1.1 million.
Goods that cannot be grouped into packages of US$ 25,000 can be procured through prudent local
shopping, based on quotations obtained from at least three reliable suppliers, provided the aggregate
amount of such procurement does not exceed US$ 0.2 million.
5.11   Library books. The purchase of library books (total US$ 3.9 million) will be phased in 5 tranches
of about US$ 0.8 million each. To facilitate yearly purchase of books, an open prequalification procedure
will lead to the selection of qualified distributors who will be registered in a roster. The first batch of
books will be procured through ICB among these pre-registered distributors, whereas subsequent annual
batches will be procured through contract concluded on the basis of a comparison of quotations obtained
from the pre-registered distributors. These contracts will be in conformity with standard Bank documents.
5.12   Consultants and services. Approximately 270 person-months of consultant services for
management, procurement, auditing and various sectoral and technical services, including training totaling
the aggregate amnount of US$1.8 million equivalent, will be financed by the project. This includes: (a) 62
person-months of international short-term technical assistance to : (i) supervise the library site and provide
quality control of the works, (ii) help with acquisition of books (9 pxm), (iii) help establish a maintenance
program (5 pxm); (iv) assist in developing and piloting an accreditation system (3.5 pxm) ; (v) help with
developing and managing a university research fund (5 pxm) ; (vi) conduct studies for alternative teaching
and financing models (12 pxm) ; (vii) install a computerized information service (5 hxm) ; and (viii) help
develop a maintenance system (5 pxm) ; (b) 208 person-months of national technical assistance ; and
(c) PCM finn fees for the management of civil works. All of these services (national and international) will
be procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines on the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency (August 1981).
5.13   University research fund. The procedures for the use of the university research fund will be
governed by the provisions of an operational manual approved by IDA. These provisions include:
(i) eligibility criteria to be met by the research proposals ; (ii) procedures for evaluation, and awarding and
contracting ; and (iii) procedures for monitoring and evaluation of the research program. A sub-project
account will be maintained for the research fund. Adoption of an operational manual acceptable to IDA



30
containing guidelines, criteria, and procedures governing the grants and allocations to be made through the
research fund will be a condition of effectiveness [paras. 3.20 and 7.3(b)].
5.14   Review by IDA. The IT will ensure that Bank guidelines are followed for procurement of goods
and services, and will maintain procurement documents and contracts required for ex-post reviews. During
project execution, bidding documents for civil works and for packages of goods above the threshold of USS
100,000 will be subject to IDA's prior review. The threshold for prior review of consultant services will be
USS 100,000 for contracts with consulting firms, and US$ 50,000 for contracts with individual
consultants. Prior review will continue to be required for all temns of reference, sole-source selection of
firms, assignments determined by IDA to be of a critical nature and amendments to contracts raising their
value above the threshold. All other contracts will be subject to selective post review during the
supervision missions. IDA review will concern 50 % of the total value of contracts funded by IDA.
5.15   Procurement schedule. Procurement arrangements and the procurement schedule are detailed in
Annex 5A.
E. Disbursements
5.16 Disbursement will be in accordance with guidelines set out in the Disbursement Handbook. The
project is expected to be completed over a six-year period. The proposed allocation of the credit is shown
in Annex 3. All applications to withdraw proceeds from the credit will be fully documented, except for
expenditures for training, recurrent costs, and for contracts with a value of US$ 100,000 (US$ 50,000 for
individual consultants) or less for goods and services for which reimbursement may be made against
certified statements of expenditures (SOEs). The IT will be responsible for preparing withdrawal
applications and SOEs to be submitted to IDA, and will indicate on the SOEs the nature and origin of any
goods and the payment date. These will be retained along with all other supporting documentation for
review by Bank supervision missions and independent auditors.
5.17   Special accounts. A special account for USS 1,000,000 will be made available to the
Project/MNE for payment of eligible expenditures. To facilitate disbursements, the Government will open a
Special Deposit Account (SDA) in a commercial bank in Dakar to cover IDA's share of eligible
expenditures managed by MNE. IDA will make an initial deposit of US$ 500,000 equivalent from the
proposed Credit upon credit effectiveness and will replenish the SDA upon receipt of satisfactory proof of
incurred eligible expenditures. Replenishment of the SDA will be submitted to IDA every month.
Withdrawal applications for direct payment from the Credit Account may be submitted for expenditures
above USS 50,000 equivalent (USS 100,000 once the entire initial advance has been paid). Supporting
documentation will be retained by the MNE and will be available for review as requested by IDA
supervision missions and project auditors.



31
Table 2
Withdrawal of Proceeds of the IDA Credit
Categories              Amounts of the Credit     % of expenditures to be flnanced
allocated              (net of taxes and duties)
(in US$ million equivalent)
1. Civil Works                              9.7                100% of foreign expenditures;
95% of local expenditures.
2. Equipment, Vehicles & Furniture          5.4                 100 of foreign expenditures
90% of local expenditures
3. Textbooks and Pedagogic Materials        3.3                100% of foreign expenditures
90% of local expenditures
4. Consultant Services & Training           1.8                          100%
5. Research Fund                            1.4              50% of amount disbursed by MNE
6. Operating Costs                          0.9                          90%
7. Refinancing of PPF                       1.8                       Amount due
8. Unallocated                              2.2
TOTAL                          26.5
F. Accounting, Auditing, and Reporting
5.18   Auditing. A computerized accounting system was developed and implemented during project
preparation. It will be fully operational prior to project effectiveness. A project account will be maintained
by the IT in accordance with international accounting standards. A sub-project account will be maintained
by the IT for the research fund. The IT will maintain accounts to record all Project expenditures,
commitments and reimbursements in accordance with international accepted accounting principles. The
appointment of an independent auditor under a contract acceptable to IDA will be a condition of
effectiveness [para. 7.3 (e)]. The auditors' report will also include a separate opinion with respect to
statements of expenditures, the Special Deposit Account, and a statement on the adequacy or otherwise of
the accounting system and internal controls. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that annual audit
reports, of reasonable scope and detail, will be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of the fiscal
year [para. 7.2 (1)].
5.19   Reports. The IT (or its successor following the mid-term review) will be responsible for
submitting to IDA: (i) semi-annual reports: these will include project monitoring based on agreed
monitoring indicators (input and outcome) agreed at negotiations, a summary of progress in procurement,
and definition of a work program with monitorable outputs for the following six-month period; (ii) periodic
evaluation of the training and skills aspects of the technical assistance provided; (iii) a report on the mid-
term evaluation of project progress; and (iv) an Implementation Completion Report no later than six
months after the closing date of the credit.



32
G. Monitoring and Supervision
5.20   Project Monitoring and Mid-Term Review. The IT will send IDA semi-annual reports on
project progress that will include: (a) a summary statement on the status of execution of each project
activity; and (b) a table showing compliance with project covenants, and progress in implementing agreed
policy objectives. Agreement on establishment of a management information system to enable the MEN to
track annual monitoring indicators was reached during negotiations [para. 7.2(m)]; establishment of the
management information system is a condition of effectiveness [para. 7.3(f)].
5.21   Monitoring will be important to measure the effects of the project on the higher education
institutions and on the system-wide effects of the university's proposed policy actions. Indicators to be
developed for reporting will include: enrollment and pass rates; resource mobilization levels and cost
recovery rates; faculty performance, research output; and indicators showing the state of maintenance of
various campuses to monitor improvements following project interventions. Annex 4A provides a list of
input and output indicators to be agreed during negotiations.
5.22   Supervision. The project will not require special supervision arrangements except during the
start-up phase. Supervision missions will be planned to coincide with important implementation
milestones. The first full IDA mission will take the form of a project launch workshop, continuing and
expanding the working format developed with the universities and MNE during the project preparation and
appraisal process. The workshop will confirm annual implementation targets for the various campuses and
faculties, and review monitoring procedures.
R. Environmental Impact
5.23   The project has been classified as C: "No appreciable environment impact." However, it includes
environmental improvements in the elimination of the present stagnant waters, in refuse storage, collection
and disposal, etc. Improvement in the sanitation infrastructure will be one of the components of the project.
The project will finance textbook and scientific material for the Environmental Studies department in the
Faculty of Sciences. Also, under the research fund, grants could be awarded for research subjects in the
field of environment.
I. Economic Justification of the Project
5.24   Introduction. The economic analysis of the project included: (i) the development of least-cost
alternatives for investments in higher education, (ii) fiscal impact analysis, (iii) unit cost analysis, and (iv)
analysis of the consistency of project initiatives and objectives with the overall macroeconomic context,
within the framework of the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for Senegal. In addition, terms of
reference were prepared and institutional arrangements made for analysis of rates of return by faculty over
the course of the project. This will be done through further refinement of unit cost analysis, tracer studies
of graduates, and employer surveys. These analyses have been built into the subcomponent: "study of
alternative models for teaching and financing."
5.25   Least-cost alternatives. The least-cost alternatives approach was utilized during project appraisal
with respect to the library component. It was agreed during appraisal to increase the density of seating and
book storage spaces (remaining well within intemational norms) and to introduce a two-phase construction



33
plan. This approach allowed for a reduction in construction costs from $US 11.2 million to SUS 9.2
million, while increasing space for storage of books.
5.26   Fiscal impact analysis and cost recovery issues. In tenns of financial sustainability, the
investments planned under this project will require that the MNE undertake a significant internal
reallocation of resources. Analysis during pre-appraisal of MNE's capacity to ensure recurrent
expenditures led to a reduction in the proposed procurement of science equipment from US$ 9 million to
US$ 4 million. Annual incremental recurrent costs resulting from the various project components are
estimated as follows: library initiative US$ 0.4 million; purchase of scientific materials and equipment
USS 0.6 million; maintenance of the university infrastructure US$0.25 million; and research fund USS 0.1
million. Total annual incremental recurrent costs resulting from the various project components are
estimated at $1.35 million annually. Government has agreed to shift sufficient funds for this purpose from
the former Study Trip fund and from savings achieved from economies in the student services budget and in
the scholarship budget. Final agreement on annual budget targets was reached during negotiations and the
financial impact of the project will be reviewed annually. However, agreements are already in place that all
budget growth over the next five years in the education sector will accrue to the lower levels of the system,
i.e. to primary and secondary education.
5.27   The higher education budget will be frozen in nominal terms at its 1996 level of CFAF 19.9 billion
for five years (down from CFAF 21.2 billion in 1995). The 1995 budget for UCAD fellowships dropped
from its 1993 and 1994 level ofjust over CFAF 4 billion to CFAF 3 billion. The budget for overseas
fellowships has been frozen at CFAF 2.8 billion since 1994 and will decline over the life of the project to
CFAF 1.0 billion. The privatization of university restaurants has resulted in a decrease of the overall
allocation for the cafeteria budget from CFAF 3.5 billion in 1993 to CFAF 1.8 billion in 1995. These
savings were achieved in part by increasing cost recovery for meals from 4% to 20% and by increasing
dormitory fees by about 50%. A total of CFAF 900 million was transferred from higher education to
primary education in 1995 as a result of these savings.
5.28   This project will result in an average annual shift of approximately US $ 1.35 million or CFAF 660
million from social services to non-salary operating expenditures. More importantly, it will result in a
decrease in higher education's portion of the overall education sector budget from 27% to approximately
20% by the year 200 1, with a corresponding increase in basic education. This is an extremely significant
shift and will clear the way for major expansions to basic education, while ensuring adequate inputs to
improve higher education's relevance and quality. There is, however, considerable room for further cost
savings and cost recovery both during the project lifetime and beyond.
5.29   Unit cost analysis/rate of return analysis. It was agreed prior to project appraisal that rate of
return analysis should be based on individual faculties and programs, since the project seeks to provide
information to the Government on the relevance of its programs to the labor market. These analyses
disaggregated by faculty will be developed over the course of the project by CREA, the Center for Research
in Applied Economics, a research unit affiliated with the Faculty of Business and Economics at the UCAD.
They will include collection of labor market infonnation through annual tracer studies of graduates and a
survey of employers. This will permit estimation of private and social rates of return by faculty. As a first
step in this process, unit cost analyses were conducted to provide baseline data regarding costs per faculty.
These were calculated through an examination of trends between 1991-92 and 1994-95 adjusted to reflect
more recent policy changes such as limiting the number of allowable repeats per student as well as changes
in the intake of students. The results obtained (see Annex 8B) highlight the extraordinary cost to the
system of. (i) repetition and dropout, and (ii) indirect costs of schooling, such as scholarships and social



34
services. They also demonstrate the tremendous variations between individual faculties in tenns of cost per
graduate.
5.30   Consistency with CAS. The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Senegal calls for a reduction
in the share of the higher education budget devoted to student services and a reform of the scholarship
system, with resulting savings to be allocated to improving higher education quality and primary education
enrollments. Investments under the project fully support this objective. It is expected that Senegal's
economic growth will increase labor market demand for financial management and scientific skills,
programs supported through the project. To take advantage of the ongoing economic analyses built into the
project, annual reviews will include an examination of evolving unit costs per faculty, as well as rate of
return updates based on labor market trends. Agreement between IDA and Government on annual work
programs and budgets will be based in part on these results, which will feed into the evolving CAS.
6. BENEFITS AND RISKS
6.1    Benefits. In addition to helping the sector irwrease the proportion of financing going to qualitative
inputs such as library books and science equipment, the project will free up funds for the expansion of
primary education (higher education's share of the overall education budget will drop from 27% to 20%).
By improving living and study conditions for students, and the professional atmosphere in which teachers
work, it will result in increased stability for the education sector as a whole by reducing student unrest and
teacher strikes.  Many of these sustainable benefits have already become apparent during project
preparation. Additional benefits include improved graduation rates (grade repetition is expected to decline
from 54% to 35%), greater gender equity, increased productivity of research, more cost-effective provision
of services, maintenance of university assets, and increased self-financing. The project will also assist
MNE in promoting private higher education institutions which will increase from 5% to at least 15% of the
student population. Improvements to higher education will increase the skills of the labor force and make
available a better pool of post-secondary graduates to facilitate the transition of the Senegalese economy to
a higher level of technology and productivity. Closer links with employers will help to meet the changing
demands of an increasingly complex and dynamic private sector.
6.2    Risks. Implementation of "social campus" reforms was vigorously opposed by some groups of
students and junior academic staff and further resistance to scholarship cuts and increases in teaching hours
can be expected. However, the Government, assured of support for the reform forged through the national
consultation dialogue, has held its ground to date. The likelihood of continued success is strengthened by
the following: (i) many difficult reform measures have already been put in place and are at a stage where
they are virtually irreversible; (ii) there are already tangible positive effects from the reform, such as
student satisfaction with the food services under private contract; (iii) visible IDA support of a home-grown
reform program has bolstered the credibility and confidence of reformers; and (iv) the consensus-building
process which brought about the reform has created a growing constituency for change within the
university community.



35
7. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND
RECOMMENDATION
7.1    Prior to negotiations, the Government submitted the following documents to IDA:
(a)    a draft policy statement for higher education including proposals acceptable to IDA to
increase teaching hours, reallocate spending away from scholarships, and contain
enrollments (para. 2.6);
(b)    draft terns of reference for consultant services and studies for the first year of the project
(para. 2.61);
(c)    a functional study of the library system acceptable to IDA (para. 3.7); and
(d)    a draft implementation manual (para. 5.2).
7.2    During negotiations, IDA and the Government reached agreement on:
(a)   the policy statement for higher education, including monitorable performance criteria and a
policy reform agenda (para. 2.6);
(b)    an increase in the average teaching hours of professors by at least one hour per week by
December 31, 1998, and by at least two hours per week by December 31, 1999 (para.
2.57);
(c)   terms of reference for consultant services and studies for the first year of the project (para.
2.61);
(d)    annual counterpart financing requirements and annual budget provisions sufficient to cover
additional recurrent costs resulting from the project (paras. 2.61, 4.10);
(e)    establishment by Dec. 31, 1999, of MNE quality control and program accreditation
mechanisms (para. 3.18);
(f)    conducting a functional evaluation by Dec. 31, 1998, of all major institutions and
faculties, including recommendations for cost-recovery (para 3.22);
(g)    preparation and implementation by Dec. 31, 1998, of an action plan for outsourcing all
major maintenance functions at UCAD and USL (para. 3.34);
(h)   the transfer of the functions of the Implementation Team to the UCAD and MNE at the
time of the mid-term review (para. 3.36);
(i)   the implementation manual (para. 5.2);
(j)   the steering committee's responsibility for ensuring that a mid-term review to evaluate the
progress made in implementing the project is carried out with IDA by October 1999, and



36
for prompt implementation of all measures agreed upon with IDA as a result of the mid-
term review (para. 5.5);
(k)    submission to IDA of: (i) progress reports on the implementation of the project not later
than May 31 and November 30 of each year; (ii) annual projected work programs and
budgets not later than November 30 of each year; and (iii) background documents and
budget expenditures for an annual progress review to be organized and carried out with
IDA during the fourth quarter of each calendar year (para. 5.6);
(I)    submission to IDA of annual audit reports, of reasonable scope and detail, within six
months of the end of the fiscal year (para. 5.18); and
(m)   establishment of a management information system to enable the MNE to track annual
monitoring indicators (para. 5.20).
7.3    As conditions for credit effectiveness, the Government will have:
(a)    paid the counterpart financing requirement of $250,000 for the first project year into a
project account (para. 2.61);
(b)    adopted an operational manual acceptable to IDA containing guidelines, criteria, and
procedures governing the grants and allocations to be made through the university research
fnmd(paras. 3.20, 5.13);
(c)    adopted the implementation manual (para. 5.2);
(d)    submitted bidding documents, acceptable to IDA, for all civil works and all major
packages to be procured through ICB for the first year of the project (paras. 5.3, 5.8);
(e)    appointed an independent auditor under a contract acceptable to IDA (para. 5.18); and
(f)    established a management information system to enable the MEN to track annual
monitoring indicators (para. 5.20).
7.4    Recommendation. Subject to the above terms and conditions, the proposed project is suitable for
a credit of SDR 18.4 million (US$ 26.5 million equivalent) to the Republic of Senegal on standard IDA
terms, with 40 years maturity.



37
Annex 1
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
HIGHER EDUCATION PROJECT
BASIC DATA
Total area (thousands of square kilometers) .....................................                                                                                     197
Per capita GNP ..................................... US$611
Total population (millions) .....................................                                                                                                      8.3
Urban population as % of total population .....................................                                                                                      42%
Average annual population growth rate .....................................                                                                                        2.7%
Life expectancy (years) .....................................                                                                                                          49
Infant mortality (per thousand live births) .....................................                                                                                      68
Fertility rate .....................................                                                                                                                   5.9
Crude birth rate (per thousand) .....................................                                                                                                   42
Crude death rate (per thousand) .....................................                                                                                                   15
Age structure of population (% of total)
0-14 years .....................................                                                                                                       47%
15-64 years .....................................                                                                                                      53%
Total adult illiteracy rate .....................................                                                                                                    62%
Female adult illiteracy rate .....................................                                                                                                  75%
Gross enrollment rate
Primary ....................................................................................................................... 56%
Secondary .........................                                                                                                                    16%
Post-secondary .........................                                                                                                                  3%
Female participation (as percentage of total enrollment)
Rural .........................                                                                                                                         35%
Urban .........................                                                                                                                         46%
Primary .........................                                                                                                                       43%
Secondary .......................................................................................... 35%
Higher education ..                                                                                                                                     24%
Pupil/teacher ratio
Primary ......5................................................................... 58
Secondary ...........................                                                                                                                      35
Tertiary .....2......................................................................................... 22
--UCAD .....2............................................................... 25
--USL .............8................................................................................. 8
Transition  rate (prinary  to secondary)  ........................                                                                                                  44%
Repetition/dropout rates
Primary ........................................... 16%
Secondary .....                                                                                                                                         16%
Tertiary .......                                                                                                                                       54%
Sources:                 The World Bank, World Development Report 1995: Workers in an Integrating World.
The World Bank, Social Indicators of Development, 1995, MNE data.



38
Annex 2A
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
HIGHER EDUCATION PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE--IMPLEMENTATION TEAM
The main functions of the IT will be to:
(a)   liaise between the borrower, the beneficiary entities, and IDA, and keep the Minister, the
Rectors, and other beneficiary entities apprised of all important project matters;
(b)    provide full support and assist project beneficiary entities in resolving problems related to
project execution and deal with unexpected situations as well as errors of omission and
commission arising from lack of familiarity with IDA procedures;
(c)    coordinate the preparation of the annual work program and associated budget of the
project and monitor its execution. This activity encompasses the allocation of the credit
proceeds and government counterpart funding and, where applicable, contributions from
other co-financiers to various implementation entities;
(d)    coordinate the preparation of the annual work program by each implementation entity,
aggregate them into an annual work program for the project, and secure its approval by the
designated decision-making body in consultation with IDA;
(e)    prepare bidding documents with consultant support as needed, and handle the entire
procurement process and procurement planning;
(f)    monitor the execution of the work program (including what is delegated to a private
contract management firm), commitments and disbursements of the credit proceeds by
each implementation entity, and follow up on non-objection requests and procurement
matters;
(g)    supervise compliance with agreed covenants and the fulfillment of the objectives and
performance indicators;
(h)    prepare exhaustive progress reports and transmit them to the decision-making bodies and
IDA in a timely manner;
(i)    keep the accounts of the project and ensure that each project implementation entity does
the same;
(j)    coordinate the preparation of the annual audit of accounts and of the mid-term review
conducted jointly by the beneficiaries and IDA.



39
Annex 2B
Page 1 of 1
TRANNG AND SKILLS TRANSFER
1.    The Higher Education Project aims to help decision makers at all levels to improve their capacity
to reforrn Senegal's education system. With regards to technical assistance, the strategy adopted is to
recruit high caliber expertise with a commitment to on-the-job training and the ability to transfer skills and
knowledge. This orientation is a major focus of the consultant terms of reference already drafted for
technical advisors to be recruited under the Project. To ensure that training and skills transfer receive
priority during implementation, several actions have been taken:
(a)    The consultant profiles developed for all technical advisor posts emphasize the importance
of training, team building and communication skills. These criteria will be weighted
heavily during the consultant selection process;
(b)    All terms of reference for consultant support outline a process of interaction between
technical expert and ministerial or institutional staff, as well as with other stakeholders as
appropriate. The technical advisors will be required to interact with Ministry and
institutional personnel in a "working group" format, in order to encourage participation
and dissemination of information.  The technical advisors will be responsible for
organizing workshops in stakeholders discuss their objectives and strategies. They will
also orgarnize training seminars and fora in which Ministry and institutional staff will
present the results of their work to their colleagues. The emphasis will be on appropriation
of skills by Ministry and institutional counterparts;
(c)    All terms of reference include criteria for evaluating the work of technical advisors with
heavy emphasis on achieving training and skills appropriation objectives;
(d)    Terms of reference developed for the Implementation Team place a premium on training,
with all IT functions to be transferred to MNE and the UCAD by the time of the mid-term
review.
2.     Because of the eriphasis placed on developing and implementing management tools and
information flow procedures and on improving work methods and practices, on-the-job training is most
suited to achieving the Project's capacity-building objectives. The bulk of training under the Higher
Education Project will be provided on the job. Workshops and seminars will also be organized to facilitate
inter-office communication and the dissemination of information. Arrangements will be made under the
information systems component to train key personnel in the use of relevant software, and to provide
trouble-shooting support throughout the project period. This training will be conducted in the context of
group sessions. The training aspects of this Project will be considered a success if, at the end of Project
implementation, Ministry and University staff were able to use new tools, information and work methods to
articulate needs and justify decision-making processes, particularly in the context of requests for operating
and investment resources.



HtapuIbIic ol Sen&efj.s
I iIlueI Edxcdtilui PoUJ.Lt
tiJ.'a.lselana  AccotonI6 by FI'iand.oub
IDA               1I4 Guveiiaitieil              luujI                           ocUd (EaMI    Dllob:b 
Aiiwwu"st     %         Aau aml         %        Aituma&:i   _   %        foU .uALII.      I^eJ       l_     X
I (lVII Woiktib                                           ,521,045      t, U      I,5I9,Oi/ t    ) tl    1 2,0090,22z    39 2       t U,JJ9 621    3,62 1 -I U    I I/U.Ib7
" Equipmeld dlid  eliwoet.     4.602.3d       W 9        4U0.231)      9 I      5.28202/        I/I I     4.208.9t 04      t9 J 442       480U239
: t4Lup:w1IlItdod Vduck:le                              4,8012,3(38    9(39       40(3,'Z'      'J3,Z2ti/                t 1          2*/            200,J-X   13,02  4L0I.51 1
t FIuulJu:li dIKI MdIchIdis                               ,t025,108      9t9        ttl2b,  1     9 1 t        1,127,tl 9   3/         322,0/ti       -03,)2         IO,511
4 IcxIbtuok dla t iliel Pexdagogjlc Maeildho            3,272,438i    134 6        5'95,440     iS 4      3.8ti0861       12 5      2,0/2,646       1 795.2t.0             -
S Hies4achfund                                            1,411,107      500      1.411,107      5040       2.822,215       91       1.154,247       1.538.235       129,733         C;
6 ConisuKd:A Selvice!                                     1,824.153     1000              0         -       1.82415J        59       1,512.379         311,774              -        H
7 Tlidiung                                                 779,094      9W2          30.836       3U         809,929        26         452,513        326,5bO         30,836
8 OpeIdill9C oli                                          1.111.51,9     8tl9       139,1 3       It I      t,250,/44       4 1        2Utl,5'25      91U,921         51,29U         C/i
9 I'PF                                                    ll,/UO,OO     I000               -                                    -  8    _ 1/ t30i                 5                           O tr
uIAdI                                                      26.526,911      859       4,337.475      141      30,864,385    1000        18,682.959      9,808,653      2,372.774                      (7)
0~~
e              m        -3~~~
(A ~        t 
so



It4pubht ul SonegaI
HrRJGi E4ubuIn Pi-upcl                                                                                                                                         %      % TWA,
aC aaIst  Peo~Pfulci Ctst sk.s,aniasy                                            (1 _US _)                                                   _            f.u-Us1    Base
1 a    __   _ Fu_Tull_clu_    LuEl r, T..l                                                 I !_ C..Is,
A IMPHOVE tlWRA!Y SERVICES
I*AniMpand i HsA.U i IiUnC UtADCui,4Imbuiuy                     1.942.793.1bU    2,915.22t.6A)1  4.858.WUd.I/bU    3,Yt4tS4      5,1-9.440     9.914.324       bU      JYf
Acquzalki W   uMb aisdPuaaodica/ ttbNuYdbylaaagaiinrai           8621.6! .116    I 023J6.0752      1 645.3/6.9i28   1.268 /68     2.019.165 _3,357.9JJ          b2       I1
SuLbloal IPROVE LIBRARY SERVICES                                 2,564,489,336    3.938,916.352     6.503,405,688     5,233.652     8,038,605    13.272.251       Gl      52
1i UPGRAlDE TEACIUNG AND ftESIEARCII
Rauueca Applid Sciecle Teaching                                  334.542.tb0     .281.'29.b8(XU    1.616.53J400U     682,/40      2,6161320     3,299J.06       79       Ij
.velup aad Pialo IeIAcc.udeIttn Sypont                            4,b626,953        0.1U58,272      12J.385,225       9l.29        164,813      2b4.051       6Z        I
M.mIago ConmpulAive IHu!uiawlifund                               5/5.613.7d0      S08,032.00u      I,tP3b45./8U     1.114.122     t.036.tK      2. 21l.S22     4/       1
Study Aktilanwv Modu6 blu Ieoachiing asd fianciaa                 20,374.200       84,/!/.44U      IU5,111640        41.58U       113056        214.636       81I       I
InvI4MtCoilititildudIhl1-xliwoon SoIvbco%                        196.,10.9136     51.061.2Utl       /14,175,1.36     40U.221i 1.57250          1457 50         13       t,
Sa6uliA1 UPOGADE TEACIONG AND RESEARCII                           1.175,268.469    2.473,651.712    3C64.920.181      2.398.507     5.048.269     7.446.776      68       29
C. S IiRENO1IiEN M5ANAEMENT CAPACIT'Y
R.igfanue Sludeil Sevices                                        356U.036,YdW     4.466.888tjU      845.5.t.8/8      /26.610       988.912      1.115.522      5)        1
I1)vuk,p U usriuuaMwc Sypluit                                    204,GS2,42(      21. 452.I60       4/6.1U4,5t0      4I1/.b5       553J98S4      91 G64         5/       4
P u,~.4e  Ad"usabna4..uIwa                                       9Ii 4I.89J2__   34 06 9()04        225  55Y42b  3_    U /l t       6) 514)      4bU-__5 ___       2_
Stabluil.u SRIENGTIIEN MANAGEMENT CAPACITY                         752,A61.340      794.98t544     1541.169.864      1,535.064     1.622.426    3.157.4.0       SI       12
D HEFUNDIG1OF -F                                                     _             81 2o00.1t!000    812.20U0  ______J           0,U             1/8000l0 __IOU _         /
TuleI IMASELINE COSTS                                             4.491.939.146    8.079.756.6t8    12,571.695.754    09167,223    I6.469.2W\   25,656.522        b4      100
I'hyvubIC  CWAW1rngnciv                                          2/1.730,223      418.405,501       75U.135.,tU3     554.551       916.335      1,530.69      64        6
Puice CwUngencles                                              1,205,229,763      596,467561      1,8UI,117,324     2,459,t5_     1,217,322    3,b76,Y74        33      14
Total PROJECT COSTS                                               5,968.699.131    9.154.849.750    15S123.540881    12,181.427    185682,959    30.884.385       61      120
PO
4_L



l(cubbL ul bus,g..il
Il.~~~I~~ td,.talu,, l.uj.tl ~~~~~~~~USIOIIA(* I hALlIIII  AIAt) Itt ~LAI(LI
t.p..|4idui. Aic9A.-,I. Ly Co-po.....1.I - lol.l   _I#AHUIfY IiOIHAHY hLIHVICkt                                                    Sludy
p _bt).                                          .ild                                                                            AII.ie-u.
l*4l,.LUlLaOusi    Acqul.lU9ui. x      M.I.8.it.   II.v.lup ....      Mellag.    Muislul          l I        S itltll{ !Lh4t! MAIIAULMLII!APAI Y
.1 UCAM)           ook"  jul          Applld4     Pul Iaol    Csm,p.Uh-vA loah                                           D .. Cu.ipu ls .  k..gaiU  OsuDUp
C.sal         V..p@ludP id. AIU,,.y  S'I.,.      Actu.d8.Usu,h   Heustt.,   ujud   .I,uIumu,m.Uo,s           Mtg,ds,il    Mao,|l,.m..siut........ ISujexi  LtUNUIDJU Ut
LlLhAr9        _Mb,Aa8-.e--__    1                  jxi.t          fuhid       !l..s.ahu.s   6o,vl...        ..    . b_ I_l    Ad,lblIallous               Plutul
I InYeoULmem Coat
A LIVI WQAKS                                     9.161654                       -                            .220UUU    2.02l.1040                                          088088                                      12 09.202
U (BlAP28NI AtUDVfIlCIES                                                 310.194    3.8U01.14          U0.443                           -        W  l/.                   2U/.OUO           4U.314                     ,22 d2/
C F1uIIa1L  A1840 MAlEMJAIS                        921.121                      -                                          -                                                20    a                 -                    1.121.411
o 1EXIE(KS AU APEOUiOGC MAIERIA                                        3.611.11W                                                                       -                                                                 3 08/80ud
E COeStAIANI SERVIC(S                             1.159 132              l32.2)4         3.40           V1. 022       /3J.40U     li 352          11J.480                     41144                                     1I24 15J
fINAW11481                                                                   38         ad.I lU         /3 JS4                     UU8b04        1/1US24      1t88CUO                               .                     08 Uw2
G HneU.Efud                                               --                                                  -   2.122.215              -             -                           .-                                   2        l
II  I'LtM18tUiOI1Uf                                                         __                                .            . _  _    _I .IUAIA/U
10441h1aveblJslIcLN                               1243.10d               4310741       3001.344          225,49    280C.80          28 1245      1 40U010    2.210009       1 144031            40.314       160060      29dl3a41
A Oyp.ueu.g OIV uA Iijid loIu lU/lW                                                                                    6Il                       36iI                       IU1I8iJ          16/211.IIl cia I/I
II Silas. -,5Bi,                                                                        l60I6          IU0IUJ        J',/ 41) 4106                                                                                        4Iwt4   /Ih
I.4. H.Csi1i.a4 Cu.lb                                                 - _           -     19013          107 193       3513)                      3613l2 -   _0 _4_10               2          54-4     - 22I    -2144
1I PHOJtICI Cols                                   11.243.tuo 4I30141                  4048 317          332282    2931.420          28/245      I8)83n2    22108418         1.251,230         804 650G      1.o0ow      30.814 385
1 ..                                             I.2S1./111               33.1180      362.806           6.480      1ij/                 -       lLk OUt00    200u110       12/ low      s     4Udl                     I *221 114
4.EAagu,E iI.                                    9449.5)5               2.02 .1136    3.12/,6I         IU2,913     t 21W /i       iUh13  AWN1  1,204.401     1.194.U01      00dIt0             61554      I.IGUOOW      In102.6VU
O U



RejiuiJc cl Sene9gal
II.OwIi Educdlau4 PNuecl dU')cugeneal Mell.ii__
PsuocaielwiIt AilangJeumenli                   IiIeiliw.ii          I *ial
(kiss)                                          CwimipiIllive   CWlalbutiSive      I ucdII D)iaz                CusibaillIllAj
B.kiddmg        UldtY          StI.ulppssa   C.uIIIIinigaY     SCIvILab        N 8.F.          lu1la
A. CW                                               6,049,601       6,049,601              -               -               -            -        12.099.202
(5,260,523)     (5.260.523)                                                                 (10,521.045)
B Equ4nenl anWd Vehicles                            5,282,627               -                                  S5282,621
(4,802,388)                                                                                  (4.802,3B8)
C Maleindis and Faumile                                     -       1.127,619                                                           -         1,I27,619
(I1,U026. 108f)                                                              (1,02S,108)
0. Thdlbooks and PedagolJc M.alelals                3,272,436               -             -                -               -      595,460        3,867,ti9
(3.212,431i)                                                                                 (3,212.436)
E. ConaUliil SclYICes                                               -                     -                -       1,824,153            -         1,824,1S3
(1.8U24,1S:))                 (1.824.153)
F Tialnag                                                   -               -             -         81J,929                -            -          809,929
IYI79.tY4)                                    (179.094)
G. RsearcihFund                                                     -              -               2.22,215                -            -        2,B22,215                                  .p
(1.411,107)                                   (1.411.107)
II Operihg Costs                                            -               -       617.544         617,544                -       15,656         1,250,744
(S55,789)       (6s6,619)                                    (1.111 ,519)
I PPF                                                       --L-                                    dt,UO            89000              -         1.70,0ffO0
___    -(U'.JO    )    _(6OUO\0.000                    (1,700.00)
TdaFl                                              14,604,664        7.177,220      617.544        5.139.6a8        2.714.153     611,117        30,864,385
(13,335.341)     (0.2U5.631)     (Ss.789)      (3,36:1,95.0)    (2,114,153)                  (26,526.911)
No1ad Figwes hI parlhedss are we oespeaclve arnou4sn liawiced by IOA
a.us



44
Annex 4A
Page I of 1
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
HIGHER EDUCATION PROJECT
PROJECT PERFORMANCE INDICATORS BY PROJECT YEAR
Indicator/FY            1997      1998      1999      2000      2001      2002
Project  In puts__                _ _ _  __ _ _ _  __ _ _ _  __ _ _  __            _ _ _ _
-Counterpart funds (S,000)        250       250      350       350       400       400
-Research proposals received      100       150      300       300       400       400
Project Outputs
-Books catalogued (,000)          10        10        15        15        20        20
-Research projects completed                50        75        150      150       200
-Accreditations completed             __   1          2         3         3         4
Sector Impact 
-% private higher education        5         8        10        12        14        15
-% female                         24        25        27        28        29        30
pass rates                         see sectoral indicators in Annex 6



45
Annex 4B
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
HIGHER EDUCATION PROJECT
MID-TERM REVIEW
1.    The mid-term review is an important part of the supervision plan for this project. Its goal is to
determine the progress achieved for each project component as a function of the initial objectives. It will
take place approximately three years after project effectiveness and will provide the key opportunity to
ensure that needed policy reforms are in place. Agreement on implementation of a matrix of policy reforms
is included in the Development Credit Agreement as a dated covenant. The mid-term review will examine
project-specific implementation as well as broader project impact on Ministry and institutional operations
and will be the joint responsibility of the World Bank and the Government of Senegal. The following
evaluation criteria, broken down by project component, will be used:
(a)    Strengthening of library and information services
(i)    construction and rehabilitation of central library;
(ii)   rehabilitation of satellite libraries;
(iii)   acquisition of books and periodicals;
(iv)   provision of sufficient financing for recurrent expenditures:
a.     books
b.     computerization
C.     upkeep
d.    textbooks
e.     syllabi
(v)    increase in library use by teachers and professors;
(vi)   computerization of cataloguing;
(vii)   weeding out of existing collection, retro-cataloguing;
(viii)  establishment of inter-library budget collaboration;
(ix)   textbook and syllabus distribution;
(x)    increase in operating hours at library;
(xi)   access to Internet;



46
Annex 4B
Page 2 of 3
(xii)  installation of direct access security system; and
(xiii)  preparation of "virtual" courses.
(b)    Upgrading of teaching and research
(i)    completion of planned economic analysis including refined unit cost projections
and rate of return analysis;
(ii)    agreement on implementation of a policy reform matrix, including:
a.     teaching hours and conditions for contract and tenured professors
b.     curtailing and prioritizing of student scholarships, with a significant
increase in the proportion of female students
c.     application of user fees and cost recovery
d.     privatization of cafeteria and other services
e.     closing of marginal programs
f.     increased financing for non-salary expenditures
(iii)   successful execution of study agendas for the first two years, including:
a.     private provision of post-secondary programs
b.     cost recovery
c.     interactive technologies
d.     exploration of the recurrent and investment cost implications of a
proposed master plan for development of regional campuses.
(iv)    development and pilot testing of accreditation processes by the Ministry of
National Education;
(v)    planning and execution of training programs;
(vi)   purchase of scientific equipment;
(vii)   provision of sufficient financing for recurrent expenditures;
(viii)  functioning of competitive research fund; and
(ix)    functional MIS.



47
Annex 4B
Page 3 of 3
(c)    Development of a maintenance system
(i)    provision of sufficient financing for recurrent expenditures
(d)    Reorganization of student services management
(e)    Project administration
(i)    clear evidence of the effectiveness of specialists recruited for the project: proof of
technology appropriation by national staff, a demonstrable success rate for in-
service training programs, a history of quick identification and deployment of
competent technical specialists;
(ii)   the level of perfornance of the project coordinator corresponding to the evaluation
criteria defined in terms of reference established for the position, including follow-
up of field work, effective public relations, sound fiscal management, timely
preparation of project-related documents, and preparation of agendas for meetings
of the steering committee;
(iii)   completion of the first- and second-year audits in a timely fashion, with
satisfactory evidence of appropriate accounting;
(iv)   timely replenishment of the Special Deposit Account and the Project Account,
with appropriate supporting documentation,
(v)    procurement and disbursement procedures understood by personnel of the project
coordinating unit, and routinely implemented without significant delay.



48
Annex 5A
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
HIGHER EDUCATION PROJECT
PROCUREMENT PLAN
LP^<sttect '                    Prcic Year                     I u| Pxc 
199f   1996   1997  I 998 I1999 I zo             2Iz00t1  2002 1 Pyt-w  et        Rerna
jP,-ie -emers Cuarters              1 2 3 -I 2 3 *II 2 3 A1 2 3   1 2 3  111 2 3123 411 2 3 41 menIt Metflod
1C:ecit -m,ng                      I
S;gn I .f!ec. C:ose                           xx                                              x
Arr.icecurallergineenng stuaies    x x x x xX
?renaracon at Siccing "co.ienm               x
icdi vEaiuaoorjAwatrd                 
C.onscrucon =r.tac: signatut                      x
mciemnentancn or wor.s                             x x x x x x x x x x                             9.2   IC3  Prequalificacon
C: er -3c:ies
I :,gramm anC esurniacon            x x
| A   tEecvxaVenqineenng  tuciet                x x
I 9ecarauon -f 3iC::ng ,oc;ments             i   x
3icciry/EvaiuatorvAwari                             x
Znstr_=.nr^ cr7tc: signaturi                         x                                             1.9    C3  Stud. Setv. 3udding
;rnmoernenrauon ci ^rcr3                                xx xx                                      0 9    NC3  Satellite Lbranes
zcc5             i                                                             .  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ESP Ihias
Gccds
Ezuicemen!s zr'.:crarv1Sj e>o  e
.-eoaracon of ail 3id ZzcrMentt       x x
SiccingiEaluador'Awarm                       i        x
::ntrac sgrnare .                            i          x
Ceoivery of Ecicnment                        .            x x                                      S.3   IC3  C.2ord. wth. C_ntr
L:-rarv BOokS
! Stancarc Sic _ac -eacy :or .7view             x
P-acarauon 3id ZCoo HoOk Lsts                   x       x       x       x       x                   3.9   [C3  Y1 Z Pr,eualiff"L
3iccirg I - aluat:n I Awarc                       x       x       x       x       x                             12-Y5 * Cuoutonst
Z_n.-rac: Sigratra                           i   x        x       x       x       x                             from Preregis:ered
Celivery of Books                                   x x     x x     x x     x x      x x                          3CiaD11butOrs
*Ctrer -acds
Stancaro 3id Ccc ready fcr wview             jx
|Peoaraion of ail Bid Zocurmn.                  xii
|idCingiEvaluatiorJAward                          x
CZcnraC signature                                   x
retivery Of goods                                    x x                                           0.9   NC3
E :ioment and supcy                            x         x       x       x       x                 0.2    Trt|
jResearcn Funds
Peoaruacon or PrOpOsaLi   x                               x       x       x       x
Evaluation                                          x       x       x       x       Z                           PrOjea ImpleMenL
Reseaac ixec.zon                                      x x     x x     x x     x x     x x x x       2.8   oTh  Manual
C.nsultances (Maior contmi:l 
|   IlrZ.svShort Lst 'or apprtvai           x x x
I  idd!nC/1 iaIuaticnJAwuU                    Ix  x                                        
C_ntrac reviewed Oy ICA                       x     x
Czrtrac signature                             x     x
|  Cuaiity antrcl for CW                      x x                                                         OTh  ConWoI Stud. & Wk
|   raining Abroad                                    x.                                            0.8   0Th
|   Short 7errn Specafists                            x x x x                                       2.0   OTh
Miceivaneous rCoeraton Cst)II
[    Coera'ion Y Maintenanc Costs               x x xx X X  X   x x x x x x x x x X X X  x          1.2   OTN
*l  '^f--n'.'ilnai C.omoeuw 8 noi   NC3: Nedonal c4mp.uvc aoidarg; 0TH: o,r P ocur rnent Mead NSF: Non Bank Fund



49
Annex SB
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
HIGHER EDUCATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATON SCHEDULE
Key Dates                    Implementation Step                  Responsibility
1995
*      December              Pre-appraisal                       IDA
1996
*  February                  Appraisal                           IDA
*  May                       Negotiations                        Government/IDA
*  May                       Implementation Manual               Government
*  June                      Board Presentation                   IDA
*  August                    Declaration of Effectiveness         IDA
*  September                 Project Launch/Consultation          Steering Committee/IDA
(Project Supervision)               Steering Comnittee/IDA
1997
-  May                       First Progress Report due           Implementation Team
*  June                      Submission of 1996 audit report     Implementation Team
-  October                   Consultation                         Steering Committee/DA
(Project Supervision)               Steering Committee/IDA
Agreement on second-year
action plan, TOR's                  Steering CommitteeDA
*  November                  Confirmation of Auditor for          Steering Comnittee
1997 Project Accounts               Implementation Team
Second Progress Report due
1998
*  May                       Third Progress Report due            Project Coordination
Consultation (Project Supervision)  Steering CommitteeIDA
*  June                      Submission of 1997 audit report     Implemnentation Team
*  October                   Consultation                         Steering Commit/A
(Project Supervision)               Steering Committee/IDA
Agreement on third-year
action plan, TOR's                  Steering CommIteeDA
*  November                  Fourth Progress Report due          Implemetation Team
Confirmation of Auditor for
1999 Project Accounts               Steering Committee



50
Annex 5B
Page 2 of 2
Key Dates                    Implernentation Step                Rensibilitv
1999
Fifth Progress Report due           Steering Committee/IDA
*  June                      Submission of 1998 audit report     Implementation Tearn
*  October                   Mid-term Review of Project           Steering Conmittee/IDA
*  November                  Sixth Progress Report due            Implementation Teamn
Consultation                        Steering Commnittee/IDA
Confimiation of Auditor for
1999 Project Accounts               Steering Committee
Agreement on fourth-year
action plan, TOR's                  Steering Committee/IDA
2000
  April                     Consultation                         Steering Committee/DA
(Project Supervision)               Steering Committee/IDA
-  May                       Seventh Progress Report due          Implementation Team
*  June                      Submission of 1999 audit report     Implementation Team
*  October                   Agreement on fifth year action
plan, TORs                          Steering Committee
*  November                  Eighth Progress Report due           Lnplementation Team
2001
*  May                       Consultation (Project Supervision)   Steering Committee/IDA
Ninth Progress Report due           Implementation Team
*  June                      Submission of 2000 audit report     Implementation Team
*  October                   Agreement on sixth year action
plan, TORs                          Steering Committee
*  November                  Tenth Progress Report due           Implementation Tearn
.
2002
*  May                       Consultation (Project Supervision)   Steering Committee/IDA
Eleventh Progress Report due        Implementation Team
TORs for Implementation             Steering Committee/IDA
Completion Report
   June                     Submission of 2001 audit report     Implementation Team
*  October                   Completion mission                   Steering Commitee/DA
*  December                  Final Progress Report due            Implementation Teamn
Project Closure                     IDA
2003
*  June                      Review of Implementation             Steering Committee/IDA
Completion Report
Submission of final audit report    Implementation Team



51
Annex 6
Page 1 of 6
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
HIGHER EDUCATION PROJECT
HIGHER EDUCATION POLICY STATEMENT/PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
1.    GENERAL
1.1   The framework for the Government's policy for higher education and university research was
established by the States-General for Education and Training (EGEF, 1981), and draws on
recommendations from the National Commission for Refonn of Education and Training (CNREF, 1984),
Law No 91-22 of February 16, 1991, and decisions taken by the National Consultation on Higher
Education (CNES, 1993).
1.2   This policy also reflects recommendations of the study "Senegal 2015" of 1989 and the
conclusions of the World Conference on Education for All (Jomtien, 1990) and is included in the 9th Plan
of Economic and Social Development.
1.3   The measures approved for restructuring higher education aim to improve the quality, coherence,
efficiency, viability and the fit between needs and resources and employment and training. In general, they
have to do with:
* strengthening the academic and administrative autonomy of the universities;
- renewing the academic and pedagogic organization;
* reorganizing the financial and administrative management of the universities;
m rationalizing student services;
- rationalizing the management of scholarships.
1.4   These measures will contribute to:
* improving higher education and university research;
* strengthening the quality of general and vocational education;
* developing research, which is necessary for improving training and the overall scientific,
cultural and professional level of the nation and of the individuals of whom it is comprised;
* promoting and developing a quality private higher education sector;
* national and regional growth within a planned framework, economic growth and the
achievement of employment-based policies which take into account current and future needs;
* a reduction in social and cultural inequalities and achievement of equality between men and
women by providing equal access to the highest levels of culture and research, based on ability
and effort.
1.5   The long-term objective of the Government is to establish a more efficient system of higher
education, with a greater return for investment and more relevance for the economic development of
Senegal. To this end, the Government will re-focus the activities of the two universities on their teaching
mission, while strengthening management capacity and quality control. In addition, it will promote private
higher education.



52
Annex 6
Page 2 of 6
1.6    The development of this policy will take place on the basis of a strategy and a plan of action to be
financed above all by institutional budgets, savings realized through rationalizing student services and
scholarships, and with support from the donor community.
II.    IMPLEMENTATION STRATEGY
2.1    The development of higher education and university research is constrained by the effects of two
factors external to the system: on the one hand, strong demographic pressures, and on the other hand,
limited resources in the context of structural adjustment and the devaluation of the CFA franc.
2.2   In spite of the difficulties and economic constraints, the long-term objective is to reach a high level
of quality in teaching activities, in research and in terms of services offered to the community.
2.3    To this end, the following underlying principals have been defined:
* a continuing emphasis on rationalization of the system;
improving the quality of training and research;
* selective development (reform of the baccalaureate examinations, admission of high school
graduates to university based on the number of available places and according to procedures
defined by the institutions themselves);
* recruitment in training schools according to real capacity, without obligation regarding
scholarships or civil service employment;
* the development of private higher education;
* the respect of university liberties and freedoms;
* the elimination of an automatic right to study trips abroad;
* an increase in teaching hours;
* the application of proposed pedagogic measures relating to evaluation of students and teachers.
These principles will contribute to:
*  continuing rationalization measures with a view to efficient management of the resources
devoted to higher education;
*  improving the quality of training and research in order to improve human resource
development;
*  selective development with the objective of developing excellence and a high quality of
teaching;
*  seeking a better articulation of training and employment in order to achieve the long-term
development goals in the Plan.
2.4    On the basis of these principles, the Government will put into place a development strategy whose
main themes can be defined as follows, over the next five years:
* the consolidation of science classes (medicine, science, and technical classes) and innovations
in undergraduate courses with development of new technology and vocational diplomas;



53
Annex 6
Page 3 of 6
* progressive development of diversified decentralized programs in accordance with a master
plan for private and public provision of vocational diplomas;
* continued development of second- and third-cycle postgraduate study programs (scientific and
technical training) in order to strengthen national capacity;
* strengthening links with the surrounding environment (communities, collectivities, economic
sector, international community, and labor markets);
* creation of a flexible central maintenance service within the Buildings Department;
* continued rationalization of student services and scholarships (COUD, CROUS, Department
of Fellowships and Scholarships);
* restructuring the Department of Higher Education;
* rationalizing and updating existing management structures and implementing institution-
specific financial mechanisms;
* the installation of new management tools;
* the development of a five-year master plan for higher education and university research;
* the complete reorganization of existing teaching and research structures;
* renovation of pedagogic structures in order to facilitate teaching and hands-on experience,
while improving the internal efficiency of the system.
III.   ACTION PLAN
3.1    The Government will develop higher education and university research in accordance with a long-
term plan for training. Specific actions will be placed within the time-bound context of a five-year
development plan.
3.2    This approach will provide for defining an operational strategy and to prioritize programs in terms
of key objectives. With regard to the principles and strategies defined above, the plan of action has been
developed along the following lines:
3.3    The Department of Higher Education. The Department of Higher Education will be reorganized
to enable it to monitor and follow up on the measures elaborated here.
3.4    The institutions of higher education and university research. The reform will be based on the
updating pedagogic strategies in order to improve teaching and hands-on experience and the internal
efficiency of the system (stabilizing enrollments at an optimal level), to provide pre-service and in-service
training to teachers, and to create monitoring mechanisms through the establishment of appropriate and
efficient evaluation systems.
3.5   In this framework, the central library, which will provide support for the teaching and research
functions, and the central maintenance unit will be essential tools for putting the reform in place.
There will be a progressive increase in weekly teaching loads and a corresponding decrease in time assigned
for research. Where there are heavy research loads, teaching loads will be decreased.



54
Annex 6
Page 4 of 6
3.4    Public institutions of higher education (collaborative arrangements). One objective is to use
the post-secondary institutions to full capacity, and to close the programs that are not relevant in terms of
labor market opportunities. Existing teaching and research institutions will be completely reorganized
through collaborative arrangements or merging of schools and establishment of new training programs.
3.5    Private institutions of higher education. Special emphasis will be given to the development of
private higher education.
3.6    Student services. Rationalization of the administrative and financial management of student
services (COUD, CROUS) will be pursued, along with stronger measures to ensure follow-up. The
reforms begun in the first year will need to be completed:
*  the rehabilitation of the COUD, which means funds will need to be found for the project
entitled: "The COUD of tomorrow".
n particular attention will need to be given to the investment program at the University of Saint-
Louis (USL) and the CROUS, in particular the project entitled: "The CROUS: Objectives
2000".
3.7    Scholarships. With regards to management of the scholarships, the rationalization measures will
be consolidated. The progressive reduction in the amount of overseas scholarships in favor of local
scholarships will be maintained. Study grants will be given in accordance with achievement criteria. The
objective is to stabilize the number of students benefiting from scholarships at around 8000 for Senegal.
The project for computerizing the Department of Scholarships remains an urgent necessity.
3.8   In priority, the following studies will be undertaken:
*  Five-year master plan for the development of higher education and university research;
*  Teaching program for the educational system of the regional university centers;
*  Development of a new map for the institutions of higher education in Senegal
3.9    All of the decisions of the CICNES have been translated into practices through legislative texts or
administrative procedures, with the exception of the selection process for rectors and the creation of a
Chancellery.
IV.   FINANCING OF HIGHER EDUCATION
4.1    The financing of this sector will be based on the principles proposed by the National Consultation
on Higher Education (CNES) and approved by the Interministerial Council of the CNES:
* once the national budget and the budgets of the universities and associated entities (COUD,
CROUS) are approved, the Ministry of Finance will, at the start of each month, pay out a
twelfth of the annual total approved;



55
Annex 6
Page 5 of 6
*  the government will call on the international community for the financing of the preparatory
investments necessary to improve the quality of higher education;
*  for operating expenses, the higher education budget will be frozen over a five-year period at its
1995 level;
*  a better allocation of financial resources in favor of teaching and research will be undertaken
through the following measures:
* the reorganization of study travel abroad in the context of the competitive research fiund;
* a reduction in the unit costs of teaching;
* a progressive increase in teaching loads.
4.2    These different measures will help meet the need for recurrent expenditures generated by the
investments to improve the quality of teaching and research.
4.3    Financing of counterpart funds will be made through the savings in social transfers and academic
administration (personnel, operating).
4.4    The institutional budget will assume these costs progressively over the next five years.



56
Annex 6
Page 6 of 6
4.5    The following monitorable indicators are derived from and constitute an integral part of the letter
of policy for higher education.
Monitorable performance indicators
(budgetary amounts are expressed in FCAF)
1995        1996        1997        1998          1999          2000
MNE Budget   76.9 billion  80.7 billion  84.7 billion   89.0 billion    93.4 billion    98.1 billion
Higher Ed.    21.2 billion  19.9 billion  19.9 billion   19.9 billion    19.9 billion    19.9 billion
Budget
%Higher Ed       27.6%       24.7%       23.5%        22.4%        21.4%         20.3%
Scholarships
- Senegal      10,440      9,123       8,210        8,000         8,000         8000
-Overseas      2,266        1,546       1,392        1,263        1,128         1,016
Enrollments
-UCAD         22,948      21,410       19,952      18,494        17,036        15,578
-USL          1,950       1,950       2,165        2,280        2,390          2,500
-Private       1,250       1,329       1,540        1,750        2,125          2,500
Pass Rates
Bac                     44.23%                   58.23%                      68.23%
UCAD                      46.4%                    58.8%                       65%
USL                       66%                      66%                        66%
Teacher/Stu-
dent Ratio
-UCAD                       22         21.5          19           17.5           16
-USL                       26         23.5          21           19.5           18
Teaching hours                                        average       average
increase of I  increase of I
hour         hour
Library use                  69%         73%          78%          88%           99%



57
Annex 7
Page I of 2
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
HIGHER EDUCATION PROJECT
UNIVERSrrY RESEARCH FUND ARRANGEMENTS
An operational manual will be prepared prior to project effectiveness describing the financial and
administrative mechanisms linked to the functioning of the university research fund. The following
guidelines will be reflected in the operational manual.
Philosophy
Research financed under the fund will put the accent on endogenous applied research,
interdisciplinary approaches, and the expected contribution of the research project to the country's
economic or cultural development.
Selection methods
A research committee acceptable to IDA will be established. The research conumittee will
nominate through a transparent process a selection committee, or jury, will be constituted. The jury will
meet twice a year to select the best proposals prepared by individual researchers or, preferably, research
teams. Rejected proposals whose basic concept appears viable to the committee could be resubmitted
following improvements during a subsequent round of approvals. The research committee itself grants
final approval to the proposals.
Training
Annual training sessions will be held to familiarize professors with the criteria, guidelines, etc.
Evaluation
The operational manual will explain the criteria for evaluation of the overall functioning of the
research fund. This will include (i) a scientific audit at the time of the mid-term review, i.e. an assessment
of the scientific underpinning of the proposal, the research proposals, (ii) an assessment of the fund's
impact on university research, and (iii) an evaluation of the financial and administrative management of the
fund.
Eligibility criteria
Priority will be given to teaching assistants preparing theses in the context of the CAMES
programn. Senegal-based research expected to contribute to the country's development will have the first
prioirty. Other criteria will include the constitution of interdisciplinary teams, the theoretical and practical
justification for the proposal, cost considerations, etc.



58
Annex 7
Page 2 of 2
Financing
The average cost of proposals is expected to be about I to 2 million FCFA, with a maximum of 3
million FCFA and a minimum of 250,000 FCFA. Initially, financing will be on a 50-50 matching basis
between the budget formnerly used for international study visits and the IDA credit. It is expected that
other sources of financing will be found as the project advances.
Length and calendar
Research proposals will be financed for up to two years, with the possibility of a one-year
extension. Research grants will be given throughout the project life. A training seminar will be held in
October 1996 with the first grants approved by Febnury 1997.
Other activities
Other activities financed under the research fund component will include publication of five
refereed scientific journals and the organization of five seminars each year.



59
Annex 8A
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
MINISTRY OF HIGHER EDUCATION
OPERATING BUDGETS
(Billions of CFA Francs)
National     Education Budget  Higher Education
Year              PIB             Budget                              Budget
1982-83                848.9             184.8             37.0
1983-84                944.7             166.9             38.6               6.1
1984-85                1021.2            221.3             44.6               6.3
1985-86                1158.1            200.0             46.1               6.8
1986-87                1303.4            230.0             47.1               7.2
1987-88                1483.3            236.4             48.0               7.5
1988-89                1476.3            241.6             52.4               8.9
1989-90                1552.4            242.0             62.5               12.1
1990-91                1549.9            226.0             62.0                ?
1991-92                1612.8            225.4             61.6              20.5
1993                   1586.6            204.5             67.0              20.6
1994                  2155.0             243.7             74.7              21.1



60
Annex 8A
Page 2 of 2
UCAD Budget
(CFA francs)
Year         Student            Budget                    Non-salary  expenses
Enrollment
Total (1)     by student     Total (1)     by student
1984-85        11,678         4.460         381,910         1.707         146,150
1985-86        12,712         4.270         335,900         1.356         106,700
1986-87        14,749         4.285         290,530         1.228         83,260
1987-88        16,048         4.649         289,700         1.410         87,900
1988-89        14,833         4.880         329,000         1.430         96,400
1989-90        16,582         5.462         229,400         1.757         105,960
1990-91        17,810         6.145         345,000         1.977         111,000
1991-92        21,745         5.581         256,693
1992-93        21,939         5.877         267,888
1993-94        23,938         5.895         246,298
1994-95        22,948         5.985         260,820
(1) billions of FCFA.



61
Annex 8B
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
MINISTRY OF HIGHER EDUCATION
UCAD UNIT COSTS BY FACULTY
Projected Expenditure per Graduate.
Cost per Graduate at UCAD (excluding repeaters) ,000 CFA
Program      Cost      1995/96   1996/97  1997/98 1998/99 1999/00   2000/01
Category
Law        Total             6169     6426   6705   7360    8096         8501
Direct *         1778      1852   1993   2122    2334.        2450
Business   Total             3946     4087   4238   4806    5257         5520
Direct *         0.894    0.926  0.960   1088    1191         1250
Medicine    Total           11524    11524  11524  12100   12705        13340
Direct*          8227      8277   8277   8691    9126         9582
Pharmacy   Total             8461     8461   8461   8884    9328         9795
Direct *         6078      6078   6078   6381    6701         7036
Dentistry    Total          10165    10165  10165  10673   11207        11767
Direct *         7301      7301   7301   7666    8050         8452
Science    Total             6704     6908   7123   7721    8377         8796
Direct *         3818      3394   4057   4397    4771         5009
Humanities  Total            4373     6136   6328   7568   10217        10728
Direct *         1306      3484  3.604   2261    3052         3205



62
Annex 8B
Page 2 of 3
Cost per Graduate at UCAD (including repeaters) 000 CFA
Program      Cost      1995/96  1996/97 1997/98 1998/99 1999/00   2000/01
Category
Law        Total             8452     8898   9285   10192   11211         11772
Direct*          2462      2565   2676    2938    3232         3393
Business   Total             5630     5831   6047    6858    7500          7878
Direct *          1275     1321   1369    1553    1669         1784
Medicine    Total           14020    14020  14020   14721   15457         16230
Direct *         10070    10070  10070   10574   11103         8658
Pharmacy   Total            10307    10307  10307   10822   11363         11931
Direct*           7403     7403   7403    7773    8162         8570
Dentistry    Total          12628    12628  12628   13259   13922         14618
Direct *          9070     9070   9070    9524   10000        10500
Science    Total             9208     9487   9784   10604   11506         12081
Direct*           5244     5403   5572    6039    6553         6880
Humanities  Total            6063     7008   8301   10492   14164         14872
Direct *          1811     2093   2480    3134    4231         4443



63
Annex 8B
Page 3 of 3
Cost per Graduate at UCAD of Repeating ,000 CFA
Program      Cost      1995/96  1996/97 1997/98 1998/99 1999/00   2000/01
Category
Law        Total             5414    5640   5885    6460    7106         7462
Direct*          1461     1626   1696    1852    2048         2151
Business   Total             3684    3815   3957    4487    4907         5153
Direct *         0.834    0.864  0.896    1016    1111        1167
Medicine    Total            6069    6069   6069    6673    6691         7026
Direct *         4359    4359   4359    4577    4806          5047
Pharmacy   Total             3681     3681   3681    3865    4058        4261
Direct*          2644    2644   2644    2776    2950          3061
Dentistry    Total           6002    6002   6002    6302    6617         6948
Direct *         4311     4311   4311    4527    4753         4991
Science    Total             5613     5783   5963    6464    7013         7364
Direct*          3196    3293   3396    3681    3994          4940
Humanities  Total            3422    3956   4686    5923    7996         8395
Direct *         1022     1182   1400    1769    2388         2508
* Direct cost: Excluding expenditures on student related services and student scholarship



64
Annex 9
Page I of 2
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
HIGHER EDUCATION PROJECT
HIGHER EDUCATION ENROLLMENT BY INSTITUTION
UCAD (Faculties - Institutes)
Year                    Total UCAD              Total Faculties         Total Institutes
1981-82                         11754                   10100                    1654
1982-83                         11366                   9734                     1632
1983-84                         11293                   9707                     1586
1984-85                         11678                   10208                    1470
1985-86                         12712                   11277                    1435
1986-87                         14749                   13343                    1406
1987-88                         16048                   14620                    1428
1988-89                         14833                   13568                    1265
1989-90                         16582                   15291                    1291
1990-91                         17810                   16610                   1200
1991-92                         21745                   19151                    1221
1992-93                        21939                    20405                    1278
1993-94                         23938                   22460                    1478
1994-95                         22948                   21577                    1371



65
Annex 9
Page 2 of 2
UCAD Enrollments by Faculty
Year              Law/Economics    Sciences and        Medicine and      Arts and
Engineering       Pharmacy          Literature
1981/82                 4298              1739               2041              2022
1982/83                 3604              1806               2184              2140
1983/84                 3135              1938               2309              2325
1984/85                 3418              2218               2435              2137
1985/86                 3770              2349               2486              2672
1986/87                 4364              2940               2718              3321
1987/88                 4419              3257               2803              4141
1988/89                 4284              2960               2502              3822
1989/90                 4976              3260              2419               4636
1990/91                 5322              3054              2395               5393
1991/92                 6597              3399               2386              6769
1992/93                 6339              3276              2299               8491
1993/94                 6219              3732              2302               10207
1994/95                 5693              3520              2319               10045



66
Annex 10
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
HIGHER EDUCATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION MANUAL: TABLE OF CONTENTS
SECTION 1: THE PROJECT
1.1.          Project framework
1.2.          Objectives
1.3.          Description
1.4.          Estimated cost by component and category
1.5.          Financing plan
1.6.          Implementation calendar
1.7.          Credit Agreement conditionalities
SECTION 2: IMPLEMENTATION PROCEDURES
2.1.          Project coordination, monitoring, and implementation
2.2.          Institutional reorganization
2.3.          Research grants
2.4.          Training
2.5.          Operational activities
SECTION 3: PROCUREMENT
3.1.          Calendar for procurement of goods and ser.ices
3.2.          Applicable procurement procedures
3.3.          Reporting requirements
SECTION 4.: DISBURSEMENTS
4.1.          Disbursement category and reallocation of funds
4.2.          Credit account
4.3.          Special account
4.4.          Project account
SECTION 5: ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING
5.1.          Accounting and budget system
5.2.          Terms of reference and audit schedule



67
Annex 10
Page 2 of 2
SECTION 6 MONITORING AND EVALUATION
6.1           Implementation monitoring
6.2.          Mid-term Review
6.3.          Supervision Plan (IDA)
6.4.          Implementation Completion Report
ANNEXES
Annex  I  Standard ICB Documents for equipment
Annex 2   Standard ICB Documents for equipment
Annex  3   Sample Letter of Invitation for consultant services
Annex 4 Disbursement Letter
Annex 5 Bank guidelines for contracts and bids



68
Annex llA
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
HIGHER EDUCATTON PROJECT
STATUS OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
SUMMARY OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As of February 29, 1996
(In rmillions of US Dollars)
Fiscal                                Type of          -----------------USS million------   Held
Undisb
Ycar           Obligor                Business        Loan   Equity   Ptpnt.       Total    bv IFC
Inc. ptmt
1967         V'Socidtd Industrielle   Fert. & agric           1.70     1.01       0.76      3.47
d'Engrais au Senegal
1972/74/76   "'Bud, Senegal, S.A.     Food & Agribusiness              0.84                 0.84
1974/85      &'Socidtd Financiere
Sen. pour le Devt.    Financial Services              0.34                 0.34
1980           Banque de l'Habitat    Financial Services               0.46                 0.46
0.46
du Sdndgal, S.A.
1980         '/Soc. Hoteliere du Hotels & Tourism    3.00                          3.00
Barachois, S.A.
1982/88 Industries Chimiques    Fert. & Agric.       37.00   0.14        37.14     4.80
du Sdnegal, S.A.
1986         'African Seafood, S.A.    Food & Agribusiness    3.29     0.83                 4.12
0.15           0.15
1987           Soc. de Teinture,      Textiles                3.20                          3.20
Blanch. Apprets et.
1990         "'Africamer, S.A.        Food & Agribusiness     3.45                          3.45
1994           Soc. des Exportateurs    Food & Agribusiness   0.19                          0.19
0.22
du Sdnegal
1994/96 Soc. Gen. de Credit    Financial Services             0.34       0.34      0.34
0.18
Automobile, S.A,
Total Gross Commitmentsb'                                    51.83     3.96         0.76    56.55
Lcss cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales       46.81     3.01        0.76    50.58
Total commitments now held'                                   5.02    0.95                  5.97
5.97           0.33
Total commitmnents held and pending
Total undisbursed commitmnents                                         0.33                 0.33
a/ Investments which have been fully cancelled, terminated, written off, sold, redeemed or repaid.
b/ Gross comrnitments consist of approved and signed projects.
c/ Held conunitments consist of disbursed and undisbursed investments.



I)i.btag.~~~~~~,ugsog1I P,oIiI.tI~~~~~~~~~~eoisI do D6buuie.gia.uima.,. ..  K.-1 
An, .....                        S.-P,U,.,. C,nla  idt     M . i.. A
00% ~~~~U
CJdt  fj .1....1.
30%              -~~E 90
06I  311               14311.         6.0%
1998    1      ~0 0            3. a      1.1 14 3       .0%A
0.u6                 4.6     21.%,          20 0%
a
1999    I      ~I I            a       26.31.        26.0%                         4011
1.2           16       2111         30)0%                                                                                                                         c
1 2           S. 1     34 3%         340O%
4            1. 2          103:     311.6%        40.0%                    &     o-
200.0    I            Il1          12 0      46.31.        46.0%
2            I.)           13.1     61.11.        4110%                         2'1
31           1.1           lb 4     61. 1 I       000 OIL
4            I ,             I      Ui 646%       640%E    D.-                                                                                                                         1       "*
2            L.b           20.0      16 6%        60.0%                          (-          3A' 
3            Ilb           2 I.b    M 1.I1%       62 0%                             a
4             lb6          23 0     No6111.       660% 
2            01             4./     63.2%1        74.0%                                        fisaw. Ye.. (Em.acIW.3
3            06            26       66.1          Ica101
4            01            26 6     100 01*       114.0%



70
Annex 12
Page I of I
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
HIGHER EDUCATION PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in the Project File
Elements d'un systeme informatise integre. Bibliotheque centrale de l'universite C. A. Diop. Avril 1995
Rentree Unixersitaire. 1992-1993-94. Universite Cheick Anta Diop de Dakar. Rapport General 1993
Concertation Nationale sur Y'Enseignement Supenieur au Senegal Rapport General 1993
Guide du Beneficiaire des oeuvres, COUD. 1994
Renovation pedagogique de l'Universite Cheikh Anta Diop de Dakar Propositions d'action concretes.
F. Cambou. 1995
Accord cadre pour la promotion de 1'enseignement supenieur pnive. MEN, 1995
Plan strategique de developpement et de creation d'une unite de maintenance a l'UCAD. Bobbett &
Robertson, 1993
Reforme universitaire: Plan prospectif quinquennal de mise en oeuvre. S. Niang, 1995
Centre regional des oeuvres universitaires de saint-Louis (CROUS). Evaluation financiere du projet
CROUS, objectifs 2000, 1995.
Organigramme de la direction de l'enseignement supefieur : Note de presentation, MEN, 1995
La nouvelle politique du COUD, MEN. 1994
Le COUD de demain. MEN. 1995
Projet d'appui aux ecoles de Saint Louis: Plan de gestion, 1995
CROUS 2000. MEN, 1995
Note explicative sur la determination du cout moyen d'un etudiant a l'UCAD, CREA. 1996
Preparation d'un programme d'equipement et de rationnalisation de l'utilisation et de la maintenance des
infrastructures scientifiques et techniques de l'universite Cheikh Anta Diop de Dakar, sciences physiques
geologie et sciences de la terre. F. Cambou, 1994
Concertation nationale sur 1'enseignement superieur au Senegal, Pr. Assane Seck, 1993
La Recherche a l'Universite C. A. Diop de Dakar, 1991
Commission nationale de reforme de l'education et de la formation, rapport general, Annexe, Tome 1-5,
Aout 1981-84



1 8                                                4 J 1   16'                    -                                     4                                                           2n
o  VILLAGES                                 .                                                 MAURITANIA
VILLAGES                                                                     rxjY   ..
REGION CAPITALS                                ,fSJG~-             ~      Fnv 
CAPITALES REGIONAL                         R                               Fonore                                                                        SENEGAL
*  NATIONAL CAPITALS                                          Tollhar
CAPITALES                                                                                                                          HIGHER EDUCATION PROJECT
RIVERS                                     Nd
FLEUVES                            X               ,'Bi
16'     ,       REGION BOUNDARIES*                 35klNT                  .                                                                                                                                          16
LIMITES REGIONALES                 N LOUiS
.  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
FRONTIERES INTERNATIONALES                  LOUGA                                                                              Martam
* RNg-o, "ares ore - e- s-me rh s the ieg.oo capftls,  (3                                                                                      0
except for Cop-Ted                               GtblLnur'*),
,Gupbul                             Linguere                                                      t<                    
9Kebemer                     Dahrar
ATLA,N'TIC                                  oNdjnde
ATLANTIC                 ~~~~~Mekhe6  0Kelle                                                                                                      -
(,iCEAN                                                                                                                                                     K <
Tivoouaneo oPire,
Sulgalkam  THIES Khombole                      Toub                                                                                                    ke
0
v, E-VEk' Pikine                            Bambey         oMboo&e                                                                                                B
DAKAR*r          0    e         Thienpbc       C DIOURBEL
Rtfisque Endienaoneo
Urban arid Rurall)  Sr11110 llyI  Gossasc
(U,b- .d R-1) Soho 0 OThia.diae
Mbour   Roff          FATICK
o          0t
0                        Guinguiheo        Kaffrine
loaf                 0N'
*ocl  .  Fo2undiougnAeo AOLACK                                                                                                                    t
4'  0    20   40   60   80   100                      Sokone       CDarou     Mbao                  Koungheul                   Sintiou                                                                 MALI          14'-
Sou    Ndofee0Mam
KILOMETERS                                          MOlne                                                           em    TAMBACOUNDA
0Keur   Niaro du R.)
1n,                                                                                                                                        Mssfirax d d
BANJUL                                               (                                                   M  a
_ _~-                                     *                   -,^  *-'  -  . '
MAURITANIA                  THE  GAMBIA               j                                         .      _r                ,
-.   Velingora
0
DAKAR                                                                   e f7 Bigconp'  oSu      KOLDA
\A]  MALI                        -i         Sedhiouc) 
GAMEIA  '                   tAA..LI'--                                                                                                      r                                 Kedougo,D 
C                                           A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
GUIUNjEA                             ,.' ZfGUIN CHOCH.O R                                  -7"
GUINFA                                                                        GUINEA-BISSAU                         .                                   -lr
_t0
'0                                                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GUINEA  2L
__            __         ____               _   _____                        __       ___                     __________-___                                             _ _









IMAGING
Report No:       15523 SE
Type: SAR



