Page  1
                                                      CONFORMED COPY
                                               CREDIT NUMBER 2872 SE
                      Development Credit Agreement
                       (Higher Education Project)
                                 between
                           REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
                                   and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                            Dated June 17, 1996
                                               CREDIT NUMBER 2872 SE
                        DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 17, 1996, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of
the Project;
      (B)   the Association has received a letter dated May 3, 1996, from
the Borrower, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies
designed to achieve to strengthen the performance of the Borrower's
education sector (the Program) and declaring the Borrower's commitment
to the execution of the Program; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and condi-
tions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                       General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications thereto set forth below (the General Conditions) con-
Page  2
stitute an integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
            "Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise
            agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of
            expenditures in the territories of any country which is not
            a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services
            supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of
            any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of
            goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the
            Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United
            Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the
            Charter of the United Nations.".
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Beneficiary" means a professor or a group of professors
receiving the Grant (as hereinafter defined) under Part B.3 of the
Project;
      (b)   "DAGE" means Direction d'Administration Generale et d'
Equipement, the Directorate of General Administration and Equipment
within MNE (as hereinafter defined);
      (c)   "FCFA" means Franc de la Communaute Financiere d'Afrique,
the currency of the Borrower;
      (d)   "First Project Year" means the twelve-month period
beginning from the Effective Date and ending twelve months thereafter
and "Project Year" or "PY" means any twelve-month period beginning at
the end of the First Project Year or the end of subsequent Project
Years;
      (e)   "Grant" means a grant made or proposed to be made by MNE,
under Part B.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
      (f)   "Implementation Manual" means the manual, adopted by the
Borrower pursuant to Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement, and to be used
by the Borrower for the implementation of the Project, containing
detailed arrangements regarding the implementation of the Project, as
the same may be amended from time to time, and such terms includes any
schedules to the Implementation Manual;
      (g)   "MNE" means the Borrower's Ministry of National Education;
      (h)   "PIT" means Project Implementation Team established by the
Borrower for the purposes of the Project and referred to in Part C.3 of
Schedule 2 and paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
      (i)   "Project Steering Committee" means the interministerial
committee established by the Borrower on January 10, 1994, and referred
to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
      (j)   "Project Account" means the Account referred to in Section
3.04 (a) of this Agreement;
      (k)   "Project Preparation Advances" means the project preparation
advances granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the
exchange of letters, dated May 13, 1992 and October 20, 1992, and
February 22, 1994 and May 26, 1994, between the Borrower and the
Association;
      (l)   "Research Committee" means the committee referred to in
paragraph 8 (b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
      (m)   "Research Fund" means the fund to be managed under the
Page  3
responsibility of MNE under Part B.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
      (n)   "Research Fund Operational Manual" means the manual, adopted
by the Borrower pursuant to Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement, and to
be used by the Borrower for the implementation of Part B.3 of the Project,
containing guidelines, criteria and procedures governing the Grant and
allocations to be made by the Borrower to the Research Fund (as herein-
after defined), as the same may be amended from time to time, and such
terms includes any schedules to the Research Fund Operational Manual;
      (o)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (p)   "Sub-Account" means the account referred to in Section 3.04
(b) of this Agreement;
      (q)   "UCAD" means the Borrower's Universite Cheikh Anta Diop de
Dakar; and
      (r)   "USL" means the Borrower's Universite Saint-Louis.
                               ARTICLE II
                               The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to eighteen
million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 18,400,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in FCFA a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate
protection against setoff, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project
Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay
all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized
amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be canceled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003, or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30
of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower
from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the
June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a)
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from
the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of
Page  4
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in
the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant
to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual
installments payable on each May 1 and November 1 commencing November 1,
2006 and ending May 1, 2036. Each installment to and including the
installment payable on May 1, 2016, shall be one percent (1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent
(2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in
constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank
shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Asso-
ciation may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by
them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due
until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so
requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of
such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed
with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may,
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment
to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a)
above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
                               ARTICLE III
                        Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A, B.1, B.2, B.4, B.5 and C of
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Manual and Part B.3
of the Project, in accordance with the Research Fund Operational Manual,
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
educational practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agree-
ment.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
Page  5
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General
Conditions, and without limitations thereto, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6)
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for
this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the
future operation of the Project; and
      (b)   afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan.
      Section 3.04. (a)  The Borrower shall open an account in FCFA to
be operated and maintained by PIT (the Project Account), in a commercial
bank on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association, and, in
accordance with the schedule described in paragraph (c) of this Section,
shall deposit therein its annual contribution decided jointly by the
Borrower and the Association, and all such amounts as may be required for
the purpose of the implementation of the Project, except for Part B.3 of
the Project.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purpose of Part B.3 of the
Project, open an account in FCFA to be operated and maintained by PIT
(the Sub-Account), in a commercial bank on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Association, and, in accordance with the schedule
described in paragraph (c) of this Section, shall deposit therein its
annual contribution decided jointly by the Borrower and the Association,
and all such amounts as may be required for the purpose of the
implementation of Part B.3 of the Project.
      (c)   The Borrower shall deposit its contribution to the costs of
the Project into the Project Account and the Sub-Account in accordance
with the following schedule: (i) not later than July 1, 1997, for the
Second Project Year; (ii) not later than July 1, 1998, for the Third
Project Year; (iii) not later than July 1, 1999, for the Fourth Project
Year; (iv) not later than July 1, 2000, for the Fifth Project Year; and
(v) not later than July 1, 2001, for the Sixth Project Year.
      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take, or cause to be taken, all
necessary measures to increase the average teaching hours of professors:
(i) by at least one hour per week, not later than December 31, 1998; and
(ii) by at least two hours per week, not later than December 31, 1999.
      Section 3.06. The Borrower shall: (i) not later than December 31,
1998, carry out a detailed evaluation of all major existing educational
institutions within the territory of the Borrower; and (ii) not later
than December 31, 1999, take all necessary measures to establish, within
MNE, a system to ensure quality control and program accreditation by
MNE on a regular and systematic basis.
      Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1998,
prepare and finalize an action plan, acceptable to the Association, for
the purpose of outsourcing all major maintenance functions of UCAD and
USL and thereafter implement such plan.
                               ARTICLE IV
                           Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures
in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
                  (a) of this Section including those for the Special
                  Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
Page  6
                  with appropriate auditing principles consistently
                  applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
                  Association;
            (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but
                  in any case not later than six (6) months after the
                  end of each such year, a certified copy of the report
                  of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
                  such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
                  requested; and
            (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Association shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Association
                  has received the audit for the fiscal year in which
                  the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made,
                  all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
                  receipts and other documents) evidencing such
                  expenditures;
            (iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine
                  such records; and
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included
                  in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
                  this Section and that the report of such audit
                  contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
                  whether the statements of expenditure submitted
                  during such fiscal year, together with the procedures
                  and internal controls involved in their preparation,
                  can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                                  ARTICLE V
                        Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely that a
situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the
Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out.
                                  ARTICLE VI
                          Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the Borrower has adopted the Research Fund Operational
Manual, in form and substance acceptable to the Association;
      (b)   the Borrower has adopted the Implementation Manual, in
form and substance acceptable to the Association;
      (c)   the Borrower has furnished to the Association, the bidding
documents, acceptable to the Association, for all civil works to be
carried out during the First Project Year; and all documentation
regarding all major packages to be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Part B of Section I of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
Page  7
      (d)   the Borrower has deposited into the Project Account an
amount equivalent to $250,000, its contribution for the First Project
Year as referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement;
      (e)   the Borrower has, for purposes of Article IV of this
Agreement, appointed an independent auditor in accordance with the
provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and
      (f)   the Borrower has established a management information
system, acceptable to the Association, to enable MNE to measure
performance against the monitoring indicators agreed with the
Association.
      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement  is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                               ARTICLE VII
                Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The minister responsible for finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Economy, Finance
             and Planning
            Rue Charles Laine
            B.P. 4017
            Dakar, Senegal
            Cable address:                       Telex:
                  MINIFINANCE                    3203 G
                  Dakar
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                       Telex:
                  INDEVAS                        197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA),
                                                  64145 (WUI) or
                                                  82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
                  By /s/ Mamadou Mansour Seck
                                          Authorized Representative
Page  8
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Callisto Madavo
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                             Africa
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                                Amount of the
                              Credit Allocated         % of
                               (Expressed in       Expenditures
         Category              SDR equivalent)    to be financed
(1)   Civil Works                 6,700,000         100% of foreign
                                                    expenditures and
                                                    95% of local
                                                    expenditures
(2)   Equipment, Vehicles         3,800,000         100% of foreign
      and Furniture                                 expenditures and
                                                    90% of local
                                                    expenditures
(3)   Books and Pedagogic         2,300,000         100% of foreign
      Materials                                     expenditures and
                                                    90% of local
                                                    expenditures
(4)   Consultants'                1,300,000         100%
      services
      including training
(5)   Grants under Part B.3       1,000,000         50% of amount
      of the Project                                disbursed by
                                                    MNE
(6)   Operating costs               600,000         90%
(7)   Refunding of                1,300,000         Amounts due
      Project Prepara-                              pursuant to
      tion Advances                                 Section 2.02 (c)
                                                    of this Agreement
(8)   Unallocated                 1,400,000
                                 __________
      TOTAL                      18,400,000
                                 ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of
the Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of
the Borrower is also that of another country from the territory of
which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency
for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expendi-
Page  9
tures"; and
      (c)   the term "operating costs" means incremental recurrent
expenditures incurred for the carrying out of the Project for staff
salaries and travel allowances, office communication, minor office
equipment and supplies, utilities, fuel, and maintenance and insurance
of vehicles used by the Project.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account
to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
for goods and works under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent,
for services of consulting firms not exceeding $100,000 equivalent and
for services of individual consultants not exceeding $50,000 equivalent,
under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by
notice to the Borrower.
                               SCHEDULE 2
                       Description of the Project
      The objective of the Project is to establish an efficient system
of higher education, with greater cost-effectiveness and more relevance
to socio-economic development within the territory of the Borrower.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Improvement of Library Services
1.    Expansion and rehabilitation of UCAD's library, including: (i)
installation of an air-conditioning system in the book storage and
computer areas, replacement of elevators in the storage area, and
transformation of the current reference and reading rooms into a
modular office and work area; (ii) rehabilitation and expansion of
UCAD library's present structure to increase overall seating capacity
from 350 to about 1600; (iii) construction and equipping of an audio-
visual room; (iv) construction and equipping of a workroom for repair-
ing and binding books and periodicals; and (v) carrying out of
architectural studies, designs and control.
2.    Installation at UCAD and USL of computer networks for the treat-
ment of, and access to, books and for links with satellite libraries
and international data bases.
3.    Acquisition of about 80,000 library books, 12,500 textbooks and
CD-ROMs, subscription to about 1,000 periodicals, and printing of
course syllabi.
4.    Organization of training for the staff at the UCAD and USL
libraries.
Part B:     Teaching and Research Upgrading
1.    Reinforcement of applied science teaching, including: (i)
acquisition of laboratory equipment and teaching materials; (ii)
establishment of an incentive-based program for maintenance of
equipment and replacement of supplies; and (iii) organization of
in-service training for professors and teaching laboratory assistants.
2.    Development and pilot testing of an accreditation system
including: (i) provision of technical advisory services for the
development of initial accreditation protocols and design and
printing of accreditation protocols; (ii) establishment of an
equivalence system; (iii) organization of study-visits; and (iv)
acquisition of equipment and vehicles.
3.    Establishment and management of a competitive research fund
Page  10
including provision of research grants to professors and/or group of
professors on a matching basis.
4.    Carrying out of a study of alternative models for teaching and
financing, including: (i) economic analysis through an employer survey
and a tracer study of graduates; (ii) organization of training of DAGE
staff in preparation of budget simulations and projections; (iii) a
study on the feasibility and appropriateness of entrusting higher
education to the private sector; (iv) a study of cost and pedagogical
implications for development of regional campuses; (v) a study on
university site-plans; and (vi) a study on higher education development
and university research master-plan.
5.    Installation of a computerized information system, including: (i)
rehabilitation of the principal faculty or departmental libraries; (ii)
installation of computer networks linked to the Internet; (iii)
acquisition of furnishings and equipment; (iv) pilot-testing of computer
based distance education; (v) collections cataloguing; and (vi)
organization of local and overseas training.
Part C:     Strengthening Management Capacity:
1.    Reorganization of student services, including: (i) computerization
of the Department of Grants and Fellowships within MNE, and the students'
services at Dakar and Saint-Louis; (ii) rehabilitation of student
services buildings at Dakar and Saint Louis; and (iii) provision of
technical advisory services on management related areas including
training of staff of the students' services at Dakar and Saint-Louis.
2.    Development of a maintenance system, including: (i) carrying out
of a study of the maintenance functions and the management of the
university infrastructure to develop a strategic plan for maintenance
and facilities management; (ii) organization of training for main-
tenance program managers and inspectors; and (iii) acquisition of
equipment.
3.    Strengthening of the PIT, including: (i) organization of training
in project management, procurement and disbursement for the benefit of
the PIT staff; and (ii) acquisition of equipment, materials and supplies.
                                 * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.
                               SCHEDULE 3
                Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     General
      Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the pro-
visions of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and
revised in January 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions
of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods
and works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of
Appendix 1 thereto.
2.    The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 of this Part B.
      (a)   Prequalification
      Bidders for works under Part A.1 of the Project shall be pre-
Page  11
qualified in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and
2.10 of the Guidelines.
      (b)   Grouping of contracts
      To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall
be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or
more each.
      (c)   Preference for domestically manufactured goods
      The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory
of the Borrower.
      (d)   Notification and Advertising
      The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to
cost $10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance
with the procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of
the Guidelines.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    National Competitive Bidding
      Goods estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or less per contract
and $500,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate and works estimated to
cost $100,000 equivalent or less per contract and $250,000 equivalent
or less in the aggregate may be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guide-
lines.
2.    National Shopping
      Goods estimated to cost $25,000 equivalent or less per contract
and $200,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guide-
lines.
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Procurement Planning
      Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.    Prior Review
      With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs
2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.    Post Review
      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.    Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded
in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on
Page  12
the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the
Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the
Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued
by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review
or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not
apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated
to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000
equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not
apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b) single-
source selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical
nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank, (d) amendments to con-
tracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value
to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to
$50,000 equivalent or above.
                               SCHEDULE 4
                         Implementation Program
Coordination and Management
1.    (a)   MNE shall have the overall responsibility for coordination
and management of the Project. MNE shall work in close cooperation and
interaction, inter alia, with UCAD and USL, the students' services of
Dakar and Saint-Louis, DAGE and the higher education and fellowship
directorates of MEN. The PIT, shall have the responsibility for the
routine functioning of the Project and shall ensure its overall
coordination on behalf of MNE.
      (b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall, in the carrying out of the Project, apply the rules, procedures
and guidelines, specified in the Implementation Manual, and shall not
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Implementation Manual or any
provision thereof which, in the opinion of the Association, will
materially or adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
2.    (a)   For the purpose of planning, problem solving and evaluation
regarding the Project, the Borrower shall maintain, until the com-
pletion of the Project, the Project Steering Committee. The Project
Steering Committee shall be chaired by the Minister of Education of the
Borrower and shall include, inter alia, the representatives of the
Ministers of Economy, Finance and Planning, Public Health and Social
Action, Modernization, Labor and Employment, Scientific Research and
Technology, Education and National Languages, Vocational Training and
Technical Education, the two Rectors of UCAD and USL and the directors
of the students' services at Dakar and Saint-Louis.
      (b)   The Project Steering Committee shall meet at least four
times annually.
3.    The Borrower shall furnish to the Association: (i) not later than
May 31 and November 30 of each year, progress reports on the implementa-
tion of the Project; (ii) not later than November 30 of each year, annual
projected work programs and budgets; and (iii) not later than November
30 of each year, all background documentation for an annual review of the
Project to be organized and carried out during the fourth quarter of each
year.
Annual Review
4.    (a)   The Borrower shall, not later than  December 31 of each year,
carry out in accordance with indicators, satisfactory to the Association,
an annual Project implementation review aimed at: (i) documenting
progress toward objectives; (ii) identifying and resolving obstacles to
Project implementation; and (iii) adjusting, in agreement with the
Association, targets and corresponding programs to reflect progress
Page  13
achieved in the implementation of the Project in the prior years and
ensuring responsiveness to changes to effectively achieve the objectives
of the Project.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, not later than four (4) weeks prior to
the review referred to in (a) above, furnish to the Association, a
report, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request,
including an evaluation of the progress achieved in Project implemen-
tation.
      (c)   Promptly after completing such reviews, the Borrower shall
carry out recommendations arising out of said reviews, with due
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices,
taking into account the Association's comments thereon.
Midterm Review
5.    (a)   The Borrower shall, not later than October 31, 1999, carry
out, through the Project Steering Committee, jointly with the Associa-
tion, and in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Association,
a mid-term review of the progress made in the carrying out of the
Project.
      (b)   The midterm review shall cover, inter alia, the implemen-
tation of measures designed to strengthen the financial reporting,
monitoring, accounting and auditing carried out under the Project, and
shall discuss and finalize a plan prepared by the Borrower for the
transfer of the functions of PIT into the organization of MNE.
      (c)   Not later than one month prior to such midterm review, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, for its review and comments,
a report in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request,
including an evaluation of the progress achieved in complying with
Project implementation pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, and
recommendations resulting from the studies conducted under the Project.
      (d)   Promptly after completing such midterm review, the Borrower
shall carry out, or cause the Project Steering Committee to carry out,
the recommendations emanating from the said midterm review.
6.    Unless the Borrower and the Association otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall, by not later than November 30, 1999, take all
necessary administrative and governmental action to ensure that the
functions of the PIT are effectively integrated into the organization
of MNE, following the finalization of the plan referred to in para-
graph 5 (b) of this Schedule.
Part A.1 of the Project
7.    For the purpose of carrying out the oversight responsibility under
Part A.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall employ a private sector
enterprise specializing in construction contract management, in
accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Research Fund (Part B.3 of the Project)
8.    (a)   Without limitation upon the provision of paragraph 1 (b) of
this Schedule, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall, in the carrying out of Part B.3 of the Project, apply
the rules, procedures and eligibility criteria, specified in the
Research Fund Operational Manual and shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Research Fund Operational Manual or any provision thereof
which, in the opinion of the Association, will materially or adversely
affect the implementation of Part B.3 of the Project.
      (b)   For the purpose of evaluating and approving a Grant, MNE
shall establish a Research Committee, with terms of reference
acceptable to the Association. The Research Committee shall make the
Grant available to the Beneficiary in accordance with the guidelines
and criteria set forth in the Research Fund Operational Manual and
shall, inter alia, ensure that:
Page  14
            (i)   a detailed research proposal has been submitted by the
                  Beneficiary;
            (ii)  the research proposal is inexpensive; and
            (iii) MNE shall have the right to obtain from the
                  Beneficiary all such information as MNE or the
                  Association shall reasonably request pertaining
                  to the utilization of the Grant.
                             SCHEDULE 5
                           Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through
(6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to FCFA 500,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule provided, however, that unless the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an
amount equivalent to FCFA 250,000,000 until the aggregate amount of
withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of alloutstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to
or exceed the equivalent of SDR 3,000,000.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit
into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of
such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
                  for deposits into the Special Account at such
                  intervals as the Association shall specify.
            (ii)  Prior to, or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                  documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                  paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                  withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                  the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                  shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
                  said documents and other evidence to have been paid
Page  15
                  out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and
other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expendi-
tures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Association shall not be required to make further deposits into
the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement;
      (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Asso-
ciation, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii)
of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished
to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit
of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
      (c)   if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to
the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
      (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated
to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwith-
drawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expen-
ditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule;
or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless
the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower
has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association
such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
Page  16
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
