                                      Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                                          Report No: 27170

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
            (PPFI-P7450 IDA-28720 PPFI-P7451 PPFI-P7452 PPFI-P7453 PPFI-P7454)

                                          ON A

                                        CREDIT

                          IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 26.5 MILLION

                                        TO THE

                                REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL

                                         FOR A

                             HIGHER EDUCATION PROJECT




                                    December 22, 2003




Human Development II
Country Department 14
Africa Regional Office

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective May 1996)

                             Currency Unit = Franc CFA (CFAF)
                               CFAF 1,000 = US$ 2.04
                                    US$ 1 = CFAF 490

                                   FISCAL YEAR


                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS   Country Assistance Strategy
CNES  Concertation Nationale sur l'enseignement supérieur
COUD  Centre des OEuvres universitaires de Dakar
CPPR  Country Program Performance Review
DAGE  Direction de l'Administration générale et de l'Equipement
DCA   Development Credit Agreement
DEUG  Diplôme d'Etudes Universitaires Générales
EFA   Education for all
ESAM  Enquête Sénégalaise auprès des ménages
FEPS  Final Executive Project Summary
FRU   Fonds de recherche universitaire (University Research Fund)
FTI   Fast Track Initiative
GoS   Government of Senegal
IEPS  Initial Executive Project Summary
IT    Implementation Team
MDG   Millenium Development Goals
MoE   Ministry of Education
MTR   Mid-Term Review
PAES  Projet d'amélioration de l'enseignement supérieur
PDEF  Programme Décennal de l'éducation et de la formation
PDRH2 Programme de Développement des ressources humaines 2
PPF   Project Preparation Facility
PSR   Project Status Report
SAR   Staff Appraisal Report
SDR   Special Drawing Rights
SM    Sector Manager
SSA   Sub-Saharan Africa
TM    Task Manager
UCAD  Université Cheikh Anta Diop de Dakar
UGB   Université Gaston Berger de Saint Louis
WID   Women in Development

                            Vice President:    Callisto E. Madavo
                          Country Director     John M. McIntire
                           Sector Manager      Alexandre V. Abrantes
       Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          Meskerem Mulatu

                                             SENEGAL
                                    HIGHER EDUCATION I


                                            CONTENTS




                                                                                 Page No.
   1. Project Data                                                                    1
   2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
   3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
   4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            8
   5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            14
   6. Sustainability                                                                16
   7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 18
   8. Lessons Learned                                                               24
   9. Partner Comments                                                              25
   10. Additional Information                                                       26
   Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             28
   Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             29
   Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             31
   Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             37
   Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             40
   Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                41
   Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            42
   Annex 8. Supplementary Tables and Charts                                         43
   Annex 9. Borrower's Project Completion Report                                    51
IBRD MAP 27975

Project ID: P002373                                                  Project Name: HIGHER EDUCATION I
Team Leader: Meskerem Mulatu                                         TL Unit: AFTH2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 22, 2003


1. Project Data
                   Name: HIGHER EDUCATION I                                       L/C/TF Number: PPFI-P7450; IDA-28720;
                                                                                                     PPFI-P7451; PPFI-P7452;
                                                                                                     PPFI-P7453; PPFI-P7454
   Country/Department: SENEGAL                                                            Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Tertiary education (100%)
                  Theme: Education for the knowledge economy (P); Gender (S); Social
                            analysis and monitoring (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 04/21/1993                                     Effective: 09/17/1996                10/03/1996
     Appraisal: 01/02/1996                                         MTR: 10/01/1999                  11/18/1999
      Approval: 06/04/1996                                      Closing: 06/30/2003                 06/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT/MINISTRY OF NATIONAL EDUCATION (MNE)
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             Edward V.K. Jaycox
Country Director:               John M. Mcintire                               Birger J. Fredriksen
Sector Manager:                 Alexandre V. Abrantes                          Ok Pannenborg
Team Leader at ICR:             Meskerem Mulatu                                Robert S. Prouty
ICR Primary Author:             Benoît Millot


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
         Introduction

         The story of the Higher Education Project (Projet d'amélioration de l'enseignement supérieur
-PAES) spans over an unusually long period of time. The project was controversial in nature, and had a
generally bumpy life. It involved a large number of players and stakeholders, had far-reaching spillover
effects, dealt with the often volatile and highly politicized sub-sector of higher education, and took place
in a country that is strategic to the West Africa region. Although the project was launched after an
extensive stakeholder consultation - and only after key concrete reforms had been completed by the
Government in good faith - it nevertheless faced many difficulties.

         To understand how the PAES unfolded, it is important to first understand the specific contextual
circumstances in which it was conceived and implemented -- not only in Senegal and inside the World
Bank, but also in the relationship between the Bank and the Government of Senegal. Hence, this report
starts with a brief description of the project environment.

         When project preparation began, the campus of the public University Cheikh Anta Diop of Dakar
(UCAD) was in a sheer chaos: university matters were highly politicized, student and faculty protests were
frequent, and the whole atmosphere was too confrontational to permit a productive academic life.
Preparation for this project also started at a time when tertiary education was not seen as an investment
priority by the Bank, especially for countries such as Senegal where enrollments at the primary education
level were still very low, and the financial burden of public higher education was very high. Indeed, the
World Bank's management considered halting support to the education sector altogether unless major
reforms were undertaken at the higher education level. It is in this environment that the Government of
Senegal (GoS) launched an exemplary national consultation process with the stakeholders of higher
education. Through it, the GoS not only developed a comprehensive reform agenda, but also started to
implement some of the boldest reforms in the sector and vowed to undertake additional ones --with Bank
support. Together, the consultative process and the reforms undertaken generated great optimism on the
Bank side, and provided the justification for a Bank intervention in higher education in spite of the risks
involved. This IDA intervention supported the Government's main request: to improve the UCAD library
which was seen as having the potential to re-focus the university around academic activities. In addition,
the project called for a series of measures which threatened a variety of well-organized vested interests.
The combination of far-reaching sectoral reforms based on a relatively narrow investment rationale
(library and scientific equipment) turned out to be a built-in hiatus which poisoned the entire project's life,
and sowed the seeds for disillusionment on both sides.

         Project implementation started smoothly, but problems arose very quickly. The ambiguous
situation of the project implementation team, and certain opposition of the UCAD leadership prevented
many operations from being executed, with the exception of the planned improvements to the university
library. The resumption of violent student protests fueled by outside political interests led to a reversal of
the many earlier ambitious reforms. Subsequent elections led to a complete change of the political and
technical personnel in the sub-sector, and had a further adverse influence on project implementation. These
mounting risks put many of the project objectives in jeopardy. Despite early and repeated warnings by
Bank staff and the Country Management Unit to suspend the credit, the actual suspension came at a late
stage - so late that such action did not have any major technical effect, but rather generated mistrust on the
side of the Borrower. This mistrust was further aggravated when the Bank made a last-minute partial
cancellation of the remaining credit.



                                                      - 2 -

         Objectives

         Despite some looseness in their definitions, the development objectives of the project were
broadly in line with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and are a direct translation of the
country's own priorities expressed at the time of project preparation.

(a)      Definitions

         Schedule 2 of the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) lists a threefold objective: to establish an
efficient system of higher education with greater cost-effectiveness and more relevance to socio-economic
development.

         In the field of education, the word efficiency has two meanings: internal efficiency (repetition,
completion, etc.), and external efficiency (employability of graduates, relevance of programs, etc.). The
DCA does not specify which of these two definitions it uses; since, however, the third objective
--relevance-- is the main ingredient of external efficiency, the first objective can be interpreted (by default)
as internal efficiency.

         There are two other sources of information regarding project objectives: the Staff Appraisal Report
(SAR) and the Project Status Reports (PSRs). None of them uses the same set of development objectives
(DO) as the DCA, and each of them proposes different DOs, some long-term and sector-oriented, others
very specific and purely investment related (see Annex 8, box 1, tables 1 and 2). In addition, the SAR
proposes some "informal objectives." The coexistence of several definitions of project objectives points to
some looseness in the project concept itself, and may be a symptom of the aforementioned hiatus.

(b)      Consistency

         Alignment with Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS): the project's long-term objectives are
broadly in line with the CAS. The CAS strongly linked the country's long-term growth prospects of the
country to labor productivity, and made the latter dependent on the development of the "country's human
resource potential" --of which, higher education is arguably a central piece. In more specific terms,
however, the CAS was calling for savings in tertiary education and for reallocating those savings to basic
education - a move which was not explicitly spelled out as an objective of the PAES.

         Alignment with Borrower's priorities: the objectives are all consistent with the recommendations of
the National Consultation which took place during project preparation, and support the reforms
subsequently undertaken by the Government with a view to cleaning up the UCAD "social campus" and
improving the "pedagogical campus." Project objectives also draw from earlier sector work completed
and/or commissioned both by the Bank and the Government.

3.2 Revised Objective:

         DOs were not formally revised, despite partial cancellation of the credit.

         After the partial cancellation of the credit in November 2002, the Government and the Bank agreed
on a set of limited objectives, listed in the last PSR (March 2003): (i) completion of the university library
with additional scholarly books and journals, (ii) purchase and use of laboratory equipment, and (iii)
project operating costs, thereby ensuring at least partial attainment of the project objectives. The first two



                                                       - 3 -

 limited objectives correspond to component or sub-component outputs, and the third objective was purely
 intended to keep the project running for the last months of operation. Neither Annex 1 nor Annex 2 of the
 DCA was amended to reflect the cancellation and the reduction of the objectives.

 3.3 Original Components:

           While there is an overall fit between project components and project outcomes, their match,
 however, is not perfect. In particular, the impact of a library (by far the most important component) on
 efficiency is an indirect one. While improvements in the library can be argued to have raised the quality
 of educational outputs, quality was not listed amongst the project objectives. On the other hand, it is not
 fully clear how project activities had the potential to make higher education more relevant. Achieving
 increased cost-effectiveness (the third DO) was more dependent on bold --but risky- sectoral reforms
 made prior to the project than on the stated project activities themselves. Project components, while
 largely justified, did not have the full potential to achieve the ambitious objectives assigned to the
 project.

           The DCA includes three components and the SAR states a similar set of components (even though
 it treats the refinancing of the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) as a fourth component, while this is a
 disbursement category in the DCA). However, the two documents differ at the level of sub-components.
 Moreover, the components stated in the PSRs are organized in a different manner, combining SAR and
 DCA components and sub-components (see Annex 8, table 3 and box 2). There is a similar problem with
 the articulation of project activities. These categorization problems parallel those mentioned with DOs;
 they are also perceptible in the choice of indicators (see 3.5 below).

           The components as defined in the DCA are as follows:

 l The Improvement of library services component ($15.6 million, 51 percent of total cost) was to
      support:

           (a)      the expansion and rehabilitation of the UCAD central library; to that end, the project was
 to finance: (i) the rehabilitation of the existing central library, (ii) the construction of an additional seating
 capacity, (iii) the construction of an audio-visual room, (iv) the construction of a workroom for repairing
 and binding books and periodicals; and (v) the installation of computer networks at UCAD and the
 University Gaston Berger (UGB) for cataloguing and accessing international databases; and

           (b)      the acquisition of books and periodicals and library management; to that end, the project
 was to finance: (i) the purchase of 80,000 books, (ii) the publication of 12,500 textbooks, (iii)
 subscriptions to 1,000 periodicals, (iv) staff training, and (v) incremental recurrent costs for the printing of
 course syllabi, purchase of CD-ROMs, and database searches.

           This component is well articulated. It integrates construction, hardware, software, training and
 services in a combination appropriate to make the library a real pedagogical tool and to contribute to a
 higher quality of learning.

 l The upgrading of teaching and research component ($9.4 million, 30 percent of total cost) aimed to
      support:

           (a)      the reinforcement of applied science teaching, by financing: (i) purchase of laboratory
equipment, (ii) purchase of teaching materials, (iii) establishment of an incentive-based program for



                                                        - 4 -

maintenance of equipment and replacement of supplies, and (iv) in-service training for faculty staff;

           (b)     the development and testing of an accreditation system (for internal and external evaluation
and habilitation of departments and programs), by financing: (i) missions and study tours of accrediting
teams, (ii) design and printing of accreditation protocols, and (iii) purchase of equipment and a vehicle;

           (c)     the management of a university research fund (Fonds de Recherche Universitaire - FRU),
by contributing to the fund on a matching basis;

           (d)     the study of alternative models for teaching and financing; and

           (e)     the installation of computerized information systems.

           The activities assembled under this component are disparate in nature. Only the first three
sub-components can be seen as contributing to a specific objective (improving teaching and research). The
fourth sub-component is particularly heterogeneous: it puts together an economic analysis, a study of
distance learning and a functional evaluation of institutions, corresponding, respectively, to
cost-effectiveness, pedagogic, and institutional concerns. As to the last sub-component (e), it is strictly a
continuation of the library component.

 l The strengthening of management capacity component ($4.1 million, 13 percent of total cost) aimed
      to support:

           (a)     the reorganization of student services, by financing: (i) the computerization of the
  Department of Grants and Fellowships, (ii) the rehabilitation of student services buildings, and (iii)
  technical assistance, and training of staff;

           (b)     the development of a maintenance system; and

           (c)     project administration.

           Although not fully homogeneous, all activities under this component responded to the need for a
  better managed university: the first sub-component clearly sought to accompany reforms aimed at
  improving the situation of social services, the second intended to protect the university's physical capital,
  while the last one was purely about project operation (with hope of broader capacity-building in the sector).

  3.4 Revised Components:

           Further to the partial cancellation of November 2002, a limited set of activities was retained,
  concentrating on library services, purchase of books and equipment, and project operating costs. All the
  remaining activities were dropped. A total amount of SDR 1.1 million was cancelled, out of a remaining
  undisbursed credit balance of SDR 4.9 million. Several of the activities dropped were transferred to the
  Quality Education for All Project and/or financed directly by the national budget. Those activities which
  had been successfully implemented during the course of the project were not penalized and those activities
  which had not been satisfactorily executed were stopped. Hence, the cancellation was mostly symbolic,
  and had a limited impact on project activities and their implementation.




                                                       - 5 -

3.5 Quality at Entry:

         Quality at entry is assessed as satisfactory, although this rating has to be qualified as marginal.
On the one hand, this project represented a real breakthrough in preparation activities, considering the
difficult context in which these activities were undertaken. In particular, the preparation process was
very much country-driven and established a set of coherent and bold reforms that were agreed upon
up-front. Moreover, the manner in which the Bank accompanied this process was also exemplary.

         On the other hand, the project objectives appear to have been overly stretched, and the project
may have tried to achieve too many reforms simultaneously. In addition, the investment components
-mostly focused on the library- were not carefully connected to the achievement of some of the project
objectives. Finally, the political risks linked to the reforms appear to have been underestimated, and the
implementation arrangements were not tightened up sufficiently. For these reasons the quality at entry,
while satisfactory overall, must be qualified as marginally so.

The context

         (a)      In the early 90s, UCAD was in a chaotic situation, marked by student and faculty staff
discontent, strikes, and, ultimately (in 1993/94), an "année blanche" (an academic year without exams).
Tertiary education in Senegal was absorbing 33 percent of the education budget (which itself accounted for
nearly 31 percent of the overall Government budget). Social transfers accounted for 26 percent of this
share, with the rest being mostly devoted to the wage bill. UCAD was attended by "permanent students"
with full scholarships, who were able to live and eat on the university campus without charge, while
devoting little time to academic work. Enrollments were growing out of control; internal efficiency was
dangerously low, as evidenced by high repetition, absenteeism, and dropout rates; personnel management
was deficient, and information management was virtually absent.

         (b)      The Bank had supported the education sector in Senegal through a series of four projects
since 1971. Yet, none of the first three projects had directly addressed higher education. The fourth
project, however (Primary Education Development Project, 1987/94 - "Education IV"- Credit 1735-SE),
implemented during a structural adjustment period, started to link primary and higher education in
budgetary terms; it projected a reduction of the higher education budget. Yet, the latter experienced a sharp
increase, despite this projection. The subsequent project, Human Resources Development Program 2
(PDRH2 -1994/1999 - Credit 2473-SE) contributed to: (i) the supply of books for the central library of the
UCAD, (ii) building rehabilitation, and (iii) preparation of the proposed PAES. Therefore, the latter
activities notwithstanding, the Bank's involvement in the sub-sector of higher education in Senegal was
neither prominent nor successful.

         (c)      The Bank's attitude regarding support to the higher education sub-sector at that time
could be characterized as hesitant. Unlike primary education, social returns to tertiary education were not
deemed sufficient to justify public investment, let alone Bank support. Therefore, in a country like Senegal,
which was still far from achieving universal primary education, support for higher education was not an
obvious priority. One of the main arguments in favor of a Bank intervention in tertiary education in this
case was the proposed reform to generate savings in the sub-sector and redirect such savings to primary
education, which badly needed an infusion of additional resources. Ironically, the SAR notes that earlier
attempts (through Education IV) to reduce spending in higher education had failed, but does not provide
assurance that the new project would fare better.



                                                      - 6 -

The reform package

         Against this background, the project appears as a pace-maker. Preparation relied heavily on the
political process which led to a consensus on the main missions of tertiary education and on the main
reforms needed to fulfill these missions. The Bank team facilitated internal stakeholder dialogue by
financing the Journées de réflexion (January 1992). Then, the Bank encouraged and supported a two-year
long national debate on higher education --the Concertation Nationale sur l'Enseignement Supérieur
(CNES) launched in April 1992 by President Diouf--. The outcome of this large-scale consultation became
the platform of the Bank's intervention. In parallel, the Bank financed a series of studies through advances
on the credit which aimed at giving the CNES an objective basis on which to build consensus around
reform issues. These studies also helped to design the project. The sectoral reforms upon which the
Government agreed included the most critical areas (control of access, reduction of spending, cost recovery,
and improvements in teaching).

         The reform package took into account one main lesson drawn by the OED evaluation of the last
two projects in Senegal [Report # 23715], namely that "where strong special interests exist in favor of
higher education, conditionalities to reduce expenditures in it prove ineffective". Then, in the case of the
PAES, the Bank and the Government together made this reduction a common objective, and the
Government quickly introduced appropriate measures to reach the objective (e.g. university dormitories
were closed to "permanent residents", and many rent privileges were cancelled).

         One of the anticipated reforms was to put a cap on absolute enrollments at UCAD; while this
reform was implemented for a few years, it turned out to be extremely difficult to maintain because no real
alternative venue was offered to qualified students. In addition, the enrollment rate at the tertiary education
level in 1995 was only 3.6 percent (versus 4.0 percent in Nigeria and 6.8 percent in Côte d'Ivoire). Another
reform envisaged was the reallocation of resources from tertiary education to primary education (and from
social to academic expenditures). Worldwide experience has shown that this is also an extremely difficult
measure to implement, and Senegal was no exception. These two examples of failure in anticipated
reforms tend to suggest that the risks associated with the project objectives were underestimated. This
unrealistic approach toward political risks may be credited to the general "adjustment mood" which was
prevailing in West Africa at the time - and in Senegal, in particular.

The institutional set-up of the project

         Despite the highly political environment of tertiary education, institutional realities did not receive
enough attention when designing implementation arrangements, and were left dangerously vague. First,
given the relative autonomy of the university, leaving the project implementation unit outside of the key
institution was risky. For many years, the Implementation Team (IT) was seen as a foreign entity by the
academic community, and personal animosities between the team and UCAD leadership were enough to
bring reforms and implementation to a standstill. The prospect of an integration of the IT team into the
University administration at the mid-term point of the project may have stimulated further rejection of the
team and may have reinforced the lack of project ownership by the university community. A second
complication comes from making the project unit accountable only to a steering committee which remained
mostly dormant, despite a specific clause regarding the committee in the DCA (Sch. 4, Section 2).

Monitoring and Evaluation

         Two sets of performance indicators are presented in the SAR. A first set (Annex 4A) gives seven


                                                     - 7 -

indicators (inputs, outputs and sector impact), and the second set (Annex 6) provides a list of 15 indicators,
derived from the Higher Education Policy Statement of the GoS. The MoE had also developed its own list
of 24 indicators. Yet, the PSRs show 10 indicators which were selected from a mix of the above-
mentioned sources. This multiplicity of sources for performance indicators further underscores the loose
connection between the project objectives and components. It is possible, however, to re-categorize all
these indicators [Annex 8, Table 4], and to identify the objective to which each indicator refers [Annex 8,
Table 5]. It appears that most of the indicators correspond to the objective of enhancing cost-effectiveness
or expenditure allocations. The indicators constitute an appropriate tool to monitor progress in these
specific areas. Nevertheless, none of the indicators is related to the objective of academic relevance.
Further complicating this disconnect, both target and actual figures change from one document to another.
Finally, no provision was made to ensure availability of data to estimate the indicators: this problem greatly
hindered monitoring and evaluation of the project and quickly engendered continuous tension between the
Bank and the Borrower.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

         Achievement of development objectives is considered unsatisfactory, whether assessed against a
long-term perspective or against more specific goals, and whether considered through investments or
through reforms.

         This present assessment does not match that provided in the last PSR. The reason for this
disconnect is that the Bank team had decided to base its last rating on the objectives actually remaining
after partial cancellation of the project rather than on the originally stated objectives. However, the present
assessment is more in line with PSR ratings across the entire execution period which rated DOs as
unsatisfactory in 10 out of 17 times [See Section 10, Charts 1 and 2]. The overall picture is not uniform,
however, and some areas have been more successful than others (see Annex 8, Chart 1).

Long-term Objectives

         The global impact of the project appears to be twofold: (i) through its preparation, the PAES
indirectly helped to restore the conditions of a normal academic life, and (ii) through its execution, the
PAES directly helped to stimulate the quality of academic services by supporting central functions and
critical inputs; this impact, however, is mostly restricted to UCAD.

         The following review is based on the objectives stated by the DCA, and also incorporates the
additional (SAR) objective of gender equity.

         (a)      Graduation Rates: After a timid increase at project outset, graduation rates at UCAD
[PSR Indicator #5] plummeted and, in 2001/2002 were less than half the target (30% vs 65%). Graduation
rates continuously increased at UGB, where they even exceed MoE's own projections (79% vs 70%), but
UGB enrollments represent only one tenth of those in UCAD. Thus UGB's success does not offset
UCAD's failure to achieve its objective of a higher graduation rate. In addition, results are variable, both
at UCAD [Annex 8, Chart 2], and at UGB, where the number of DEUGs (diploma awarded after 2 years)
delivered in 2002 was smaller than in 1996.

         (b)      Gender Equity: The actual trend for UCAD follows the expected path toward greater
female participation, with only a very slight lag (28.9% vs 30%). Girls' enrollment rate at UGB also



                                                       - 8 -

follows the same pattern (currently at 29.6%).

         (c)     Cost-efficiency:

                 (i)      Instead of slightly declining as planned, the student : teacher ratio [PSR Indicator
         # 6] rose sharply at UCAD, and has recently taken the same trend at UGB;
                 (ii)     Faculty teaching load increased by one hour (instead of two as targeted). This was
         deemed a critical move in efficiency terms, but also a symbolically critical threat to faculty staff;
                 (iii)    As the budget has increased more rapidly than enrollments (see below), unit costs
         have also increased, reaching more than $1,900 per student, or almost 400% of the GDP per
         capita, which is high, even by Sub-Saharan African standards.

         (d)     Relevance: No indicator was developed to monitor this objective. No comparative data
were available to analyze any progress in this regard.

"Informal" Objectives

         These objectives were obviously important to both parties when negotiating the project. Yet, few of
them can be considered as being achieved.

         (a)     Refocusing the missions of universities: The resumption of a generous scholarship policy
covering both tuition and living costs defies this objective. The shift from a social to a pedagogical campus
has not been successful, as evidenced by the share of the total sub-sector budget allocated to scholarships
(from 23 to 32% during the project period).

         (b)     Resources: The project also sought to shift savings from tertiary to primary education in
order help achieve the MDGs. However, the increase in the share of public expenditure on tertiary
education has prevented such a shift from occurring: primary education is currently allocated about 44% of
the total education budget, or 6 points short of the Fast Track Initiative (FTI) benchmark to achieve
Education for All (EFA).

         (c)     Access: Control of enrollments was another objective sought by the project. Nevertheless,
automatic admission to most public tertiary education institutions is granted to all secondary school
graduates ("bacheliers"), whose numbers are steadily increasing. Hence, enrollments in higher education
are also growing. As UCAD is absorbing a constant share of total public enrollments (about 91%), it
means that the freeze of UCAD enrollments envisaged at project outset has not been respected, and has
even been grossly breached, in the absence of alternative structures: instead of a targeted reduction of 30%,
enrollments have increased by 30% [PSR Indicator #1].

         (d)     Private sector: The share of private institution enrollments has soared from an already high
15% to an exceptional 29% of the UCAD enrollments, i.e. twice the target, and a very high figure by any
standard [PSR Indicator # 8]. However, public oversight of these private institutions is lax and their
quality is very uneven: an unknown proportion of these may not qualify to be categorized as higher
education institutions. Accreditation or other formalized evaluation systems have yet to be put in place.

4.2 Outputs by components:

         The main component, focused on the extension of the UCAD library and on the improvement of
its operation and utilization is rated highly satisfactory; it constitutes a real success for the project and



                                                      - 9 -

represents a real benefit for its users; the other two components --which are larger in scope and of a
more sectoral nature-- have failed on most accounts, and are rated unsatisfactory. The total
disbursement rate is 80.2 percent.

l The first component, "Improvement of library services", is judged highly satisfactory. Indeed, had
the project's objectives been exclusively defined around this component, the overall project would have been
rated satisfactory. This assessment is based on the following observations:

         (a)      In utilization terms, the daily attendance of the library soared from 500 at project start to
about 3,800, and then stabilized at a 3,300/3,400 plateau of users. Library attendance is obviously only a
distant proxy of knowledge acquisition, but is however one step toward it. Another indicator of success is
the proportion of users having registered with the library [PSR Indicator # 7]; for the last academic year,
this proportion was 55.2% amongst students, which seems high, even though there is no baseline figure to
put it into perspective. The library has been adopted by its users: there is no problem in collecting the fees
to access the facilities and the latter are almost spared from the vandalism which affects other parts of the
campus. The fact that less than 6% of the faculty members actually registered with the library is
worrisome; it may reflect some form of corporatist resistance. Another more simple explanation is that
staff have increased access to internet facilities in their own departments, and therefore do not feel the need
to walk to the central library and use its resources.

         (b)      In disbursement terms, this component has an execution rate of 100.7 percent. It was
exempted from the partial cancellation of November 2002. The disbursement rate before cancellation was
already 95 percent. The exemption facilitated the completion of the last generation of purchase of books
and equipment which had been planned.

         (c)      In physical terms, the original building of the UCAD central library was rehabilitated and
expanded as planned. New construction includes:

                  (i) Additional seating places, bringing current capacity to a total of 1700. This represents a
         ratio of about one seating place for 18 potential users. The architectural quality of the building is
         considered to be high; its outside appearance and inside arrangements are appealing, and the
         library is a landmark of the university, and an obvious subject of pride for the academic
         community;
                  (ii) the construction of an audio-visual room;
                  (iii) the construction of a workroom for repairing and binding books and periodicals; and
                  (iv) the installation of computer networks at the UCAD and the UGB libraries for
         cataloguing.

         (d)      In input terms, about 65,000 new books were acquired during the project, and the new
order currently being processed will bring the total stock close to the 80,000 target. In addition, 750
periodicals were subscribed to (target of 1,000). Long delays between preparation of the titles and
reception of the books have been observed, due to the lack of experience both of university staff in
procurement procedures, and of Bank staff in the specificity of tertiary education (small orders, rapid
obsolescence). In addition, 126 computers (of which half for public use and half for library staff) and 7
servers were procured and are operational; maintenance is provided under purchase guarantees, but the
latter will end by 2004.

         (e)      In functioning terms, although classified under the third component, the installation of a
computerized information system sub-component was in fact entirely focused on the library. Main


                                                       - 10 -

activities included: (i) coordination between UCAD library and the satellite libraries in order to synchronize
purchases, (ii) standardization of nomenclatures and preparation of a computerized data bank and
catalogue, and (iii) common definition of training needs. All these activities were successfully
implemented. In 2001/2002, more than 23,000 titles were catalogued (against a target of 20,000 -- PSR
Indicator # 9).

         (f)      In training terms, the library staff (curators, technicians, administrative staff) received the
necessary training to operate the computerized library system.

         (g)       In financing terms, despite these positive aspects, the future of the library is not
guaranteed: (i) the 2001/2002 annual (non-salary) budget has allowed the renewal of 330 subscriptions to
periodicals, and the replenishment of about 740 books. An additional annual budget of $150,000 is needed
to secure the sustainability of this tool, i.e. a renewal rate estimated in the long run at 5,000 to 6,000 titles.
Incremental recurrent costs for the printing of course syllabi, purchase of CD-ROM's, and database
searches were covered so far, but will also need a special provision. This incremental allocation is not
secured; (ii) rapidly growing student enrollments may lead to over-utilization of the library, and subsequent
deterioration of the facilities and equipment, needing even more substantial maintenance budget, once
guarantees are over.

l The second component, "upgrading of teaching and research" is judged to be unsatisfactory. The
assessment is based on the following observations:

         (a)      The final disbursement rate for the component is 43 percent.

         (b)      Out of the five sub-components comprising this component, only two have been
implemented satisfactorily: (i) "reinforcement of applied science teaching", which amounts mainly to
procurement of scientific equipment, and accounts for the bulk of disbursements; and (ii) "computerized
information systems", which is in fact focused on the library (see above). Other sub-components have
failed, and the final impact on teaching and research is frail.

         (c)      The first sub-component "reinforcement of applied science teaching" aimed at giving
scientific subjects a better base for teaching through upgraded pedagogical equipment and material.
Ultimately, it was to lead to a re-organization of the subjects and programs, with more weight given to
scientific disciplines. Electronic, electrical, chemical, optical, audio-visual, construction and office
equipment have been delivered to UCAD and several schools; however, the associated establishment of an
incentive-based program to organize the maintenance of equipment and to ensure steady replacement of
material has not taken place; this is also the case of the in-service training which was supposed to be
provided for faculty staff. Hence, the intended re-organization has hardly taken place, and the channeling
of students towards scientific disciplines has failed: far from increasing, the share of scientific streams in
total UCAD enrollments at entry level (1st year) has shrunk from 17% in 1996/97 to 14% in 2001/2002.
Meanwhile, total enrollments in the faculty of liberal arts reached 51%. Indeed, the real root of the
problems is to be found upstream, with a majority of secondary education graduates coming from
non-scientific streams.

         (d)      Under the second sub-component, "development and pilot testing of an accreditation
system", study tours and workshops were organized for faculty staff. The number of accreditations
completed was supposed to give a rough indication of how teaching has been progressing. This number is
zero, strongly suggesting that there was no progress in the evaluation culture. Apathy and lack of interest
from the department in charge of the sub-component and high turnover of staff seem to account for this


                                                       - 11 -

failure.

          (e)     The third sub-component, "management of a university research fund", promised to be a
very innovative activity. Yet, it is the first project activity that was identified by the Bank team as
problematic, and it is rated unsatisfactory as early as July 1997, and will remain so until project closing,
with the exception of a 13-month period in 1999/2000. The idea behind the Fonds de Recherche
Universitaire (FRU) was to stimulate research proposals on a competitive basis. At the time of project
appraisal, each faculty staff was automatically granted a study tour every two years without having to
produce any evidence of the work performed. The FRU was supposed to redirect the budget for what had
amounted to substantial fringe benefits to an instrument aiming at introducing a healthy competition for
research funding. The expected outcome would have been to increase scientific publications. The MoE
made the funds available for the FRU to function (on a matching grant basis), and some study tours were
financed, but the project has been unable to stir the expected behavioral change, and the FRU's intended
mission was distorted. The number of research submissions [PSR Indicator #10] was targeted to take off
as of 1996/97 at an annual pace of 100, and to reach a cruising rhythm of 400 as of 2000/01. The number
of completed proposals was projected to follow the same path, at a 50% level. There is no evidence of any
proposal submitted, let alone completed. There are no indicators available regarding the evolution of
publications, but no request for support of publications was received. There are three possible
explanations for this failure: (i) unions opposed making participation in the study tours subject to concrete
proposals and outputs, which they saw as an attempt to cut an acquired right entitlement ("avantage acquis
"); (ii) the development of an acceptable operational manual (critical for any funding mechanism) took two
years to be developed, presented by the Rector and approved by the university assembly. This was a
condition of credit effectiveness which did not take place; and (iii) ex-post justification for study tours were
not completed and forwarded by the beneficiaries, bringing IDA matching funds to a halt.

          (f)     The fourth sub-component, "Study of alternative models for teaching and financing" was
supposed to help universities develop greater responsibility and financial accountability, through
completion of a number of studies and pilot experiences, including accrediting procedures. With the
exception of one study and a few training sessions and study tours, this sub-component has not been
implemented.

          (g)     The fifth sub-component, "installation of computerized information systems", was
implemented satisfactorily, but it concerns only the UCAD and UGB libraries.

l The third component, "strengthening of management capacity" is considered unsatisfactory. The
main reasons for this assessment are spelled out below.

          (a)     The final disbursement rate for the component is 57 percent.

          (b)     One of the main objectives of this component was the improvement of sector management
and financing. A set of indicators is needed to assess the extent to which this objective has been achieved.

                  (i) Reducing and then freezing the share of the education budget allocated to tertiary
          education [PSR Indicator # 2] were seen as a way to keep tertiary education under control, and to
          make room for primary education. Instead of the projected three-point decline over the period from
          a baseline level of 23%, the share was 24.1% in 2001/02 (after a peak of 28% the previous year);

                  (ii) Another goal was to free up resources from student aid to make them available for
          pedagogic purposes; one of the solutions was to reduce the scholarship budget. While the envelope


                                                       - 12 -

         for scholarship abroad [PSR Indicator # 4] did actually shrink throughout, the budget for
         scholarships in Senegal [PSR Indicator # 3] raised after 3 years of stagnation, further to the
         decision to award national scholarships or support (aide annuelle) to all students. The end result
         is an increase of the overall scholarship budget, with an automatic inflationary impact on the
         sub-sector budget.

         (c)       Despite its title, the first sub-component, "reorganization of student services" was mostly
about rehabilitation of student dorms and equipment of Centre des Oeuvres Universitaires de Dakar
(COUD) kitchens; rehabilitation has been completed as scheduled. The computerization of the department
of grants and fellowship (a prerequisite for a more efficient management of social transfers) was also
completed. During project preparation, several spectacular measures had been taken to eliminate most
obvious excesses in facilities utilization. A cap was put on both the population admitted to the COUD and
on the budget of the latter. As a result, per-student expenditures for meals were stabilized. However,
students' participation in the costs of social services remains modest and the burden of these services on the
budget remains heavy (expenditures on COUD in 2003 represent 33% of the budget for higher education).

         (d)       The second sub-component, "development of a maintenance system", was supposed to lay
the ground for an efficient procurement, maintenance, and space allocation management system; in fact it
also included the rehabilitation of the Ecole Polytechnique de Thiès; the latter was not completed, and the
former only marginally so. Maintenance expenditures currently represent 0.29% of the UCAD budget.

         (e)       The last sub-component, "project administration", was implemented satisfactorily in terms
of disbursement (staff salaries, operating costs and training). However, the performance of the IT was
uneven. In addition to the problems related to its position in a no-man's land between the ministry and the
university, and to those linked to personal acrimony, the team lacked procurement specialists. In-service
and on-the-spot training allowed the IT assistants to eventually handle procurement matters with
professionalism, but initial delays were frequent, due to lack of experience. These problems were
compounded by a university tender board unfamiliar with Bank procurement procedures, and, at times, by
Bank's slow responsiveness.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable (See Annex 3 on Economic Costs and Benefits)

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:
         Modest.

         Despite progress in some specific areas, the institutional impact of the project is fragile.

         The project was expected to bring about improvements in at least four important institutional
areas: (i) a tool to channel more students towards scientific streams, (ii) a reliable and transparent system
of accreditation, (iii) an organization to ensure facilities and equipment maintenance, and (iv) a competitive
mechanism to entice research activities. None of these improvements has taken place. The inability of the
Ministry to develop a comprehensive, time-bound, and costed strategy for the sub-sector would also
suggest a still limited institutional capacity. Nonetheless, there are some positive aspects associated with
the project, including: (i) the establishment of criteria for access to student dorms, (ii) better control of
study tours for faculty staff, (iii) the reinforcement of procurement capacities in universities, and in the



                                                        - 13 -

MoE, and (iv) the involvement of representatives from the private sector in the management of some public
higher education structures.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

         Tertiary education stakeholders (students and faculty staff) across the world are typically
independent-minded, politically sensitive, strongly resistant to change, and quick to claim their
entitlements and to protect them when threatened. This is particularly true in Senegal: the climate in
universities was very tense during project preparation and on several occasions during the project
implementation period (e.g. the 1997 campus crisis). In Senegal, the academic community is a strong
political constituency, holding special relationships with the highest authorities of the country, who, in
turn, are cautious to avoid confrontation with this community. These factors strongly influenced project
implementation.

         In addition, some specific factors instrumental in project implementation (such as resource
transfers between the COUD and the library) were not under the direct control of the Government, but
rather under universities' and related entities' jurisdiction.

         Presidential and legislative elections in 2000 and 2001, with their associated campaigns and
aftermath also created major turbulences, and heightened the fragility of reforms and the vulnerability of
implementation mechanisms.

         The overall macroeconomic situation, which often limits the implementation of projects with high
recurrent cost implication, can hardly be called upon in this case since: (i) the project aimed at promoting a
decrease of expenditures, and (ii) the annual GDP growth in Senegal fared relatively well between 1990
and 2000 (5.6% vs a SSA average 3.0%).

         Chart 1 in Section 10 shows PSR ratings over the period, which can be divided into five main
episodes: (i) the years 1996/97, which mark the project start, (ii) the 1998/99 period, with the first serious
slippages, (iii) the 1999/2000 parenthesis with short-lived improvements, (iv) the years 2001/2002
characterized by policy reversal and subsequent suspension, and (v) the final 2002/2003 period following
partial cancellation of the project. The chart illustrates how external shocks and internal events contributed
to shape the project's performance over time.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

         The Government did not make full use of its influence to help create an enabling environment
for smooth project implementation, nor did it provide the necessary continuous political commitment to
the project's objectives and the leadership--both prerequisites for project success.

         The Government controls at least two main areas which are seen to have impeded the successful
implementation of the PAES, and of the reforms supported by the project: public finance and management.

         (a)      The Government submits annual budgets, and in doing so, it makes key decisions at the
inter- and intra-sectoral levels. In particular, allocations to the education sector and those made within it
(e.g. to the various sub-sectors such as higher education, then, within the latter, amongst various categories
of spending) are the responsibility of the Government. Central government revenues constitute absolute



                                                       - 14 -

constraints on public spending; this constraint is particularly strong in Senegal, since these revenues
accounted for only 18.1% of the GDP in 2001 (versus a SSA average of 23.7%).

         (b)      Likewise, some important technical parameters in higher education, such as the teaching
load, are determined by the Government. Finally, the Government retains the power to fill key positions,
such as university rectors, and makes personnel decisions directly affecting the project, such as the
appointment of the head of the IT, and the constitution of the steering committee.

         Although the Government's power is limited in each of these three areas by the sovereignty of
parliament, the bargaining power of teachers' unions, and the status of universities, it still retains most of
the authority in these areas, and that is why it agreed with the Bank to introduce or speed up reforms in
each of these areas (e.g. reduction of the share of the education budget going to tertiary education, increase
in the number of teaching hours, and assembling an operational implementation team with an effective
leader). The fact that several of the agreements were breached and several commitments were not honored
(or belatedly so) remains the Government's accountability. Likewise, fulfilling the conditions to lift the
partial suspension of the credit was within the Government's control.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

         Institutionally vulnerable and technically weak, the implementing agency had little room to
maneuver in order to influence implementation beyond purely technical processes.

         The Implementation Team was inherited from the project preparation period, and had the
opportunity to get experience with the series of PPF which supported preparation. Inaugurated with a very
small core group of persons (one head, one accountant and one assistant), this team hardly increased in
size, even after its integration within the MoE's Direction de l'administration générale (DAGE). The lack
of managerial experience was a serious drawback, repeatedly pointed out by the Bank team in the early
years of the project. The absence of a procurement specialist was also a serious weakness, but was
gradually --though partially-- compensated by: (i) successful learning by doing by the personnel, and (ii)
sub-contracting all construction aspects to AGETIP, an institution with significant experience in
procurement. The 2000/2001 period witnessed almost complete replacement of staff; this major disruption
led to the request for assistance from the Quality Education for All Project team.

         The confusion between the role of accountant and financial specialist (positions held by the same
person), and the various errors identified by several documented audit reports were areas under the direct
responsibility of the head of the IT. In other areas which are typically under the control of a project unit,
such as the preparation of implementation progress reports, the IT did not have authority to obtain the
necessary inputs from the various component coordinators, who were hierarchically not obliged to respond
to IT's requests. As a result, the IT was often late in issuing and forwarding progress reports. Even in the
area of procurement of scientific equipment, the IT was dependent on university committees, which had
very limited knowledge of the Bank's procedures.

5.4 Costs and financing:

         The unsatisfactory level of implementation is not reflected by the relatively high level of
disbursement, mostly attributable to spending on civil works, hardware and books, which took an even
larger share than projected at appraisal. Likewise, the real impact of suspension and cancellation was
not mainly financial.




                                                      - 15 -

         Costs: The project's total cost as estimated at appraisal was $30.9 million, and IDA contribution
was $26.5 million. The global disbursement rate is 80.2 percent. At appraisal, the library was already the
most costly component, with about 56% of the total project cost (there is a discrepancy in the SAR between
the figures in the main text and the annexes). However, the cost might have been underestimated, and, at
closing, the share of the library costs was 10 percentage points higher than originally anticipated. The
analysis of disbursements by categories shows that, in absolute terms, most of the excess spending on this
component comes from civil works; however, the largest relative differential between appraisal estimates
and actual disbursements is linked to purchase of books and pedagogic material. Conversely, the "teaching
and research" component has seen its share reduced from 29% at appraisal to 17% at closing, with the bulk
of the 'foregone disbursement' attributable to the very low level of activation of the research fund.
Together, civil works and equipment accounted for 62.6% of IDA disbursement, up from 57.1% at
appraisal.

         Financing: With external aid to tertiary education mostly composed of narrowly targeted
interventions (notably French, Canadian, Italian, American, Swiss and European cooperation agencies),
there were only two sources of financing for such a large project: IDA and the Government. At appraisal,
the Government's counterpart was estimated to reach 13.9% of total project cost. By closing, this share
had dwindled to 6.8%. A deposit of counterpart funds of $250,000 was a condition of effectiveness which
was met without delay. Deposits were regularly made in subsequent years, indicating counterpart funds
were not a source of problems.

         Impact of suspension: When suspension was decided by the Bank (July 2001), $18.3 million had
been disbursed already (69.1% of the credit). During the 16-month-long suspension, most activities came
to a standstill. Civil works had been completed already. Purchase of books and scientific equipment was
put on hold. Grants under the FRU were excluded from the suspension; no withdrawal was made against
this category, however. Staff of the IT continued to be paid under the credit during suspension. The main
impact of suspension was a deficit of trust, as much as a deficit of funds.

         Impact of cancellation : When cancellation occurred in October 2002, the undisbursed credit was
$8.2 million, out of which $1.5 million were cancelled; therefore, the cancellation may be seen more as the
lifting of the suspension, with minor cuts. The latter affected mostly civil works ($0.6 million), the FRU
($1.1 million), and the unallocated category ($1.9 million). On the other hand, allocations for scientific
equipment and for books were increased (by $1.4 million and 0.8 million respectively). As a result,
procurement of books for the library and equipment for the faculties could resume and partially catch up
with the planned amounts. In total, $3.1 million were disbursed following the cancellation. At the time of
this ICR, the undisbursed balance was $3.6 million.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
         Unlikely.

         The UCAD library --if budgets to maintain and equip it are secured-- should remain a regional
showcase for years to come. Few other achievements are likely to be durable. Nevertheless, what the
project has not succeeded in promoting --in particular cost-effectiveness-- may actually come to pass
through the force majeure of future demographic and financial realities.

         To explain the ICR rating, four aspects of sustainability were considered: sectoral, technical,
financial, and institutional.



                                                     - 16 -

          (a)     Sectorally, most of the reforms undertaken during project preparation were overturned
later. However, some measures (timid cost-sharing and access control) may be sustainable, mainly thanks
to some changes in the institutional culture (i.e. cost-consciousness, recognition of the need for resource
diversification, etc.) of the academic community. The project may have contributed to this shift. In the
long run, the increasing difficulty of financing larger cohorts of students while maintaining minimum
academic standards is likely to make it easier to pass unavoidable reforms. Finally, the suspension of the
credit appears to have triggered a constructive (albeit belated) reaction from the MoE which prepared a
well-organized set of documentation and measures, and adopted a more systemic view of the sector.

          (b)     Technically, there is no aspect of the project that the Government is not able to pursue.
Training has been provided for all activities supported by the project, and there is no reason to believe that
technical assistance will cease to be available in case it is still needed in specialized areas such as
computerization, information systems, model designing or evaluation techniques.

          (c)     Financially, the capacity of the Government to continue the operations initiated by the
project depends, to a large extent, on the will to address the issue of sector financing as a whole. At
present, the financial sustainability of the most successful project component -i.e. the library- is not ensured
if based solely on the national budget. There is a real risk that the collections may not be renewed. Given
the high visibility of the library, it is hoped that authorities will secure the necessary (domestic or foreign)
resources to prevent this risk from materializing. The same risk applies to the maintenance of the
equipment, at an even higher degree, because equipment is not as visible. More broadly, the financial
viability of the sub-sector is less than guaranteed, and more radical changes will be needed to mitigate those
risks.

          (d)     Institutionally, as there is little progress directly due to the project to report, there is also
little to expect in terms of durability. Some aspects may nevertheless carry on beyond project life,
including (i) mechanisms to link faculty study tours and research, (ii) computerization of student service
information, and (iii) better handling of procurement procedures.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

          With the twofold evolution away from stand-alone investment projects and from adjustment
operations, and the trend towards a programmatic approach, it is likely that higher education in the
future will be part of more holistic operations. Steps in that direction were already taken at an early
stage, with the PAES implementation structures streamlined with those of the ministry.

          Transition to regular operations has three aspects:

          (a)     Strategically: The PAES was one of the last stand-alone (investment) operations in the
education sector in Senegal. The subsequent operation is an ongoing ten-year, sector-wide program
(Programme Décennal de l'éducation et de la formation - PDEF), supported by IDA and other donors.
The transition from the PAES to this operation was formalized as early as December 2000, and has been
relatively smooth, with the PDEF picking up a number of both policy measures and specific activities
initially planned under the PAES. An appropriate follow-up to the PAES would be to regulate the
flourishing private sector of tertiary education and to promote quality of its services, in order to attenuate
the pressure on public universities.

          (b)     Financially: There is little doubt that tertiary education in Senegal will require more



                                                        - 17 -

external aid for many more years. With low enrollment and completion rates at primary level, however, it is
also likely that development partners will continue to devote the bulk of their assistance to helping Senegal
reach the EFA goals. If Senegal becomes an EFA/FTI country, as is likely to happen, this will put more
pressure on post-primary education, and especially on post-secondary education. Nevertheless, it would be
hazardous to leave tertiary education without support. Without sustained policy reforms that deal directly
with controlling the growth in both public tertiary enrollment and in the scholarship budgets, it is likely that
donor assistance to the sub-sector will dry up.

        (c)       Implementation-wise: The integration of the IT in the DAGE within the MoE, and in
particular, the transfer of financial management of accounts from the PAES to DAGE, anticipated the
streamlining of externally-funded operations into regular activities of the ministry.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance during preparation is assessed as satisfactory.

        The Bank team made an exceptional breakthrough by engaging the Government and the
university community alike in a long-term effort, and by supporting a truly country-driven process to
redefine the missions and contours of tertiary education. In parallel to the national consultation
process, the Bank completed solid sector work, in view of laying out the basis for the new operation.
Finally, Bank management, bolstered by the promising early actions taken by the Government to
discipline UCAD, decided to take risks by accepting to invest in tertiary education.

        (a)       An exemplary engagement...

        The Bank completed a comprehensive sub-sector report in 1992. The report accurately described
the situation of the Senegalese higher education system and its challenges, and outlined the principles of a
reform to revitalize the system. Preparation started immediately on this basis, with an intense involvement
of the Bank team to encourage, accompany and support the emergence of a national consensus at a time
when the situation at the university - an institution which was not initially amenable to the Bank's presence
- was very tense . In parallel, anxious to demonstrate through immediate and concrete acts its willingness
to support the sub-sector, the Bank authorized the use of the existing credit to rehabilitate student homes
and purchase books, and granted a PPF with four successive supplements totaling $1.8 million (the
maximum amount for a PPF) to increase sector knowledge, finance feasibility studies and support national
consultation. At the IEPS stage (May 1993), both line and senior management regarded this consultation
as highly promising. Yet, at the time, the Bank was considering stopping any support to the sector,
because of the extravagant spending on higher education, which was putting the whole sector at risk.
Therefore, a global agreement to reform the sub-sector by, inter alia, controlling access and rationalizing
the student welfare scheme was seen as opening the door to a much more fruitful dialogue, and this
agreement was made a prerequisite for going ahead with the preparation.

        Both the project concept ("important and exciting") and the preparation process ("model practice",
"almost unprecedented levels of beneficiary involvement") drew almost unanimously positive comments
from peer reviewers, and the project was easily endorsed by the pre-appraisal meeting (August 1995),
despite some concerns about its complexity. As the Government had started acting on key reforms, the
Bank became over-optimistic about the likelihood of further reforms. At the FEPS stage, however, the
Bank took a more prudent stance by: (i) scaling back the size of the library (judged too grandiose), hence



                                                      - 18 -

reducing the project's total cost from $40 million to $26 million, and (ii) making negotiations contingent
upon an agreement on policy reforms (teaching hours/ curriculum revision/ enrollment targets/ resource
reallocation). However justified, the two decisions triggered disappointment on the Senegalese side (in
particular amongst the academic community), and eroded the Government's trust in Bank support -despite a
$2 million increase in the size of the credit, agreed upon during negotiations-.

         The positive atmosphere created on both sides by the Journées de réflexion, the Concertation
Nationale, the bold measures taken by the Government following the Consultation, and the proposed
reforms agreed upon, were set back by violent student protests in 1993/94. The climate deteriorated further
with preparation dragging another 18 months until new Bank oversight was assigned and led the appraisal
and negotiations of a project which was less ambitious in terms of investment, but as far-reaching in terms
of proposed reforms.

         (b)      ...but some early problems had the potential to make implementation hazardous

         The project is built on an exclusive relation between the Bank and the Borrower. This
"isolationism" does not stem from an absence of consultation with other donors present in the sector (e.g.
French cooperation was kept informed of the preparation process), but rather from the fact that none of
these donors was ready to embark on sweeping reforms of the sub-sector. The abstention by the US
Executive Director of the World Bank when the project was presented to the Board illustrates the
reluctance of some donors to invest in higher education in Senegal (in this specific case, the "elitist" nature
of higher education being one of the main reasons put forward to explain lack of support). By taking this
risk alone, and by not devising exit strategies, the Bank subsequently found itself face to face with the
Government in dealing with intractable and sensitive issues. In addition, the Bank did not conduct a
thorough mapping of the potential winners and losers in the sector, and lacked a strategy to mobilize the
former and/or to compensate the latter.

         By focusing so intensively on political reforms, preparation did not treat the investment aspect as in
depth, with the exception of the library, which was carefully prepared. The research fund particularly
suffered from this lack of thorough exploration.

         Implementation arrangements were re-engineered at the last moment, switching from a traditional
project implementation unit to a light project unit, suggesting that earlier arrangements were not as firm as
presented at an earlier stage. No serious institutional assessment had to be carried out before finalizing
these arrangements which turned out to be less than optimal (institutional vacuum around the project unit,
lack of accountability, elusive steering committee).

         Finally, the lack of consistency between the DCA and the SAR regarding the definition of
objectives, components and indicators, and the loose relationship between them also somehow tarnishes the
otherwise successful preparation work.

         (c)      Project preparation absorbed a high level of resources...

         Preparation lasted a record 42 months, without a clear justification for such a length. Eleven
missions, some of them very long, were sent to Senegal between March 1992 and January 1996. About
183 staff weeks and $415,000 were allocated to project preparation (including appraisal and negotiations).
Teams were usually adequately composed, combining the required technical skills; for instance, they often
comprised higher education specialists, architects, and, occasionally, library specialists.




                                                      - 19 -

         (d)      ...but the project was ready to be implemented

         The construction component was ready for implementation when the credit became effective:
bidding documents for construction were completed, and draft terms of reference for consultants and for
studies (for the first year) were available at negotiations. Procurement of equipment was also ready to start
shortly after effectiveness; this was not the case however, of most other activities, in particular the FRU.
Regarding environmental issues, the project was classified as "C". As construction was in fact an
extension of an existing building, the Senegalese team indicated that environment did not constitute a
concern. Annual counterpart financing arrangements were agreed upon during negotiations.

7.2 Supervision:
         Performance in supervision is assessed as unsatisfactory. This rating reflects the general manner
in which the Bank handled the project implementation through its various phases, and how it communicated
its views to the Borrower. It does not apply equally to all periods of supervision. Likewise, it does not
apply evenly to the various facets of supervision, and reflects mostly hesitations in the dialogue, lapses in
internal reporting, and deficits in staffing. Finally, it does not diminish the merit of the successive Bank
staff who had the responsibility for the project, and whose dedication was clear and continuous throughout
project life. For these reasons, the performance should be qualified as moderately unsatisfactory.

         As an institution, the Bank has not been able to address in a timely manner the mounting
problems faced by the project and, in particular, those linked to changes in Government's priorities vis à
vis the sector. By contrast, the teams assigned to the project exercised considerable professionalism and
commitment to try and fix implementation issues, even if the documentation and reporting tools being
used did not reach maximum quality.

         (a)      Dialogue and advice

         The menu of sectoral reforms which was agreed upon during preparation was central to the
decision of Bank's management to support higher education in Senegal. Yet, it took a long time for the
Bank to reach a decision (suspension, cancellation), even after it became clear that these reforms would not
be implemented and that the project would not reach its objectives. Instead, in a series of letters often left
without response, the Bank kept reminding the Government of its commitments, without success for most
of the project life. The Bank insisted on sectoral objectives which had turned out to be unrealistic, but did
not demonstrate the flexibility allowing to adjust to changing conditions, by either renegotiating the project
objectives, restructuring its components or cancelling it at an early stage.

         Yet, staff had been candid and pro-active about problems. As early as October 1998, as soon as it
became obvious that sectoral problems were aggravating, staff informed management and recommended
suspension. The recommendation was endorsed by line management, and relevant documents were
prepared. The decision to formally suspend disbursement seemed imminent, but was not ratified by senior
management. Then, when the situation improved briefly in 1999, there was renewed optimism by the Bank:
in his comments of the PSR # 7, the Sector Manager indicates that "sufficient progress has been made on
all fronts that suspension is no longer an immediate danger". PSR # 9 states that the Government is
"moving aggressively with strong support from the higher education community, to ensure achievement of
the project objectives". Staff were also transparent about the lack of follow-up on the Mid-Term Review
(November 1999) by the Government; however, this was not followed up by any rapid decision by
management.

         Suspension was finally acted upon in July 2001. Even though the impact of this suspension was



                                                       - 20 -

not substantial in financial terms, it left long-lasting feelings of frustration. The suspension seems to have
seriously damaged the Bank's relationship with the Borrower, and to have eroded trust even amongst
supporters of a Bank's role in the sector. Following the suspension, staff took the initiative to request a
QER in order to get advice on how to deal with the difficult situation, and to open up alternatives.
Following the QER's advice (October 2001), and in the absence of any sign of progress that could have
given a glimmer of hope that the conditions for lifting the suspension would be met, the team recommended
that the project be cancelled. Partial cancellation was finally decided in November 2002 on the basis both
of the project's specific situation, and of the country's portfolio situation (as described in the May 2002
CPPR) and strategic importance. However, it applied to a marginal undisbursed amount, and was matched
by a transfer of activities to the new ongoing project, reducing the cancellation to a symbolic act.

         Despite these managerial uncertainties, technical advice during project execution seems to have
been of good quality in general: aide mémoire and letters to the Government were usually informative and
detailed. Yet, letters confirming contents of the aide-mémoire were often late (up to 9 months after the
mission), and on several occasions, the IT complained that rejection of bidding documents was not
accompanied by explanations on how to improve documentation (especially in the area of textbook
procurement).

         (b)      Internal documentation

         The following problems were identified through the main tool of internal documentation, the PSRs:

                  -Definition of project objectives different from those adopted by the DCA and the SAR;
                  -Component structure different from that adopted by the DCA/SAR;
                  -WID section marked NR, despite the fact that "gender equity" was one of four objectives
                  in the SAR;
                  -PSRs not including detailed reporting on IP status until July 2000;
                  -PSRs not including value for performance indicators until October 1999;
                  -PSRs not commented on by managers (whether CDs or SMs) until October 2001;
                  -The last PSR upgraded DO to "satisfactory", based on the limited objectives which were
                  retained after the partial cancellation: this move explicitly ran the risk of a disconnect with
                  later evaluations.

         (c)      Staffing and resources

         An unusually large number of staff (five TM, one of them twice at two different times) and
managers were associated in one way or another with this project which spans over 12 years from
preparation to completion. Ten supervision missions went to Senegal to supervise the project; however,
this figure is misleading, since one TM resided in Dakar for about a year (1997/1998), ensuring a close
follow-up, even without formal missions from Headquarters. Yet, only one annual mission was sent in
1999 and 2000, and two missions per year thereafter, until project closing. Missions never comprised more
than three staff, with the exception of the MTR (6 staff) and the first mission after the launching mission (4
staff). No staff specialized in tertiary education, and no staff familiar with competitive funds ever joined
the supervision missions. Such specialized staff was called upon only for the QER. The Borrower
indicated to the ICR mission its high appreciation of the professionalism of the successive TMs' support.
The Borrower also expressed that the overall intentions of the Bank vis à vis the project were unclear at
times, and that there was a widespread perception of the Bank's indecisiveness regarding which route to
take when the project started to drift away from its initial objectives.




                                                       - 21 -

         About 120 staff weeks (an average of 20 staff weeks per year) were devoted to supervision, which
absorbed about $306,000 in fixed costs.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
    Unsatisfactory.

         During the ICR review meeting, some attendees advocated that the Bank's overall performance
should be rated "satisfactory", especially because of the huge amount of resources and time devoted to
trying to solve the PAES problems, and because there were no clear alternatives to the course chosen by the
Bank during implementation; others argued that, despite staff efforts, the Bank as an institution had not
been responsive early enough to the Government's policy reversal. The meeting concluded that the rating
was a difficult judgment call to be left to the appreciation of the ICR team. Therefore, the unsatisfactory
rating reflects the ICR TM's own assessment. Had the possibility of a more nuanced rating been offered,
this rating would have been qualified as "marginally", in recognition of the difficult political environment
in which the project was prepared and implemented.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
         The Government performed in a satisfactory manner during preparation.

         The consultation process was highly participatory; issues were debated in both their political
and technical dimensions, and a consensus emerged, coming from all parties, including students. The
Government acted rapidly on its commitment and took a series of promising measures which
demonstrated its determination to decontaminate the campus of its political drive, and to give a chance
to normal academic life.

         The consultation organized by the Government with the help of an ombudsman broke new grounds,
by bringing together radical students, teacher unions and civil servants from the MoE. After extremely
tense confrontation, there were reasons to believe that UCAD was again putting academic objective first,
and that a new era was about to start, putting an end to the anarchical situation of the past years. The
consultation was praised by the President of Senegal himself.

         The measures (known by their number: 23) decided in December 1993, as an aftermath of the
consultation, were not without risks; in fact, some of them were very unpopular, and probably fueled the
outburst of student protests in 1993/94. Amongst them, it is worth mentioning: (i) introduction of capacity
quotas for access at level of each faculty; (ii) introduction of a cap on the number of repetitions; (iii)
program and institution consolidation; (iv) scholarship awarding based on merit; (v) privatization of the
cafeteria management; (vi) meal price increase, (vii) better regulation of access to dormitories; (viii) more
control over faculty study tours; (ix) stricter career rules for faculty staff. However, stakeholders whose
privileges were being swept away organized fierce resistance and many of the breakthroughs were put into
question or even reversed at a later stage.

         It took 3.5 months for the Government to reach credit effectiveness after signing (less than three
weeks after the expected date). Seven conditions had been attached to effectiveness; while some of them
were clear-cut (including the deposit of the counterpart funding and the appointment of an auditor), others
were more ambiguous and less obvious to verify. The adoption of the operational manual for the FRU is a
case in point: it may well have been adopted by the Government without delay, but two years were needed
before the manual was adopted by the UCAD.




                                                      - 22 -

7.5 Government implementation performance:
         The Government's performance during implementation is assessed as unsatisfactory,

         Despite the success in extending and operating the UCAD library, the Government did not
achieve, nor make clear efforts to achieve the various development objectives of the project nor to
implement its other components. There is little progress to be reported in terms of sectoral policy, and
higher education in Senegal today is not well prepared for the coming challenges of increasing intakes,
more demanding labor market, and shrinking public resources.

         The rating is based on several critical accounts:

         (a)      Lack of progress on reforms: several of the key reforms undertaken, and measures decided,
in 1993/94, were either discontinued or reneged, including those regarding the share of the tertiary
education budget (and its consequence on the budget for primary education) and the scholarship policy;

        (b)       Lack of compliance with several DCA covenants (which ultimately led to credit
suspension): increasing the teaching load (Section 3.05), the evaluation of all institutions and the
establishment of an accreditation system (Section 3.06), and preparation of plan for the outsourcing of
maintenance functions (Section 3.07);

         (c)      Lack of response to several important Bank messages and requests: a series of agreements
was reached during the MTR mission; yet these agreements were not followed up by actions (action plan,
implementation plan and disbursement plan) for many months. It also took more than a year for the
Government to take the measures necessary to lift suspension (appointment of a full coordinating team and
project auditors, updated project report and indicators, activation of the steering committee, sector action
plan and procurement plan);

         (d)      Lack of diligence in some aspects of implementation and monitoring. The lack of data (or
their lack of reliability) to monitor the project according to the agreed indicators (DCA, Section 6.01f) was
been pointed out from the very start of the project. Yet, at closing, data to estimate the value of indicators
were still incomplete and/or of dubious reliability.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
         The implementing agency's performance is rated unsatisfactory.

         Small, technically unequipped and institutionally fragile, the IT did not manage to overcome the
various obstacles which soon inhibited implementation, despite the commitment of several of its
members.

         This assessment does not prevent one from acknowledging that the initially inexperienced IT had to
implement the project under difficult circumstances (unclear reporting links, mistrust from the university
community, personal tension between the head of the IT and the university rector, insecure feelings
regarding Bank's intentions). From the start, the Bank raised issues related both to the IT coordinator and
to the insufficient staffing of the team. Performance declined during the transitional period when changes
were occurring in the Government, the university, and the IT itself (integration with the MoE). Several
activities under the direct responsibility of the IT (progress reports, procurement plans, disbursement and
financing plan) were unevenly performed. The accounting function was not performed satisfactorily for
many months after effectiveness. Several cases of wrong procurement and disbursement practices were
reported --mostly in 1999-- and took long before being addressed and fixed. The appointment of project



                                                      - 23 -

auditors also took a long time. Another source of delay, however, is related to the low capacity of the
university procurement committee (which increased over time), and cannot be imputed to the IT.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
        Unsatisfactory

8. Lessons Learned

Key lessons can be drawn from the project at two levels:

        Project concept

        (a)       In a volatile political environment such as that which characterized higher education
in Senegal in the early 90s, it may be imprudent to build an entire reform program on the assumption
that the momentum for sectoral reform at the time of preparation would survive for the next 6 years
(period of implementation): even when enthusiasm and consensus exist at the beginning of the process,
many events and factors (both internal and external to the sector) may intervene to curb or even stop this
momentum.

        (b)       Therefore, when dealing with tertiary education, it is prudent to phase the reforms, to
offer options, and not try to address simultaneously the issues of access control, cost-sharing and internal
efficiency.

        (c)       It may be advisable to refrain, at the outset, from overselling financial support to the
Borrower and sectoral reforms to the Bank, as the risk of downscaling may materialize, leading to
painful adjustments and generating detrimental impact on both sides.

        (d)       Building an operation on a narrow investment basis and loading this operation with
far-reaching reforms runs the risk of derailment because of the disconnect between the beneficiaries of the
investment and the stakeholders potentially affected by the reforms; it may also help to make investments
hostage to lack of progress on the reform front: a better balance between the investment and the reform
agenda mitigates the risk of further disillusions.

        (e)       Operations with extensive reform contents, even when prepared with careful and in-depth
consultation, and even when based on solid sector work, do not avoid the risks of a breach or even a
reversal of initial political commitments; this is why it is wise to develop exit strategies and back-up
positions (alternative scenarios) in order to avoid being cornered in intractable positions.

        (f)       When stakeholders such as students and faculty staff (and their respective unions) are the
main beneficiaries, and in addition, have a powerful bargaining power, it is of paramount importance to
involve them not only in the discussion of the sectoral measures to be taken, but also in the design of
the project and in the operational aspects of its implementation.

        (g)       Politically risky operations require a careful analysis not only of the benefits but also
of the threats that they may engender, and of the groups positively and negatively affected; it is also
advisable to give priority to actions with positive incentives over those which are seen as a sanction or
which and may lead to a loss.

        (h)       Postponing the detailed definition of key performance indicators, their baseline, MTR and



                                                      - 24 -

target values until after credit effectiveness often proves to bear the seeds of future failure of the M&E
system. Instrumentalization of performance indicators should be part of the early design.

         (i)      A perfect match should be reached between Appraisal documents and DCA regarding
DO, IPs and indicators, and TM should be responsible to ensure that Schedule 2 of the DCA perfectly
reflects the corresponding sections of the Appraisal documents.

         Implementation

         (a)      It is important to locate, organize, and staff the implementation unit in such a way that
it is seen as an instrument of the beneficiaries (the university in the case of tertiary education), not of the
ministry.

         (b)      When making implementation arrangements, special attention should be given to
institutional realities, such as the hierarchical links between the various actors who will be called
upon to implement the project; in particular, it is critical to make sure that the head of an implementation
unit, or the project coordinator has sufficient authority to request civil servants to take action on various
aspects of the project.

         (c)      When the existence of various committees (steering committee/research committee) are
deemed necessary for the implementation of the project, it is advisable to make sure they will be created
at Board presentation stage or at credit effectiveness at the latest, as they may never materialize later on,
and as their creation may constitute a lasting point of contention with the Bank, preventing both parties
from concentrating on real implementation issues.

         (d)      When a project includes a new mechanism, assuming behavioral changes and putting rent
situations at risk by introducing competition (such as in the case of the Research Fund in the PAES), it is
prudent to launch an information campaign ahead of time, explaining the rationale, the rules and
criteria of the mechanisms, and its potential benefits; transparency and clarity will always pay off in the
future, and will reduce the risk of conflicts.

         (e)      When project objectives turn out to be out of reach, it is better to address the problem
up-front, cancel or restructure the project as early as possible around new objectives rather than
pressing --with no hope of success-- the Borrower to achieve initial objectives which are no longer realistic.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Comments on the draft ICR were received after the ICR review meeting. They provided useful factual
information. Most of them were taken into account in the final version of this ICR. The Government's
complete report can be found in Annex 9.

(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A




                                                      - 25 -

10. Additional Information



            Chart 1 ­ Historical Profile of PDO and IP Ratings (PSR)


                                                                        TM1
                        TM1    TM2       TM2     TM2   TM1     TM1           TM1     TM3    TM3    TM3    TM3     TM3    TM3    TM3    TM3    TM4
                                                                   PSR8,
                   PSR2,                    PSR5, PSR6,   PSR7,         PSR9,  PSR10, PSR11, PSR12, PSR13,  PSR14, PSR15, PSR16, PSR17, PSR18,
               -97,   -97,PSR3,-97,PSR4,-98,   -99,   -99,   -1999, -99,   -00,   -00,   -01,   -01,    -01,   -02,   -02,   -02,   -03,
            Apr    Jul     Aug     Apr      Jan    Mar    Sep    Dec    Jun    Dec    Apr    Oct    Dec     Feb    Jun    Sep    Nov
         2




         1



                                                                                                                                              PDO
         0                                                                                                                                     IP

                                                                                                                                        1 = S
                                                                                                                                        2 = HS
 Ratings-1                                                                                                                              -1 = U
                                                                                                                                        -2 = HU



        -2


 Events
                                                    MTR               Integration
        &                                                                Of IT           QER

 Shocks            Student                                      Visit Minister         Suspension                     Partial
                     Crisis                                         WB HQ                                          Cancellation

                                                          Presidential         Legislative
                                                            Elections           Elections




                                                                         - 26 -

                 Chart 2 - Historical Profile of Component Ratings (PSR)




HS




S

                                                                                                        2
                                                                                               1
                                                                                                                                   1 Expansion Library
                                                                                                                                   2 Acquisition of Book
                                                                                                                                   3 Science Teaching
 U                                                                                      6                                          4 Accreditation System
                                                                                                                                   5 Research Fund
                                                                                        3                               4
HU                              5                                                                                                  6 Alternative Mode




    Apr-97 Jul-97
                  Aug-97 Apr-98 Jan-99 Mar-99 Sep-99 Dec-99 Jun-00 Dec-00 Apr-01 Oct-01  Dec-01  Feb-02 Jun-02
                                                                                                                Sept-02  Nov-03




                                                                   - 27 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                            1
                 Indicator/Matrix                       Projected in last PSR             Actual/Latest Estimate
Enrollments, UCAD (decline)                    15,578                            31,153

Share of higher education in total education   19.9%                             24.1%
budget (freeze)

Expenditure for scholarships in Senegal        FCFA 3.0 billion                  FCFA 4.5 billion
(freeze)

 Expenditure for scholarships abroad (freeze) FCFA 1.9 billion                   FCFA 1.9 billion

Pass rates at UCAD (increase)                  65%                               30% (*)

Student: Professor ratio (decline)             16                                29.5

Private enrollment (increase)                  20%                               28.9%
Girls enrollment at UCAD (**)                  30%                               28.9

(*)    in 2001/02
(**)     not a PSR indicator
Output Indicators:
                                                                            1
                 Indicator/Matrix                       Projected in last PSR             Actual/Latest Estimate
Utilization of library (proportion of student  N/R                               55.2
registered)


Books catalogued                               20,000                            23,000


Research proposals received                    400                               0


Number of Accreditations                       4                                 0

1End of project




                                                               - 28 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)

Expenditure Category                                            Procurement Method                      Total Cost
                                    ICB                  NCB                      Other      N.B.F.
1. Works                                   11.90                0.20                0.00       0.00      12.10
                                          (10.40) 1             (0.20)              (0.00)     (0.00)    10.60
2. Equipment and Vehicles                   5.3                  0.9                 0.2       0.00        6.4
                                           (4.8)                (0.8)               (0.2)      (0.00)     (5.8)
3. Textbooks & Inst. Mat.                   3.9                 0.00                0.00       0.00        3.9
                                           (3.3)                (0.00)              (0.00)     (0.00)     (3.3)
4. Consultant Services                     0.00                 0.00                 1.8       0.00        1.8
                                           (0.00)               (0.00)              (1.8)      (0.00)     (1.8)
5. Training                                0.00                 0.00                 0.8       0.00        0.8
                                           (0.00)               (0.00)              (0.8)      (0.00)     (0.8)
6. Research Fund                           0.00                 0.00                 2.8       0.00        2.8
                                           (0.00)               (0.00)              (1.4)      (0.00)     (1.4)
7. Operating Costs                         0.00                 0.00                 1.2       0.00        1.2
                                           (0.00)               (0.00)              (1.0)      (0.00)     (1.0)
8. PPF                                     0.00                 0.00                 1.8       0.00        1.8
                                           (0.00)               (0.00)              (1.8)      (0.00)     (1.8)
TOTAL                                      21.1                  1.1                 8.6       0.00       30.9
                                           (18.5                (1.0)               (7.0)      (0.00)    (26.5)
1
 Figures in parenthesis are amounts financed by IDA. All costs include contingencies

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)

Expenditure Category                                            Procurement Method                      Total Cost
                                    ICB                  NCB                      Other      N.B.F.
1. Civil Works                             0.00                 0.00                0.00       0.00       0.00
                                           (0.00)               (0.00)              (0.00)     (0.00)    (8.42)
2. Equipment and Vehicles                  0.00                 0.00                0.00       0.00       0.00
                                           (0.00)               (0.00)              (0.00)     (0.00)    (4.48)
3. Textbooks & Inst. Mat.                  0.00                 0.00                0.00       0.00       0.00
                                           (0.00)               (0.00)              (0.00)     (0.00)    (2.85)
4. C. Services/Training                    0.00                 0.00                0.00       0.00       0.00
                                           (0.00)               (0.00)              (0.00)     (0.00)    (1.80)
6. Research Fund                           0.00                 0.00                0.00       0.00       0.00
                                           (0.00)               (0.00)              (0.00)     (0.00)     (0.20
7. Operating Costs                         0.00                 0.00                0.00       0.00       0.00
                                           (0.00)               (0.00)              (0.00)     (0.00)    (0.38)
8. Refunding of PPF                        0.00                 0.00                0.00       0.00       0.00
                                           (0.00)               (0.00)              (0.00)     (0.00)    (1.58)
9. Other                                   0.00                 0.00                0.00       (0.00)     0.00



                                                           - 29 -

                                  (0.00)            (0.00)         (0.00)           (0.00)           (.25)
   10. Total                       0.00             0.00            0.00            0.00             0.00
                                  (0.00)            (0.00)         (0.00)           (0.00)          (19.95)

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
       Component              Appraisal Estimate            Actual/Latest Estimate
                          IDA       Govt.       CoF.      IDA       Govt.       CoF.    IDA    Govt.    CoF.
Improve Library Services  15.60                           16.10      0.60               103.2
Upgrade Teaching &        9.40                            3.80       0.40               40.4
Research
Strengthen Management     4.10                            2.00       0.70               48.8
Capacity
Refinancing of PPF        1.80                            1.80                          100.0




                                                 - 30 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

          The SAR proposed an economic justification of the project along four lines: (i) the development of
least-cost alternatives for investments in higher education, (ii) a fiscal impact analysis, (iii) a rate of return
analysis, and (iv) an analysis of consistency of project initiatives with the CAS. This annex follows the
same lines, in order to assess how the situation has evolved since appraisal and, in particular, to make an a
posteriori judgment on whether the justification of the project is still valid after completion. It therefore
examines successively the first three points (consistency with the CAS is already dealt with in the main
text).

          Least-cost Alternatives

          This analysis was conducted in the SAR for the library component only: the other components are
made up of a variety of inputs (equipment, scientific and pedagogic material, training, technical assistance),
not easily amenable to this kind of analysis, and for which use of Bank procurement procedures are the
main guarantee of the best cost/quality ratio. Regarding the central library at UCAD, a careful
architectural analysis had been made at the time of appraisal by the Bank team, who ensured compliance
with both local and international norms, and took into account the various functions of the library (e.g.
seating, storage). The final design followed the guidelines provided by this analysis.

          The ex-post assessment can be done through two lens: project component and disbursement
category. In terms of component ("Improve library services"), total disbursements exceeded the initial
allocation (representing 52% of the total project base cost), while in terms of category (i.e. civil works),
projected and actual disbursements turned out to coincide almost exactly (table 1). Even though the actual
figure was not available for the ICR, it must be recalled that, at appraisal, civil works for the library (the
overlap of component and category) represented 58.7 % of total project costs.

Table 1 Projected costs and actual disbursements ($ million)
                                Appraisal             Disbursed            Disbursement/
                                                                             Appraisal
    Library Services                       13.3                 16.7                     1.3
 Civil Works (IDA part)                     8.4                  8.4                     1.0
Source: Project Documents


          Fiscal Impact Analysis

          To assess the fiscal impact of the project one must know first the weight of the sector in the
economy, namely the weight of public expenditures allocated to the sector. These expenditures represent
about 3.2% of the GDP, which is in line with the SSA average (3.4%). In terms of public finance, Senegal
mobilizes about 18% of its GDP in domestic revenues (excluding grants), i.e. slightly lower than the SSA
average (19.0%). As a result of these two combined indicators, the proportion of public expenditures on
education in total government revenues hovers around 19%, again not far from SSA average (table 2).




                                                      - 31 -

Table 2 Public expenditures on education and higher education in selected countries (2000)
                                 SENEGAL          COTE            NIGERIA       MALAWI       UGANDA         SSA          TUNISIA
                                                  D'IVOIRE
Public expenditures on                      3.2             4.6         4.6           4.1           2.3           3.2          6.8
education as a % of GDP
(*)
Public expenditures on                      18.6            21.5        9.9          19.8         30.1          17.8
education as a % of total
government revenues (*)
Public expenditures on                       24             24           25           14 -----------        ---------     ---------
higher education as a %                                                                                             -             -
of total education budget
(**)

Source: (*) World Bank, EdStat Data Source ­ (**) Constructing Knowledge Societies: New Challenges for Tertiary Education (2002).

           It is necessary, however, to go beyond these aggregate figures. There are two ways to do so and to
dwell on the issue of costs: the first is to analyze the composition of expenditures, and the second is to look
at the unit costs. Therefore, the next step is to analyze the intra-sectoral allocation of these expenditures on
education. This is critical, since one of the objectives of the project was to realize: (i) first, a twofold
reduction: of higher education spending and of social services spending, and (ii) secondly, a twofold,
parallel, reallocation of the resources thus freed to primary education, and to non-salary expenditures,
respectively.

           Intra-sectoral allocations. At the time of appraisal, higher education accounted for 24.7% of the
voted education budget, and 22.7% of the actual (executed) budget. In the 2004 voted budget, this share is
26.3%, and since in the long run, the execution rate of the budget of higher education tends to be above that
of the education budget, this suggests that the final share of higher education may even exceed this level in
terms of executed budget. Meanwhile, the share of the sectoral expenditures devoted to primary education,
which had peaked at 48% in 2003, is projected to decrease to about 44.6%.

           It is worth noting that the Fast Track Initiative (FTI) recommended figure to reach the Education
for All (EFA) goals is 50%; since, in addition, the share of current government revenues in the GDP is
also slightly less than the FTI benchmark, it follows that Senegal may not be allocating enough financial
resources to be able to reach the EFA goals within the MDG timeframe. The assumption of the project that
tertiary education would free up resources for primary education and contribute to reduce the domestic
resource gap for primary education has not been realized (Table 3). There is no indication that the transfer
from tertiary to primary education which was realized in 1995, occurred again at any point in time.

Table 3 Recurrent (voted) budget for education by level

                        2000                 2001                 2002                  2003                    2004 (*)

Primary                           38.1%                38.4%                 42.2%                 48.2%                   44.6%



Tertiary                          25.6%                26.1%                 26.5%                 23.9%                   26.3%


(*) Proposed
Source: Ministry of Finance ­ Présentation du Budget 2004



                                                                  - 32 -

                      The high share of higher education in the budget is mainly driven by the transfer expenditures
within the sub-sector. Transfer expenditures in higher education, which already account for 96.6% of the
sub-sector budget in 2003, are projected to increase by 39.5% in 2004. An additional $14 million is
expected to be allocated for scholarships alone in 2004; then scholarships would absorb 18% of the budget
for the sub-sector. At the university level, and more particularly at UCAD, salaries consume 86% of the
state subsidy, and less than $3 million are left for all other recurrent expenditures.

                      Another way to look at the cost issue is to analyze unit costs. The evolution of unit costs is the
result of the twofold evolution of total costs and enrollments. These two aggregates have followed a similar
pattern (Chart 1). Unit costs remained stable during the second half of the 90's and started increasing in
2000/2001; they currently reach $1720, which corresponds to about 345% of the GDP per capita (245% in
2000), and 25 times the per unit cost in primary education. This is on the high side of what is observed in
Africa, although it is matched by other countries (table 4). As indicated above, this high unit cost is mostly
driven by social spending, and does not reflect a higher density of pedagogic inputs, and very unlikely a
higher quality output.



                           Chart1-HigherEducation:BudgetandTotalPublicEnrollments

                     40000                                                                              36


                     35000                                                                              34


                                                                                                        32
                     30000

                                                                                                        30
                     25000

     Students                                                                                           28
                                                                                                                          Enrollments
             of      20000                                                                                    Billion
                                                                                                                          Budget
                                                                                                        26

                     15000                                                                                           CFA
                                                                                                        24
               Number
                     10000
                                                                                                        22


                     5000                                                                               20


                        0                                                                               18
                           1995/96  1996/97   1997/98   1998/99    1999/00 2000/01    2001/02 2002/03




                                                                  - 33 -

Table 4 Public Expenditures per student (% of GDP p.c.) by level of education in selected countries (2000)
                         SENEGAL          COTE          BENIN         NIGER        TUNISIA
                                          D'IVOIRE
Primary                                13           36            10          22          16
Secondary                               33           140          12          81          28
Tertiary                               245           140        108          441          90
Tertiary/Primary                       18            4            10          20           6
Source: World Bank, EdStat Data Base


          Against this background, the direct impact of the project on recurrent expenditures in the
sub-sector is minor. It had been estimated at $1.8 million per year at the time of appraisal, of which half for
purchase of scientific material and equipment. The annual counterpart of the GoS to the project can
provide a proxy of the budgetary impact of the latter; this part amounts to an average $960,000. Another
indication comes from the budget of UCAD which shows that all together, its various departments were
allocated about $530,000 in 2002. The real figure may lie in that range, which means an impact on the
budget of less than 1%.

          Unit Costs / Rate of Return Analysis

          Despite their various empirical pitfalls, rates of return can be useful to compare the ex post value
of alternative education investments. The SAR indicated that a rate of return analysis would be conducted
for each individual faculty, on the basis of annual tracer studies of graduates. As a basis for these future
analysis, the SAR provided estimates of student and graduate costs by faculty (showing the huge cost of
repetition). However, the ICR team did not find evidence of the projected tracer studies. One rate of return
analysis was recently completed, but used a household survey dating from 1995, the Enquête Sénégalaise
auprès des ménages (ESAM).

          From this data base, it appears that rates of return in Senegal follow the conventional pattern of
developing countries, i.e. (i) rates diminish with the level of education, and (ii) private rates are higher than
social rates. In addition, rates of returns are sensitive to the assumption made on repetition and
unemployment (table 5).

Table 5 Rates of Return to education (%) in 1995
                                  Primary/No Education           Higher Education/Secondary Education
                                  Private        Social          Private              Social
 W/out repetition, and            46             11              13                   2
 W/out unemployment
 W/ repetition and                23             6               7                    0
 W/ unemployment

Source :Diagne A. and D. Barry, 2003


          The above estimates clearly reflect the high degree of subsidization of higher education in Senegal.
They also show that the combination of repetition and unemployment have a strong negative impact on
returns. In fact, if repetition is squarely associated with a substantial effect on costs, unemployment has
the opposite effect because it tends to reduce foregone earnings. It can easily be seen from the above
pattern that the economic justification for investing public monies in tertiary education cannot be found on
the basis of rates of return. The latter do not factor in the externalities associated with this investment.



                                                        - 34 -

The low level of the social returns compared to private returns also speaks in favor of pushing the agenda
of cost-sharing. Another strong reason to push this agenda comes from the observation that the distribution
of enrollments, and hence the distribution of expenditures (of which social transfers are a large share) are
skewed in favor of the better off (World Bank, 2003 ­ Poverty Assessment).

          According to data from ESAM, unemployment rates were significantly higher for higher education
graduates than for secondary and primary education graduates. The low absorbing capacity of the
economy on the demand side, and queuing on the supply side both contribute to this situation. Aggregate
unemployment rates therefore are a poor indicator of external efficiency; instead, rates by fields of study
give a better idea of the relevance of each of these fields. No data, however, are available to assess this
aspect.

          A new household survey is currently being analyzed, but its results were not available at the time
of this ICR. Some insights can be gathered from what happens in a particular segment of the labor force,
namely the teaching profession. Indeed, this is a highly protected segment, with internal rules which have
little relationship with those which shape salary levels in the labor market. It is nevertheless interesting to
the extent that this is the profession par excellence where there is a strict correspondence between the level
of education on the one hand and the category in the hierarchy and the salary on the other hand.

          The analysis of the most recent salary data for the teaching profession takes as a basis, the primary
school teachers "maîtres contractuels" recruited after completing secondary education (as formalized by
holding the baccalauréat degree), and compare their fate with that of teachers of higher categories. The
analysis indeed confirms the correspondence, but also shows: (i) flat age earning profiles, and (ii) a low
level of differentiation between the various categories (table 6, chart 2), both features actually found in
most salary structures within civil service of many countries.

Table 6 Teachers: Intra- and Inter salary Differentials
                               Level of Education           Intra-category                      Inter-category Differential
                                                            Differential
                                                                                           At entry (*)     At exit (**)
 A. Maîtres                    Bac                          1.7                            --               --
 contractuels
 B. Chargés                    Bac + 2                      1.8                            1.6              1.7
 d'enseignement
 C.Professeurs de              Bac + 3                      1.7                            1.5              1.5
 collège
 d'enseignement
 moyen
 D. Professeurs                Bac + 5                      1.7                            2.0              2.1
 certifiés
 E. Professeurs                Bac + 6                      1.7                            2.1              2.3
 agrégés

(*)       Ratio between the maximum (exit) and the minimum (entry) salary rates within a category
(**)      Ratio between entry level salary of a category and entry level salary of category A
(***)     Ratio between exit level salary of a category and exit level salary of category A
Source : World Bank estimates based on Ministry of Education data




                                                                        - 35 -

                                                Chart2 TeachersAge-EarningProfiles


                     3700
                                                                                                                              E
                     3500  A=Maitrescontractuels

                     3300  B=ProfCEM                                                                                          D
                           C=Chargésd'enseignement
                     3100  D=Profcertifiés
                           E=Prof.Agrégés
                     2900
                                                                                                                             C
                     2700                                                                                                    B
                     2500

                     2300

     thousands)      2100

               (in   1900

                     1700                                                                                                    A

                  CFA1500

                     1300

                     1100

                     900

                     700

                     500
                         20          25            30            35           40           45          50           55        60

                                                                             Age



                       Despite the fact that their exit salary is about 2.3 times that of the maîtres contractuels, teachers
with the highest degrees, the professeurs agrégés, can count on a cumulative stream of income only 1.8
time higher than that of their comparator, because of a shorter active life. Therefore, even in private terms,
the monetary benefits of the (mainly publicly financed) additional education is not considerable. Other
benefits such as a light teaching load may constitute important incentives, even though they are also
detrimental to the quality of education; this is another justification to rethink the whole combination of
benefits associated with the teaching profession. Indeed, these comparisons must also be framed in the
more general situation of the profession, which is the relatively high level of the salary of the comparators,
which represent about 5.1 time the GDP p.c., that is 1.6 points more than the recommended FTI
benchmark.




                                                                    - 36 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              07/20/92                  4    SR. EDUCATION SPECIALIST,
                                             TTL (1); SR.
                                             IMPLEMENTATION
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             IMPLEMENTATION
                                             SPECIALIST(1); OPERATIONS
                                             OFFICER (1)
              10/20/92                  3    SR. EDUCATION SPECIALIST,
                                             TTL (1); SR . EDUCATION
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             IMPLEMENTATION
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              03/01/93                  1    SR. EDUCATION SPECIALIST,
                                             TTL (1)
              07/15/93                  1    SR. EDUCATION SPECIALIST,
                                             TASK TEAM LEADER (1)
              11/15/93                       SR. EDUCATION SPECIALIST,
                                             TASK TEAM LEADER (1)
              02/16/94                  2    CONSULTANT, SR.
                                             EDUCATION SPECIALIST,
                                             TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
              06/01/94                  3    SR. EDUCATION SPECIALIST,
                                             TASK TEAM LEADER,
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER,
                                             CONSULTANT
              08/08/94                  3    CONSULTANTS ON HIGHER
                                             EDUCATION (2); TASK TEAM
                                             LEADER (1)
              04/25/95                  3    CONSULTANTS ON HIGHER
                                             EDUCATION (3)
              10/09/95                  3     EDUCATION SPECIALISTS
                                             (2); TASK TEAM LEADER (1)
              12/../95                  4    ARCHITECT-CONSULTANT
                                             (1); ECONOMIST (1); SR.
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                             SR EDUCATION SPECIALIST
                                             (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              02/04/96                  4    SR. EDUC. SPECIALIST
                                             (1); ARCHITECT &
                                             IMPLEMENTATION SPEC.
                                             (1); LIBRARY
                                             COLLECTION
                                             DEVELOPMENT



                                              - 37 -

                           SPECIALIST (1); EDUC.
                           ECONOMIST (1)


Supervision

           02/10/1996    3 OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);       S    S
                           EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1);
                           IMPLEMENTATION SPEC. (1)
           07/01/1997    4 SR. OPER. OFFICER, RM (1);    S    S
                           TEAM LEADER (1);
                           EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1);
                           IMPLEMENTATION SPEC (1)
           03/27/1998    3 TEAM LEADER (1);              U    U
                           EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1);
                           IMPLEMENTATION SPEC. (1)
           03/19/1999    3 TEAM LEADER (1);              U    U
                           IMPLEMENTATION SPEC. (1);
                           HR ECONOMIST (1)
           10/24/2000    6 TTL (1); OPERATIONS           S    S
                           OFFICER (1); CONSULTANT
                           (1); SR. EDUCATION
                           SPECIALI (1);
                           IMPLEMENTATION SPECIAL
                           (1); FINANCIAL
                           SPECIALIST(1)
           06/11/2001    3 HUMAN RES. ECONOMIST          U    U
                           (1); SR. OPERATIONS
                           OFFICER (1); FINANCIAL.
                           MGT SPEC. (1)
           12/05/2001    3 TEAM LEADER (1); SOCIAL       U    U
                           PROT. SPECIAL. (1);
                           CONSULTANT (1)
           05/29/2002    2 TTL (1); ADVISOR (1)          S    U
           07/23/2002    2 TTL (1); PROCUREMENT (1)      S    U
           01/25/2003    3 MISSION LEADER (1);           S    S
                           OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                           EXPERT, HIGHER ED (1)


ICR
           09/26/03      1 TTL LEAD OPERATIONS
                           OFFICER(1)




                           - 38 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation           159.3                         362.7
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 23.9                           52.5
  Supervision                          119.2                         306.3
  ICR                                     1.5                           2.6
  Total                                303.9                         723.1




                                            - 39 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 40 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 41 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

        I       Project Documents

IEPS, May 10, 1993
FEPS, January 25, 1996
SAR, May 7, 1996
Procès Verbal des Négociations, 7 mai 1996
DCA, June 17, 1996
QER Report, October 24, 2001
SMOs
PSRs
Aide Mémoires
BTO
Office Memorandums
Internal Emails
Project Correspondence

        II      Various Bank Documents

Revitalizing Higher Education in Sénégal: The Challenge of Reform (Population and Human Resource
Division -Report 10466) - April 1992
A Review of Investments in Education and Performance Assessment Report ­ Sénégal (OED Report
23715) - November 2001
Poverty Assessment (forthcoming, 2003)

        III     Government Documents

Lettre de Politique du Sous-secteur de l'Enseignement Supérieur et de la Recherche Universitaire,
Ministère de l'Education, 3 mai 1996
Rapport de présentation du budget primitif 2002, Université Cheikh Anta Diop, 2002
Rapport économique et financier du PDEF, Ministère de l'Education, mars 2002
Présentation du Projet PAES, février 2002
La rentabilité de l'Investissement dans l'éducation au Sénégal, Ministère de l'Education, février 2003
Rapport de Présentation du budget 2004, Ministère de l'Education, juillet 2003




                                                   - 42 -

Additional Annex 8. Supplementary Tables

                             Box 1. Development Objectives: Alternative Definitions


Facts

In addition to the DCA, both the SAR and PSRs have their own definition of project objectives:

(a)       Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) - The SAR lists four long-term objectives: (i) to improve higher education
graduation rates and (ii) gender equity, (iii) with greater cost-effectiveness, and (iv) more relevance for Senegal's
economic development.

It then sets six specific objectives which are to: (i) reinforce knowledge and library services; (ii) improve teaching;
(iii) improve research; (iv) develop a maintenance system; (v) strengthen sector management and financing; and
(vi) complete the reorganization of student services. None of these specific objectives are reflected in the DCA.

The SAR also includes what could be labelled as "informal" objectives, i.e. objectives without any specific status in
the structure of the project: (i) the first one is to help the Government of Senegal (GOS) refocus the activities of its
universities around their pedagogic mission; (ii) the other one is to assist the GOS "to define a strategy which will
address all these issues (resources/ enrollments/ labor market demand/ research/private sector) in a comprehensive
manner.

(b)       Project Supervision Reports (PSR) - The PRSs list three long-term objectives: (i) higher graduation rates,
(ii) greater cost-effectiveness, and (iii) more relevance. They also reproduce the same six specific objectives as in
the SAR.

Comments

Only two of the long-term objectives are common to the three documents (DCA, SAR, PSRs): greater
cost-effectiveness and relevance. Improving gender equity appears only in the SAR, and is not referred to in other
documents. The SAR long-term objective of higher graduation rates can be interpreted as a proxy for the DCA
objective of a more efficient system of higher education; to that extent, the disconnect between the long-term
objectives of the SAR and the DO of the DCA is not too broad, the main difference coming from the absence of
reference to gender concerns in the DCA.

The link between the long-term objectives and the more specific objectives is loosely spelled out in the SAR.
While most specific objectives neatly correspond to a specific issue (e.g. the reinforcement of knowledge and
library services, which directly addresses the issue of inadequate library facilities), some important issues were not
covered by long-term, nor by specific objectives (e.g. lack of control on enrollments), even though they were
addressed by the project. Conversely, there is no analysis of gender disparity to justify the SAR objective of gender
equity.

The discrepancy between the DCA and the PAD is a shortcoming of the design, while the discrepancy between
these two documents and the PSRs is a supervision problem; both are linked to the hiatus between long-term,
ambitious sectoral reforms, and more modest operations supported by the project. The disconnect between the
DCA and the PAD definitions suggests an insufficient communication between the operation and the legal
department. The disconnect between the DCA/PAD and the PSR definitions suggests an effort by the supervision
team to stay closer to the realities of the project.




                                                            - 43 -

 Table 1. Long Term Objectives: DCA/SAR/PSR
          DCA                               SAR                                      PSR
To establish              To improve                               To improve

(i) an efficient system
of higher education
                          (i) higher education graduation rates    (i) higher education graduation rates

                          (ii) and gender equity,

(ii) with greater         (iii) with greater cost- effectiveness   (ii) with greater cost-effectiveness
cost-effectiveness

(iii) and more             (iv) and more relevance for             (iii) and more relevance for Senegal
relevance to             Sénégal's                                 economic development
socio-economic             economic development
development




Table 2. Specific Objectives: Before and After Partial Cancellation
                     Before cancellation                                   After cancellation
(a) reinforce knowledge and library services                    (a) completion of the university library
                                                                with additional scholarly works and
                                                                journals
(b) improve teaching
                                                                (b) purchase and use of laboratory
                                                                equipment
(c) improve research
(d) develop a maintenance system
(d) strengthen sector management and financing
(f) complete the reorganization of student services
                                                                (c) project operating costs




                                                        - 44 -

           Table 3. Project Components: Correspondence between SAR/DCA and PSR
                                      SAR/DCA                                              PSR (Project Component Ratings)

    1. Improvement of Library services:
          (a)   expansion & rehabilitation of UCAD library                     1.Expansion/Rehab of library
          (b)   acquisition of books/mgt

    2. Upgrading of teaching & research:                                       2. Acquisition of books
          (a)   reinforcement of applied science teaching
          (b) pilot testing of accreditation system
          (c)   research fund                                                  3. Science teaching


                                                                               4. Accreditation system
          (d)   alternative models for teaching & financing
          (e)   computerized information system
                                                                               5. Research fund

    3. Strengthening of management capacity:
          (a) reorganization of student services                               6. Alternative models
          (b) development of a maintenance system (c) project administration

    4. PPF Refinancing (DCA)



Note: The Project Component Rating Box exhibits six components, which correspond to : (i) the two
sub-components of the first component as defined by the DCA/SAR, and (ii) four out of the five sub-components of
the second component as defined by the DCA/SAR. Strengthening of management capacity, the third component
of the DCA/SAR has no correspondence in the rating box of the PRS

                          Box 2. Project Objectives and Components: A Web of Relationships
The combined proliferation of definitions and levels of objectives and of definitions of components makes it
difficult to establish a strict correspondence between the former and the latter. Increased relevance, one of the only
two common long-term objectives common to the DCA, the SAR and the PSRs, has no real translation in terms of
components capable of contributing to it. On the other hand, the reorganisation of student services does not -at
least directly- impact on any DO. The complexity of the structure (more than 40 sets of different activities) is
another feature of the design. These features may be due in part to the fact that the final design is the result of an
exceptionally long maturation, and of a series of re-packaging rounds following bilateral and internal discussions
and compromises. These problems also suggest that the issues were more than presentational, and hint at some
hesitation (and evolution) regarding the very concept of the project.




                                                                  - 45 -

Table 4. Performance Indicators by Source
PSR Indicators = 10       SAR Annex 4 = 7        SAR Annex 6 (Higher         MOE indicators = 24
                                                 Education Policy
                                                 Statement) = 15
Enrollments
1.UCAD Enrollments                               6. Enrollments: UCAD        10. UCAD enrollments
8. Private enrollments                           7. Enrollments: UGB         14. UGB enrollments

                          6. % Private education 8. Enrollments: Private     23.Enrollments in private
                                                                             institutions/enrollments
                                                                             UCAD
                          7. % female                                        11. % of girls enrolled at
                                                                             UCAD
Expenditures
                          1. Counterpart Funds                              20.Counterpart funds
2. HE budget frozen                             1. MOE Budget               1. MOE budget
                                                2. Higher Education         2. Budget HE
                                                Budget                      3.Share of HE in MOE
3. Expenditures for                             3. Share of HE in MOE       budget
scholarships in Senegal                         budget                      4. Number of scholarships
                                                4.Number of scholarships    in Senegal
4. Expenditures for                             in Senegal                  5.Expenditures for
scholarships abroad                                                         scholarships in Senegal
                                                                            6.Number of scholarships
                                                5. Number of scholarships abroad
                                                overseas                    7.Expenditures for
                                                                            scholarships abroad
                                                                            8.Number of students
                                                                            admitted to COUD
                                                                            9. Expenditures on COUD
Management
6. Students: professors                          12. Teacher/Student ratio   13. Students: professors
ratio                                            at UCAD                     ratio at UCAD
                                                 13. Teacher/Student ratio   16. Students: professors
                                                 at UGB                      ratio at UGB
                                                 14. Teaching hours          17.Teaching hours
Achievements
                                                9. Pass rates: Bac
5. Pass rates at UCAD                           10. Pass rates: UCAD         12. Pass rates at UCAD
                                                11. Pass rates: UGB          15. Pass rate at UGB
Project Outputs
7. Utilization of library                        15. Utilization of library  18. Utilization of library
9. Number of books        3. Books catalogued                                19. Number of books
catalogued                                                                   catalogued
10. Research proposals    2.Research projects                                21. Research proposals
received                  received                                           received
                          4. Research Proposal                               22.Research proposals
                          completed                                          completed
                          5. Accreditations                                  24. Accreditations
                          completed                                          completed




                                                   - 46 -

Table 5. Performance Indicators: Correspondence with Project Objectives                       (*)


Objectives                              Indicators
I Long-Term Objectives (SAR)

(i) Higher education graduation         Pass rates at UCAD (PSR #5, SAR6 #10, MOE #12)
rates                                   Pass rates: UGB (SAR6 #11, MOE #15)

(ii) Gender equity                      % female (SAR4 #7);
                                        % of girls enrolled at UCAD (MOE #11)

(iii) Cost-efficiency                   Student: professors ratio (PSR #6);
                                        Teacher: student ratio at UCAD (SAR6 #12, MOE #13)
                                        Teacher: student ratio at UGB (SAR6 #11, MOE #16)
                                        Teacher hours (SAR6 #14, MOE #17)

(iv) Relevance                          - - -

II Specific Objectives (PSR)

(a) reinforce knowledge and             Utilization of library (PSR #7, SAR6 #15, MOE #18)
library services                        Number of books catalogued (PSR #9, SAR4 #3, MOE #19)

(b) improve teaching                    Accreditations completed (SAR6 #5, MOE #24)

(c) improve research                    Research proposals received (PSR #10, SAR4 # 2, MOE #21)
                                        Research Proposal completed (SAR4 #4, MOE #22)

(d) develop a maintenance system        - - -

(d) strengthen sector management        HE Budget (SAR4 #2, MOE#2)
and financing                           Share of HE in MOE budget (PSR #2, SAR4 #3, MOE #3)
                                        Number of scholarships in Senegal (SAR6 #4, MOE #4)
                                        Number of scholarships abroad (SAR6 #5, MOE #6)
                                        Expenditures for scholarships in Senegal (PSR #3, MOE #5)
                                        Expenditures for scholarships abroad (PSR #4, MOE #7)
                                        Teaching hours (SAR6 #14, MOE #17)


(f) complete the reorganization of      Number of students admitted to COUD (MOE #8)
student services                        Expenditures on COUD (MOE #9)

(*) SAR4 = SAR, Annex 4; SAR6 = SAR, Annex 6




                                                           - 47 -

Chart 1. Performance Indicators: Target and Actual Values


                                                                                                                                                                              ExpendituresonScholarshipsAbroad
                                  Higher Education as A Share of Total Education Budget

                         29

                                                                                                                                                         2.8
                         28


                         27


                         26                                                                                                                              2.3


                         25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Expected
                                                                                                          Expected                             Billion
                         24
                                                                                                          Actual                                         1.8                                                                                Actual

Percentage               23                                                                                                                           CFA

                         22

                                                                                                                                                         1.3
                         21


                         20


                         19                                                                                                                              0.8

                             1995/96  1996/97   1997/98  1998/99  1999/00  2000/01   2001/02   2002/03                                                       1995/96   1996/97  1997/98   1998/99   1999/00   2000/01   2001/02  2002/03




                                            Expenditures on Scholarships in Senegal                                                                                            Student:ProfessorRatio(UCAD)

                          7                                                                                                                  32

                                                                                                                                             31

                         6.4                                                                                                                 30

                                                                                                                                             29

                         5.8                                                                                                                 28

                                                                                                                                             27

                         5.2                                                                                                                 26

          Billion                                                                                         Expected                                                                                                                        Expected
                                                                                                                                             25
                                                                                                          Actual                        Ratio                                                                                             Actual

                 CFA     4.6                                                                                                                 24

                                                                                                                                             23

                          4                                                                                                                  22

                                                                                                                                             21

                         3.4                                                                                                                 20

                                                                                                                                             19

                         2.8                                                                                                                 18

                             1995/96  1996/97   1997/98  1998/99  1999/00  2000/01    2001/02  2002/03                                                      1997/98     1998/99      1999/00      2000/01       2001/02       2002/03




                                                  Student:ProfessorRatio(UGB)                                                                                                     PassRatesatUCAD


                         29                                                                                                           64

                         28
                                                                                                                                      60

                         27
                                                                                                                                      56

                         26
                                                                                                                                      52
                         25

                                                                                                          Expected                    48                                                                                                 Expected
                         24                                                                                                                                                                                                              Actual
                    Ratio                                                                                 Actual
                                                                                                                                      44
                         23                                                                                                 Percentage

                                                                                                                                      40
                         22


                         21                                                                                                           36


                         20                                                                                                           32


                         19                                                                                                           28
                              1997/98      1998/99     1999/00      2000/01      2001/02      2002/03                                         1995/96            1996/97  1997/98   1998/99    1999/00   2000/01    2001/02   2002/03




                                                                                                                   - 48 -

                                                      PassRatesatUGB                                                                                       GirlsEnrollmentsatUCAD

                          80                                                                                                  32


                          78

                                                                                                                              30
                          76


                          74
                                                                                                                              28

                                                                                                  Expected                                                                                              Expected
                          72
                                                                                                  Actual                                                                                                Actual

                Percentage70                                                                                        Percentage26


                          68
                                                                                                                              24

                          66


                          64                                                                                                  22
                              1998/99        1999/00     2000/01        2001/02       2002/03                                             1996/97 1997/98 1998/99  1999/00   2000/01 2001/02  2002/03




                                                      UCADEnrollments                                                                                           PrivateEnrollments

                35000                                                                                                30

                                                                                                                     28

                                                                                                                     26
                30000
                                                                                                                     24

                                                                                                                     22

                25000                                                                                                20

Students                                                                                          Expected           18                                                                                 Expected
        of                                                                                        Actual             16                                                                                 Actual

                20000                                                                                                14       Percentage

          Number                                                                                                     12

                                                                                                                     10
                15000
                                                                                                                                        8

                                                                                                                                        6

                10000                                                                                                                   4
                             1995/96  1996/97  1997/98 1998/99  1999/00 2000/01 2001/02  2002/03                                          1996/97 1997/98 1998/99  1999/00   2000/01  2001/02 2002/03




                                                                                                           - 49 -

                                                Chart 2


                           Pass Rates at UCAD by Faculty (1995/96-2000/01)
         90.0%



         80.0%



         70.0%



         60.0%

Rates
         50.0%

     Pass
         40.0%



         30.0%



         20.0%



         10.0%
                      FST             FSJP       FMPOS           FLSH        FASEG   All

              FST  = Sciences and Techniques      1995/96Points to  2000/01
              FSJP = Law and Political Sciences
              FMPOS = Medicine and Pharmacy                         1st Year
              FLSH = Liberal Arts                                   2nd Year
              FASEG = Economics and Management




                                                   - 50 -

Additional Annex 9. Borrower's Evaluation Report

   I - INTRODUCTION

Le Sénégal a organisé en 1981 les Etats Généraux de l'Education et de la Formation. La Commission Nationale de
Réforme de l'Education et de la Formation (CNREF ), mise sur pied à l'issue de ces importantes assises, a déposé
en 1984 ses conclusions pour la mise en oeuvre d'une réforme en profondeur du système éducatif sénégalais, avec
un volet concernant l'Enseignement Supérieur.

          Cependant, en l'absence d'un choix politique clair et de moyens de mise en oeuvre, les conclusions de la
CNREF restèrent inappliquées, ce qui eut pour conséquence la dégradation continue de l'espace universitaire,
illustrée par les perturbations cycliques couronnées par l'année blanche de 1988.

C'est pourquoi, pour revitaliser l'Enseignement Supérieur et créer un consensus en faveur de la réforme de ce
sous-secteur par le moyen de la participation massive et transparente des différents acteurs, les autorités
sénégalaises ont convoqué la Concertation Nationale sur l'Enseignement Supérieur (CNES) qui s'est tenue d'Avril
1992 à Août 1993.

          Les conclusions de la CNES, qui a rassemblé le milieu universitaire, les partis politiques, les syndicats, les
associations de parents, le secteur privé et les médias, ont été adoptées par le Gouvernement à l'issue d'un Conseil
interministériel en décembre 1993.

L'appui de la Banque Mondiale, matérialisé à travers le Projet d'Amélioration de l'Enseignement Supérieur (
PAES ), premier projet de cette institution pour l'Enseignement Supérieur en Afrique Subsaharienne, a permis
d'accompagner et de consolider cette volonté nationale de réforme du sous-secteur.

Le PAES (crédit IDA n° 2872-SE) a été signé le 17 juin 1996, mis en vigueur le 03 octobre 1996 et son
décaissement a été effectif le 01 janvier 1997. Estimé à 30,9 millions $ US, le PAES est financé à 86% par
l'Association Internationale pour le Développement ( IDA ), soit 26,5 millions $ US , et à 14 % par l'Etat du
Sénégal, soit 4,4 millions $ US. Le PAES devait être exécuté sur une période de six (06) ans et la date de clôture du
crédit était fixée au 30 juin 2003.

II-RAPPEL DES OBJECTIFS DU PROJET

L'objectif à long terme du projet est d'établir un système plus performant d'enseignement supérieur avec un
meilleur rapport coût ­ efficacité, l'équité entre les sexes et une plus grande pertinence pour le développement
économique et social du Sénégal. Le Projet aidera le Gouvernement à recentrer les activités de ses universités sur
leur mission pédagogique, tout en renforçant les capacités de gestion et de contrôle de la qualité.

Les objectifs spécifiques du projet sont les suivants : a) renforcer les services de la bibliothèque ; b) améliorer
l'enseignement ; c) améliorer la recherche ; d) développer un système d'entretien ; e) renforcer la gestion et le
financement public et privé du secteur ; f) achever la réorganisation des services aux étudiants.

Le projet comporte les trois composantes ci-dessous présentées :

I-Renforcement des services de Bibliothèques                                        15,6 millions US$
·         réhabilitation et extension de la bibliothèque centrale de l'UCAD         ( 11,2 millions)
·         acquisition des livres et périodiques/ gestion de la bibliothèque                 ( 4,4 millions)

II-Amélioration de l'enseignement et de la recherche                   9,4 millions US$
·         renforcement de l'enseignement des sciences appliquées              ( 4,0 millions)
·         développement et pilotage d'un système d'accréditation              ( 0,3 millions)
·         gestion d'un fonds concurrentiel de recherche universitaire         ( 2,9 millions)



                                                         - 51 -

·         étude de modèles d'enseignements et de financements alternatifs ( 0,3 millions)
·         installation d'un système informatisé                                    ( 1,8 millions)

III-Renforcement des capacités de gestion                                 4,1 millions US$
·         réorganisation des services aux étudiants                              ( 2,2 millions)
·         développement d'un système d'entretien                                ( 1,3 millions)
·         administration du projet                                                ( 0,6 millions)

          Un montant de 1,8 millions $US a été consacré au refinancement de 3 avances PPF, ce qui porte le coût
total du projet à 30 ,9 millions US$.

          Sept catégories de dépenses étaient éligibles : a)génie civil ; b) les équipements et véhicules ; c) les
manuels et matériels didactiques ; d) les services de consultants ; e) les formations ; f) le fonds de recherche
universitaire ; g) les coûts de fonctionnement.

          On notera que les décaissements du PAES avaient été suspendus du 31 juillet 2001 au 05 novembre 2002.
La levée de la suspension s'est accompagnée d'une annulation partielle du crédit, pour un montant de 1,1 million
$US.

III-EVALUATION DE L'ATTEINTE DES OBJECTIFS DU PROJET

III. 1 Composante 1 : Renforcement des services de bibliothèques

          Cette composante représentait 53 % du financement du projet. Après réallocation des fonds, suite à la
levée de la suspension, la composante a eu un taux d'exécution global supérieur à 100 %.La quasi-totalité des
objectifs fixés ont été atteints. Les réalisations et acquisitions faites sont les suivantes :

III.1.1 ­ Réhabilitation et extension de la bibliothèque centrale de l'UCAD : Les travaux d'extension et de
réhabilitation de la bibliothèque centrale de l'Université Cheikh Anta DIOP de Dakar (UCAD) ont permis de faire
passer la capacité d'accueil de 350 à 1729 places assises. Ces travaux ont été complétés par l'acquisition et
l'installation de mobiliers, d'équipements de reprographie, d'équipements de vidéosurveillance, d'un cyber-campus
et d'un système informatique intégré de gestion pour la bibliothèque. Ces réalisations ont permis d'atteindre une
moyenne de 3445 entrées par jour, en 2002-2003, contre 590 entrées par jour en 97/98 pour l'ancienne
bibliothèque.

Grâce au système informatisé de gestion et au cyber-campus qui ont été installés, le système bibliothécaire est au
coeur de la vie pédagogique du campus de l'UCAD, et cela en conformité avec la déclaration de politique
d'enseignement supérieur du Gouvernement.
La bibliothèque centrale de l'UCAD est aujourd'hui l'une des plus opérationnelles d'Afrique et représente une
fierté pour toute la communauté universitaire du Sénégal.

III.1.2 ­ Acquisition des livres et périodiques/gestion de la bibliothèque : Le programme d'acquisition de livres
de bibliothèques, a permis la livraison d'un total de 65 945 ouvrages (sur les 80 000 initialement prévus) à la
bibliothèque centrale de l'UCAD ainsi qu'aux bibliothèques des instituts et écoles rattachées à l'UCAD et à
l'Université de Saint Louis (UGB). Dans la même période, des ouvrages spécialisés, des collections de
Jurisclasseurs et des revues périodiques ont été achetés et livrés aux bibliothèques.
Dans le cadre de l'amélioration de la gestion, des sessions de formation à l'utilisation des nouveaux équipements
ont été organisées pour les personnels de la bibliothèque centrale de l'UCAD et celle de l'UGB.

III.2- Composante 2 : Amélioration de l'Enseignement et de la recherche

Cette composante représentait initialement 33% du financement du projet. Le montant
Total décaissé est de 2 314 197 254 FCFA (soit 4,1 millions $US). Le taux d'exécution était de 35 % avant la



                                                           - 52 -

suspension des décaissements. Il est passé à 49 % après la levée de la suspension (taux calculé en tenant compte
des nouvelles activités réalisées et de l'annulation de 1,1 millions $ US par rapport au montant initial alloué).
Les objectifs de cette composante n'ont pas tous été atteints. Les réalisations faites sont décrites ci-après pour
chaque sous-composante :

III.2.1 ­ Renforcement de l'Enseignement des sciences appliquées : Cette sous-composante devait permettre
l'achat d'équipements de laboratoire et de matériels didactiques, la mise en place d'un programme pour l'entretien
des équipements, la formation en cours d'emploi pour les professeurs et les assistants de laboratoires de l'UCAD
(pour un montant total de 4,0 millions $ US).
Des équipements informatiques, didactiques et de laboratoire ont été acquis et livrés aux structures concernées pour
un montant de 1 487 622 441 Fcfa (soit 2,6 millions $ US).
Un programme pour l'entretien des équipements a été exécuté pour un montant de 36 576 242 Fcfa (soit 0,06
million $US).
En ce qui concerne la seconde phase d'acquisition de matériels de laboratoire, les besoins des différentes structures
de l'UCAD, les spécifications techniques ainsi que le dossier d'appel d'offres avaient été confectionnés.
Malheureusement la procédure n'a pas abouti du fait de la suspension du projet. Il en est de même pour la
formation des professeurs et assistants de laboratoire.
Par conséquent, cette sous-composante, sur laquelle les universitaires portaient beaucoup d'espoir, n'a été exécutée
qu'à 67%. Toutefois, les acquisitions en cours sur le fonds de contrepartie pourraient permettre à la fois de mieux
atteindre les objectifs initiaux et de satisfaire les attentes des professeurs et des étudiants en ce qui concerne
notamment les équipements de laboratoire.

III.2.2 ­ Développement et pilotage d'un système d'accréditation : Cette sous-composante devait permettre à la
Direction de l'Enseignement Supérieur (DES), d'assumer un rôle de contrôle de la qualité en développant et
pilotant un système d'accréditation des institutions et des programmes de formation.
Entre 1997 et 2000, le programme prévu s'est déroulé normalement : missions d'étude à l'étranger, acquisition
d'équipements et de véhicules, pour un montant total de 0,2 million $US. Les activités spécifiques liées à la mise
en place effective du système d'accréditation, qui devaient intervenir entre 2000 et 2003, n'ont pas pu être
exécutées.
Le passage de trois Directeurs à la DES durant cette période et l'instabilité de l'équipe de cette structure ont été
l'une des principales causes des retards notés. Après la levée de la suspension, la Banque Mondiale a lié la
poursuite des activités de cette sous-composante à la définition d'une nouvelle vision de l'Enseignement Supérieur
au Sénégal.

III.2.3- Gestion d'un fonds concurrentiel de recherche universitaire (FRU) : à travers ce volet, le projet devait
contribuer au fonds de recherche universitaire en complément du financement du Gouvernement, en procédant au
remboursement de 50% des dépenses effectuées dans le cadre du FRU, pour l'UCAD de Dakar et l'UGB de Saint
Louis. Le projet devait financer sur une base compétitive les propositions de recherche soumises par les professeurs
et chercheurs, l'organisation de séminaires et colloques et la publication de journaux scientifiques
Le FRU a fonctionné de 1998 à 2000 et a financé, pour l'essentiel, les voyages d'études des professeurs de l'UCAD
et de l'UGB. Toutefois, en plus des difficultés liées à la production des pièces justificatives en vue du
remboursement par l'IDA, le fonctionnement du FRU a été compromis par la très faible adhésion des syndicats des
professeurs au principe de compétition de ce fonds, dans la mesure où la contribution du gouvernement est
constituée de l'enveloppe budgétaire antérieurement consacrée aux voyages d'études qui étaient automatiques tous
les deux ans.

III.2.4. Etude de modèles d'enseignement et de financement alternatifs
Cette sous-composante prévoyait diverses activités notamment des analyses économiques, y compris des enquêtes
auprès des employeurs et une étude de suivi des diplômés afin de mieux déterminer les coûts unitaires. Il était
également prévu la formation du personnel de la DAGE à la préparation des simulations et des projections
budgétaires, de même que les études devant mener vers : a) un plus grand recouvrement des coûts, b) l'émergence
des universités privées, c) l'enseignement à distance et l'utilisation des technologies interactives, et d )
l'exploration des implications, pour les coûts récurrents et les investissements, d'un schéma directeur pour le




                                                         - 53 -

développement de campus régionaux.
Les études de faisabilité du Collège Universitaire Régional ( CUR) de Bambey ont été réalisées pour un montant de
33 950 305 FCFA. On notera que cet établissement, dont les travaux de construction sont maintenant achevés,
ouvrira ses portes en 2004.
Dans le cadre de l'études d'un schéma directeur pour le développement de l'Enseignement Supérieur, une
commission dite <Commission Carte Universitaire>, mise sur pied par le Ministère de l'Education, exclusivement
composée d'experts nationaux intervenant à titre bénévole, a défini l'implantation, l'organisation administrative et
pédagogique, les filières de formation et le mode de financement des nouveaux établissements devant compléter la
carte universitaire du Sénégal, avec une forte implication des milieux économiques et des collectivités locales :
Université Polytechnique de Thiès, CUR de Bambey, de Ziguinchor, de Dahra, etc...Faculté des Sciences et
Technologies de l'Education et de la Formation,...
Par ailleurs, les mesures prises pour favoriser l'émergence des institutions privées d'enseignement supérieur ont
permis de dépasser les objectifs initialement fixés par le projet en ce qui concerne la part du secteur privé dans les
inscriptions dans l'Enseignement supérieur.

III.2.5 Installation des systèmes informatisés : Cette sous-composante devait financer la réhabilitation des
bibliothèques de proximité, l'installation de systèmes informatisés pour développer une approche coordonnée du
système bibliothécaire (réseau d'ordinateurs reliés à l'Internet, pilotage des cours virtuels ), les coûts récurrents
pour le catalogage des collections ainsi que la formation locale et à l'étranger.
Les bibliothèques des facultés, écoles et instituts de l'UCAD de même que la bibliothèque de l'UGB ont été
réhabilitées. Un système bibliothécaire coordonnée est effectivement mis en place, avec un réseau informatique
relié à l'Internet, instaurant ainsi un partage des services et des informations entre les bibliothèques et mettant fin
aux duplications des collections. De même, les formations locales et à l'étranger destinées aux personnels des
bibliothèques de l'UCAD et de l'UGB ont été organisées et un cyber-campus de quatre vingts ordinateurs reliés à
l'Internet a été installé à la bibliothèque centrale de l'UCAD.

III. 3 Renforcement des capacités de gestion : Cette composante, qui représente 15% du coût du projet, devait
aider le Gouvernement à poursuivre les réformes des oeuvres universitaires (gestion des restaurants universitaires,
des dortoirs des étudiants, modernisation de l'administration du Centre des OEuvres Universitaires de Dakar) et des
bourses universitaires. Elle devait aussi permettre le développement d'un système d'entretien à l'UCAD ainsi que
la réhabilitation des locaux de l'ex- EPT, et prendre en charge les coûts d'administration du projet.

III- 3-1 ­ Réorganisation des services aux étudiants : Ce volet devait financer la réhabilitation des bâtiments
utilisés pour les services aux étudiants (dortoirs, restaurants), l'informatisation de la Direction des bourses ainsi
que la formation des personnels concernés.
Toutes ces activités ont été exécutées. Toutefois, la réhabilitation des locaux de l'ex-EPT n'a pas été
effectuée, alors que les études y afférant ont été menées.

III-3-2- Développement d'un système d'entretien : Dans le cadre de cette sous-composante, le projet devait
financer les études et la mise en place effective d'un système d'entretien des locaux et des équipements, afin de
sauvegarder la valeur à long terme des investissements à l'UCAD et à l'UGB.
Du point de vue des réalisations, le volet «développement d'un système d'entretien » n'a pas atteint les objectifs
escomptés. Seuls l'assainissement du campus pédagogique de l'UCAD ainsi que le programme d'entretien des
équipements scientifiques ont été réalisés.
En revanche, la Direction de la Gestion du Domaine de l'Université (DGDU) a exécuté avec succès un certain
nombre d'activités dans le cadre du projet : a ) mise en place d'un logiciel de gestion de maintenance assistée par
ordinateur ( GMAO ) ; b) organisation de trois ateliers sur respectivement la maintenance en milieu universitaire,
l'initiation à la maintenance informatique, la maintenance des équipements électriques ; c) acquisition d'un
véhicule utilitaire, d'un scooter et de mallettes d'outillage ; d) mise en place de clubs (junior maintenance)
composés d'élèves ingénieurs finissants ; e) formation à l'étranger de trois gestionnaires responsables de
maintenance de l'UCAD.

III- 3-3 Administration du projet :




                                                          - 54 -

Ce volet qui devait financer les salaires et la formation du personnel de l'Equipe d'Exécution du Projet
( EEP) et les dépenses de fonctionnement pour l'administration du projet a été exécuté normalement.

IV- Evaluation de l'exécution du projet et des principaux facteurs ayant affecté sa réalisation
IV-1 Au début des années 90, la Banque Mondiale considérait l'enseignement supérieur et la recherche comme des
sous-secteurs non prioritaires dans les pays à faible revenu. Cette vision stratégique de l'époque n'a pas manqué de
déteindre sur le projet et son exécution car, au sein même de la Banque, certains responsables avaient dès le départ
des préjugés défavorables vis-à-vis du PAES. Fort heureusement, la stratégie de la Banque en matière
d'enseignement supérieur et de recherche a positivement évolué, dès lors qu'aujourd'hui elle reconnaît la nécessité
d'appuyer ces sous-secteurs de manière équilibrée, compte tenu notamment du rôle croissant du savoir comme
moteur principal du développement économique et social.

IV-2 L'objectif de réallocation des ressources budgétaires d'une part des oeuvres (COUD, Bourses) vers la
pédagogie et la recherche, et d'autre part de l'enseignement supérieur vers l'éducation de base, était difficilement
réalisable, surtout dans un contexte d'expansion de l'enseignement supérieur du fait de la croissance continue du
nombre de nouveaux bacheliers.

IV-3 Malgré une préparation exemplaire caractérisée par une démarche participative et consensuelle impliquant
l'ensemble des acteurs concernés, le projet n'a pas suffisamment pris en compte, dans sa conception et son
exécution, certaines considérations de sensibilité politique des réformes de l'enseignement supérieur. La poursuite
de la démarche participative tout au long du projet, assortie d'une bonne politique de communication, aurait sans
doute permis d'atténuer les résistances à la réforme.

IV-4 Les promesses mirobolantes de financement disponibles pour le projet, faites et réitérées à la communauté
universitaire entre 1994 et 1996, suivies d'une réduction conséquente de l'enveloppe budgétaire pourtant estimée
après les expertises, ont contribué à la non-appropriation du projet par les bénéficiaires. Cette situation était
amplifiée par le fait que le Gouvernement et les universités venaient de prendre une série de mesures impopulaires
auprès des étudiants et des syndicats d'enseignants : non titularisation des assistants, suppression de l'automaticité
des voyages d'études, fermeture des résidences universitaires et nouveaux critères d'admission, limitation de la
durée du transit des étudiants dans le 1er cycle, suppression de la commission nationale d'orientation des
bacheliers,... etc

IV-5 Les délais écoulés entre la prise par le gouvernement des mesures issues de la CNES pour revitaliser
l'enseignement supérieur (principalement en 1994) et la mise en vigueur du projet (fin 1996) ont été anormalement
longs, ce qui n'a pas manqué de placer le gouvernement et les responsables des universités dans une position
délicate face aux diverses résistances.

IV-6 La position (hors des universités) et la composition (équipe très réduite de 4 personnes sans aucun
universitaire) de l'Equipe d'Exécution du Projet (EEP) a fortement compromis l'exécution du Projet et a constitué
une source de conflit permanent entre l'EEP et les bénéficiaires.

IV-7 L'absence de réunions du Comité de Pilotage du Projet a été un indubitable facteur de contre-performance. En
effet, au regard de l'autonomie administrative et budgétaire des Etablissements Publics, notamment du COUD, des
Universités, des Facultés et Ecoles nationales supérieures, un fonctionnement régulier du Comité aurait facilité
l'application des mesures préconisées pour l'atteinte des objectifs et de procéder aux inévitables arbitrages dans le
suivi de l'exécution.
Du reste, les réunions régulières, d'un comité constitué en 2001-2002 entre le Ministère de l'Education, le
Ministère des Finances et les Universités, ont permis des avancées significatives dans l'exécution du Projet.

IV-8 Avec l'avènement de l'alternance politique au Sénégal en Mars 2000, le Projet a connu successivement cinq
Ministres de tutelle différents entre 2000 et 2002. L'instabilité de tutelle ainsi observée, qui s'est notamment
traduite par plusieurs changements au sein de l'EEP, a porté un préjudice certain à la bonne exécution du PAES.
Par ailleurs les nouvelles autorités politiques, considérant l'octroi de bourses et aides aux étudiants comme un



                                                         - 55 -

investissement pour la formation des ressources humaines dans un contexte de pauvreté, ont généralisé ce type de
subvention. Le principe de cette mesure politique, ainsi que le dépassement budgétaire qui en a résulté par rapport
à l'enveloppe budgétaire initialement prévue par le Projet, ont généré un malentendu tenace entre la Banque et
l'Emprunteur.

V-Evaluation des performances de la Banque Mondiale

V-1 La Banque a facilité, soutenu et accompagné le processus national de recherche d'un consensus autour des
missions de l'enseignement supérieur et des réformes à mettre en oeuvre pour revitaliser ce sous-secteur. Les solides
études sectorielles menées ont permis une meilleure appréhension des problèmes auxquels le système était
confronté.

La préparation du projet fut donc exemplaire, même si l'on pourrait par ailleurs déplorer sa durée anormalement
longue (4 ans, entre 1992 et 1996).

V-2 Un délai trop long s'est écoulé entre la prise par le Gouvernement des «23 mesures » pour assainir le
sous-secteur de l'enseignement supérieur (Conseil interministériel du 09 Décembre 1993) et l'effectivité du
décaissement du PAES (01 Janvier 1997), en dépit du fait que trois PPF d'un montant total de 1,8 millions $ US
aient été décaissés pendant cette période, essentiellement pour financer la réhabilitation des dortoirs, restaurants et
cuisines du campus social. Ce délai s'est d'autant plus fait ressentir que les « mesures », qui traduisaient la ferme
volonté politique des autorités d'appliquer la réforme issue de la CNES, et dont la plupart étaient très impopulaires,
ont été la principale cause de l'invalidation de l'année universitaire 1993/1994 par suite de grèves.

V-3 Le PAES a été supervisé successivement par cinq chefs de projet de la Banque Mondiale qui ont effectué un
travail dont la qualité est unanimement reconnue. Cependant, ce nombre relativement élevé de chefs de projet sur
une période de six ans n'a pas facilité le suivi régulier des dossiers, d'autant plus que des experts spécialistes de
l'enseignement supérieur ont été rarement associés à la supervision.

V-4 Compte tenu de la durée du projet (6 ans), certains indicateurs de performance retenus et les prévisions y
afférant se sont assez rapidement révélés inadaptés à l'évolution du contexte de l'enseignement supérieur au
Sénégal. A titre d'exemple, il est apparu évident, dès les années1998-1999, que les prévisions relatives aux effectifs
de l'UCAD et aux dépenses du COUD devenaient irréalisables du fait notamment du fort taux annuel de croissance
du nombre de nouveaux bacheliers (environ 20 % ). Une plus grande souplesse de la Banque à cet égard aurait
permis de réajuster objectivement lesdits indicateurs dans le respect des objectifs globaux du Projet.

V-5 Des lenteurs ont été souvent constatées dans les procédures d'approbation par la Banque, des différents
dossiers soumis pour avis de non objection. L'exécution de certains dossiers a pu ainsi connaître des retards de
plusieurs mois de ce fait.

VI-Evaluation des performances de l'Emprunteur

VI-1 Le Gouvernement a fait preuve d'une forte volonté politique de réformer l'enseignement supérieur dans toutes
ses dimensions pour lui faire retrouver ses missions essentielles de formation et de recherche. Du fait de cette
volonté clairement marquée, l'Université Cheikh Anta Diop a bénéficié des moyens pour faire adopter, avant la
rentrée universitaire 1994/1995, les textes statutaires modifiant les dispositions antérieures afin de les adapter aux
conclusions de la CNES et aux objectifs de la réforme. On citera les textes concernant : a) l'abrogation de
l'orientation des bacheliers par une Commission nationale (décret 94-553 du 26 Mai 1994) ; b) le régime des
inscriptions des étudiants dans les premiers cycles des Facultés (décret 94-843 du 18 Août 1994) ; c) les critères et
procédures d'admission des bacheliers dans les Facultés (arrêté 94-7996 du 13 septembre 1994) ; d) le statut de
l'Université redéfinissant les compositions de l'Assemblée de l'Université et des Assemblées de Faculté, précisant
les nouveaux processus de nomination des Doyens, relevant le taux des droits d'inscription des étudiants étrangers
et rendant l'institution responsable du mode de découpage de l'année universitaire (décret 94-1002 du 28
septembre 1994) ; e) les surcharges horaires, le nouveau mode de recrutement des assistants temporaires et la




                                                         - 56 -

suppression de l'automaticité des voyages d'études (Loi 94-76 du 24 Novembre 1994) ; f) Les libertés et franchises
universitaires (Loi 94-76 du 24 Novembre 1994) ; g) La maîtrise des flux d'étudiants et les mesures à prendre en
cas de grève (Loi 94-75 du 24 Novembre 1994) ; h) La création de l'Ecole Supérieure Polytechnique (ESP) par la
restructuration de l'EPT, l'ENSUT et l'ENSETP (Loi 94-78 du 24 Novembre 1994).

Dans le sillage de ces mesures et afin de garantir l'atteinte des objectifs de la réforme, l'UCAD a mis sur pied un
certain nombre de commissions centrales et locales dans le but de mieux structurer son fonctionnement
administratif, financier, scientifique et pédagogique : commissions de la Réforme, de l'Enseignement, de la
Recherche, de l'Informatique, de la Fonction de service, ....etc

Malheureusement, les retards dans le démarrage effectif du PAES et la nette révision à la baisse du montant de son
financement ont favorisé la remise en cause par les étudiants et les syndicats d'enseignants de certaines mesures
impopulaires.

VI-2 L'engagement des autorités politiques et universitaires envers le projet et ses objectifs a permis des avancées
significatives durant les premières années du PAES. Ainsi la revue à mi-parcours effectuée en Novembre 1999 a
constaté que les programmes des composantes du projet avaient connu un niveau d'exécution satisfaisant.

VI-3 D'importants progrès ont été faits pour rationaliser les budgets des Universités en favorisant les dépenses à
caractère pédagogique. Ainsi, en 2000, le Rectorat de l'UCAD a retrocédé 110 millions FCFA de droits
d'inscription aux facultés et écoles universitaires au profit exclusif des dépenses pédagogiques. De même le budget
de la bibliothèque universitaire est passé de 77 millions FCFA en 1995 à 155 millions FCFA en 2002, afin de
permettre la prise en charge des dépenses récurrentes.

VI-4 La non convocation du Comité de Pilotage n'a pas permis de prendre les décisions qui s'imposaient parfois en
ce qui concerne les arbitrages budgétaires devant favoriser l'atteinte des objectifs du Projet.

VI-5 L'analyse des indicateurs de performance laisse penser, à première vue, que les prévisions du Projet n'ont pas
été atteintes. Cependant, dans la majorité des cas, les écarts observés par rapport aux prévisions découlent de
l'augmentation importante du nombre d'étudiants de l'UCAD consécutive à la croissance continue du nombre de
bacheliers (environ 20 % par an). Il en est ainsi des dépenses du COUD, des taux de réussite à l'UCAD, des taux
d'encadrement à l'UCAD, etc.

a) La part du budget de l'enseignement supérieur a représenté en moyenne 24 % du budget de l'éducation, avec un
pic de 28,6 % en 2002. On notera cependant une baisse de presque cinq points par rapport à cette dernière valeur
en 2003 (de 28,6 % à 24,1 %), preuve des efforts du Gouvernement pour maîtriser le budget de l'enseignement
supérieur par rapport aux autres sous-secteurs de l'Education avec pour objectif l'atteinte des 20 % préconisés.
b) S'agissant des effectifs de l'UCAD, ils étaient autour de 23.000 étudiants entre 1996 et 1999, avant de croître
très nettement à partir de 2000/2001 pour atteindre 31.125 en 2002/2003. L'objectif de 15.000 étudiants à l'UCAD
n'a donc pas été atteint, principalement du fait du nombre de nouveaux bacheliers et de la non-ouverture des CUR ;
c) Le taux de réussite à l'UCAD a varié entre 42 et 46 % entre 1996 et 2000, pour ensuite diminuer sensiblement et
atteindre 30 % en 2002, en corrélation avec la détérioration du taux d'encadrement qui est passé de 24 étudiants
par professeur en 2000 à environ 30 étudiants par professeur en 2003. Ramené au contexte, le taux de réussite
prévu pour l'UCAD (65 %) devenait très difficile à atteindre.
d) Les effectifs de l'UGB ont quant à eux régulièrement augmenté de 1974 étudiants en 1997 à 2224 étudiants en
2000, puis 2918 étudiants en 2003, pour des prévisions respectives de 2165, 2500 et 4000 étudiants. Les taux de
réussite de cette université (79 % en 2003) ont dépassé les prévisions (70 %).
e) Les objectifs fixés concernant les effectifs dans les établissements privés d'enseignement supérieur ont été
largement dépassés, démontrant ainsi la pertinence du choix d'encourager l'émergence de ce type d'établissements.
Négligeables au début du Projet, ces effectifs atteignent aujourd'hui 10.000 étudiants, soit 29 % des inscriptions de
l'UCAD en 2003. Si l'on se réfère à l'objectif visé pour 2003 (15 % des inscriptions par rapport à l'UCAD), on
mesure tout le potentiel dont recèle ce type d'établissements. Leur nombre, qui ne cesse d'augmenter, rend toutefois
nécessaire et urgente la mise en place d'un système d'évaluation et d'accréditation.




                                                         - 57 -

f) Le Fonds de Recherche Universitaire (FRU), destiné à impulser la recherche par un processus concurrentiel, n'a
pas fonctionné de manière satisfaisante et a servi principalement au financement des voyages d'étude des
enseignants. La principale difficulté est née de l'utilisation par ce fonds de l'enveloppe budgétaire auparavant
consacrée aux voyages d'études. Les syndicats d'enseignants y on perçu une remise en cause de leurs « acquis ».
Cependant, le FRU a permis d'assainir ces voyages d'étude qui se font maintenant sur la base d'une proposition de
recherche examinée par la Commission de la Recherche et un rapport est exigé à l'issue du voyage d'étude.

Vers la fin du projet, après analyse des raisons de l'échec de cette sous-composante et en accord avec le chef de
projet, nous avons estimé que la mise en place d'un fonds de recherche à part, n'utilisant pas les ressources des
voyages d'étude à ses débuts, serait une bonne stratégie pour relancer la recherche en valorisant les meilleures
équipes de recherche. Un fonds pilote d'un montant initial de 200 millions CFA avait même été retenu. Cependant,
les délais restant pour la clôture du projet n'ont pas permis de démarrer cette expérience.

VII- Résultats globaux et impacts du projet

VII-1 La construction, l'équipement et la mise en service d'une nouvelle bibliothèque centrale à l'UCAD,
entièrement automatisée et avec de nouvelles collections, a eu un impact bénéfique sur l'enseignement et la
recherche. Cette réalisation a permis : a) de repositionner l'information et la documentation comme de véritables
outils pédagogiques au service de l'enseignement et de la recherche, au même titre que les laboratoires et les
équipements scientifiques ; b) de mettre à la disposition des enseignants, des chercheurs et des étudiants, des outils
modernes d'accès à la documentation scientifique et technique (Internet, CD-Rom, bases de données, etc...) ; c) de
créer un réseau d'information et documentation intégré au sein des bibliothèques de l'Université ; d) de développer
à l'Université un cadre moderne de recherche et d'accès à l'information scientifique pour les membres de la
communauté universitaire ; e) de développer les compétences techniques des personnels de la bibliothèque.
Il convient, pour préserver cet outil, de lui octroyer des moyens suffisants pour assurer son entretien et faire face
aux dépenses récurrentes.

VII-2 L'existence aujourd'hui d'une quarantaine d'établissements privés d'enseignement supérieur dont certains
dépassent le millier d'étudiants constitue un résultat important qu'il convient de pérenniser en mettant en place des
structures d'évaluation pour garantir la qualité des formations.

VII-3 L'assainissement des oeuvres sociales demeure un résultat tangible et durable, malgré les dépassements
budgétaires observés : privatisation des restaurants universitaires, augmentation du prix des repas, fermeture des
dortoirs et des restaurants pendant les grandes vacances, nouveaux critères d'admission dans les chambres, critères
d'excellence pour l'octroi des bourses, etc.... La diversification des sources de financement du sous-secteur
(milieux économiques, collectivités locales, offre de services, étudiants) préconisée par la « Commission Carte
Universitaire » serait de nature à favoriser la diminution relative des budgets que l'Etat consacre au système.

VII-4 Le Ministère de l'Education et les Universités ont maintenant des personnels qui, grâce aux formations mises
en place dans le cadre du projet et à l'expérience acquise tout au long de celui-ci, maîtrisent les procédures de la
Banque Mondiale, notamment celles relatives à la Passation des Marchés.

VIII-Conclusions et leçons à tirer du projet

En conclusion, nous évaluons le PAES globalement satisfaisant.
Premier projet de la Banque Mondiale pour l'Enseignement Supérieur au Sénégal, il a permis de nettes avancées
positives par rapport à la situation du sous-secteur antérieure à sa mise en oeuvre.
Le taux de décaissement final satisfaisant (78 %, malgré une suspension de 18 mois), ainsi que la réduction
sensible des délais pour la passation des marchés vers la fin du projet, sont révélateurs de l'intérêt que le
Gouvernement a porté à ce projet et des importants progrès réalisés par les équipes chargées de son exécution. Cela
constitue un gage pour la réussite des projets ultérieurs visant le sous-secteur.
Les principales leçons que l'on peut tirer du projet nous semblent être les suivantes : a) Pour réussir la mise en
oeuvre d'une réforme dans l'enseignement supérieur, il est important qu'il existe une bonne coordination entre la




                                                          - 58 -

prise des mesures impopulaires de cette réforme et la visibilité des actions et des moyens d'appui à cette réforme ;
b) l'association continue des bénéficiaires (étudiants, enseignants, personnels administratifs et techniques) à la
conception, la mise en oeuvre et le suivi du projet est également un facteur de réussite par une réelle appropriation
du projet ; c) la mise en place d'une véritable politique d'information et de communication pour mieux expliquer le
projet et ses objectifs doit constituer une composante à part entière, dès la conception du projet ; d) les formations
aux procédures de la Banque Mondiale devront être mises en place dès le début du projet. Cela renforcerait les
capacités des acteurs du projet pour une meilleure efficacité ; e) la localisation de l'Equipe d'Exécution du Projet au
sein de l'Université aurait facilité l'appropriation du projet par les bénéficiaires ; f) Enfin, il est important d'éviter
les promesses par la suite réajustées à la baisse, sources de déception et de frustrations nuisibles pour l'atteinte des
objectifs.




                                                         - 59 -

- 60 -

