Documut Of
The World Bank
FOR OFFMCIAL USE ONLY
RqeotNo. 9171
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA
MAAMBA COAL ENGINEERING PROJECT
(CREDIT 1333-ZA)
NOVEMBER 30, 1990
*             Energy Division
Asia Technical Department
Asia regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performace of
their oWficial duties. Its contents may nh)t ot erwise be disclosed without World Bank authorlzation.



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYHS
AfDB  -  African Development Bank
AfDF  -  African Development Fund
BMCL  -   British Mining Consultants
BUA   -   Bank Unit of Accounting
FR    -   Feasibility Report
GRZ   -   Government of Republic of Zambia
IDA   -   International Development Association
MCL   -  Maamba Collieries Ltd.
MIS   -   Management Information System
mtoe  -   Million Tonne Oil Equivalent
PCR   -   Project Completion Report
tpy   -   Tonnes per Year
UDI   -   Unilateral Declaration of Independence
ZCCM  -   Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines Ltd.
ZIMCO -   Zambia Industrial and Mining Corporation, Ltd.
ZK    -   Zambian Kwacha



THE WORLD &AN                    FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
WAoIton. 0 C 20433
U.$ A
Of fice of Director-Q.anral
Opetatima 3YeluaL1
November 30, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:      Project Completion Report on Zambia
Maamba Coal Engineering Project (Credit 1333-ZA)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Zambia - Maamba Coal Engineering Project (Credit 1333-ZA)"
prepared by the Africa Regional Office with Part II of the report contributed
by the Borrower.   No audit of this project has been made by the Operations
Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
Ths ocument hua I et1 dstnbution and may bc iBid by r Iuenu only ID Lbm pWarMae
of thetr officul uta,ua iu coetents may not otherrK be tMc wtthout Wor halt a& uauUi f,,



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA
MAAMBA COAL ENGINEERING PROJECT (CREDIT 1333-ZA)
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE .........................................................                           i
EVALUATION SUMMARY.                                                                        ii
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity .1
Project Background ..........................................
Project Objectives and Description
Project Objectives.                                                                 3
Project Description.                                                                3
Project Design and Organization
Project Design.                                                                     4
Project Organization.                                                               4
Project Implementation
Project Start-up.                                                                   4
Implementation and Procurement.                                                     5
Project Costs and Disbursement.                                                     5
Project Results
Physical Results.                                                                   5
Impact of Project.                                                                  6
Financial Performance .....................................                         6
Project Sustainability ......................................                          7
Bank Performance.                                                                      7
Borrower's Performance.                                                                8
Project Relationship.                                                                  8
Consultant Services ...... ..................................                          9
Project Documentation and Data ..............................                          9
PART II.   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ............                          10
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Energy Sector Bank Loans and Credits ........................                          16
Project Timetable ...........................................                          16
Loan Disbursements ..........................................                          17
Project Implementation ......................................                          17
Project Production ..........................................                          17
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (continued)                                                                                                          Page LNo,
Project Costs and Financing
Project Costs .............................................                                                                    18
Project Financing ................                                          .....................                              18
Project Results
Direct Benefits ...........................................                                                                    19
Economic Benefits .........................................                                                                    19
Financial Impact ..........................................                                                                    19
Studies ...................................................                                                                    20
Status of Covenants .........................................                                                                      21
Use of Bank Resources
Staff Input ...............................................                                                                    21
Missions ..................................................                                                                    22



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA
MAAMBA COAL ENGINEERING PROJECT (CREDIT 1333-ZA)
Preface
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Maamba Coal
Engineering Project of Zambia, for which Credit 1333-ZA in the amount of SDR
4.0 million (equivalent to US$4.3 million) was approved on March 15, 1983.
All disbursements to Zambia were suspended in May, 1987. This project was
also affected except for disbursements for prior commitments which continued
up to January, 1988. The credit was closed on September 30, 1987, two years
behind schedule.  It was almost fully disbursed except SDR 0.18 equivalent.
The PCR has been prepared by the Energy Division staff of Asia
Technical Department (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III), and the
Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of the PCR is based, inter alia, on the President's
Report (no separate Staff Appraisal Report was prepared) the Development
Credit Agreement, Project Agreement, supervision reports, correspondence
between the IDA and the Borrower; and internal Bank memoranda.



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA
MAAMBA COAL ENGINEERING PROJECT (CREDiT 1333-ZA)
Evaluation Summary
Objective
1.       The objective of the project was to foster the substitution of
indigenous coal for expensive oil products and to provide low-cost energy to
meet the growing demand from the industry. The project was to review the
existing operation and performance of MCL, analyze the various constraints and
prepare a Feasibility Report for the rehabilitation of the mine complex.
During the interim period, critical e ant and equipment were to be kept in
running order with adequate supply of  ,)re parts and components and by
providing training to essential staff (para. 3.1).
&..      A poor management structure and weak technical capabilities were
identified as among the main causes for low level of performance.   Any
rehabilitation effort was to include strengthening of the technical management
capability. ZCCM agreed to enter into a contract with MCL to take over its
technical management, including mining, engineering, material management,
training, etc.. Suitable senior level technical managers were to be seconded
from the ZCCM operation. ZCCM's training center was to undertake training of
technicians (paras. 4.2 and 4.3).
Implementation Experience
3.       The Feasibility Report (FR) was prepared in time by the BMCL, a
project implementation team at ZIMCO provided overall supervision and
guidance. Though the chief executive of ZCCM was also the Chairman of MCL, he
faced many problems during implementation which could not be anticipated
earlier. As ZCCM itself was then undergoing a major reduction of its
expatriate professionals, it was unable to second its best available staff to
Maamba. Similarly, though the ZCCM had a strong in-house material management
and training system, it was unable to tailor any program suited to MCL's
needs. Efforts to recruit expert professionals from outside also did not meet
with success, engineers of proven caliber were unwilling to accept short time
assignments in a remote part of Africa (paras. 5.1 and 5.2).
Results
4.       The FR indicated that the coal demand in Zambia and in the
neighboring countries will be about 700,000 tpy. In addition to arrear
overburden removal, future mining operations would have to deal with much
higher overburden to coal ratio. The coal preparation plant and the aerial
ropeway required major rehabilitation. Technical assistance was required to



- iii -
assist MCL to reorganize, direct and improve the level of operational
efficiency in mining, coal preparation, field maintenance and material
management. The rehabilitation program needed an investment of US$40 million
spread over a period of 5 years (paras. 6.1 and 6.2).
5.       When the FR study was in progress, the African Deve'opment Bank
(AfDB) became interested in the project and approved a loan and a credit
totalling US$24.4 million to implement the FR during the initial three year
period. Since 1984, the IDA and AfDB projects were runnirg together
complementing eRch other. The AfDB project is now extended up to August,
1991. The planned reorganization of the mine complex has now progressed to
the stage that a production rate of 700,000 tpy is achievable. But consequent
to lower economic activities in the country, the overall demand is now placed
at 550,000 tpy only. However, since Zambia Railways is unable to provide
adequate transport capacity,the actual production perforce is restricted to a
much lower level of 400-450,000 tpy (paras. 6.3 -6.5).
6.       Despite the large investment in the rehabilitation measures only a
modest increase in production could be achieved. Being unable to adjust its
coal prices in step with the high rate of inflation, MCL experienced only a
modest improvement in its finances. However, there has been continuous
progress in the development of skills and engineering capability. Zambian
nationals are now managing the company at all levels with minimum assistance
from outside (paras. 6.6 and 6.7).
Sustainability
7.       The declining trend of production during the previous five years has
been arrested and a capacity build-up has taken place. Customers are
receiving consistent sizes and quality of coal. Coal costs are high by
international standards. If the company is unable to market at least 550,000
tones of coal per year and adjust the coal price to overcome the high
inflation rate, it well be unable to meet its debt repayment obligation and
remain viable (paras. 7.1-7.3).
Lessons Learned
8.       Though small, it has been one ot the successful projects.  The Bank
performed satisfactorily all through the project cycle from identification to
implementation. The Bank has learned that such small companies operating in
isolated areas are not able to maintain a high level of management skill and
engineering efficiency. Since they cannot attract very competent
professionals for employment, there should be greater emphasis on technical
assistance and training (paras. 8.1-8.3).



PROJECT GOMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA
MAAMBA COAL ENGINEERING PROJECT (CREDIT 1333-ZA)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTlVE
1. Project Identity
Project Name       -    Coal Engineering Project
Credit No.         -    1333-ZA
RVP Unit           -    Africa
Country            -    Zambia (AF6IE)
Sector             -    Energy
Sub-sector         -    Coal
2.  Project Background (1983)
2.1      Zambia is well-endowed with energy resources, most of which are still
only partly explored. The main energy resources are hydropower and coal, but
there are also large amounts of uranium, as well as renewable resources such
as wood, bagasse, molasses, wind, solar and geothermal. There are as yet no
firm indications of exploitable hydrocarbons.
2.2      The hydroelectric generating capacity is equivalent to 2.2 million
tonnes of oil equivalent (mtoe). It meets the domestic demand fully, and part
of the demand for Zaire and Zimbabwe. There is sufficient potential
(estimated at 4,000 megawatt) for further development of hydroelectric power
to meet the country's requirements for decades ahead. Zambia has also ample
coal resources, though most of it is still unexplored.
2.3      Commercial energy consumption in 1981 was estimated at 2.5 mtoe, of
which 1.4 and 0.3 mtoe were met by hydropower and coal respectively, and the
balance by imported oil and coke. Hydropower is the main source of induscrial
energy, constituting 55.4 percent of the total consumption, followed by oil
products (30.6 percent), coal (11.2 percent) and coke (2.8 percent). Over 80
percent of domestic consumption of hydropower, 60 percent of coal and 34
percent of oil products are by the mining sector alone. The mining sector
provides over 20 percent of foreign exchange earnings and 30 percent of gross
value added.
2.4      The main consumers of coal in Zambia are the mining, chemical
fertilizer and cement industries, which together account for 85 percen: of the
demand. Coal is used primarily as a heat source and not for power generation.
It can replace much of the imported petroleum products used in the copper
smelters and other industries, and thus make a valuable contribution in the
saving of foreign exchange. Despite conservation efforts, the consumption of



oil products in the mining and mineral industries has been rising, and the
share of coal declining. This is primarily due to decline ir. the volume and
quality of coal production.
2.5      The structure of Zambia's energy sector evolved largely in response
to the effects of the Unilateral Declaration of Independence in 1965 in
neighboring Zimbabwe, then Southern Rhodesia. Prior to that, nearly all of
Zambia's commercial energy supplies came from or were imported through
Zimbabwe. As a result of events following the UDI, the Government of Republic
of Zambia (GRZ) found itself unable to rely on previous arrangements to meet
commercial energy requirements and had to set up its own institutions to
develop the domestic energy base.
2.6      In early 1966, Zambia Electric Supply Corporation was established for
the development of hydroelectric energy. Other institutions established were
the Maamba Collieries Ltd. (MCL), for the mining of domestic coal, and the
Tazama Pipelines Ltd., for the transport of crude petroleum from Dar-es-Salaam
to the Indeni Petroleum Refinery Ltd. in Ndola. The authority for the devel-
opment of the country's energy resources was shared amongst these institutions
on the one hand, and three separate Ministries of the Government.  Partly as a
result of this sharing of authority, the development of individual domestic
energ, resource was not guided by an integrated strategy i£o the sector,
resulting in less than optimum use of some resources and greater than optimum
use of others.
2.7      As a first step, the Government established the National Energy
Council in April, 1981 with the responsibility for coordinating the plans of
various agencies. The Council was also to act as the counterpart agency fcr
the Bank's energy assessment work. At the request of the Government, a Bank
mission visited Zambia in early 1982 to assess the country's energy resources
and assist the Government in preparing a strategy for the development of the
energy sector within the framework of the country's long term development
goals.
2.8      MCL is a wholly owned subsidiary of Zambia Industrial and Mining
Corpcration, Ltd. (ZIMCO), which owns partly or wholly more than 1CO companies
including Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines, Ltd. (ZCCM), one of the largest
copper producers in the world. ZCCM operates large open pit and underground
mines in the Copperbelt and has staff experienced in mining and associated
activities. MCL operates the only coal mine in Zambia at Maamba, 10
kilometers north of Lake Kariba and 76 kilometers southeast of Choma, a road
and rail junction in the south eastern part of Zambia. The mine was designed
in 1966 to produce 1.5 million tonnes of run-of-mine _.oal and 1.2 million
tonnes of beneficiated coal with 15 to 16 percent ash content. The clean coal
is transported by a 11.5 kilometer long aerial ropeway, over hilly terrain to
the nearest railroad. The production of saleable coal rose from 100,000
tonnes in 1966 to about 820,000 tonnes in 1972, but declined thereafter when
the ZCCM smelters were required by the Government to switch from coal to
surplus heavy fuel oil when the Indeni Refinery was commissioned in 1972. The
demand of saleable coal remained stagnant at about 50 percent of the mine
design capacity.
2.9      About US$20 million were spent over the years 1972-81 to improve
MCL's performance. and there were plans to invest another US$30 million during
the next five-year period. Past efforts focussed on improving performances of



individual sections of the operation and lacked an overall perspective. There
were no concerted actions to resolve the operation's basic weaknesses. Since
coal is an essential input to several of the country's major industries,
efficient operation of the mine was of national importance.
3.  Project Objectives and Description
3.1      Project Objectives.  The objective of the project was to foster the
substitution of indigenous coal for expensive oil products and to provide low-
cost energy to meet the growing demand from the industrial and other
consumers. A.; a first step towards achieving the objective, the project was
to review the existing operation and performance of MCL, analyze its various
technological, marketing, economic, financial and managerial constraints, and
prepare a feasibility report for the rehabilitation of the mine complex.
During the review period, the essential plant and equipment were to be
provided with critical spare parts and components needed to keep the mine
running. Also, training that could not await completion of the feasibility
study would be provided to operation, maintenance and other key technical
personnel.
3.2      Project Description.  The project had thrLe basic components as
follows:
(a) A feasibility study for the assessment of coal denand for the next
two decades; updating of geological information and detirmining
additional exploration needs; review of the functioning of the
mining operation, beneficiation plant and ropeway transport
system; survey of all plant and equipment and preparation of a
maintenance manual for repair and overhaul; review of MCL's
staffing pattern, identification of its long-term training needs
and formulation of a training program; review of the stock of
spare parts, components and consumable stores, and the drawing up
of a plan for inventory management; review of MCL's financial and
accounting practices and man-y ment structure, and recommendatiors
fir improving the same ror .ffective management and coordination;
nd preparation of a feasibility report for rehabilitation of the
mine complex to meet projected demand; assessment of investment
needs; projection of operating costs and recommendation on a
realistic pricing policy, to make MCL economically and financial
viable.
(b) Procurement of critical spare parts and components needed to keep
the mine complex operating during the study period and of quality
control equipment for the coal preparation plant.
(c) Training of kty technical persons, estimated at about 8 man-
months, for the implementation of repair and maintenance program
during the review period.



-4-
4. Project Design and Organizat;csn
4.1      Project Design.  The probLems facing MCL and the need for its
rehabilitation were discussed with the Government and the major coal
consum.,ng industries. The project concept was understood and welcome by
all concerned. The terms of reference for the feasibility study were
discu.ssed with ZIMCO and agreed with the Government at the negotiations.
4.2      Under the existing arrangements, MCTJ had a non-technical Managing
Director posted at Maamba as the chief executive officer. Of the six high
level technical positions, t'fo were vacant while the o;her incumbents did
not possess the requisite professional expertise. None had experience ot
commercial enterpri'?. More importantly, there was no senior technical
person to coordinate the activities of the mine complex. As the poor
management structure and weak technical capabilities were identified as
among the main causes for the low level of performance, any rehabilitation
effort was to include strengthening of the technical management team.
4.3      Project Organizations.  ZCCM agreed to enter into a cortract with
MCL to take over its technical nanagement, including mining, engineering,
material management, etc. MCL was to have a technical General Manager for
the overall coordination and two other specialists for mine planning and
design and maintenance of equipment. One or two specialists, including the
Ge.,eral Manager, were to be seconded from ZCCM's own operational staff,
while the others specialized in coal mining were to be recruited abroad.
ZCCM's training school in the Copperbelt was to undertake the training of
technicians. ZIMCO was to setup a project implementation unit to oversee
the .mplementation of the project.
4.4      The timing of the project was very appropriate because the copper
and fertilizer industries were also undergoing rehabilitation program which
called for continued supply of coal of requisite vo'.ume and quality at a
price lower than the imported fuel. The project was well prepared, and it
attracted all round support.
5. Project Implementation
5.1      Project Start-up.  The credit became effective on January 31,
1984. The Fk was prepared in time (October, 1984) by the British Mining
Consultants Ltd. (BMCL) on the lines indicated in para. 3.2. The project
implementation unit in ZIMCO provided overall supervision and guidance.
Though the Chairman of Board of Directors and the chief executive of ZCCM
was also the chairman of MCL, he faced many problems which could not be
foreseen earlier. As ZCCM itself was then undergoing a major reduction of
its expatri:.te managerial and engineering staff, it was unwilling or often
unable to second its best available staff to the MCL. ZCCM made several
efforts to second senior engineering staff but the results were not
satisfactory. Similarly, though the ZCCM had a strong in-house material
managmment and training system, it was unable to tailor any program suited
to the MCL's needs. Given the assurances received from ZIMCO/. 'M it was
not possible to foresee these problems.



-5-
5.2      Implementation & Procutement.  When the efforts to recruit the
senior management/engineering personnel from ZCCM failed, the jobs were
advertised and several expatriate engineers were interviewed. It became
evident that engineers of proven caliber were unwilling to accept short
term assignment in a small company operating in a remote part of Africa.
It took about 20 months before the required staff could be recruited or
contracted from BMCL. Until these staff were in position, procurement
actions for spare parts and the training program could not be started.
Additional funds had to be allocated to augment the technical assistance
program (Part III, Table 6). This was later financed by an African
Development Fund (ADF) credit of BUA 1.6 million (US$1.65 million).
5.3      Project Costs and Disbursement.  The project was originally
designed to be completed in 20 months, from February 1983. The loan became
effective only in January 1984 and for various reasons explained above, it
had to be extended by 24 months, up to September 1987. The last bill was
paid in January 1988 (Part III, Tables 2 and 3). The estimated cost of the
project was US$6.1 million which was to be shared between IDA, US$4.3
million (SDR 4.0 million) and MCL, USS1.8 million. The actual expenditure
spread over 49 months amounted to US$9.8 million with the IDA share
remaining at US$4.3 million (SDR 3.8 million) but the MCL contribution
going up to US$5.5 million, 3.0 million in foreign cost and 2.5 million
equivalent in local cost (Part III, Table 6). Due to suspension of
withdrawal rights of Zambia in May, 1987, SDR 0.18 million equivalent
remaining undisbursed on March 31, 1988 had to be cancelled.
6. Project Results
6.1      Physical Results.  The FR indicated that the coal demand in Zambia
and in the neighboring countries was about 700,000 tonnes per year. It
also showed that future mining operation has to be carried out under a much
higher stripping ratio of coal to overburden (average 1 tonne coal to 6.3
m3 OB) compared to half of that ratio as originally planned. Moreover, due
to poor equipment availability and stripping design in the past there was a
substantial shortfall in planned stripping. In order to achieve any higher
level of production, MCL required additional mining equipment, refurbishing
and modicication of the coal preparation plant, and rehabilitation of the
aerial ropeway, workshop and other engineering infrastructure. It also
required a preventive maintenance system with proper material management
support. The company also needed an effective organization structure and a
management information system (MIS). The estimated investment to complete
the rehabilitation work was US$40 million spread over a period of 5 years
(Part III, Table A).
6.2      A technical assistance scheme was recommended to assist MCL to
reorganize, direct and improve the level of operational efficiency and
production in several areas including mine planning, design and operation,
coal preparation, field maintenance and material management. Selected
management personnel, supervisors and specialist artisans were to be
trained through specially designed courses to broaden their knowledge,
skill and experience. The report also pointed out that the success of the
MCL rehabilitation program would depend upon the Zambi_ Railways' ability
to transport the increased volume of production.



- 6 -
6.3      When the feasibility study by BMCL was in progress during January
to September 1984, AfDB became interested in the project. Based on the
BMCL data it carried out a parallel economic exercise to assess the project
viability and fund requirements. AfDB representatives also participated in
the review of the BMCL feasibility study report in October, 1984. This was
followed by further meetings between the Bank and AfDB in Abidjan and
Paris. AfDB agreed to finance the first three years of the rehabilitation
project amounting to US$22.71 million as loan (BUA 22.71 million) and
US$1.65 million as credit. The agreements were signed in December 1984 and
they became effective in August 1985. The loan closing date has been
extended from August, 1988 to August, 1991.
6.4      Impact of Project.  MCL suffered a major decline in production and
related operations between 1980 and 1985. The main reason for this decline
was an acute shortage of foreign exchange required for repair and
maintenance of earth moving equipment and the beneficiation plant. The
rehabilitation work commenced with the availability of the IDA and AfDB
funds. The planned reorganizations of the mine, coal preparation plant,
aerial ropeway and related support operations have now progressed to the
stage that a production rate of 700,000 tonnes of saleable coal per year is
achievable. The manpower increased from 1,424 in 1983 to about 1,606 in
1990 due to increased mining activities.
6.5      One of the major influences on the rate of production is the
demand for coal. Consequent to lower economic activities in the country,
and major customers having already revised their coal demand to a lower
level, the overall demand is now estimated at 550,000 to 600,000 tonnes per
year including 50,000 tonnes for exports. The other important factor is
the inability of the Zambia Railways to provide adequate number of rail
cars and locomotives for the transport of coal in excess of 400,000 to
450,000 tonnes per year. Many small customers are resorting to more costly
road transport or switching to alternative fuel.
6.6      There has been continuous progress in the development of skills
and engineering capability. Some equipment and spare parts are now made
locally which were previously imiported from overseas. The main workshops
are being reorganized to support a much greater program of equipment
overhaul. The equipment rationalization policy has achieved more effective
maintenance, and a reduction in the amount of inventory for spare parts and
components.
6.7      Financial Performance.  Despite the large investment in the
rehabilitation measures, only a modest increase in sales could be achieved
(Part III, Table 5). But better operational efficiency is reflected in the
improved financial position of MCL during the last three years. It
recorded a modest profit of about US$0.3 million in FY86, US$3.97 million
in FY87 and US$0.32 million in FY 88. However, with the declining sales
volume the profitability is likely to suffer.



-7-
7. Project Sustainability
7.1      The declining trend of production during the previous five years
has been arrested, and a capacity build up has taken place.  The custemers
are consistently receiving properly sized better qualities of coal. With
better rail transport, the production could have gone up another 10-15
percent with consequent financial benefits to the MCL.
7.2      The project implementation coincided with a period when Zambia
experienced very severe economic problems and counterpart investment funds
became very scarce. However, MCL managed to finance some of its own
foreign exchange needs for replacement capital, spare parts and foreign
training (Part III, Tables 6A and B). But this trend is not likely to
continue if the company is unable to market at least 550,000 tonnes of coal
per year and if it is not allowed to adjust the sale price to overcome the
high inflation rate in Zambia. In fact, MCL suffered a loss of US$0.1
million in 1988-89 for a sale of 430,000 tons of coal.
7.3      The lower sales revenue is seriously affecting the cash flow
position and the company's ability to service loan repayments. With the
problems of the Zambia Railways as yet unresolved it is difficult to be
optimistic on future coal production and the financial health of the
company. At the current volume of production (about 425,000 tpy), MCL will
require 20-25 percent price increase if it were to remain viable and meet
all its debt service obligations. But it will also raise the domestic coal
price beyond the border price (about US$40/t) of imported coal from
Zimbabwe.
8. Bank Performance
8.1      Though small, the Coal Engineering Project has been one of the
successful projects in Zambia. The Bank performed satisfactorily all
through the project cycle from identification to implementation, and in
assisting in seeking the AfDB loan to finance the rehabilitation of MCL.
Only 5 missions could be fielded in 5 years (Part III, Table 9B), which
somewhat affected the procurement of critical spare parts for early
renovation of run-down earth moving equipment and the training program.
After the suspension of disbursement the Bank continued to monitor the
progress through the quarterly project implementation reports received upto
the middle of 1988.
8.2      As the project progressed it became evident that the existing
mining operation must form a part of a long-term mining plan for systematic
exploitation of the open-pit reserves at an optimum cost. It was also
noted that the current management and personnel were not equipped to deal
with these problems. These shortcomings were overcome by an active
collaboration between the lenders and borrowers supported by a number of
competent consultants. This called for enhanced fund allocation for the
technical assistance and training of managers and engineers.



- 8 -
8.3      The Bank has learned that such small companies operating in
isolated areas are not able to maintain a high level of management skill
and engineering efficiency. Since they are unable to compete and attract
very experience professiorals for direct employment, there should be
greater emphasis on technical assistance and training. Technical
assistance available from any individual foreign expert can not be
effective unless such service is backed up by a competent organization
abroad. Dependence on expatriate staff should be minimized by timely
training of suitable local staff.
9. Borrowers' Performance
9.1      The success of the project is mainly due to the full commitment
and cooperation of the ZIMCO and MCL management at all stages from the
project preparation to implementation. The management always acted with
all sincerity and diligence on the advice rendered by the Bank and its
consultants.
9.2      After going through extensive management training at home and
abroad and three years of expatriate technical assistance, most of the
Zambian managers are now able to effectively manage their respective
business. They are also actively teaching the skills they acquired to
their subordinates. Although technical assistance is continuing on a
limited basis at some senior levels, the day to day management is now being
successfully carried out by the Zambian nationals.
10. Project Relationship
10.1     The Bank maintained a close relationship with the GRZ and other
entities associated with the production, transportation and consumption of
coal. The Bank also developed a special relationship with the ZIMCO
through the Project Unit created to oversee the project implementation.
The close collaboration between the Bank and ZIMCO/MCL officials also
contributed to the success of the project.
11. Consulting Services
11.1'    The FR clearly identified the need for technical assistance in
various disciplines to support the MCL management in the implementation of
the rehabilitation program. Following the Bank/AfDB procedure BMCL was
selected for the job. It was mainly financed by the AfDB credit and to a
lesser extent by the IDA credit. The technical assistance covered almost
all aspects of project operation and management including coal production,
beneficiation and transport, repair and maintenance engineering,
procurement and material management and training of personnel. It also
provided for two full time positions of General Manager and Engineering
Manager. With the exception of these two posts, Zambian managers were
placed in leading positions and backed up and assisted by experienced
expatriates. This required a high degree of counterpart teamwork and
training to ensure maximum benefit.



-9-
11.2     The duration of the first phase of technical assistance for each
discipline varied from three months to three years depending upon the
rehabilitation work involved. The consultants also identified practical
training needs of managers and sapervisors and exposed them to similar
operations overseas. A special academic course was designed to train the
prospective general manager. These played a major role in the success of
the rehabilitation project and in developing management effectiveness of
many of the Zambian senior personnel.
12. Project Documentation and Data
12.1     The legal documents were well drawn up and there was never any
rocm for ambiguity. The President's Report (no separate appraisal report)
provided a useful framework for the IDA and borrowers during the project
implementation. The project management maintained and furnished all data
in this report without any assistance from the Bank. All data are now
maintained at the project in a computerized MIS which can be easily
accessed.



- 10 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA
MAAMBA COAL ENGINEERING PROJECT (CREDIT 1333-ZA)
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Introduction
1.1      Maamba Collieries Limited received through GRZ/ZIMCO a World Bank/IDA
loan (Cr. No. 1333-ZA) amounting to SDR 4.0 million (equivalent to US$4.3
million) in 1983 for:
(a) a pre-investment feasibility study;
(b) procurement of critical spare parts and components to keep the mining
complex operating during the study period;
(c) training of key technical/managerial personnel to prepare them for
other project implementation through mostly experiential training at
the mine and abroad in all disciplines of the mining complex. A
small amount of foreign exchange was employed to train selected
personnel in specialized courses of the mining operations including
financial, maintenance and repair aspects in Europe. Selected
personnel through these courses were prepared to run the most
critical areas of technical/engineering and general management.
1.2      The feasibility study was carried out by the British Mining
Consultants and was completed in October 1984 for the World Bank. After the
Bank identified and appraised the project report the subsequent loan agreement
with GRZ/ZIMCO was reached in 1983.
1.3      The feasibility study team identified the need for the rehabilitation
of the Mine and associated plants and workshops, modificatin of the
beneficiation plant, and training needs for managers, engineers and
technicians. Whilst all the aspects of the rehabilitation were being
identified, there was urgent need that a further load funding was required for
additional capital equipment and replacement was required for additional
capital equipment and replacement of existing equipment. The African
Development Bank (AfDB) became interested and was contacted with the resulting
loan funding to Maamba Collieries Limited (MCL) through the GRZ/ZIMCO of BUA
22.71 million being granted and a further African Development Fund (AfDF) in
the amount of BUA 1.6 million was provided for technical assistance which
fulfilled yet another identified need in the MCL's rehabilitation process. It
is through this loan funding which acted as a bridge between the envisaged
US$40 million asFistance by the World Bank that the objectives of the
feasibility stuey could be fully met. Further, it is against this interim
assistance that the two projects can hardly be separated in this review for
instance spars part listing on World Bank was prepared by a combined team of
BMCL and MCL.



- 11 -
1.4      Recommendations in line with identified need were prepared for
action. BMCL again were identified to carry the consultancy service project
following the AfDB loan facility as a technical assistance team to carry out
the recommendations as contained in the World Bank Feasibility Report.
1.5      Among other World Bank/IDA Loan conditions worth noting are the
following:
(a) A ZCCM/MCL technical management agreement;
(b) A GRZ/ZIMCO/MCL counterpart contribution towards the total project
cost.
2. Project Implementation and Result
2.1      ZCCM/MCL Technical Management Agreement:  There was some delay in
making up of the ZCCM technical team.  Two Technical General Managers were
engaged in succession. Due to remoteness of Maamba there was reluctancy on
the part of the first General Manager to stay ir. Maamba. His replacement
lacked the complementary mining and financial experience to be of great
benefit to the complex mining operation that has been under capitalized for a
long time. As a result of this, British Mining Consultants were contacted in
1985 to second from among its technical staff at Maamba a Technical General
Manager with a subsequent choice of Mr. C Freeman. Mr. C. Freeman was the
head of the technical assistance team at the time and former head of World
Bank sponsored feasibility study on Maamba's operation. It is under his
charge that the success of the rehabilitation project is being recorded.
The recruitment of the maintenance and repair engineer under the
designation of Chief Mechanical Engineei. played a vital role in improving the
maintenance and repair of mining equipment and upgrading of workshop
practices.
In the field of Mine Planning and Design the specialist recruited
from abroad did not measure up to expectations. ZCCM found it difficult to
provide requisite personnel on Maamba site to fully produce the desired
benefits. Experience staff were difficult to find even for itself at that
time.
2.2      GRZ/ZIMCO Counterpart Contributions:  The contribution towards the
total project cost was met as reflected in the World Bank's Part III report on
project financing.
2.3      Spare Parts Provision:  Maamba received the benefit intended in the
spare part acquisition although delays were experienced in the procurement of
these spares.
3. Feasibility Study Report/Recommendation
3.1      This is the most valuable document to serve as a check for the
future. The plight of Maamba was fully addressed in the report as follows:



-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
- 12 -
(a) Deepening and dwindling thickness of coal seams;
(b) Extent of coal reserves and ore reserve estimation;
(c) Increasing overburden to coal tonnage ratio to 4:1 from 1:1 (BCM: one
tonne of coal);
(d) Under capitalization of the mine, a result of lack/inadequate
investment caused low capacity of the mining equipment and operating
plants which enables the production of poor quality coal;
(e) The control of the pricing structure;
(f) The expanding coal market;
(g)  Weak technical and managerial capability of available personnel and
recruitment procedures;
(h) Maintenance and repair standards;
(i) Procurement and materials management; and
(j) Other infrastructure improvements.
3.2      The extent of coal reserves and ore reserves estimation were
determined using modern methods of coal reserve calculation. Up-rating of the
mining equipment was achieved by purchase of new equipment through the AfDB
Loan and modification to the small coal washing machine was achieved in the
Coal Preparation Plant which was made to replace the old jig bath which
produced poor quality coal as a result of inherent inadequate separation
parameters. Coal separation through the new dense media cyclone is well
defined and has improved the quality of fine product very greatly. Further
refurbishment of the Coal Preparation Plant from raw coal handling to coarse
coal dense media separating baths and Aerial Ropeway have been improved to an
extent that coal production can now be placed at 700,000 tonnes per annum as
long as a constant and consistent availability of foreign exchange will be
made available to renew operating plants and equipment every year.
The maintenance and repair crews have been set up that are capable of
refurbishing existing equipment in these plants, thereby contributing to
improved maintenance and low cost of repair and reduction on the foreign
exchange bill. The conservation of foreign exchange through improsed workshop
practices will continue to be encouraged at Maamba.
3.3      The up-take of coal has always been in the region of 500,000 -
600,000 tonnes of coal per annum but the acute problems of Zambia Railways;
lack of locomotive power, train wagons, old railway line and railway sleepers
and generally low level of economic activity in the country cause considerable
loss of sales volume culminating into the loss of revenue notably in 1988/89
when ZK40 million and expected ZK95 million in 1989/90 financial years have
been recorded. The customer has therefore not been fully serviced despite
available coal at the rail head in Masuku. Presently only 425,000 tonnes of
coal per annum is expected to be transported to the market. This trend is



- 13 _
bound to prevail over Maamba unless Zambia Railways' inability to service the
coal transport issue is resolved through some urgent sourcing of funding for
it.
3.4      Zambia Railways' failure to fully service customers resulting in
lower volume of sales has placed a considerable strain on Maamiba's finances
leading to:
(a) Maamba's inability to replace capital on schedule; thus driving
Maamba into the pre-1985 position;
(b) Maamba's negative cash flow situations;
(c) Loss of coal sales volume especially in the foreign market due to
late deliveries;
(d) Maamba's inability to service loan repayments;
(e) Maamba's inability to relieve the coal customer of the high coal
price increase as higher sales volume would inhibit the call for
higher prices of the c3mmodity; this has placed Maamba coal as an
expensive product on the international market and may jeopardise
export expansion drives;
(f) Coal based industry being stagnant and lack of the market expansion
in the country; and
(g) Lack of experienced local labor as attractive salaries cannot be
offered by Maamba.
3.5      Most engineers/technicians and workmen have been either exposed to
experiential training locally and abroad with an eventual change of attitude.
Proven result show improved work performance. Engineering personnel are
capable of refurbishing most components on their own given the requisite
materials and some modifications are dchieved to avoid high cost from outside
expertise. The level of operational performance in operating departments of
Mining, Coal Preparation Plant and Ropeway has reached a high confidence
level. It is for this reason that counterpart management has been successful
to a point where only the Technical General Manager and Procurement Specialist
of the technical assistance team have remained on site against a large number
of operational/design and engineering staff that composed the complete
technical assistance team. The local terchnical team at Maamba can only fail
as a result of lack of foreign exchange, continued loss of sales volume which
limits the amount of Kwacha cover on Femac with which to purchase vital spare
parts.
3.6      Export earnings have considerably increased along with increased coal
export potential as a direct benefit of improved coal production of the coal
beneficiating equipment.  Export earnings contribute to US$1.5 million per
annum as the present moment; this is being utilized to purchase spare parts
while Bank of Zambia still allows the total retention of the coal export
proceeds.



- 14 -
3.7      Maamba, apart from some specialized rehabilitation program needs US$4
million for spare parts to achieve a smooth operation. In the interim period
that Zambia Railway (say four years) could be improved, the need to assist
Maamba in the amount of US$10 million will still be required. Any additional
coal requirement to cover new nationalized programs i.e., Integrated Iron and
Steel Project will need a further capital injection if the capital replacement
program will not be supported by increase sales volume or further foreign
assistance funding.
Workshops have been reorganized to suit present improved standards
obtaining at Maamba with infrastructure improvements being constantly properly
cared for.
4. Conclusion
4.1      The World Bank/IDA loan opened a new and reassuring chapter in
operational, technical and financial aspects of Maamba.
4.2      Maamba still requires capital injection as most of AfDB acquired
equipment have reached the end of its useful life and investment in manpower
is still of top priority. The recommended US$40 million has not been invested
in full and investment on manpower development has been very low indeed
despite improved level of performance. Development of the employee in
employment with higher retention potential will be enhanced.
4.3      The counterpart system of management provided invaluable experiential
training.
4.4      International competitive bidding procedures further widened a broad
specturam in modern procurement procedures eliminating bias and cost reduction
in relation to very limited or one supplier sourcing system of purchasing.
4.5      National coal demand was low due to low economic activity in the
country and lack of funding on the part of some of the coal consumers and the
railway transporting company. The national coal demand is placed at 550,000 -
600,000 tonnes per annum.
4.6      The technical management of Maamba has attained a high level of
confidence. Apart from financial aspects of the company most areas can be
handled with a higher degree of confidence. Improvement in the financial
areas will be addressed.
4.7      The retention of only two specialists as at present depicts the
success of the project.
4.8      Foreign exchange ought to be available for a continual successful
operation of Maamba. The difficulty of obtaining foreign exchange has been
compounded by Zambia Railways' inability to carry planned coal sales targets.
4.9      The Bank's guidance has been useful and direct in its presentation of
issues leading to eventual improved state of the Mine.



- 15 -
4.10     BMCL have been of great assistance to the success story of Maamba.
The technical team displayed the will to work. The attitude expressed in hard
work, dedication and commitment to duty has been imparted into Zambians with
impressive success.
4.11     ZIMCO and MCL has provided peaceful working environment. The vision
of a viable company will indeed be achieved.
4.12     The statistical data as presented in Part III is representative of
the situation as provided from identification of the project.
4.13     Permanent labor has changed slightly from 1,342 in 1983 to 1,400 in
1990. Temporary and casual workers are still estimated at 1983 figures of
about 82 and 206 respectively.



- 16 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA
MAAMBA COAL ENGINEERING PROJECT (CREDIT 1333-ZA)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.   Energy Sector Bank Loans and Credits
Year of
Loan                Purpose         approval   Status      Comments
1.  Kafue Hydroelectric    Power                 1973       Completed  Successful
Project (Stage II)       generation
2.  Indeni Refinery          Refinery            1982       Completed  Successful
Modification Engi-       product mix                               PCR under
neering Project          modification                              preparation
3.  Petroleum Explora-       Oil and gas         1982       Completed  Successful
tion Promotion           exploration                               PCR under
Project                                                            preparation
4.  Oil Pipeline Rehab-    Survey of 1700    1985           Completed  Successful
ilitation Engineer-    Km Dar es Salaam                            PCR under
ing Project              Ndola pipeline to                         preparation
assess corrosion
damage
IL
2. Project Timetable
Date          Date          Date
Item               planned       revised       actual
Identification            -             -             02/82
Preparation               05/82         -             05/82
Appraisal                 06/82         -             06/82
Credit negotiations       01/10/83      -             02/01/83
Board approval            03/15/83      -             03/15/83
Credit agreement          05/23/83      -             05/23/83
Credit effectiveness    08/13/83        11/30/83      01/31/84
Credit closing            09/30/85      09/30/86
09/30/87      06/30/87
Credit completion         12/31/85      12/31/87      03/31/88



-17 
3. Loan Disbursements
(Million US$)
Financial Year                   1984    1985    1986    1987         1988
Appraisal estimate (cum)                1.6     4.3      -        -          -
Actual (cum)                           0.5      1.1      2.6      3.9        4.3
Actual as 2 of estimate               31.0    25.6    60.0    90.7         100.0*
Date of final disbursement                                                01/04/88
*(a) Original credit amourn SflR4.O m was equivalent to US$4.3 m.
(b)  Disbursement suspended in May 1987, except for prior committed fund.
(c) Undisbursed sum SDRO.18 m equivalent cancelled.
4. Project Implementation
Indicators                         Appraisal            Actual
Disbursement                                     1                   2
Estimated cost                                   1                   1
Anticipated completion                           2                   2
Compliance with locn conditions                  1                   1
Project finances                                 2                   1
Management performance                           2                    1
Procurement progress                             2                   2
Consultants                                      1                   1
Reporting                                        1                   1
Legend: 1 - Problem-free or minor problems
2 - Moderate problems
5.  Project Production
Actual Production
Year              OB          Raw coal         Washed coal         Coal capacity
M.M3           Mt                Mt                   Mt
1984-85               2.63          0.71              0.51                 0.51
1985-86               1-56          0.82              0.54                 0.55
1986-87               3.73          0.78              0.51                 0.60
1987-88               4.04          0.91              0.57                 0.70
1988-89               3.11          0.68              0.44                 0.80
1989-90 (est)         4.50          0.80              0.50                 0.80



- 18 -
6. Project Costs and Financing
(Milli.or. Uj$)
A. Project Cost
Estimate           Actual
FC   LC   Total  FC   LC   Total
Feasibility study and technical assistance   0.8   0.2   1.0   1.5  0.4   1.9
Critical spare parts                            3.2   0.5  3.7)
Quality control equipment                       0.2      -  0.2)   5.6  1.9   7.5
Training                                          *   -       -    0.2  0.2   0.4
Base cost. estimate                           4.2   0.7   4.9   7.3  2.5   9.8
Contingencies                                   0.9   0.3   1.2       -    -     -
Total financing required                      5.1   1.0   6.1   7.3  2.5   9.8
*US$50,000
B. Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate             Actual
FC      LC      Total    FC       LC     Total
IDA                  4.0    0.3      4.3       4.3    *4.3
ZIMCO/MCL            1.0    0.8      1.8       3.0    2.5      5.5
5.0    1.1      6.!      7.3    2.5      9.8
*US$20,000



- 19 -
7. Prolect Results
A. Direct Benefits
Estimate at full
Indicators              Appraisal estimate          Estimate at closing date          development
1.  Review of technical   The report to cover,            The report was completed in   No change
managerial and economic   geology, mining, washery,   time and it covered all
constraints and prepare-  infrastructure, etc. at a   appraisal issues at a cost
tion of a rehabilitation  cost of USS1.25 m (IDA).    of USS1.08 m to IDA.  An
feasibility report.                                       additional amount of
USSO.48 m was spent for
technical assistance includ-
ing MIS design.
2.  Procurement of crit-  This was intended to            There was soe delay in          No change
ical spare parts and       permit MCL to continue its  procurement.  However, the
quality control equip-    mining and wash&ry opera-   money was gainfully utilized
ment,                       tions till a regular loan   to keep the equipment in
could be secured for full   running order till ADB loan
fledged rehabilitation,       became effective.  Cost
cost USS3.00 m (IDA) and    USS2.64 m (IDA) and USS4.80
USt1.56 m (MCL).              m (MCL).
3.  Training of engi-       10 technicians and oper-    23 managers,  %upervisors,
neering personnel.          ators costing USSO.05 m.    techniciarn  ;J operators         No change
costing.
IDA USQ.:O2 om
MCL USS0J; 3
B. Economic Benefit & C. Financial  
Not Applicable



- 20 -
D. Studies
Purpose as Defined at Appraisal        Status           Impact of Study
1.  Feasibility       Consultants to *ssess coal demand                   Feasibility report received
Study.                 to review existing operations,                     in October 1984.
staffing pattern, material
management system, etc. and
(a) to prepare a set of recom-       Completed   African Development Bank
mendations for rehabilitation of                   extended a loan and a credit
the mine complex including mine                    in December 1984 totalling
planning and design, mining plant                  US326 m for the implementa-
and equipment, washer, ropeway,                    tion of r.commendetions.
infrastructure, etc.                               Work is in progress.  Coal
production and coal quality
have improved.
(b) to 1dentify training needs       Completed   A large number of managers,
for managers, technicians and                      engineers, supervisors, tech-
operators.                                         nicians and operators have
been trained abroad, and in
Zambia with technical assist-
ance from expatriates.
2.  Critical spare   Technical specialists of ZCCM to   Completed   The list was .lso reviewed by
parts and compen-    study the physical conditions of                     the BMCL consultants before
ents.                 mining plant and equipment and to                   procurement action.  The
prepare a list of critical spare                   material was received at site
parts and components for urgent                    and duly made use of.  It
repair and maintenance, and of                     helped to improve coal pro-
quality control equipment for                      duction in terms of both
improved monitoring of washery                     quantity and quality.
operation.



- 21 -
B. Status of Covenants
Loan Covenant.                      Deadline for Compliance          Status
1.  Escution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreemnt between                         Condition of Effectiveess                  Complied
borro-er and ZIMCO end a Loan Agreement between ZIMCO and                                                             12/23/83
MCL (Section 6.0(a) of Cr A).
Compl i ed
2.  Execution of a technical eanagewnt contract between                                   a                           10/31/83
CCM and MCL (Section 4.01 (b) of Pr. A).
3.  Creation of a Project Unit at ZIMCO to oversee the                                                                Complied
project implementation  (Section 2.01(b) of Cr. A).                                                                   03/19/83
4.  During the implementation of the project, the                          The disbursement of IDAs                   Complied
Government to permit ZIMCO/MCL access to a minimum of U3SS1                second tranche was contingent              05/27/86
m in foreign exchange to metch IDA's contribution on a                     upon CP/HCL fulfilling its
on*-to-three basis.  IDA's share of USS3 a for spare                        commitment to the first
parts, etc. to be disbursed in two tranches of US32 m and                  tranche.
US31 m each.  MCL to contribute it. share of LS31 m during
the first trancho (Section 1, Pare. 4(ii) of Cr. A).
S. ZIMC0 and MCL are to obtain prior approval of IDA for
the proposed training program and list of spare parts,
components and qual ity control equipment (Section 2.04 of                                                            Complied
Pr. A).
6.  With respect to the  valuation and implementation of                                                              Compiled.
the recommendations and other conclusions contained in the
report:                                                                                                               By the time the
consultant's report became
(i)  during the carrying out of the Project, ZIMCC and                                                           anai labl  in December
iCL and the Asaociaiton shall exchange views from                                                           1984, the African
time to time on said recommends and conclusione;                                                           Dvzelopment Bank agreed to
and                                                                                                        finance the coal
rehabilitation project.
(ii) upon completion of Part A of the Project, ZIMCO
and MCL shall consult with the Borrower and the
Aosociation on the recommendations and
conclusions relating thereto and shall exchange
views with the Borrower and the Association on a
proposed coal rehabilitation project. (Section
2.02(d) of Pr. A).
7.  ZIMCO and MCL shall maintain  records adequate to                                                                 Complied
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate accounting practices their operations and
financial conditions, including, without limitation to the
foregoing, separate account. reflecting all expenditures
in respect of the project (Section 5.01 of Pr. A).
8.  ZIMCO and MCL shall:                                                                                              Complied
(a)  have their mccounts and financial statemnt.
(balance sheet., statement. of inco   and
eapenses and related statements) for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistertly applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the
Assocacion;
(b)  furnish to the Association as soon as available,                             Yearly                         Complied
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year: (i) certified copies
of it. financial statement. for such year as so
audited; and (ii) the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such as the
Association shall have reasonably requested
including, without limitation to the foregoing,
separate opinions by said auditors on the
separate account. referred to in Section 5.01 of
Project Agreement (Section 5.02 of Pr. A).



- 22 -
9. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Input
(Staff Weeks)
1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   Total
Preappraisal    3.0    -       -      -       -      -       -      -      3.0
Appraisal        6.0   22.0    -       -      -      -       -      -     28.0
Negotiations    -       4.7    -       -      -      -       -      -      4.7
Supervision     -       0.7    8.7    8.1   10.3    4.4    1.6    0.1   33.9
Others          -      12.1    1.0    0.2    0.9    0.1    -        -     14.3
Total       9.0   39.5    9.7    8.3   11.2    4.5    1.6    0.1   83.9



- 23 -
B. Missions
Perform-
No. of   Man-days  Speciali-   mance    Types of
Mission      DD/MM/YY  persons  in field    zation    trend    problem
1.  Through        01/24/82      1          7     Min
appraisal      06/14/82      3         35     Min
Fin
Eco
2.  Appraisal          -         -          -        -
through
Board
Approval
3.  Board          08/03/83      2         10     Min
approval                                      Fin
through
effective-
r.e ss
4.  Supervision   04/11/84       2          6     Min             2      Technical
Fin                   Management
and pro-
10/10/84      2          4     Min            2       curement
F ln
09/25/85      1          8     Min            2
05/22/86      3        12      Min            2       Procurement
Fin
Eco
11/05/86      3        11      Min            1
Fin
Eco
Legend: 1 - Problem free or minor problems.
2 - Moderate problems.
C. Costs
Not available



