Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CR Jg2<-z
Report No. P-4532-BO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 36.1 MILLION
(US$47.1 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO TH.
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
FOR THE
SECOND RECONSTRUCTION IMPORT CREDIT
June 2, 1987
I This document has a restrictd distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their offiklal duties. lIts ontents may not aherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit     -  Bolivian Peso ($B)       - until 12/31/86
=  Boliviano ($B)          -  after 01/01/87
$b  1,923,000.00  =  US$ 1.00                 -  on    12/31/86
$b   2.00         =  US$ 1.00                 -  on    04/30/87
SDR  1.00         = US$ 1.305                 -  on    04/30/87
US$  1.00         = SDR 0.766                 -  on    04/30/87
MEA5URES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 hectare (ha)              -  10,000 m2       2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)            =  0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)    =  100 ha
1 meter (m)                 =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilogram (kg)             =  2.20 pounds (lb)
1 ton                       =  2,205 pounds
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIMONS AND ACRONYMS
BAB     - Bolivian Agricultural Bank
BD      - Barrels per day
BISA    - Industrial Development Bank
BAMIN   - Bolivian Mining Bank
CAO     - Camara Agricola Oriente
CB      - Central Bank of Bolivia
COMIBOL - National Mining Corporation
GEOBOL  - Geological Survey of Bolivia
ENDE    - National Power Company
ENFE    - National Railways Corporation
FI      - Financial Institution
ICB     - International Competitive Bidding
IDB     - Inter-American Development Bank
LPG     - Liquid Petroleum Gas
NEP     - New Economic Policy
OECF    - Overseas Economic Co-operation Fund (Japan)
PIP     - Public Investment Program
RIC     - Reconstruction Import Credit
SAC     - Structural Adjustment Credit
SAL     - Structural Adjustment Loan
SNC     - National Road Service
SBA     - Stand-By Agreement
SOE     - Statement of Expenses
TGN     - Tesoro General de la Nacion (the Treasury)
YPFB    - Bolivian Petroleum Corporation



FOR OFFICIAL USE1 ONLY
BOLIVIA
SECOND RECONSTRUCTION IMPORT CREDIT
CREDIT AND OPERATION SUMMARY
Borrower:                  The Republic of Bolivia
Beneficiaries:             State enterprises; private sector producers and
exporters in agriculture, agro-based industry and
manufacturing.
Amount:                    SDR 36.1 Million (US$47.1 Million Equivalent)
Terms:                     Standard IDA terms
Relending Terms:           (i)  State enterprises:  8.5%, 15 years and 3
years of grace.
(ii) Private sector: up to 13.5%, maximum of 1
year with 3 months of grace.
Operation Description:    The Second Reconstruction Import Credit (RIC II)
aims to maintain the momentum of reform at the
macroeconomic and sectoral levels and provide
critically needed financing to restore economic
growth. It would follow directly from the First
Reconstruction Import Credit, approved in May
1986, which was aimed at providing quick
disbursing financing for priority imported
equipment, spare parts and other inputs needed in
mining, agriculture, industry, energy, power and
transport. RIC 11 would (i) aim to deepen the
action programs for export promotion and economic
reactivation in the energy, agriculture, and
industrial sectors; (ii) facilitate railway and
road transport operations that provide essential
support to the production sectors; and (iii)
provide the framework for strengthening public
investment programming and managenent as well as
a definition of an appropriate policy response to
the social problems linked to the period of
hyperinflation and subsequent adjustment. The
Credit proceeds would finance priority equipment,
spare parts and other imported inputs in the
energy and transportation sectors, provide
foreign exchange for imports for producers in
agriculture, finance essential locally purchased
inputs needed by the private manufacturing and
agro-based entities, and finance technical
assistance to facilitate the restructuring of the
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
railway sector. A Credit facility would be
established in the Central Bank through which
funds would be onlent to YPFB and ENFE,
transferred to SNC as a grant, disbursed against
documented payments for imports of producers in
agriculture, or onlent to the private sector
producers through financial intermediaries.  The
foreign exchange risk would be borne by the
public enterprises (in the case of YPFB and
ENFE), the private sector sub-borrowers, and the
Government (in the case of SNC).
Estimated Disbursements:              FY88      FY89
~~~~ ~~~(Uis$Million)3
20       27.1
Risks:                     With economic stabilization on track, the
Government's economic program is now explicitly
focused on achieving a rapid resumption of
growth. While the Government's record to date
bodes well for the future, the major risk
continues vo be the fragility of the economy,
ravaged by hyperinflation and by terms of trade
shocks for its two major exports. A further risk
relates to possible delays resulting from the
Government's weak administrative system. In
order to minimize the risks and ensure timely
actions in response to changing circumstances,
IDA would monitor the implementation of the
economic program and would conduct a medium-term
review within six months of Credit effectiveness.
Appraisal Report:          No staff appraisal report has been prepared for
this project.
Map:                       IBRD 16591



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 36.1 MILLION (US$47.1 MILLION EQUIVALENT) TO
THE REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
FOR A
SECOND RECONSTRUCTION IMPORT CREDIT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Second Reconstruction Import Credit to the Republic of Bolivia for SDR 36.1
million (US$47.1 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An Updating Economic Memorandum (No. 6455-BO) was distributed to
the Executive Directors in January 1987. The following discussion is based
on that report and the findings of several missions which visited Bolivia
after the Government adopted its economic stabilization and reform
program. Country data sheets are presented in Annex I.
Background
3.        The Government of President Paz Estenssoro, which took office in
August 1985, faced a country in acute economic crisis. Real GDP was
contracting for the fifth consecutive year, shortages were widespread, and
the annual rate of inflation reached almost 24,000% in the twelve months
preceding August 1985. The external payments situation was characterized
by extreme currency overvaluation, the virtual depletion of usable
international reserves, and rapid accumulation of external payments
arrears. The new Government initiated a far-ranging stabilization and
adjustment program in late August 1985, termed the New Economic Policy and
embodied in Supreme Decree No. 21060. The primary objectives of the
program were to reduce inflation rapidly, to restore external and internal
financial balance, and to lay the foundations for sustained economic
recovery. Centered on a sharp reduction of the deficit of the nonfinancial
public sector, the program was designed to accomplish stabilization and
reform with minimal controls, reducing the state's role and encouraging a
free market economy.
4.        The Government inherited an economy that presents particular
development challenges. Bolivia is one of the poorest countries in Latin
America and per capita income has declined sharply in recent years (by over
a third in the period 1980-86). Bolivia's landlocked position and
mountainous terrain render transport costs high and access difficult. Both
internal communications and links to neighboring countries are poorly
developed. The population density is rather low with about 6-1/2 million
inhabitants living within an area of 1.1 million square kilometers.
Population is growing at 2.8% a year. About one-half of the economically
active population is employed in agriculture, but primarily on the



- 2 -
highlands of the altiplano where subsistence farming predominates and
potential for growth is limited. The vast, sparsely populated lowlands
have good potential for agricultural production, but difficult access, lack
of infrastructure, and a poor policy environment have dampened development
and growth in the past. The mountains are rich in minerals but the major
product--tin--has poor prospects and there has been insufficient
exploratory work to exploit other minerals in the short term. Bolivia has
important hydrocarbon resources, especially natural gas, but export
prospects are uncertain. The manufacturing sector is small and dominated
by a few agro-industrial enterprises. Sharp increases in coca production
and processing during the 1980s have altered the structure of the economy,
favoring the development of illicit activities and giving rise to domestic
social problems. The Government has recently embarked on a comprehensive
program to reduce cocaine production.
5.        Buoyant commodity prices and relative political stability
provided easy access to foreign financing in the 1970s. Gross investment
increased to almost 25% of GDP in the middle of the decade. The growth of
investment reflected primarily large-scale public investment projects, many
highly questionable. Investment declined in the late 1970s but private and
public savings declined more rapidly, thus leading to increased recoarse to
external financing (including an increaeing share of commercial bank
lending). The result was a rapidly mounting external debt. By the early
1980s, severe internal and external imbalances had become apparent. Real
GDP began to contract and investment and national savings declined.
External financing sources dried up, and net international reserves became
depleted. A major cause of the mounting problems was a sharp drop in
Government revenues, from 21% of GDP in 1980 to less than 5% of GDP in
1984. Public sector finances deteriorated rapidly; the General Government
deficit widened from near balance in 1980 to 23% of GDP in 1984.
Increasing reliance on domestic credit expansion to finance th4s deficit
fueled inflation, which ran at almost 24,000% in the 12 months ending in
August 1985. Bolivia's external public medium- aud long-term debt
increased to about US$3.2 billion by the end of 1984, equivalent to close
to four-and-one-half times merchandise exports. Servicing the external
debt had become a serious problem by 1982 and external payments arrears
amounted to about US$1 billion in mid-1985. Naintenance of a fixed
exchange rate led to a sharp overvaluation of the peso and a very wide (20
times at one point) gap between official and parallel market rates. This
led to massive misallocation of resources and stifled export growth.
6.        Behind the poor economic performance of the early 1980s lay
deep-seated structural problems. Of primary importance were the increased
role of the state and its declining effectiveness. After the 1952
revolution, the share of Government in the economy assumed large
proportions. Numerous state enterprises, active in many fields including
mining, manufacturing, and transport, operated in a confused policy
environment without controls or support. Most declined steadily in
efficiency over the past decade. Frequent changes of governments
exacerbated uncertainties about the overall policy framework, organization,
and procedures. Public sector management was exceptionally weak. These
problems accounted in large measure for declining Government revenues,
uncontrolled current expenditures, and poor investment project selection



- 3 -
and implementation performance. Developments in the financial system were
characterized by a decreasing level of resource mobilization, distorted
credit allocation to finance the public sector, growing solvency problems
of the commercial banks, and increasing decapitalization of the state
banks. The environment for private investment was poor, leading to the
formation of a private sector that focussed on trading and other short-term
activities rather than on entrepreneurship and production. Capital flight
was substantial and capacity was underutilized by widening margins.
PART II   THE NEW ECONOMIC POLICY
Recent Economic Developments and Performance
7.        The Government's economic program introduced in late August 1985,
was designed not only to arrest hyperinflation, a symptom of the underlying
disorientation of the economy and of the break-down of discipline, but more
importantly to eradicate the root causes of economl- disintegration and to
return the Bolivian economv to the path of growth. The program, named the
New Economic Policy, is far-ranging and has been carried out with vigor
over the past 20 months. In Appendix I, we present the key features of the
program as it now stands, reflecting both the framework initially
established in Decree Law No. 21060 of August 1985 and subsequent
developments. The presentation of the program in Appendix I is almost
identical to that in the Medium-term Economic and Financial Policy
Framework paper presented by the Government of Bolivia to the meeting of
the Consultative Group for Bolivia in December 1986.
Stabilization
8.        Probabl, the most visible accomplishment of the Government in the
initial phase of the program has been a drastic reduction of inflation. In
the past 12 months inflation averaged less than 2% per month while the
exchange rate has been unified and stable. This was achieved by a
draconiantightening of the fiscal policy, an accompanying tight monetary
policy, and a freeing of the exchange rate, interest rates and most
internal prices. The Government achieved a near equilibrium on the fiscal
side (in fact there was a small surplus in the non-investment/operational
budget in 1986) by spending no more than it was collecting and by freezing
the funds of public sector agencies. In the process the Government may be
building arrears which if it continues is not a sustainable way to finance
government expenditures. The situation continues to be monitored by a
Control Commission which makes inter-agency transfers to meet priority
expenditure r luirements within the limits set by revenues, strictly
limited monetary emission and, in the case of investment, the availability
of external financing. The tight fiscal policy is complemented by a
similar monetary policy. This has resulted in a redirection of most of the
available credit to the private sector, albeit at high real interest
rates. The high rates have helped increase demand deposits and reverse
capital flight, both of which have in turn helped reduce interest rates, on
boliviano denominated loans, gradually over the past 12 months (from 5-6%
per month a year ago to about 3% per month now).



- 4 -
9.        Economic reactivation, however, has been slow in coming.
Preliminary estimates indicate that GDP fell by 3% in 1986 (a decline for
the sixth consecutive year), in contrast to the 0% growth that had been
expected at the time the first Reconstruction Import Credit was being
processed a year ago. The terms of trade losses from the October 1985
halving of tin prices practically paralyzed COMIBOL, the state mining
company; as a result GDP originating in the mining sector fell by 35% in
1986. Prices of gas exports to Argentina were negatively affected by the
collapse in oil prices in the first half of 1986 and petroleum production
continued to fall. Droughts in the altiplano and floods in the lowlands
depressed agricultural output. Activity in the supporting sectors such as
transportation, power, commerce and finance was therefore also subdued.
And agriculture and domestic industry were not helped by the large
differences between official and parallel exchange rates in the neighboring
countries, particularly Brazil. Dollar value of imports rose by 30%
between 1985 and 1986.
10.       The demand side reflected the continued weakness on the output
side. With activity down, and given the squeeze on public sector wage
bills, real incomes continued to fall, depressing private consumption.
Public consumption also declined given the tight fiscal policy. On the
other hand, non-traditional exports increased from US$24 million in 1985 to
US$92 million in 1986 and the sharp fall in export revenues from
traditional exports reflected a fall in prices and not in volumes.
Total volume of exports in fact increased over 5%. Industrial capacity
utilization, although low (40% by some estimates compared to a maximum
achieved in the past of 80%), was beginning to rise as was industrial
employment. Although manufacturing fell by 1% during 1986, it reportedly
grew by over 10% in the second half of the year. Mining sector production
may have bottomed out and some metal and mineral prices have improved in
recent months. Finally, for the first time in years national accounts for
1986 may record an increase in investment (of about 3%). If these positive
developments continue, there is a fair chance that the economy will finally
turn the corner and that we will see an increment in GDP in 1987.
From Stabilization to Longer Term Growth
11.       Stabilization measures that brought the successes on the
inflation and exchange rate side were flanked by various other policy
actions which, typically, take a longer time to yield results. First,
controls on exports and quantitative restrictions on imports (except for
the continued prohibition on imports of sugar and cement) have been
removed. A 20% uniform import tariff has been imposed with no exemptions
except for wheat which, too, will stop in a few months. This has put
producers that use a large proportion of imported inputs at a disadvantage
vis-a-vis their competitors and consideration is being given to a
reintroduction of a uniform rebate of customs duties and indirect taxes to
exporters. There are also complaints that the Boliviano is again becoming
overvalued when compared to its value a year ago.   These feazs should be
allayed somewhat by the slow slide of the Boliviano which since February
has been devalued to Bs 2 per US$ from Bs 1.92 per US$ (a rate at or around
which it had traded for almost a year). The authorities are probably being
cautious about too rapid an adjustment, if it indeed is still needed,
because of fear of reigniting inflation. This fear may appear curious in a
country with 40% capacity utilization and falling real wages (for most of



the labor force), but the memory of hyperinflation has not receded yet and
the Government probably has to continue to err on the side of caution for
some time to come.
12.       Second, the Government has made strenuous efforts to regularize
its relations with creditors. In June 1986 the Paris Club agreed on a re-
scheduling of US$400 million of bilateral debt on generous terms. After
some delay the follow-up bilateral agreements with the creditor Govern-
ments involved have recently been negotiated except with Argentina and
Brazil. Talks with these two countries are to start soon. Bolivia will
need to return to the Paris Club in the summer of 1987 and probably in
mid-1988 and mid-1989 as well. There are also ongoing negotiations with
commercial banks. The face value of the commercial bank debt is about
US$650 million which, depending on how one treats accumulated interest and
penalties, could total close to US$1 billion. This debt has not been
serviced since 1984. Recently, the Government started moving on an offer
to buy back this debt at a discount and to explore the possibility of
debt-equity conversions. It is too early to speculate about the outcome of
this initiative but it is one more indication of the Government's determin-
ation to regularize its relationship with all creditors, despite the
country's almost desperate external financial situation.
13.       Bolivia has worked closely with the IHF (Part VI).  Among the
other multilateral institutions involved in Bolivia, the Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB) is the most important, with programs that are larger
than either the World Bank or the IMP. The IDB maintained an active
presence in Bolivia even during the period of limited Bank involvement
(1980-85) which is reflected in its current large project porttvAlo that
stands at about US$450 million in undisbursed commitments. Bolivia has
continued to service its debt to the IDB as it has done in the case of the
World Bank.
14.       Third, in line with the policy of changing the role of the state
and raising the executing capacity of the public sector, there has been a
concerted effort to cut public sector employment and cap the wage bills of
the ministries and public sector entities. So far major changes have
occurred at the Central Bank which reduced its labor force from 1,200 to
under 300 people since February, and in COMIBOL, the state mining company,
which now has only about 7,000 employees, down from 27,000 in 1985.
Changes elsewhere have been slower, but capped wage bills have forced a
number of ministries and public entities to shed labor and use the result-
ing savings to raise the remuneration of its best people that otherwise
might have gone to better-paying jobs in the private sector. Other mea-
sures that are being considered to make the public sector more efficient
include installation of better information, auditing and financial control
mechanisms, readjustment of the cost and tariff structure of entities in
the transportation, communication and power sectors, raising the level of
cost recovery and improving management techniques and train appropriate
staff. Most of these measures are still at the stage of distussion due to
the urgency of many other problems that also need to be solved and the
great dearth of skilled people.
15.       The r.eed for trained manpower and for much higher investment, on
the other hand, probably means an increase in the commitment of public
resources in stIme important areas in the medium term. Without considerably
larger and higher quality inputs of both physical and human capital, it is



-6-
unlikely that an increase in longer-term growth to a rate that would
significantly improve living standards of most Bolivians within their
lifetimes can be achieved. Sustained growth rates of 6-7% have typically
meant overall investment levels of 20-25% of GDP, mostly channelled through
the public sector. They have also meant major additional investments in
education and health of the population over long periods of time. Both of
these mean incomparably higher savings rates than exist in Bolivia today
and a much more efficient, better targeted and also, for a long period of
time, probably a larger public sector.
16.       Room will therefore have t^ be made in the domestic budget for
major and sustained increases in public expenditures on education and
health and on paolic investment. Bolivia now spends, and has done so for
years, a much smaller percentage on education than its neighbors or than
might be required to build a solid human capital base for future
development. Even these expenditures are biased toward higher education,
the return to which is probably lower than to primary and secondary
education, and in which the main beneficiaries are people who could afford
to pay a good portion of it. Teacher quality in primary and secondary
schools is low, they are poorly paid, yet almost all of the expenditures in
education go towards teacher salaries, leaving little for teaching
materials, equipment, not to speak of improvement in facilities. The
result of this neglect is reflected in some of the worst drop-out and
non-completion rates in Latin America (and they are disastrous in rural
areas where most of Bolivians live). Statistics on the health care and the
health status of the population are just as discouraging. The urgency of
these problems has worsened in the last 6 years of economic crisis as
shrinking incomes had to be spent on food, driving out less immediate
necessities. In the short run such a situation will continue to provide
fuel for social tensions which could undermine political support for the
reform program. In the longer run neglect of Bolivia's human capital is
bound to have a negative impact on growth. The social sectors in Bolivia,
therefore, need immediate attention which must be backed up by a serious
and sustained increment in firancial resources (see Action Program in
Appendix 2).
17.       Public investment turned out to be only 4% of the shrinking GDP
in 1986 (with private investment adding another 3 percentage points). The
total of 7% is a far cry from the 20% that might have a chance of producing
6% GDP growth and short even of the 15% ratio that would arrest the slide
in consumption per capita. What we know of the public investment process
in Bolivia today also suggests that this investment is very largely a
carry-over from the pre-NEP days. It, therefore, responds to old priori-
ties rather than being defined away from tin mining and exports, towards
agriculture, efficient import-substituting industry and appropriate
supporting infrastructure. It could hardly be otherwise as the new
sectoral directions and priorities are still in an infant stage of
formulation. Yet a formulation of the new sectoral strategies would permit
the Government to develop a better targetted public investment program
which, in turn, would signal to the private sector the new areas of
potential expansion. And a larger role for the private sector is one of
the announced intentions of the Government besides being the area, in
addition to the informal economy, in which most of new future employment
will be generated. Even if most of the ongoing investment program were
still relevant its implementation is seriously hampered by an acute



- 7 -
shortage of skilled middle-level people. As a result the leading people
are ofton drawn into day-to-day implementation problems rather than
thinking about longer term strategies and about the obstacles that might
stand in the way of their implementation. The returns to such thinking are
likely to be high since it is as yet far from clear how Bolivia's
successful stabilization effort can be converted into a long-term,
sustainable expansion.
18.       To support an expanding public investment program and a strong
program of expenditures in the social sector to build human capital, and
still leave room for growth in private investment will require a major re-
source mobilization effort. Domestically a beginning has been made. In
1986 Bolivia promulgated a new Tax Law shifting from the old concept of
taxiag iucomes to taxing consumption and wealth. A package of six taxes
was designed to accomplish this purpose: (a) a tax of 10% on value added
(VAT) on all business operations inoluding, to the extent possible, those
in the informal sector; (b) a tax complementary to the value added to be
levied on all incomes, including dividends, interest and rental receipts,
professional honoraria, stock or bond liquidations, and returns from abroad
(to encourage compliance, including by the informal sector, taxpayers will
be able to include as payment of this tax 10% of the amount of purchases
subject to the VAT); (c) a tax on manufacturing and on imports of luxury
consumer goods such as alcohol, cigarettes, perfumes and cosmetics,
precious gems and jewels (rising to between 30% and 50% within 3 years);
td) a transactions tax of 1% on all sales, constructions, services and
rentals; (e) 2% annual tax on additions to net worth of enterprises
(replacing the current profit tax); and (f) a tax on rural and urban real
estate, boats, automobiles and airplanes.
19.       To implement the system, Subsecretariat of Tax Collection in the
Ministry of Finance was given the status of a new Ministry of Taxation as
of January 1987. It is to be reintegrated into the Finance Ministry once
the new system is successfully implemented. Creation of a new ministry is
meant to underline the government's political commitment to implementing
the reform and to contribute to rebuilding the image of the tax administra-
tion tarnished by heavy corruption in the past. As another move to win
back public confidence, as well as to collect some revenues and broaden its
.ax base, the government instituted a one-time regularizaticn tax (on
wealth of companies and individuals), replacing income taxes due through
1985 and providing to those who complied amnesty through December 31,
1985. This measure was unexpectedly successful, providing some US$25
million of extra revenues in 1986. Finally, to speed processing and to
minimize contact between officials and taxpayers (which in the past, be-
sides the poor pay of tax administrators, was a leading eause of corrup-
tion), the taxes will be collected via the commercial banks which in lieu
of payment will be allowed to use this money for 10 days (perhaps longer at
first).
20.       These measures, along with import tariffs (minus export rebates),
should in a few years match the revenues from YPFB, the national petroleum
company, bringing total revenues to about 16% of GDP. The problem is that
the government's recurrent expenditures, including increased efforts in the
social sectors and interest payments on external debt of about 5% of GDP
are likely to claim about 12% of GDP. This leaves only 4% of GDP for



-8-
public investment. If a public investment program of 8-9% of GDP is to be
carried out on a sustained basis, complemented by private investment of
about 6% of GDP, and if private domestic savings stay near their historic
level of 8-9% of GDP, a major portion of the public investment (2-3% of
GDP) will have to be financed from abroad for the foreseeable future.
Assuming that foreign funds of this magnitude will be forthcoming and
assuming that they are efficiently used, Bolivia might achieve a GDP growth
rate of about 4% per year. Once population growth and interest payments on
past loans are taken into account, 4% GDP growth rate represents virtual
stagnation in per capita consumption. After a prolonged and severe
decline, mere stagnation in the standard of living may not be a politically
acceptable outcome.
Outlook
21.       Tt should be clear from the previous section that Bolivia faces
difficult, if not insurmountable, prospects over the medium-term. It is
burdened by the structural problems of the size of the debt it has
inherited, and by the concentration of its legal exports in two commodities
which pose special problems, tin and natural gas. Its accrued external
debt, estimated to be over US$4 billion at the end of 1986 if interest
payments and arrears are included, represents over 600% of its exports of
goods and services, and is about equal to its GDP (depending on which
estimate of GD? is used). Interest on the debt is accruing at 7% of GDP.
Tin and natural gas accounted for 90% of Bolivia's merchandise exports in
1985. With the collapse of the tin market in October 1985, the effective
price of tin has dropped to less than half of what it was before. The
sharp decline of international oil prices in early 1986 left the price of
Bolivian natural gas sold to Argentina higher than oil equivalent levels.
Even after a 12% cut in the gas price effective for 1986, the gas was
priced at a level equivalent to about US$22-US$23 per barrel of oil, while
the average world price for oil in 1987 is projected at US$16-17. Further
downward pressure on prices of natural gas exported to Argentina is thus
possible.
22.       The stabilization has set the stage for a recovery of the
economy. As alluded to earlier (para. 10) there are some signs of economic
revival (See Table 1). However, even to attain a rate of growth of GDP of
just 4% per annum over the next 3-4 years presumes that Bolivia will be
able to overcome a number of problems. To keep its balance of payments
manageable exports other than tin will have to increase at about 7% per
year to keep the overall volume of exports growing at 4-5%; import growth
will have to be constrained to 6-7% per year; debt coming due will need to
be rescheduled on favorable terms; net disbursements for medium- and long-
term debt will need to average around US$400 million a year; and, as
pointed out earlier domestic savings rate will need to be raised sharply.
If all this were accomplished it would represent an achievement that would
have been impossible under the Government policies of before August 1985.
Nevertheless, even these efforts, great as they are if successfully
achieved, are likely to prove insufficient in the 1990s. Beginning in
1990. Bolivia will, on present assumptions, face a large, unfinanced gap in
its external balances, because of debt repayments that will become due and
because of uncertainties sui.rounding its gas exports to Argentina after the



- 9 -
TABLE 1: BOLIVIA - KEY NACROECONONIC INDICAIORS AND BALANCE OF PAYNENTS,1985-1995
--Actual--  --Estieuted-   ------ ----------------------Fojected-------------
1985          1986           1987     1988     1989      1990     19?1      1995
KEY NACRUEONON1C INDICATORS
SOP Growth Rate                            -2.1           -2.9            3.2      3.4      4.2       4.0      4.0       4.0
6DY/capita Growth Rate                     -2.5           -9.4           -0.9      0.8      1.6       1.3      1.3       1.4
Consumption/capita Growth Rate             -5.2           -4.7          -4.7       0.1      0.6       0.5      0.4       0.3
Debt Service (in USS)                     517.6          378.3         381.9    392.9    420.3    576.1    646.1    989.9
Debt Service/X6S                           68.1           54.1          56.2      54.3     52.9      66.1     67.5     77.5
Debt Service/6DP                           13.7            9.5           8.6       8.3      8.3      10.6     11.2      13.8
Bross Investment/5DP                        6.5            6.9           9.3      10.9     11.8      12.6     13.1      14.5
Domestic Savingsl/DP                        6.8            6.0           10.8     11.2     11.8      12.4     13.0      12.6
National Savings/SDP                       -3.7           -2.4            3.6      3.6      4.3       4.9      5.7       3.6
Public Investment/6SP                       3.3            4.0            5.0      6.0      6.6       7.2      7.6       8.3
Public Domestic Savings/GDP                -7.6            1.0            0.3      3.0      3.6       4.0      4.3       4.3
Ratio of Public/Private Investment         82.1          105.5          116.2    126.4    132.2    134.6    138.3    137.0
Export Growth Rate                         -9.8            5.6          -3.1       2.5      5.6       5.2      6.0       7.6
Exports/SDP                                1Y.1           20.7           19.5     19.3     19.6      19.8     20.2      19.1
Import Growth Rate                         14.0           12.2         -14.1       8.8      7.1      6.5       5.6      4.4
Imports/SDP                                18.8           21.7           18.1     19.0     19.5      20.0     20.3     21.0
Current Account/SDP                       -10.2          -13.5         -11.1    -12.4    -12.4    -12.5    -12.1    -13.2
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                    ( millions of $Us)
Resource Balance                           11.3         -200.0        -173.0  -227.4  -247.9  -270.3  -277.5  -308.3
Exports of SNFS                        721.2          660.5         625.5    667.6    738.9    811.7    893.8   1199.4
Imports af 6NFS                        709.9          860.5         798.5    895.0    986.8   1082.0   1171.4   1507.7
Factor Service Receipts                    24.5           22.1           34.3     34.0     32.0      34.0     35.0      42.0
Factor Service Payments                   434.9          373.5         371.7    410.7    435.5    466.4    484.7    718.0
Private Current Transfers (net)            14.5           17.0          20.0      22.0     24.0      26.0     28.0     36.0
Current Account Balance                  -384.6         -534.4        -490.4   -582.1   -627.4   -676.7   -69.3   -948.3
Official Transfers                         65.5           82.0           95.0    101.0    106.0    111.0    117.0    142.0
Direct Foreign Investment                  10.0           20.0          20.0      35.0     45.0      50.0     55.0      75.0
Net Disbursement on NLT Debt              120.7          346.4         316.5    394.7    402.4    354.4    322.0    150.9
Short Term Debt                            24.5          118.5           13.8     11.8     15.0      15.0     15.0      15.0
Use of IMF Resources                      -12.4           86.2           18.6     39.4     14.9    -64.5    -83.3        0.0
Changes in Reserves 1 -:increase)         -33.7         -125.4           0.0       0.0      0.0    -80.0   -100.0    -30.0
Errors and Omissions                      210.0            6.7            0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
6apfil                                      0.0            0.0          26.5       0.2     44.1    290.8    373.6    595.3
Source: Central Bank of Bolivia and mission estimates.
May 29, 1987



- 10 -
20-year contract expires in 1992. Furthermore, on the same assumptions,
the ratios of debt service to exports and of debt service to GDP
deteriorate sharply over the period.
23.       The solution to this dilemma of the 1990s will necessarily
involve a broad-based approach to develop exports further, to mobilize
additional external finance at concessional terms and obtain fi ther debt
relief, and to significantly raise domestic savings.  CalculaL  ns of what
would be needed along the lines of such a broad-based approach indicate
that i. would be necessary to: (a) raise the rate of growth of exports
other than tin and gas from 7% per annum to 13-14% per year starting in
1989-90, (b) accelerate the rate of domestic resource mobilization to
enable investment to reach 15% of GDP by 1990-91 (from 7% of GDP in 1986),
(c) raise net external disbursements on medium- and long-term debt to the
level of US$450 million per year, and (d) obtain further debt relief. If
this scenario materializes the financing gap projected for the 1990s could
be closed without a negative impact on growth.  Also under such a scenario,
standard debt ratios would stop worsening and would eventually be set on an
improving trend.
24.      This is undoubtedly an immense task and such an outcome will
require actions well beyond those achieved thus far. The major issues that
the Government will have to tackle in order to succeed include: (a)
implementing in practice Government's announced intention of changing
radically the role of the state; (b) designing an efficient public sector
investment program that supports well-articulated sectoral strategies as
well as opens up new possibilities for the emerging private sector;
(c) designing and executing an effective social service program to address
Bolivia's deep-seated social problems which, if not addressed, threaten to
derail the new economic program; (d) generating resources to finance these
needed investments and current expenditures by substantially raising the
domestic savings effort; (e) making a major effort to improve the public
sector's capacity to manage these processes; and (f) making the necessary
institutional changes and investments to reduce transport, communications
and energy costs, thereby helping improve competitiveness of the Bolivian
economy. If the Government manages to address these issues in a
satisfactory manner, Bolivia should, by the mid-1990s, be on its way to
developing an economy flexible enough to withstand the shocks of the
international environment and a diversified export base increasingly
capable of carrying its large and continuing debt burden.
PART III - THE FIRST RECONSTRUCTION IMPORT CREDIT
25.       The first Reconstruction Import Credit (RIC I-Cr. 1703-BO) was
approved by the Executive Directors on May 20, 1986. It was the first
Bank/IDA operation for Bolivia approved since 1980. The Credit, for
SDR 48.4 million (US$55 million equivalent at the time of Credit approval),
was designed as an emergency operation to help reactivate the economy,
after almost five years of economic decline. The operation was in support
of the stabilization and adjustment measures introduced by the Government
in August 1985, and was closely associated with the IMF Standby operation,
which was approved on June 19, 1986. RIC I was signed on June 2, 1986 and
became effective on October 14, 1986.



- 11 -
26.       The approach under the RIC was to focus on financing critical
imports for the sectors which were key to recovery of the economy and
specifically of exports. The operation was to be quick-disbursing, with
most funds committed within 10 months after Credit effectiveness. Most
actions provided under the Credit were thus linked to the specific sectors
(except for conditionality calling for a mid-term review of the overall
economic program). The sectors were: (a) Mining, US$14.5 million for
COMIBOL subject to substantial progress in restructuring its operations,
and US$6.5 million for private mining enterprises; (b) Energy, US$11.0
million for critical imports for the state petroleum company, YPFB; (c)
Power, US$1.8 million for the state power company, ENDE, subject to
conditions on ENDE's tariffs and capital improvement program; (d)
Transport, US$4.5 million for ENFE, the state railway company, for critical
imports, subject to action on cost and tariff studies; (e) Agriculture,
US$7.2 million for imports of agricultural inputs for private farmers and
traders; and (f) Industry, US$4.5 million for manufacturing and agro-based
industry, providing inputs needed by qualified industrial exporters. US:
million was unallocated to give some flexibility to take into account
different progress rates and to provide a basis for program modification in
the event of deviation from the program overall.
27.       RIC I was designed as six separate subprojects, to allow each
sector program to advance independently of the others. The implementing
agencies thus had primary responsibility for ensuring that execution
proceeded as planned. The Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank shared
responsibility for implementation and administration of the Credit
overall. Credit proceeds were made available to the Central Bank under a
subsidiary agreement with the Government. Funds were onlent by the Central
Bank to COMIBOL, YPFB, ENFE, and ENDE under financing agreements. For the
private sector component, a Project Coordinating Committee in the Central
Bank was to oversee implementation and establish and administer a
rediscount facility for eligible financial intermediaries (private banks).
For most components, the approach was a positive list of imports, with
appropriate procurement procedures. In all cases, a negative list was also
provided.
28.       Central features of the RIC were its emergency character, strong
sectoral focus and directed sectoral investments, which distinguished it
from a SAL/SAC (although in the Board discussion it was characterized as a
100% front-loaded SAC, given the Government's exceptional economic program
and record of action). Further, there was no general statement of economic
policy along the lines of a Letter of Development Policy or its
equivalent. The strategy was to follow the RIC I with further credits
designed both to support continuation and deepening of the economic program
overall, and the implementation of the specific sectoral programs.
29.       A medium-term review of the implementation of the National
Economic Policy (which was the policy basis of the RIC I), and the progress
of RIC I was undertaken in February/March 1987. A detailed analysis of the
NEP implementation was discussed in Part II of this report. On the whole,
Government policies and programs have continued to complement and reinforce
those that justified RIC I. The results are satisfactory notwithstanding
the adverse effects of unforeseen external developments. RIC's
implementation is progressing satisfactorily after experiencing initial



- 12 -
start-up problems related primarily to unfamiliarity of Government
officials with IDA procedures, lack of clear coordinating responsibility to
follow up progress on a daily basis; internal procurement problems in some
public enterprises, and the significant reorganization of COMIBOL.
Disbursements are now projected to pick up rapidly in the last quarter of
FY87 because finds allocated to YPFB, ENFE and ENDE have been almost fully
committed and private sector subloans to purchase domestically-produced
goods have been overcommitted. A Credit reallocation to meet the
additional financing requirement under the latter components was approved
in March 1987. The Credit funds are expected to be about 80% committed and
about 30% disbursed by June 1987. This is still within the expectations
expressed in the RIC I President's Report which anticipated full commitment
within 10 months of Credit effectiveness (i.e. by August 1987) and full
disbursements by June 1988.
30.       In contrast to other subprojects, progress registered by COMIBOL
and the private sector import subloans for mining, industry and
agriculture has been slow. The principal reason for COMIBOL is the drastic
reorganization that the company accomplished in late 1986/early 1987
leading to the closure of uneconomic mines and laying off of about 20,000
miners. COMIBOL has been transformed into a holding company with five
subsidiary companies. COMIBOL proposed, and IDA agreed to, a reduced
import plan based on the new set up. With regard to the import subloans
for the private sector, the low demand can be attributed to continued
decline of production in mining and very slow recovery in manufacturing in
the face of large underutilized capacity. Increasing the utilization of
this capacity implied a greater need for working capital especially raw
material inputs which are largely domestically-produced. Hence, there is
stronger demand for subloans for local inputs particularly from
non-traditional export industries (e.g. processing of coffee, soybeans, and
wool). In the case of agriculture, RIC I was not effective in time for the
funds to be available for the 1986-87 crop season. The Central Bank plans
to launch a promotion campaign to increase potential subborrowers'
awareness of the availability of these import subloans.
PART IV - THE PROPOSED OPERATION
Background
31.       An IDA Mission visited Bolivia in November, 1986 to discuss
follow-up emergency financing to RIC I in support of the expansion of
reforms launched in a number of sectors and to assist in the reactivation
of the private sector. Further discussions between IDA and the Government
on this matter were held during the Consultative Group Meeting in Paris in
December 3-4, 1986. These discussions led to the appraisal of the proposed
RIC II operation in February 1987. During appraisal, public investment
programs and import requirements for three critical sectors were reviewed;
priority requirements to reactivate private sector activities were
identified and implementation arrangements including administrative set-up,
procedures of on-lending to major public enterprises and the private
sector, procurement and disbursement were elaborated. Negotiations were



- 13 -
held in Washington during the May 18-28, 1987 period. The Bolivian
delegation was headed by the Minister of Finance, Mr. Juan Cariaga. There
is no separate appraisal report for the proposed Credit. A Credit Summary
is presented at the front of this report and supplementary data and
information are presented in Annex III.
Objectives
32.       The proposed operation would address the urgent actions needed to
maintain the momentum of the reform at the macroeconomic and sectoral
levels and provide critically needed financing to restore economic growth.
Following the goals of the first RIC, the proposed operation would aim to
deepen the action programs for export promotion and economic revival in the
critical sectors (focusing on energy, transportation, agriculture and
industry) and to provide explicit action programs for two critical issues
for economic management in the years ahead: strengthening of public
investment programming and management; and definition of an appropriate
policy response to the social problems linked to adjustment programs.
Specifically, the operation's objectives may be summarized as follows:
(a)  to assist in the continued rehabilitation and structural
adjustment of the energy sector, the principal source of
Bolivia's foreign exchange earnings;
(b)  to support actions to remove bottlenecks in the transport sector
and to finance critical imports for the sector;
(c)  to provide foreign exchange for critical imports for the
agricultural sector to ensure its continued recovery and growth;
(d)  to provide working capital financing for locally purchased inputs
in order to help reactivate private sector production and
exports;
(e)  to help improve the efficiency and increase the level of public
investment through definition and implementation of a sound
public investment program; and
(f)  to define an appropriate policy framework for addressing social
issues within the medium-term economic program.
33.       The proposed RIC II, complementing the objectives and activities
of RIC I, is a centerpiece of IDA's operational strategy for Bolivia. The
underlying objective of this strategy is to support the revival of public
and private investment and help assure an effective response to the urgent
social problems confronting the Government. In line with this objective,
this operation would provide fairly quick disbursing external and local
financing to sectors vital for economic recovery. Economic growth has yet
to resume; hence, the Government must move effectively and rapidly with
measures geared to boosting growth. The operation would also provide an
effective vehicle to advance IDA's policy dialogue to help sustain the
momentum of reforms, draw up rational public investment programs and
support the definition and execution of action programs in the priority
sectors of energy, transport and agriculture. These sectors require



- 14 -
fundamental adjustments in policy and investments and offer prospects of
fueling growth in the medium term. Assurance was obtained during
negotiations that a mid-term review of the Government's economic program
and the implementation progress of the Credit operation would be held
within six months after Credit effectiveness, and at other times at the
request of IDA.
34.       The sectoral action programs under RIC I and RIC II are being
complemented by adjustment and investment programs in other critical
sectors to be supported by IDA credits. For instance, the proposed power
rehabilitation project (FY87) and mining sector rehabilitation operations
(FY89) reflect this approach. The proposed RIC II would likewise be
complemented by the action programs envisioned under the proposed financial
sector adjustment credit operation (FY88). It focuses specifically on
urgent reforms of the banking system which are crucial to a resumption
of credit operations on a significant scale and, hence, key to
resuscitating private investment. Looking ahead, specific adjustment and
development programs for transport, agriculture and social services sectors
are being prepared. This operational strategy reflects our assessment that
specific support for sector action programs and investments is the best way
to help the Government in the step-wise design and implementation of a
coherent macroeconomic program and medium-term strategy.
Operation Description
35.       The proposed Credit would cover (a) priority equipment, spare
parts, supplies, materials and other imported inputs needed by the energy
(hydrocarbon) and transportation sectors; (b) foreign exchange needed by
the importers of inputs for the agriculture sector; (c) working capital
requirements of private producers and exporters; and (d) technical
assistance to facilitate the restructuring and rehabilitation of the
railway subsector. The indicative Credit allocation to each of the sectors
resulted from an analysis of specific import needs based on production and
efficiency targets and priorities for short-term recovery. The Credit
proceeds would be onlent in the case of YPFB, ENFE and the private sector
producers and exporters thus helping ease their shortage of own funds or
local credit for the purchase of imports and local inputs. In the case of
agriculture foreign exchange funds would be disbursed on the basis of
documented import payments (with any needed boliviano-denominated financing
having been covered from other sources). Finally, the funds needed by the
SNC (an office within the Ministry of Transportation) for emergency road
rehabilitation works would be transferred as a grant.
36.       The proposed operation takes into account the implementation ex-
perience and lessons learned from the first RIC. First, it is focused on a
smaller number of sectors aiming to intensify reform implementation in
these sectors; second, the implementing mechanism is simplified, taking
advantage of the onlending agreements and coordinating mechanisms already
established under RIC I; third, an interim procurement procedure (e.g.,
hiring of procurement agents) eliminating the cumbersome Government
regulations will be followed until the new procurement law is in effect;
and fourth, clear lines of responsibility and accountability within the
principal implementing agencies have been established.
37.       The proposed RIC II is designed as a package of separate
subprojects to allow for independent progress in each sector program. The
tentative allocation of Credit proceeds by sector is as follows:



- 15 -
Tentative Allocation
of IDA Credit Funds
Sector                    Beneficiary              US$ Million Equivalent
Public Sector:
- Energy               YPFB (State Petroleum Co.)                13.0
- Transport             (i) ENFE (State Railway Co.)              7.0
(ii) SNC (Nat'l Road Service)              3.6
Private Sector:
-Agriculture           Producers in Agriculture                   8.0
-Industry              Manufacturing, Agro-based
Industries                                 7.0
Technical Assistance  ENFE (State Railway Co.)                    0.5
Procurement Manage-
ment Contract                                                   1.0
Unallocated                                                       7.0
Total IDA Credit       47.1
38.       The foregoing allocation would be reviewed periodically to ensure
that funds are directed to those sectors that have the capacity to utilize
funds effectively. Also 15% of the Credit proceeds are in the unallocated
category to allow for a mechanism to facilitate reallocation of funds to
sectors which prove themselves most efficient in using resources as the
operation progresses. Of the total Credit proceeds, about 51% would go to
the public sector, 32% to private producers and exporters, 2Z would be
spent on procurement and the remainder falls in the unallocated category.
The proposed import plans for YPFB, ENFE and SNC, and a list of goods
eligible to be imported by the agriculture sector were agreed to in
negotiations. In the event of Government's failure to implement the action
program (Appendix II), both the above Credit allocation mechanism and the
mid-term program review would allow a reassessment of the operation and
appropriate action during implementation. The operation would be completed
on or before December 31, 1989.
Detailed Features
The Public Expenditure Program
39.      Efficient use of scarce public resources is central to putting
Bolivia on a sustainable longer term growth path (see discussion in Part
II). This pertains not only to the resources devoted to public investments
but to all public resources, including recurrent expenditures for health,
education, other social services and the day-to-day operations of
ministries and public entities. For this reason the Bank's lending
strategy for Bolivia is organized around the needs of Bolivia's medium and
longer term public expenditure program.



- 16 -
40.       The issues surrounding public investment have been discussed at
length with the Government in recent months, and a Memorandum covering
Bolivia's 1986 Public Investment Program and probable medium term financing
requirements was discussed at the December 1986 Consultative Group meeting
in Paris. It was agreed that the 1987 and (partly) the 1988 menus of
projects to be executed were still largely driven by commitments made prior
to the launching of the New Economic Policy. The problem was thus less one
of selection among competing projects and more a question of efficient use
of the existing commitments, but with an eye on possible "white elephants"
in the portfolio. It was also agreed that to speed the slow pace of
disbursement of the existing portfolio, the creditors will look at possible
bottlenecks in their procedures and the Government of Bolivia would
undertake all possible actions to speed the implementation of ongoing
projects and press on with reforms in procurement and project supervision
procedures, and consider ways of strengthening the staff involved in the
implementation process. Finally, in order to make the 1988 public
investment program the first that would reflect the new NEP priorities in
an important way, it was deemed crucial that the Government elaborate its
sectoral priorities more explicitly. The Government is now developing a
detailed public expenditure program for 1988 and more general programs for
1989-90. The Government's presentations to the next Consultative Group,
planned for October-November 1987, should reflect these efforts.
41.       The Action Program related to RIC II (see Appendix II) reflects
the importance that the Government and the Bank attach to Bolivia's public
expenditure program. The Program outlines a set of actions proposed by the
Government to strengthen the overall public investment process, followed by
investment-strengthening and recovery-related actions in each of the
subsectors to be funded by this Credit. In order to begin the process of
broadening the emphasis from a public investment to a public expenditure
focus, a definition of the Government's longer term priorities in the
social sectors is also being proposed, and within that there is a call for
a detailed design of the Emergency Social Fund. The initial phase of the
Emergency Social Fund program is to be supported through a separate Credit
(of US$10 million equivalent); the program represents an extremely
important initiative by the Government of Bolivia to begin to alleviate the
social costs of adjustment.
42.       The Action Program supporting the strengthening of the Public
Investment Process is focussed on implementation issues: (a) monitoring of
the detailed 1987 Public Investment Program, now in execution, and
agreement on a more general program for 1988-89, including some progress in
the definition of the underlying sectoral priorities; (b) annual
presentation by the Government (in a letter to IDA) of a detailed public
expenditure program for the subsequent year with special emphasis on
sectors covered by this Credit and on the social sectors; (c) appointment
of a Subsecretary in charge of Public Investment and International
Cooperation in the Ministry of Planning to ensure high level direction to
the implementation of the Public Investment Program and to the coordination
of external financial help; (d) agreement on measures to speed Government
procurement under projects; and (e) presentation of the revised Procurement
Law to Congress.
43.       Action measures designed to strengthen the overall public
investment process are bolstered with further measures for each of the



- 17 -
sectors included in this Credit. In hydrocarbons, for example, it has
become clear that resources budgeted for investment for 1987 (about US$160
million), even if they actually become available, may be insufficient to
stem falling liquid hydrocarbon production. The Action Program, therefore,
indicates a series of actions that would focus the available public
investment funds on boosting production from existing fields in the
immediate future, rationalize domestic consumption and attract private
capital into exploration and development to ensure continued increases in
production in the future.
44.       In the transport sector investment program the Government's key
problems pertain to the choice of mode that is to be emphasized in any
given part of the transportation network and the particular port/town that
will be used most heavily in the next few years. At the moment, for
example, a rail route to Matarani in Peru, a road and a rail route to Arica
in Chile and a rail route to Antofagasta in Chile, are all to be developed
under current plans. In the short term the country only has the resources
to improve one of these routes. If attempts are made to develop all of
them at the same time, the result might be that none of them will be
improved for many years. A decision in favor of one of the alternatives
would husband the resources and increase the overall rate of return.
Choices must also be made between maintenance and new investment. In the
case of roads, doing preventive maintenance now could avoid much more
expensive reconstruction later. Similarly in rail transport. Finally,
availability of external funds for lower priority projects could siphon off
domestic physical and human resources to less productive uses. Of
particular concern here are repeated indications that bilateral sources are
willing to fund construction or rebuilding of certain airports or to build
the rail link between Santa Cruz and Cochabamba thus connecting Bolivia's
western and eastern rail systems. Another indication are pressures to
construct a road on the import/export corridor between Santa Cruz and
Yacuiba (border with Argentina) where a railway line already exists. If
implemented, the road would only share the small traffic with ENFE. It is
to the Government's credit that its policy is to resist these pressures and
concentrate on improving the railroad and build only a network of feeder
roads.   Hopefully, the broader Government policy of carefully comparing
the benefits from spending scarce domestic resources on the various
transportation projects, to the benefits from alternative uses, will
continue to be implemented.
45.       The agricultural investment budget presents particularly
difficult problems.  There are over 300 projects in inventory (under
execution, programmed and proposed) at the moment of which about 100 are in
the US$75 million proposed public investment budget for 1987. Another 100
are financed entirely from external, extra-budgetary resources (principally
NGOs). With such fragmentation it is hard to arrive at a meaningful
overall course of action. However, by a series of aggregations and a
closer look at some of the largest among them, IDA's staff concluded that
there is an over-emphasis on projects in rural development and irrigation
in the proposed MACA program, neither of which meet Bolivia's short- or
even medium- term requirements of quick returns on investment. Continued
strong efforts to formulate the strategy for this sector and establish
priorities are, therefore, essential.



- 18 -
46.       Effective action to address mounting social problems linked to
the economic crisis and adjustment program is a priority for the
Government. The Government describes the present situation as tense--
social discontent is widespread and unrest is mounting, visible most
clearly in an active and vocal mining sector. Here, the work force of
COMIBOL, the public mining enterprise, has been reduced over the past 18
months from close to 30,000 to about 6,000. Termination payments are
providing temporary relief, but further action is called for. In addition,
the long period of economic turmoil followed by tight fiscal constraints
over the past year and a half have sharply eroded Bolivia's already weak
social services. Examples are seen in the closure of 30% of the nation's
health posts and sharp declines in educational and health expenditures. A
physicians' strike brought on by low wages in public health limited
services for eight weeks in 1986. The Government argues that unless
effective action is taken to address the immediate and most severe problems
of unemployment and decay of social services the economic program may not
survive the rising social tensions. These arguments have merit and it is
important that larger resources be allocated to the social sectors in
accordance with the overall longer term social sectors policy.
47.       The Government launched in December 1986 an Emergency Social Fund
(ESF) to finance a range of social relief measures and employment-
generating activities. We are working closely with the Government on
establishing and defining objectives for the ESF. Briefly, the intent is
to support employment/income generating projects (about 75% of funds
channeled through the ESF), and health, food relief, and educational
assistance efforts. P:ojects under consideration include road repair and
construction, forestation, irrigation and flood control, and support for
job training, health posts and mother and child feeding centers. Projects
would be submitted and executed by church and community groups, NGOs,
unions and other grass-roots organizations, as well as the responsible
government authorities. Supervising agents would be in most instances the
public agency (national or local) responsible for the sector, a minimal
condition being that no new employees are required. The Fund, having
addressed a temporary emergency need, is to be terminated after three years
of operation. The design and action plan of the ESF are being closely
reviewed under a parallel IDA-supported operation that is being processed
at the moment. Longer term priorities in the social sectors, of which the
ESF would be part, would be reviewed with IDA by November 30, 1987.
Sectoral Action Programs
48.      'Hydrocarbons.  The hydrocarbons sector is vital to Bolivia's
economy. Hydrocarbons in 1986 represented about 6% of GDP and 50% of the
country's exports, and in 1987 YPPB, the national oil company, is expected
to provide 60% of the Central Government's fiscal revenues. Continued
successful operation of YPPB is, therefore, essential to the twin goals of
keeping in check the budget deficit without further reductions in public
expenditures as well as to improving the balance of payments. The
Government is fully aware of the sector's importance. In its economic
program the Government initiated some fundamental structural reforms in the
sector aimed at reducing the public sector role, reducing domestic
subsidies, and achieving institutional reforms in the major sector
institutions. It has also initiated a series of studies, including the



- 19 -
design of a comprehensive long-term national energy pl8n, that would
provide a basis for the design and implementation of specific policy
measures. These should bear fruit in the medium term.
49.       However, there are also problems that require and are scheduled
to receive prompt attention by the Government. It is these measures that
this Credit supports. The most important relate to solving the following
problems: (a) the decline in petroleum liquid reserves and production; (b)
the limited Government/YPFB funds for investment; (c) the low utilization
of the abundant natural gas in the domestic market; (d) the probable
termination of the gas export contract to Argentina in 1992; and (e) the
low participation of private resources in the petroleum sector.
50.       Liquid hydrocarbon output peaked in 1973 at 47,400 BD (barrels
per day) and declined continuously thereafter to 20,800 BD in 1985 and
18,500 BD in 1986. This was primarily the result of (a) YPFB's
insufficient investment in the development of new fields to compensate for
the depletion of various producing fields and (b) the reduced activity of
private producers (Tesoro and Occidental) whose production declined from
its peak of 8,500 BD in 1982 to 5,200 BD in 1986 in response to contract
instability and delayed payments from YPFB. This declining trend for both
YPFB as weil as the private producers needs to be reversed. Already in
1987 the estimated domestic demand is about 20,000 BD. If ways are not
identified immediately of boosting petroleum production, Bolivia could soon
become a petroleum importer. This would be a major setback for a country
that has the potential of and great need for revenues from the export of
petroleum.
51.       A way to solve the problem is via a judicious allocation of the
Government/YPFB funds available for investment while at the same time
attracting private capital into the petroleum sector. For 1987, YPFB had
calculated that in order to increase production to cover estimated demand
as well as to expand its exploration activities to build up reserves (and
ensure future production), the hydrocarbon industry, both public and
private, would need an investment budget of close to US$300 million. The
proposed 1987 budget recently approved by congress, allocates only US$160
million to the hydrocarbons sector which is still optimistic given the
financial constraints of YPFB. Thus, to maintain production, YPFB will
have to concentrate its resources on production while taking serious
actions to encourage an inflow of private capital (mostly foreign) into
exploration and production. The seriousness of the capital constraint in
this sector is such that external financial help, including this Credit, is
likely to show a very high rate of return.
52.       Some help could also come from conservation and interfuel
substitution measures. Prices of hydrocarbons (LPG being so far the key
exception) have, under the NEP, been adjusted to reflect more closely those
in the world markets. This should help rationalize consumption and
discourage smuggling as well as stimulate production. Substituting gas for
liquid petroleum products in the domestic market also needs to be pursued
whenever economically justified, but that market is not likely to be
large.   The identification of a major new export market for gas thus
becomes central for two reasonc. First, since Bolivia is a gas-prone
country, to attract new foreign investors into petroleum exploration, the
market for this gas must be clearly established. The side benefit of this



- 20 -
would be increased liquid petroleum production since about 80% of Bolivia's
gas resources are associated with oil and condensate. Second, the loss of
foreign exchange earnings from a potential (and probable) termination of
the gas export contract to Argentina in 1992 needs to be offset. The
Government of Bolivia has been discussing possible future gas exports to
Brazil with the Brazilian authorities and has requested IDA assistance to
study the potential market in Brazil as well as the contractual and pricing
issues related to an export agreement. Consultant work is expected to
start in the next few months.
53.       The utilization of private capital in the petroleum sector could
be increased by measures such as: (a) a revision of the 1972 hydrocarbon
law to authorize joint ventures between YPFB and private companies; (b) an
attractive, flexible and competitive production sharing and fiscal
framework; (c) a revision of the current Bolivian fiscal regime to enable
potential foreign investors to deduct their payment of taxes in Bolivia
from those in their home countries; (d) regulation of the balances
outstanding with the existing private producers; (e) reasonable assurances
to the private investors that they will receive exportable petroleum or
timely payment in foreign exchange; and (f) a flexible contractual
framework to give discoverers of gas the right to retain the undeveloped
gas discoveries until a market for gas is identified. In the short and
medium term new exploration contracts with the private sector would reduce
investments outlays otherwise required by YPFB in exploration. The savings
from YPFB's reduced exploration activities would be used to increase its
production activities whether conducted directly by YPFB or in association
with the private sector. In the short term, additional production
contracts with private local/foreign companies would allow the country to
overcome capacity constraints in YPFB to meet domestic petroleum products
requirements and embark on a program of petroleum exports as quickly as
possible. In fact, there is a strong case for Bolivia taking advantage of
its already explored but undeveloped areas by structuring package deals
that make private exploitation rights in known reservoirs contingent on new
exploration activities. In the longer term, once the results of private
exploration contracts materialize, YPFB would participate in development of
new discoveries and increase its production accordingly. Such a program of
soliciting private sector participation in exploration and production would
require a suitable set up for dealing with area selection, bidding
procedures, and contract negotiation and monitoring, for which experts'
work would be required. This would be achieved through the exploration
promotion program referred to above.
54.       The Bank has been involved in an active dialogue on these issues
and has helped with studies in all of the areas of importance. This Credit
would assist the process of reform in this sector. In operational terms
the US$13 million firancing under the proposed Credit would continue the
rehabilitation of YPFB's productive capacity started under RIC I. It would
cover about 35% of YPFB's import requirements and related services, spare
parts, supplies and materials and equipment for 1988 and 1989. The
Government has been working intensively on a comprehensive National Energy
Plan which is now almost completed. This Plan will address most of the
issues raised above. Actions of particular interest to IDA, within the
context of this operation, that the Government has indicated it will take
are to: (a) present to Congress new comprehensive legislation for the
hydroarbons sector by March 31, 1988 (draft to be furnished to IDA for



- 21 -
comment by January 31, 1988); (b) present to IDA for review and comment by
November 30 of each year (starting in 1987) for the subsequent year the
proposed investment budget, the underlying physical action program and the
accompanying f;nancial plan; (c) raise local LPG price to its opportunity
cost (the plan of action and the implementation timetable to be made
available to IDA by December 31, 1987 with the plan then to be executed
according to an agreed schedule); (d) inform IDA, by October 31, 1987 and
semiannually thereafter, of the status of negotiations, agreements reached
and implementation of such agreements with respect to payments on contracts
with foreign investors in ths. petroleum sector in Bolivia; (e) present to
IDA, for its review, YPFB's action program on the distribution and
marketing of natural gas within Bolivia (by October 31, 1987); and (e)
carry out a study, according to terms of reference agreed to with IDA
during negotiations, a study to improve YPFB's accounting, budgeting,
financial control and management information systems.
55.       Transport.  The transport sector accounts for 5.5% of GDP and
about the same proportion of employment, rather less than in other
comparable countries of Latin America. The apparently small share of GDP
belies the relative importance of transport to the economy and is in any
case an underestimate of the real contribution of transport to GDP.
Bolivia is a land-locked country with long or difficult access routes to
sea ports through adjoining countries. Much of the cost of the transport
of Bolivia's external trade, both imports and exports, appear in the
transport component of GDP of those adjoining countries rather than of
Bolivia's GDP. For most external trade, the external transport cost
represents more than half of the total. The high cost of transport for
external trade results in a relatively low producers surplus for
exporters. For many agricultural products, the transport cost to a sea
port represents more than 60% of the value of the product. For minerals
the proportion is closer to 30% and for manufactured goods, which are
usually imported, the cost of transport from the port to the consumer
represents up to 25% of the final price. Internal transport costs are high
because of the difficult terrain, poor infrastructure and relative
inefficiency of some of the transport modes. Unit transport costs for road
and rail transport are higher than in other Latin American countries.
Since all agricultural, mineral (except gas) and manufactured products make
use of transport services to reach their consumers, the efficiency of the
transport system is important in determining the efficiency of production
in general. The high incidence of transport costs in total production
costs or consumer prices is a better reflection of the importance of
transport to the economy than its contribution to GDP. In order to induce
the reduction of road freight costs, the Government has introduced free
contracting and uncontrolled tariff policies.
56.       The current level of operational efficiency of the sector is low,
following several years of underinvestment in maintenance. The state of
the basic infrastructure is poor for the same reason. The condition of the
road infrastructure is possibly the worst in Latin America. Much of the
basic network is still in an undeveloped state and the developed network is
suffering from a chronic lack of maintenance. There are only 1,350 kms of
paved roads and of these or.ly 21% are classified in good condition. Many
parts of the network are without drainage and many rivers are crossed by
fords instead of bridges. In the three-month rainy season many of these
crossings are impassable for long periods of time. Also, the truck fleet,



- 22 -
comprised mostly of two axle trucks which are easily overloaded, causes
accelerated road pavement deterioration. The issue of adequate road
maintenance is thus of great economic importance to the country.
57.       The estimated requirement to bring the road network up to an
acceptable standard is of the order of US$200 million. This is clearly
unachievable in the short term and some priority projects need to be
defined. A start is being made with the definition of sub-components of a
potential IDA financed labor Intensive road rehabilitation project. This
project identifies a core part of the secondary road network where the
benefits of reconstruction or rehabilitation or provision of basic
facilities (such as bridges) would provide the greatest economic rate of
return. It is also, by design, aimed at helping alleviate the severe
unemployment (and hence poverty) situation in the altiplano region and
represents a part of IDA's effort to help the Emergency Social Program.
The proposed RIC II funding of about US$3.6 million for the importation of
basic road maittenance spare parts, supplies and materials and machinery
would help to ensure that essential parts of the network would not
deteriorate further or begin an accelerated deterioration after
reconstruction through lack of maintenance capacity. To ensure that
adequate attention is given to road maintenance, assurances would be sought
during negotiations that SNC would indicate by no later than November 30 of
each year (for the subsequent year) the proportion of road network
investment budget allocated to maintenance of existing network versus the
proportion of investment for its improvement and amplification.
58.       The rail network, which had been maintained in good condition
until 1982 is also now suffering from insufficient maintenance. The low
cost construction methods used for most of the Eastern part of the network
have made the infrastructure very susceptible to deterioration when
maintenance is not undertaken. The Western network infrastructure is now
very old and in parts is suffering from excessive wear. The current
availability of railway locomotives is very low, at 55% for Western network
and 67% for Eastern network, with a corresponding lack of transport
.capacity. Wagon availability could be further improved with better
planning and train operations. It is estimated that railway operational
capacity is at least 12% below demand. Assurances were given during
negotiations that by December 31, 1988, ENFE would (a) increase locomotive
availability in the Western network system to 75% and the Eastern network
system to 85 percent; (b) increase locomotive utilization to at least
105,000 km per year; and (c) improve wagon availability to 80% for both
networks.
59.       In the past decade there have been ups and dotns in the financial
situation of the railway . In mid-1970s, ENFE enjoye a sound financial
condition. Thereafter, the situation started deteriorating due to
substantial increases in wages and deterioration in operating performance.
In 1984, the ratio of working expenses to operating revenues (working
ratio) was as high as 1.39. The galloping inflation caused the prices to
rise sharply thereby aggravating the financial condition.   Tariffs were
falling behind. In 1985, ENFE increased tariffs considerably. ENFE's
revenues now fully cover the total operating costs as well the interest
charges on its debts. ENFE has therefore surpassed the working ratio
target of 1.0 as specified in the loan documents for RIC I. Under RIC II
it would bring this ratio down to 0.90 by December 31, 1988, and further
thereafter.



- 23 -
60.       ENFE's present freight tariffs are high and passenger fares are
low. While the railway freight tariffs of about US 5.5 cents per ton-km on
the export corridors are lower than truck rates, they are still
comparatively much higher than other railways (e.g, about USl.9 cents per
ton-km in USA). The Government, in order to promote exports and partly on
the basis of a study completed under RIC I, is presently considering
reducing further the freight tariffs by taking over the railway debts so
that ENFE finances are not adversely affected . The Association will be
informed of the Government's decision in the near future. The Government
would present by December 31, 1987, a plan of action to restructure the
freight tariffs and fully implement the restructuring by no later than
December, 1988. Passenger fares in most cases do not cover even the
shortrun marginal costs. For instance, the second class fare between Santa
Cruz and Pto. Quijarro (660 km) is only US$2.50. Here too, the Government
has indicated that it would take appropriate actions. During negotiations
IDA was informed that: (a) fares would be increased substantially in real
terms by July 31, 1987; and that (b) fares would subsequently be further
adjusted to cover at least the longrun marginal costs. A plan of action on
point (b) would be presented to IDA by March, 1988 and carried out
subsequently according to a set schedule.
61.       In order to improve financial performance of the railway,
assurances were given during negotiations that ENFE would: (a) complete the
revaluation of its fixed assets by December 31, 1987 and incorporate the
results in preparing its 1988 balance sheets; and (b) unless otherwise
financially and economically justified, ENFE would refrain from new
investments beyond those included in RIC I and II (including possible
cofinancing) and those that have already been committed up to December
1986. The Association would be given the opportunity to review and comment
on such new investments on the occasion of the annual review of Bolivia's
entire public expenditure program. Furthermore, to facilitate 8NFE's
restructuring and rehabilitation, the Credit would finance consultant
services to assist ENFE to: (a) restructure and implement freight tariffs
based on the railway costing study completed under RIC I; (b) draw up
bidding specifications and facilitate other procurement, administrative and
procedural requirements especially for locomotive rehabilitation; (c) carry
out a diagnostic study of railway organization, operation and management;
and (d) finalize the fourth phase of the railway rehabilitation program.
62.       The problems in the river and air transport have not yet been
studied as extensively by IDA staff. However, given Bolivia's difficult
terrain, it seems plausible that air transport could be of great importance
in a number of uses. Equally, developing river traffic could be important
in the tropical lowlands and as an opening for agricultural exports down
the Paraguay river to the Atlantic. None of these problems, however, can
be usefully addressed by this Credit because of its short-term orientation.
63.       Finally, IDA will continue to support the Government in its
development of a medium term public investment program in transportation.
The primary criterion for inclusion of a project in a modal investment
plan, at the moment, is the availability of funding, usually external.
This argument applie3 to all transport modes. The achievement of a
political balance of expenditure between different regional Departments is
also important. The economic merits or otherwise of the project seem to be
of little or no relevance. The overall sector investment plan is merely a
summation of the individual modal proposals. The result is a confused
mixture of good and bad projects with many examples of competing projects



- 24 -
in the same corridor. The inclusion of the preparation of a coherent
transport public investment program into the Action Program under this
Credit should help improve the situation.
64.       Agriculture.  Agriculture's share of GDP continues to show an
increasing trerl in the 1980s due in part to the continuing decline in the
importance of mining and manufacturing sectors. It now accounts for 20% of
GDP. Agriculture has traditionally employed more than 45% of the
economically active population and will continue to do so in the
foreseeable future. Agricultural exports, while steadily increasing
throughout the decade of the 1970s, began to decline in 1981. The small
recovery in 1985 and 1986 was mostly due to the dramatic increase in the
world market price of coffee which now accounts for about 50% of the value
of agricultural exports. Agriculture as a whole made a remarkable recovery
from the disastrous effects of El Nino induced flooding in the lowlands and
drought in the highlands in 1983 (which resulted in shortages of food
during the 1983-84 period). Bolivia is once again self-sufficient except
for traditional large imports of wheat and milk products. Production of
most food and industrial crops increased in 1985 and although final figures
are not available, crop production in 1986 was also good in comparison to
recent pre-1985 years.
65.       Bolivia's agriculture is divided into two distinct geographic
regions and production systems: the Altiplano-Valleys region--where more
than two-thirds of the rural population lives--dominated by smallholdings
using low technology (not mechanized) production systems, and the lowland
plains used for mechanized crop and extensive livestock production. While
a large part of the highlands agriculture is subsistence, nevertheless, the
region produces a substantial portion of foods (potatoes, vegetables,
wheat, and maize) for the population centers concentrated in the
highlands. The lowlands produce all the industrial crops (oilseeds, cotton
and sugarcane) as well as most of the rice, sorghum, soybeans, plantain,
bananas, peanuts, beans (except broad-beans), cassava, and 75% of the
country's cattle population is in the Departments of Beni and Santa Cruz.
Two-thirds of the present 1.25 million hectares under crop production is
located in the highlands where much of it suffers from poor soil and
climatic conditions, has little potential for expansion (in terms of area
cultivated) and where obtaining yield increases has proven difficult.
While land resources are limited and poorly maintained in the highlands,
the lowlands have an abundance of good potential agricultural soils and
favorable climatic conditions that could be exploited if markets become
more favorable. However, physical and structural problems have limited
development in the lowlands. The land-locked nature of Bolivia makes
importation of inputs and exportation of production both difficult and
costly. The vast areas in the lowlands, suitable for intensive
agricultural production, are far from ports for export and isolated from
the internal markets of the principal population centers by rugged terrain,
long distances, and lack of an adequate transport and communications
system, which makes agricultural products more costly for the consumer and
reduces the return to the farmers.
66.       Due to the long dominance of the mining sector, agriculture has
never received adequate Government support and in spite of the NEP and the
increased importance of the sector, the Government has still to formulate
an agricultural strategy and investaeut priorities. While the former



- 25 -
restrictive price policies have largely been removed, the new 20%
across-the-board import tariff and increase in the price of gasoline and
diesel fuel have increased costs of production while farm-gate prices have
remained stable and, in some cases, even declined. With the absence of a
clear strategy and priorities, increased costs of production, low world
market prices and stable local prices, farmers are facing uncertain
conditions that have resulted in a decline in area planted for the
1986-87 crop season. The result, perhaps ironically, will be that
agricultural production may fall further in 1987 (after a small decline in
1986) in a policy environment that was supposed to be a major improvement
over the past.
67.       However, these should prove to be transitional problems.  First,
fertilizer consumption in Bolivia is the lowest among countries in the
region (less than 5 kg per hectare) and even what is used is employed
largely in potato and vegetable production. The high cost of transport,
low levels of use that preclude importing in bulk and local mixing, and low
farm-gate prices for most commodities, all conspire to making fertilizer
currently too expensive for local use. It should, however, be possible to
overcome some of these impediments. Second, the investment per hectare is
still very low and imports of equipment for agriculture (when compared to
the stock of agricultural equipment and machinery) suggest that
decapitalization of agriculture i8 still occurring. These trends too could
be reversed. Most of the measures that would help are likely to be medium
to long term such as reducing che cost of transport, improving marketing
infrastructure, making credit widely available and timely, improving
research and extension work, developing better seed varieties and building
feeder roads. Other measures, such as a reduction of import tariffs,
provision of production incentives, or some offset to what is considered by
farmers to be an overvalued Boliviano (particularly vis-a-vis Brazil's
parallel cruzado rate), could all contribute to reviving production in the
shorter run. A very important incentive would also be a rapid development
of a longer term agricultural strategy by the Government to enable the
agricultural producers (and particularly the potential exporters) to
believe that their entrepreneurship will be backed up by a Government
commitment to help build the necessary infrastructure. Along these lines,
IDA expects the Government to show its increased commitment to this sector
via an allocation of investments to agriculture commensurate with the new,
more important role of this sector in Bolivia's medium and long term
strategy. The Government will also present, for review and agreement by
IDA, a plan to set up within the Ministry of Agriculture a Central
monitoring unit to follow up and coordinate project preparation and
execution of various agencies involved in the sector.
68.       The total amount of financing for the agricultural sector in 1985
was US$36.5 million of which about US$29 million went for working capital
and US$7.5 million for investment. The major portion of investment credit
was used for the purchase of farm tractors and machinery and very little
was available for on-farm investments (land clearing, irrigation, farm
storage, etc.) and for the livestock sector. The data regarding the amount
of credit granted for 1986 are not yet available. IDA's estimates,
however, suggest that the demand for credit for 1985 and 1986 at the
prevailing levels of production is at least US$70 million. Thus only about
50% of the demand is being met from institutional sources. However, the
IDB loan of US$100 million that has just become effective should largely
overcome this constraint at the same time increasing the demand for



- 26 -
yield-increasing inputs and production machinery. Imports of these two
categories should thus increase to well above their 1986 level of US$70
million (estimated to be US$50 million through official and US$20 million
through contraband channels). The allocation of US$8 million under RIC II
for imports forproducers in agriculture will thus fill an important need.
69.       Manufacturing and Agro-based Industry.  In 1981 before the
economic crisis began, the industrial sector accounted for 14% of GDP, 10%
of employment, almost 10% of total exports. While a major part of
manufacturing industry produces for the domestic market, agro-industries
(processed and semi-processed products), such as coffee, sugar, meat, wood
and wood products, are responsible for 75% of non-traditional exports which
also include textiles, chemical and metal alloys, and non-metal products.
Since 1980 the industrial sector went through a period of rapid
deterioration and many enterprises were forced to stop or slow down
production. The sector share in GDP dropped to 10% in 1986 as industrial
production was cut in half and new investment virtually ceased. Because of
the prolonged recession and severe exchange rate distortions, the share of
non-traditional exports in total exports dropped to well below 5% by 1986.
Exports of metalotechnic and artisan producers virtually stopped (at least
through legal channels). Imports of intermediate goods and raw materials
used in production also declined by about 40%.
70.       Incomplete data suggest that manufacturing probably bottomed out
in 1986 and agro-based industry may have registered some growth. There was
a surge in non-traditional exports. Imported inputs also registered a
strong increase. However, credit for working capital, for local inputs and
labor, is in really short supply. And whatever capital is available is
being lent at high interest rates, running at 3.0% (or higher) per month
with inflation now in the 1-1.5% per month range. Moreover, these loans
are available for extremely short periods, rarely extending beyond 90
days. Existing and potential exporters and producers are thus facing
serious difficulties in finding working capital on reasonable terms. If
pre-recession ratios of working capital to production are any indication of
demand, and if production is to recover even half-way to its former share
of GDP (10% today, 15% in 1980), Bolivian private industry could use an
additional US$80 million of working capital. The US$7.0 million allocation
of such funds for industry would thus cover less than 10% of the needed
amounts. These funds could be used for both imported and locally-produced
input requirements of industrial producers. Only qualified exporters and
producers, as verified by the eligible financial intermediary and the
Central Bank, would have access to this financing.
Implementation
71.        The Central Bank (CB) would be responsible for the
administration of the proposed Credit. The CB would establish a Credit
facility through which it would onlend the funds to YPFB and ENFE, pass on
as a grant the funds for SNC, disburse foreign exchange against documented
import payments for agricultural goods, and onlend funds for working
capital through financial intermediaries to the private sector. The Credit
proceeds would be made available to the Central Bank under a subsidiary
agreement between the Borrower and the CB. The signing of the subsidiary
agreement would be a condition of Credit effectiveness.



- 27 -
72.        The CB would channel the Credit proceeds up to the amount
allocated a priori to YPFB and ENFE under a financing agreement with each
of these enterprises. The onlent funds would be denominated in dollars and
would carry an 8.5% interest rate, unless otherwise agreed by IDA.
Repayments to the Central Bank would be made in 15 years with three years
of grace at the exchange rate prevailing at the time of payment. The
signing of at least one of the financing agreements between the CB and any
one of YPFB or ENFE is a condition of Credit effectiveness.
73.        The CB would onlend the Credit proceeds to the private sector
through a rediscounting mechanism for eligible financial intermediaries
(PI), i.e., those banks that are in good standing with the CB. CB would
enter into a participating agreement with the eligible FI's under terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA. The signing of a participating agreement
with each eligible FI is a condition of disbursement. The funds onlent to
the private sector would be denominated in dollars and would carry an
interest rate of about 13.5%, unless otherwise agreed by IDA. The FIs
would retain a spread of up to 5% to cover the operating expenses and
credit risk. CB would retain a fee of 0.5% to cover its administrative
costs.
74.       The import plans (positive import lists) of YPFB, ENFE, SNC, and
the list of eligible imports for agriculture to be financed by the Credit
funds were reviewed and agreed upon during negotiations. The agreement
includes import related technical services. The CB would disburse Credit
funds to YPFB, ENFE and SNC based on approved import plans, provide foreign
exchange for eligible imports for producers in agriculture and disburse
funds for working capital to the private sector against a list of
ineligible goods.
75.        The Project Coordinating Committee set up in the CB to oversee
the implementation of RIC I will continue to discharge its functions in RIC
II. This Committee which is currently composed of three members of the CB
Board of Directors, the manager of the Gerencia Pinanciera and Chief of the
Department of Public Enterprises Committee is responsible for final review
of credit/subloan proposals and is assisted by a small Commission for
Coordination, Control and Supervision (likewise established under RIC I).
This Commission is responsible for the day-to-day implementation,
conrdination and supervision. The Commission is currertly headed by the
Chief of the Department of Public Enterprises and is coinposed of 5 staff
members from this Department. The ongoing CB reorganization, however, may
result in some modifications in the membership of the Project Coordinating
Committee and the Commission.   In addition, during negotiations, the
Government informed IDA that it plans to include as members of the Project
Coordinating Committee representatives from the Ministry of Planning and
the Ministry of Finance to ensure coordination of the Credit's activities
with broader economic concerns. The confirmation of the composition of the
Project Coordinating Committee and the Commission for Coordination, Control
and Supervision and the appointment of their respective chairmen and
members are conditions of effectiveness.
Cofinancing
76.        The Government of Bolivia intends to exert a major effort to
secure cofinancing for the proposed Credit. Along this line, the
Government has requested the Overseas Ecoaomic Cooperation Fund (OECF) of



- 28 -
Japan to cofinance the proposed Credit with an amount of about US$50
million. Cofinancing assistance will be directed mostly to the energy and
transportation sectors which have considerable import requirements. Also,
cofinancing arrangements would permit IDA to almost double the unallocated
category which would increase the flexibility of allocating these funds
later to where they can be used most effectively. The table below shows
the alternate financing scheme assuming cofinancing can be secured:
RIC II
Alternative Financing Scheme
(In million of US Dollars)
Component                           IDA           Cofinancier   Total
Foreign Local Foreign Local
_. Public Sector
a.  YPFB (State Petroleum Co.)          10.0     -       28.0      -    38.0
b.  ENFE (State Railway Co.)             4.0     -        13.0     -    17.0
c.  SNC (National Road Service)          3.6     -        9.0      -    12.6
II. Private Sector
a. Imports for Agriculture               8.0     -         -       -     8.0
b. Manufacturing and Agro-Based
Industries                           -      7.0        -      -      7.0
III. Technical Assistance                 0.5      -         -       -     0.5
IV. Procurement Management Contract       1.0     -         -       -     1.0
V. Unallocated                          13.0     -         -       -    13.0
TOTAL                          40.1    7.0       50.0     -    97.1
Disbursements
77.        The proposed Credit is expected to be fully committed 10 months
after the date of Credit effectiveness and fully disbursed by June 1989.
The disbursements against a positive list for imports for agriculture are
expected to be completed within one year of effectiveness. Disbursements
of the CIF costs of eligible imported goods and related installation
services would be made against normal documentation for imported goods.
Disbursements against a Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) whose
corresponding documentation would be retained by the CB would be made for
amounts not exceeding US$100,000 equivalent. Disbursements for



- 29 -
expenditures above this amount would require submission of full
documentation to IDA. To facilitate disbursements for imports for
agriculture and subloans for locally purchased inputs, a special account
would be established in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA. An amount of
US$3 million of the Credit proceeds would be disbursed tco the special
account upon effectiveness of the Credit Agreement. CB would maintain
sub-accounts to reflect thc Credit allocation for imports for agriculture
and for private sector subloans. In the case of imports for YPFB, ENFE and
SNC, which will be procured through a procurement agent chosen by the
Government, a revolving fund would be established in a commercial bank of
the procurement agent, acceptable to IDA, to facilitate disbursements of
the proposed Credit to the suppliers. Reimbursements would be permitted
for goods for agriculture that are imported but not paid for prior to the
date of the Credit Agreement.
Procurement
78.       To help ensure that the procurement of goods to be financed out
of the proceeds of the proposed credit is handled in the most expeditious
manner and that goods to be imported by YPFB, ENFE and SNC reach Bolivia
with the minimum of delay, the Government would hire a procurement agent
acceptable to IDA for theie entities. The cost of the procurement agents
estimated at $1.0 million (assuming 4% agent fee for goods to be imported
by the public sector) would be financed out of the proposed Credit.
Procurement under the proposed Credit would be in accordance with the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits".
Public sector purchases of US$1 million and above would be subject to
international competitive bidding (ICB). Public sector purchases below
US$1 million but above US$100,000 would be purchased through limited
international bidding (LIB) from at least three suppliers from two
countries eligible under the Guidelines. Pub?lc sector purchases below
US$100,000 would require a comparison of price quotations from at least
three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines. Spare parts and materials
for the public sector, which would be used in especially designed systems
and for equipment already installed and operating (sole source and
proprietary goods), as well as specialized services such as drilling,
logging, cementing, wireline, acidizing, fracturing and other highly
technical services, may with IDA's approval, be procured on the basis of
direct contracting. Purchases of imports for agriculture and locally
purchased inputs by the private sector would be done according to normal
commercial practices which are acceptable to IDA. Consultant services for
the technical assistance for ENFE would be hired in accordance with IDA
guidelines. Subject to IDA's review, advance contracts for eligible
imports would be allowed after Credit negotiations. Estimated values of
expected transactions and methods of procurements are shown in Table 2.
Accounts, Audit and Reports
79.       The CB would maintain records and separate accounts in respect of
the project and have these accounts, the SOEs and the Special Account
audited each fiscal year by auditors acceptable to IDA. These reports
would be furnished to IDA not later than four months after the end of each
fiscal year. Within six months after the Closing Date the Borrower would
prepare and submit to IDA a project completion report following Guidelines
provided by IDA.



- 30 -
TABLE 2: BOLIVIA -- RIC II Method of Procurement
(In Million US Dollars)
Expenditure Items                       Procurement Method            Total
Cost
ICB      LIB      Others 1,
Spare Parts, Equipment,
Supplies and Materials
-  YPFB (Energy)                2.0       9.0         2.0            13.0
-  ENFE (Railway)               1.5       3.7         1.8             7.0
-  SNC (Road)                   2.4       0.7         0.5             3.6
Imports for Agriculture                                 8.0             8.0
Manufacturing and
Agro-based Industries
(private sector subloans
for locally procured goods)                           7.0             7.0
Consultant Services 2/                                  0.5             0.5
Procurement Agent                                        1.0            1.0
SUBTOTAL                                                            40.1
Unallocated                                                             7.0
TOTAL                                                               47.1
1/ Direct contracting, local and international shopping, and for the
private sector purchases other normal commercial channels satisfactory
to IDA.
2/ Consultants will be hired in accordance with IDA guidelines.
Social Impact
80.       The major objective of the proposed operation is to reverse the
downward spiral of the economy and lay the basis for sustained growth.
This renewed growth offers the best prospect for addressing both the short
term, immediate poverty consequences of Bolivia's recent economic problems
and the longer term problems stemming from the decline in social services
in recent years. In addition to this general framework, the operation and
IDA's program more broadly, aim to support the Government's efforts to
address short term social problems through the employment generation and
relief activities envisaged through the Emergency Social Fund. Futher, as



- 31 -
part of the Public Investment Program preparation and review, concerted
efforts will be made to plan for redevelopment of. social services, notably
for health, education, and water supply.
Benefits and Risks
81.       The proposed Credit would provide a major support to the
Government's economic program which is now explicity focused on achieving a
resumption in growth. By providing critically needed financing for
priority imported spare parts, supplies and equipment, as well as for
working capital, and foreign exchange to purchase imports for agriculture,
the proposed Credit would help strengthen Bolivia's production and export
capacity while continuing institutional rehabilitation and reforms started
with the first RIC. While the Government's record to date bodes well for
the future, the major risk continues to be the fragility of the economy
which is undergoing a major transformation following a hyperinflation and a
sudden sharp deterioration in the terms of trade of its major exports. A
further risk relates to possible delays resulting from the Government's
weak administrative system. In order to minimize the risks and ensure
timely actions for changing circumstances, IDA would monitor the economic
program very closely, conduct a medium-term review within six months of
Credit effectiveness and provide intensive supervision especially during
the start-up phase.
PART V - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BOLIVIA
82.       The Bank Group has been actively involved in Bolivia since 1964.
Total lending to date stands at about US$465 million; 16 credits, 15 loans,
and one blend operation have been approved. Of this, US$380.5 million is
outstanding and, as of March 31, 1987, US$79.0 million was undisbursed (see
Annex II). Bolivia was an IDA country until 1975 (except for the Gas
Pipeline loan), then borrowed for several years on Bank terms until the
economic situation began to deteriorate around 1978. An ill-fated
structural adjustment loan was made in 1980 and its failure, combined with
worsening creditworthiness for the country and deterioration of economic
management, led to the cessation of Bank and IDA lending between FY81 and
FY86. As a result, our present portfolio (leaving aside the two operations
approved in late FY86) is very small, consisting essentially of small
remaining parts of old projects, most of which have had a troubled
history. They were designed in a different era and were implemented during
a period of economic turmoil; Bank/IDA disbursements stopped several times
as Bolivia failed to service its obligations. The undisbursed balance on
this portfolio stood at US$15.5 million as of January 31, 1987, and a large
part is likely to be cancelled before the end of this fiscal year. By
FY88, none of these older projects will be under implementation.
83.       Past Bank lending has been quite far-ranging and diverse, with an
active involvement in several sectors, notably transportation (26% of total
lending) and hydrocarbons, where the Bank played a key role in developing
Bolivia's gas export potential. Other sectors where the Bank has been



- 32 -
actively involved are power, mining (largely credit operations for the
private sector), water supply, and urban. Our record in agriculture has
been mixed, with some successful operations in earlier years focussed on
the livestock sector; three more recent rural development projects have,
however, faced serious implementation problems. Execution of many on-going
projects was affected adversely by the general economic and political
instability, the shortage of local funds, changes in Government personnel,
and periodic suspension of Bank disbursem~ents. As a result, the
conclusions of recent Project Preparation Appraisal Reports (PPARs) have
been quite negative, notably for the 1980 Structural Adjustment Loan.
84.       While no new operations were approved between 1980 and May 1986,
the Bank provided substantial technical assistance through its economic and
sector work which was focussed on critical impediments to Bolivia's
development. Many recommendations resulting from these efforts provided
the basis for the current Government's stabilization and structural reform
program and underpin specific programs now under active preparation.
Specific efforts included a 1981 comprehensive study on rehabilitation of
COMIBOL, the state mining company, proposals for mining tax reform,
analyses of mining investment laws and fiscal reserve, a proposed
reorganization of the troubled Agricultural Credit Bank (BAB), studies on
pricing issues for agriculture, a sector paper on transport, an energy
assessment, and a program proposing a full overhaul of auditing and
procurement practices. These have provided background for our present
efforts to support the Government's adjustment program and to start to
rebuild our lending program.
85.       The Bank responded quickly to the new policy initiatives launched
in August 1985. During FY86 two IDA-financed operations-the
Reconstruction Import Credit for US$55 million to finance imports for key
sectors, and the Vuelta 'rande Project for US$15 million--were approved. A
program of project preparation (supported by five new PPFs) and economic
and sector work was launched. The Resident Mission in Bolivia has been
reactivated with the appointment of a new Resident Representative in
October 1986. Finally, the Bank resurrected the Bolivian Consultative
Group (dormant since 1977) with a first meeting in December 1986. The
meeting successfully met its objectives of providing participants a deeper
understanding of economic issues for Bolivia and exchanging views on
Bolivia's economic program and external financing requirements. Improving
project implementation was a focal point of discussion during the meeting.
The Government is taking steps to assure adequate funding and remove
procedural bottlenecks. A second meeting of the Consultative Group is
planned for October-November 1987, at which time a full public investment
program for 1988-90 and a review of priorities and issues by the Bank
should be completed.
86.       Our strategy is to assist the Government to: (a) sustain the
implementation of the macroeconomic stabilization program and carry through
structural adjustment reforms including specifically a change in the role
of the state; (b) rehabilitate and restructure the agriculture, mining, and
hydrocarbon sectors with the view to diversifying exports and achieving
efficient import substitution; (c) reconstruct and rehabilitate essential
infrastructure to minimize bottlenecks to increased production and to



- 33 -
support increases in private investment; (d) support major increases in
public and private investment notably through strengthening the public
investment program, enhancing the private investment climate through
appropriate policy measures, and reforming the financial sector;
(e) alleviate the direct social impact of the economic adjustment program,
especially on lower income groups; and (f) reintroduce discipline in public
sector management and administration to support the effective execution of
the economic reforms and management of the economy.
87.       Our assistance strategy in the immediate future is aimed at
minimizing bottlenecks at the sectoral level through rationalization of
sectoral policies and rehabilitation of sectoral productive capacity. This
effort started under the First Reconstruction Import Credit (RIC I)
approved in May 1986 and is now being extended by this Credit as well as a
Power Rehabilitation Project, and a Financial Sector Adjustment Credit.
Preparations for possible future operations in the mining, transportation
and agriculture sectors are underway.
88.       Also, a major objective of our assistance program is to support
the Government's effort to redefine the role of the State and to improve
the public sector implementation capability; institution-building projects
will be a major feature in the next few years. A first operation will
focus on financial management systems for the Ministry of Finance, the
Central Bank and the Controller General's office and/or support for the
implementation of the tax reform. This operation is being complemented by
a project aimed at strengthening the financial management and
administrative set-up and processes at the municipal level. The need to
improve public investment programming, monitoring and evaluation has also
been identified.
89.       Our assistance program will also aim to support Government's
efforts to address the mounting social problems linked to the economic
crisis and economic adjustment program. The Government launched in
December 1986 an Emergency Social Fund (ESF) to finance a range of social
relief measures. However, an effort is needed to define an appropriate
policy framework for this program and to establish its operating procedures
and criteria for selection of subprojects and other specific action
measures. We are working on assisting the Government in this endeavor
through a phased approach in order to help build a social action program
that would result in lasting gains. In the medium-term, this support
should give way to sectoral operations in the areas of health and
education.
90.       The foregoing operations will be complemented by our current
focus on the public investment programming process which entails a
definition of sectoral strategies and analysis of ongoing and planned
sector investments. A Public Expenditure Review for 1987-90 by the Bank
and the Government is in process, designed to support the elaboration of a
more comprehensive medium-term program and improvements in the process of
public investment programming and review.
91.       IFC has not been active in recent years, but has recently resumed
its operations in Bolivia with the approval of a US$800,000 loan and
US$400,000 equity convertible loan for a silver recovery project in the
Cerro Rico de Potosi mines. Also, a US$10 million credit line through
BISA, a private development bank, is under consideration. IFC plans to



- 34 -
continue its promotion efforts and has so far identified a number of
potential mining projects. Other priority areas include: hydrocarbons, in
particular oil and gas exploration and associated activities such as
transport and downstream processing facilities (an oil and gas production
project with Tesoro Petroleuim has been preappraised); industry, with
emphasis on export-oriented projects; and development banks. It will also
explore possible use of innovative investment approaches that would
particularly benefit medium-size investors.
PART VI - COLLABORATION WITH THE IMF
92.       Bolivia has established good relations with the IMF.  A one-year
standby arrangement was approved on June 19, 1986. The midterm review was
approved by the IMF Board on December 15, 1986 and there is reason to
believe that the end-March 1987 performance targets have also been
achieved. An exception relates to arrears which are linked to delays in
reaching agreement with commercial banks. On December 15, 1986 the IMF
Board also approved access to the Compensatory Financing Facility (SDR 64.1
million). On the same day the IMF Board discussed a joint World
Bank/IMF/Government three-year Medium Term Policy Framework Paper (also
discussed previously by the Bank Board on November 25, 1986) and approved a
drawing for the first year program under INF's Structural Adjustment
Facility (SDR 18.1 million). Discussions with the IMF on an Extended Fund
Facility or a Second Standby arrangement are due to begin in mid-June.
PART VII - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
93.       Special conditions of the Credit are listed in Annex III, Section
III. The Conditions of effectiveness are: (a) execution of the Subsidiary
Agreement between the Borrower and the Central Bank; (b) execution of at
least one satisfactory financing agreement between the Central Bank and
YPFB or ENFE; tc) establishment of the Credit Facility satisfactory to the
Association; and (d) confirmation of the membership of the Project
Coordinating Committee and of the Commission for Control, Monitoring and
Supervision in the Central Bank. The conditions of disbursement are: that
YPFB and ENFE would enter into the relevant procurement and financing
agreement; that SNC would enter into a procurement and grant agreement, and
that each Financial Intermediary would enter into a Participating Agreement
with the Central Bank.



- 35 -
PART VIII - RECOMMENDATION
94.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
June 2, 1987
Washington, D.C.



- 36 -
APEIIDIX 1:  BOLIVIA - Summary and Status of Impleaentation                      May 29, 1907
of Principal Measures Under the U.. Economic Policy                           Page I of 6
Policy Areas                 Objeoctives and Actions        Strategiee and Measures              Status
1. External Seotor
a. BEchange rate poleiy            (a) Mainttain flexible exchange  -  Conduct foreign exohange  In place.
wat6                          auction$
-  Maintain unreatricted     In pl8co. Public sector
access to anction market  agjicies muet stay witbin
budget liits.
-  Limit net foreign         In piace.
excharge sales to net
official international
reserve targets
b. Esternal trade and payaonts    (a) Liberal tfade and payments  - Avoid introduction of        In place. Iiuor
policy                             systea                         exenange and trade         excepticne: sugar and
restrictions              cement imports are not
allowed
(b) Uniform import tariff      -  Maintain uni foP  import   In place.
without duty exemptions       tsriff of 20 percent
-  Reduce and possibly       By August 1987 for wheat.
eliminate import duty
exemptions
(c) Promote export growth and   - Rebate custome duties and  Decree being finalized.
divereifioation               indirect taxes to
exporters at a uniform
rats (proposed tax
neiburseasntfor up to
10% of the volume of
exports)
- Provide unsubsidised pre- Ongoing, e'1ltionel
and poet- shipment oredit  finnacing rsquired.
- Refrain from eXpOrt        In plaoe.
quotas and probibitions
- Establish competitive      See 3.d.
freight rates for exports
c. External borrowing              (a) Restore iaternational       - Borrow at conoessional    Ongoing.
creditworthiness              terme Only
(b) Inoreass amounts,          - Revive Consultative Group  Meeting Dec. 1986.
coordinate mi and iaprove    meetings                    annually thereafter.
terms of external
finuacing
(c) Improve debt monitoring    - Negotiate and implement   Accomplished except with
bilateral agreeenuts in    Argentina and Bradl
accordanoe with the 1986
Paris Club Agreement
-  Obtain further debt re-   Annual Paris Club
lief Zro  official bilat- meetings in mid-1987,
eral creditors            mid-1988, and mid-1989.
- Restrecture comerial    Ongoin  negotiations.
bank debt                 Debt repurobase and/or
equity oonversion are
being considered.



- 37 -
APPEIX I1:   BOLMA - S_mry and Status of Implementation                        May 29, *987
of Prinoipal Measures Under the Nov looncaio Policy (ooatinued)             Page 2 of 6
Polioy Areas                Objectives and Actions        Strategies and Mtssure.             Status
- Establieh monitoring and  To be implemented as part
control systec for short- of ongoing Central Bank
2. Publio Sector e.aent and                                             tere external public debt restructuring.
Rfficienoy of Resouroe Allocation
a. Public seotor mnigemnt         (a) Reduce size and iprove    - Cut public sector employ- Workforoe of COMIBOL and
quality of oivil servioe     sent                      the Central fank
and state enterprise staff                             drastically reduced;
PTM's retoil network
privatised, thus reducing
YPFB's workforce by 3000
people. Other adjust-
ments under way.
- Introduce incentive pay   Being studied.
scales for specialists
and top-level managers
(b) Raise executing capacity    - Reorganize public sector  Major adjustments already
entities and enterprises, made in the Central Bank
in particular the Minis-  and COlIBOL; other enti-
trie  of finanfe  nd of   ties being reorganized at
Plannig and Coordina-    varying speeds.
tion. the Central Bank,
Yw, COMIOL, UD1,
B, and the mnicipali-
ties
- Target better and deliver Ongoing; the establish-
efficoent social servioes sent of a general social
policy framework has
started with the creation
of an EImergency Social
Fund.
- Gsenerate after-tax etate  1988-1989, except in y118
enterprise savings for    which already generates
local counterpart finen-  the bulk of the reserves
ciao of invest_mt        of the Treasury.
through pricing policy
and oost cutting
b. Public tAvestnent              (a) Rebuild public iiveatmast  - Establish a "core,        Being defined.
peline in order to help      investment proam
improve and expand basic
infrastructure            - Establish shree-year       Being defined.
investment progrm and
review it annrly
- Update accounts and       Being implemnted with
establish besic finanaal IDA assistance.
control vstem
(b) Incouraeg  private        - Define national nedium-   Under preparation.
investment                   tern stratey
(a) Improve planning, project  - 8dmine loan coitments   Being defined.
screening, and monitoring    and ongoing projeot to
capacity                     ensure the attainent of
priority objectives.
- Remove eonstrints to      Ongoing.
implementation capacity
(d) Improve sid coordination   . Arrange con*eesional      Conultative Group
finanoing                  eetinge to be held
annually.



- 3-
APP1IX  1:  5OLInI - Summary and Status of Implmentation                      May 29, 1987
of Principal Ieasuree Under the Raw Uoonomic Policy                          Page 3 of 6
Policy Areas                 Objectives and Actions        Strategies and Meawures             Status
c. Private investgent              (a) Support inorease in        - Stimulate investment       Ongoing.
private ivevtment,            tbrough flexible prioes,
espeoeally for export         collective bargaining,
freedom to hire and fire.
unrestricted acoess to
mineral rights, unlimited
profit remittanees,
inrmstment guarantees,
joint ventures in certain
area, infrastracture
investment, finanoial
sector reform, and a
stable regulatory
framework
- Revise investment code    To be ,3ompleted during
and simplify approval     1987.
procedures
- Prepare sector policy      To be prepard based on
statements                the work of the ongoing
sectoral strategy
workshops (Fall 1987)
5. 8ectoral policies
a. &griculture                     (a) Increase output and        - Redefine Ministry of       Under consideration.
iaprove productivity          Agriculture's role in
support of sector
(b) Promote exports and        - Reduce transport costs    Being implemented.
efficient import
substitution               - Provide export financing   Being implesented.
- Improve transport          Beiag implemented.
infrastructure
- Strengthen research.       Being implemented.
extension and training
services
- Unsure input availability  Ongoiag.
(c) Provide alternatives to    - Provide agricultural       Ongoing; pace to pick up
coca leaf production          cerdit and omplementary  once oovernment's anti-
services                  narcotics plan starts
being implemented
(d) Raise farm income,        - Support unemployed minera  Ongoing. land grante
especially in the             and farm workers through   especially in 1987.
altiplano                     land grants and service
progras
b. Mining                          (a) Increase mining            - Restructure CONIBOL        COlIBOL transformed into
production, particularly                                holding cmpany with five
of nontiu minerals                                      subsidiaries.
- Revise mining code         Beiag studied.
-  Implement the mining tax   Being studied.
system
-  Lower freifht rates       See 3.d.(c) below.
- Support geological work   Being implemented as higb
and exploration           priority activity.
activities
- Initiate nev investments, Provis.ion of appropriate
including joint ventures  incentives being
considered.



- 39 -
APPEISfl    It  BOLIVA - Sumery and status of Implecentation                       May 29. 1987
of Principal Measures Under the 3ev  Econowi Policy                            Page 4 of 6
Policy Aresg                  Objectives and Actions         Stretegies and Measures              Status
c. Energy                           (a) Increase production ef         Couplete ongoing mFb       Duting 1951-88.
liquid petroleum. domestic     projects
consumption of ratursl
gas, and exports oC
hydrocarbons
(b) Lower the dependence on     - Analyse options for a gas Ongoing; consultants
gas exports to Argentina       export agreeamnt vith      being hired.
tasil on the basis of an
exsting agreement With
the World BSank
-  Negotiate gas export       Ongoing, to be completed
agreement witb Brsail      by 1988.
- Set domestic prices so as legal basis to be
to conserve energy         established; part of RIC
II action program.
-  Obtain agreements with     Legal basis to be
foreign companies to       esteblished; part of RIC
prowte joint ventures      II action program.
- Transfer part of YM         In place.
retailing and
distribution operations
to the private sector
(c) Improve the efficiency of  -  Improve the distribution   Revision of pricing
electricity generation and     of electricity by linking  policy being considered.
distrit' ion                   Santa Cnus to the
ustional network asd
revise priciag policy
d. Transport                        (a) Create efficient export    - Rehebilitate, modernise,  Being studied.
corridors                     and upgtrde road ad
ratlvay syste- With
priority for export
corridors (Santa
Crux-Corunba railrod.
river trnsportation to
Argentina, rail and road
links to Chile and Peru)
(b) Promte national             - Continue the construction  Oagoing.
lntegration                    of the national road
system
- Repair and maintain toads Ongoing.
(c) lower transport costs,     - Deregulate trucking          Full contracting and
especially for exports         industry and some railway  uncontrolled tariffs
lines and/or adopt other  introduced in road
4seures to reduce         transport.  In rail
freight tariffs.          transport there is a
study of the coats and
Its findings WIll be
reflected in the tariffs
by December 31, 1981.
Possible reductions in
railway freight tariffe
for export commoditiee
are being studied by the
Government amd ENPI.



- 40
APPENDIX Zi  BOLIVIA - Sumary and Status of Implentation                       May 29. 1987
of Principal IMeasures Under the New Economic Policy                         Page 5 of 6
Policy Areaa                 Objectives and Actions        Strategies ead Measures             Status
4. Fiscal policy                       (a) Raise tax revenue while    - Implement the tax reforms Being implemented.
lowering the dependence on    by issuing guidelines and  Enforcement of all taxes
the hydrocarbon sector        enforcing the new tamxs   in the course of 1987.
(b) Rationalize expenditure so  - Limit expenditure through Ongoing.
as to make room for           improved budgeting and
inwestunt, social             expenditure control
apending. and domestic        procedures
arrears reduction
(c) Reduce nonfinancial public  - Avoid subsidies           Ongoing.
sector deficit to 5 1/2 -
6 percent of CDP           - Maintain tight wage        Ongoing.
policy
-  Introduce special pay     To be completed during
scale for qualified       1987.
personnel
-  Increase investment       Ongoing.
spending
- Provide for well           Ongoing.
targeted social spending,
especially education and
health
- Reduce public sector       Ongoing.
arrears
- Limit overall deficit to   Ongoing.
available foreign
financing
- Achieve a small domestic  1988, 1989
financing surplus
5. Financial sector policy             (a) Reform banking law         - Submit bill to Congress   By mid-1987.
a. Institutional reform
(b) Reduce the role of the     - Create superintendency of By 1987.
Central Bank in the           banks
resource allocation
proceas                    - Eliminate approvals of    Originally planned for
Individual development    early 1987; delay due to
loans by the Central Bank Central Bank
restructuring.
(c) Rehabilitate state and     - Reform the Bsco Agricola During 1987.
private banks
- Reform or liquidate the   During 1987.
Banco del Estado
-  Study the cteation of a   Under consideration.
national securities
exchange
(d) Simplify accounting and    - Currency reform            In place.
transactions in the
economy                    -  Improve the functioning    Ongoing.
of the interbank money
market
-  Improve the Central       Ongoing.
Bank's accounting system
b. Interest rate policy            (a) Increase domestic resource  - Maintain market determin- Ongoing.
mobilization while            ation of interest rates
encouraging lover real
interest rates



- 4k -
APPWIX I:  BOLIVIA - Summary and Statue of Impleumtation                          May 29. 1987
of Principal ISeasures Under the New Econmdc Policy                            Page 6 of 6
Policy Areas                  Objectives and Actions         Strategies and Iteeutrs              Status
(b) Improve efficiency of       -  Permit bank. to Issue      By mid-1987, ceneurrent
intermediation via loeer       bearer certificates of    vith banking lav.
spreads                        depoSit
c. Credit policy                    (a) Reduce concentration of     - Limit credit allocatione   Ongoing.
credit to public sector        to the public sector
6. Social sector policy                 (a) Alleviate poverty effects   -  Iplement action plAne      Ongoing.
of the economic cristi         for the social ministries
(including employment
programs) to improve
eff iciency, target pro-
gracs, and assure budget
allocatione.
-  Implemnt targeted work    During 1987-89.
programs to alleviate
unemployent
tb) Strengthen Investment in    -  Monitor the poverty        honitoring mechanism yet
human capital                  impact of the economic    to be 4easigod.
crisis
-  Strengthen the education   D1fficult even to start
system                     until greater resourcee
can be made available.
Sectoral policy
definition readied for
Fall 1987 sbould help
focue attention on this
problem.
(c) Reduce infant mortality     -  Implement emergency        During 1987-88.
health programs with the
assistance of
nongovernmental
organizations



APPENDIX II
- 42 -                       Page I of 7
RIC II
PROPOSED ACTION PROGRAM
Problem Area       Status and Recent Actions      Action Program         Timin
I. PUBLIC EXPENDITURE PROGRAMMING
a. Public           Major sectoral analyses         0 Present a letter  By November 30 of
Investment.     sponsored by Government are        to IDA, for        each year through
Low levels of   underway as is a revision of       IDA's review and  Project completion
public in-       the National System of Pro-       agreement, de-    beginning on
vestment.        jects.                            tailing the pro-  November 30, 1987.
Public In-                                         posed public ex-
vestment Pro-   There is a large pipeline of       penditure budget
gram for         undisbursed external commit-      for 1988, with
1988-89 is      ments.  Public investment          special emphasis
still embryo-   budget execution levels            on sectors
nic.  Public    appear to be running well          covered by this
Investment      under 50% of those budgeted,       Credit and on
procedures      and investment levels are          the social sec-
are unclear     near historical lows.  There       tors (see I.B.,
and execution   is a need to coordinate            II.a, III.a and
capacity        external financial help as         IV.a below).  A
appears weak.   well as to identify and            similar letter
remedy implementation             to be sent by
bottlenecks.                      November 30,
1988 covering
the proposed
1989 budget.
0 Appoint a         Action taken.
Subsecretary for
Public
Investment and
International
Cooperation in
the Ministry of
Planning to
provide high
level direction
to the
implementation
of the public
investment
program and to
the coordination
of external
financial help.



APPENDIX II
- 43 -                      Page2 of 7
Problem Area       Status and Recent Actions      Action Program         Tig
Procurement procedures are     0 Agree on aea-   Action taken.
slow and cumbersome.             sures (i.e.
competitive
selection of
procurement
agents) to
speed up
Government
procurement
under
projects.
o Execution of    Before
a procurement  Disbursement.
contract
satisfactory
to IDA be-
tween a pro-
curement
agent and
YPFB, ENFE or
SNC.
o Present         January 31,
Procurement     1988.
Law to
Congress; IDA
to be given
an
opportunity
to review and
comment on
the proposed
Law (by
November 30,
1987)
beforehand.
b. Recurrent
Public RIpen-   Over the past few years         0 Government to   November 30 of
ditures.        there has been a consider-        state longer    each year
Sigh social     able deterioration in health    term priori-   through Project
cost of con-    and education status of the       ties in the     completion
tinued          population as well as in          social sec-     beginning on
economic        conditions of employment and      tors, lnclu-    November 30,
crisis.         pay. While reversal of the        ding an indi-   1987.
fundamental trends is a          cation of the
longer term process to be         level of re-
addressed via an overall         sources (rel-
social sector policy and         ative to GDP)
supported by an increase in      to be devoted
the relevant ministerial         annually in
budgets (by raising recur-       the period
rent and to some extent pub-      1988-89 (part
lic investment expendi-           of I.a above)
tures), some action is
needed to redress the impact



APPENDIX I1
- 44 -                      Page 3 of 7
Problem Area       Status and Recent Actions       Action Program         Tlmi
of the recent stabilization  0 Design of the       Action
measures and large terms of    Emergency Social  taken.
trade shocks.  The              Fund and the
Government has established      plan of action
an Emergency Social Fund to    to be agreed
address the cyclical            upon under this
problem.                        credit opera-
tion.
II. HYDROCARBON
SECTOR
a. Lack of clear      YPFB has put together a       0 During negotia-   Action
investment         1987 proposed investment        tions the Gov-    taken.
priorities and    program which seems              ernment would
funds for         over-optimistic given            present to IDA
critical          funding constraints,             for discussion
investment         However, the Government is      and agreement
areas.            now in the final stages of       YPFB's 1987in-
preparing a comprehensive       vestment budget.
National Energy Plan.
0 For subsequent    November 30
years, YPFB's     of each year
investment        through
budget, physical  Project
action program    completion
and financing     beginning on
plan would be     November 30,
presented to IDA  1987.
for review (part
of I.a above).
b. Declining          Exploration has been low,    0 Present to          March 31,
Hydrocarbon       while exploitation               Congress new       1988.
Reserves.          increased.  Very limited        hydrocarbons
Government/YPFB funds are       legislation that
available for exploration.      the Government
is in the
process of
designing in
order to address
the key problems
in this sector.
o Furnish IDA        January 31,
proposed draft    1988.
of new
hydrocarbon
legislation
(above) for its
review and
comment.



APPENDIX II
45                       Page 4 of 7
Problem Area       Status and Recent Actions      Action Program         Timing
0 Inform IDA on      October 31,
the status of      1987 and
negotiations,     semi-annually
agreements         thereafter
reached and        through
implementation    Project
of such           completion.
agreements with
respect to
payments on
contracts with
foreign
investors in the
petroleum sector
in Bolivia.
c. Need for LPG       Domestic consumption is       0 Agree with IDA    December 31,
export revenues.  relatively high, possibly        on a timetable    1987.
cutting into exportable         and schedule
surplus.                        of gradual
increases to
raise domestic
LPG price to
reach
opportunity
cost.
o Agree with IDA    October 31,
on an action       1987.
program
concerning the
distribution and
marketing of
natural gas
within Bolivia
in order to free
up LPG for
export.



- 46 -                       APPENDIX II
Page 5 of 7
Problem Area       Status and Recent Actions      Action Program         Timing
d. YPFB contributes  Substantial studies            0 Agree on the       Action taken.
the major por-    regarding its reorganiza-        terms of refer-
tion of the       tion have been carried out       ence and on the
Government's       but implementation is           implementation
revenues and is   lagging (although there          timetable for a
by far the most   have been some reductions        program to
important earner  in staff, from 9,200 to          improve YPFB's
of export reve-   6,900, mostly due to the         accounting,
nues.  Its effi-  leasing of retail outlets        budgeting,
ciency and the    to the private sector).  A       financial
transparency of   key component to help speed    control and
its operations    up this process would be to    management
are critical.     make the financial               information sys-
situation of the company        tems.
more easily comprehensible.
III. AGRICULTURE
a. Public sector      Budget allocations for        0 The proposed       November 30
expenditures for  public sector investments        public             of each year
agriculture are   and operations are low and       expenditure        through
not consistent    will not provide a stimulus    budget for 1988   Project
with the empha-   for development of agricul-    would reflect        completion
sis and priority  ture.  There are over 100        the government's  beginning on
attributed to     projects in the 1987 budget    commitment ot        November 30,
the sector, in    totalling about $75 million    the new, more        1987.
part because the  and 100 or more minor            important role
sector's public   projects (principally            being assigned
sector invest-    financed by NGOs) not            to agriculture
nent program is   included in the budget.          (part of I.a
fragmented and                                     above).
lacks clear
priorities.
b. Lack of a cen-    At least eight ministries,   0 The Government    October 31,
tralized moni-    the Regional Development         would establish   1987.
toring of pro-    Corporations and many other    within the
ject preparation  agencies independently           Ministry of
and execution.    plan, prepare and execute        Agriculture a
projects.                       central monitor-
ing unit to
follow up and
coordinate pro-
ject preparation
and execution of
various agencies
involved in the
sector*



APPENDIX II
- 47 -                       Page 6 of7
Problem Area      Status and Recent Actions       Action Program         Tis
IV. TRANSPORT
a. Investment        Primary criterion for          0 Prepare a         November 30
priorities as     inclusion of a project in a    coherent and        of each year
between modes     modal investment plan is         detailed          through
and as between    still the availability of        investment plan   Project
maintenance and   funding, usually external,       for 1988 for      completion
upgrading and                                      discussion and    beginning on
expansion of ths                                   agreoment with    November 30,
transportation                                     IDA (part of I.a  1987.
network still                                      above).
unclear.
b. Righ level of     A study of the costs of        0 Present a plan    December 31,
costs and         transport on Bolivia's           of action to       1987 for plan
freight tariffs.  railroads has been               restructure       of action;
completed but Its findings      freight tariffs   implements-
have not yet been reflected    and fully           tion in a
in the tariff structure.        implement them    timely manner
based on a        thereafter.
railway cost
study recently
completed as
part of an
agreement with
IDA under the
RIC I operation.
Efficiency of ENFE's          0 ENPE's ratio of   December 31,
operations needs to be          total working      1988.
Improved.                       expenses to to-
tal operating
revenues would
be reduced to at
least 0.90 and
further
thereafter.
0 ENIE would        December 31,
complete its      1987
revaluation of
fixed assets and
use the results
in preparing its
1988 balance
sheets.
c. Lack of           Although a locomotive reha-  0 Increase locomo-  December 31,
locomotives; low  bilitation plan now exists,    tive availabil-   1988.
efficiency in     traffic continues to be         ity in the
the use of        rejected due to lack of         western network
available         tractive power,                  to at least 75S
locomotives.      particularly on                 and in the
import/export corridors.        eastern network
to 852.



APPENDIX I1
-48-                        Page  o77,7
Problem Area      Status and Recent Actions       Action Program
0 Increase loco-    December 31,
motive utiliza-   1988.
tion to at least
105,000 km. per
year.
Wagon rotation ooor by         Improve wagon      December 31,
neighboring country             availability to   1988.
stantards.                      80S for both
eastern and
western net-
works and
improve train
operations by
better planning.
d. Low passenger      Revenues for a number of      0 Passenger fares   July 31,
fares             passanger trains do not         would be           1987.
cover even the marginal         increased
cost, yet some of the           substantially in
trains have an occupancy        real terms.
ratio of over 1002.
o Present a plan    March 31,
of action         1988.
satisfactory to
IDA to ensure
that future
fares cover at
least the
long-run
marginal cost.
e. Unclear road      Bolivian road maintenance    0 The proposed        November 30
maintenance/      has been seriously in-           1988 road net-    of each year
investment        adequate.                       work investment   through
crlteria.                                          budget, sent for  Project
review and        completion
comment by IDA,   beginning on
would indicate    November 30,
the proportion    1987.
of expenditures
allocated to
maintenance and
rehabilitation
of the existing
network versus
the proportion
of expenditures
for improvement
and expansion of
road network
(definLition to
be agreed with
IDA).



- 49-
119 iiti051 4801..... - (0013 ...............                                                                                                                                   46002of
Annual GrauO tl os. (51 at Cosataat Prices
Onet                                  dttoai                                                             f.t.                froj.ct.d
indicator                               i3flolls 1318
398               397       1979     198       1981     32       898       198      198                386       398      198      8989      M9C      1993
EATIONAL 800C0615
fal oo s 0008c Prsott                          3182                3.4       0.0     -0.a    -0.3 S      3.6     -7,2      -2.4     -4.0               -2.9      2.2       2.4      4.2       4.0      4.0
6qricultaro Ii                                968                 ..       3.2      1.3      -t.1      4.2    -27.2      36.2      0.7               -2.)        .        -
honsoatian                                      352a               5.6       3.2     -0,2       7,2    -9.        0.7      -9.4      2.8               -2.1      -2.0      2.9      3.4       3.3      3.3
GrIst lsqestn.t                                 245               4.7    -33.1    -22.1       13.3    -26.1t   -66.3      84.1    -40.5                4.1      38.9     20.3      32.9     31.1      3.4
Jsowls of Saudi isad Of                          710               4.0      8 -     -2.3      -7,1    -40.9      -8.4      10.4     34.0               12.2    -14.1       8.8      7,1       6.3      4.4
bopgts of Gots and IFS                           721              -3.0       1.4,    -5.3'   -76.3      -9.6    -34.3      52.9     -9.8                3.6     -3.3       2.3      5.61      5.2      7.6
Ross National Savings          -140               -3,9    -16.2    -13.3    -39.1      28.6    -57.0   12.8    -49.0                  58.4        .  21   4.9      23.3     17.8      38.3
010 0e41at~~~~~~~r                  134to               60       72       to0       324      33      3259    186        299  /3            8196 43
'isal15c159t ratellslzv,anos per 01J3I     446                 20       20       25        25       67       230     291        44 s1            1930 13
Sbus. Eichisqt rate l0ulsiiaoss pW  033I        559                 .          .       26        33       a8      329      4833      55? /3            3936 /3
Share of 009 at lirkat Prietp (1I                                      kvarp  An"s,  latrease 311)
Actual 4/                                  Proj.  /                        Actual               projected
W9C      1975     190       398      3984      198      190       1995           1970-75  3975"     19808   3985-90  6990-95
Sross Csaustic Priodct                         10.   10 30.0    304.0    100.0    108.0    100.0    100.8    100.0                   5.8       2.6     -3.9      2.4       3.2
Aqratultore 1/                                  ..               L 8.     20.9     23.3     25.6        .         ..                          .      -.          .        -
Wer.ces U                                       .               45.1      46.6     44.0     43.0         .       ,..                          ..     -5.3
55541pt50s-                                    83.1     81.2     83.7      93.6     90.3      94.8     87.6     81,4                4.9       4.2     -1.8       1.1      3.1
Sf500 lilvestaust                               17.1     24.4     10.9       3.6      6.4       4.2     12.6      34.5              80.5      -8.3 1   21.0      36.9      6.2
leports of Goods and IFS                         20.3    26.9     20.1      13.6      9. 1     14.0     20.0     20.0                6.8      .4.3     -8.7      3.6       4.3
Espots of $wasi ad %FS                          10.2     21.3     25.5      14.4     12.4      33.0     MI,    19.1                  5.3       0.2    -10.0      5.1       2.4
Gross Ilatiosal Savoegs                         1-.0     17.6     12.7       0.0      5.4      -1.2      4.9      3.6                8.7      -6.7    -46.I        .. 2/   -2.7
8U8.10 FIWCE                       --- -  ----------- -
- -----------                            ~~~~~1986  1981     1912      I98      398       3985     199
46spoal Ssyersaesti                                     -----   ------     -      -             -
Current Seseokus                                         20.9     22.4      21.0      6.9       4.6     11.1
Current Expenditures                                     18.3     23.0      26.6     26.0      25.4     18.8       -
surplus f01 of Deficit I-)                                2.6      1.4      -5.6    -19.2    -20.7      -7.7
Caiptal Eopesbsts,,                                       2.2      2.7       3.0      2.8       2.2      2.2
D'orall Deficit 1-'                                       0.4     -1.3      -LA,   -17.5    -22.8       -9.7
8@reotp Fososcos                                          0.4      0.1       0.3      0.1      0.2       0.0
588 Oroetlo late                                          5.8      1.6      -4.6      2.6       2.4
U      PuF  Capote Itut  Rate                             3.0     '1.3      -7.1     -0.2      -0.3
1080 IS VWar                                              3 .6     8.9      -2.4      M.        4.2
Orass liarg9003 Savtoos late                             33.9    -40.2    -38.9      37,8      13.6
lapot Elasircity                                          3.3      0.1       2.2      1.3      1.3
2/ UBS oscrasl fros. -89.9 *s1lss 08  III 3986 to 1333.5 uilito  413 to 1987, IM  FlU  -1401.18  to 198  to 20LOOul to 199.
3/ At constant prices.
Mlay 29, 1987



- 50 -
7t14tstxt: t.t M19i)                                                              BOLIVIA - UtIAL MU                                                                        40M   t
"Pr Cpipta     USt 470                                                                                                                                                      Page 2 of 4
Ual 61,15  ibb (IU
Indicator                              (ftillten 4 8t                                1ftoa                                                                                                 E.t.  proJt-
OurrntfPrices) 4iftl
298ttt51"            4910     4019    4980      298      9i2 4   151;i6   498l4    ;9405             i956     1907    2988      4189     S190    1995
UTOONM 14404~ ~ ~ ~~~~~lis                                                                                         20 
E'tTEilU TR
Ic0bantdit 0,1ets  fF4                      42.2               -9.5    -2.4 -2.5    -1I    -54.             A.9t     - 1    '21.1                4.0    -4.        24.      5.6      5.2      8.1
Rhtole4h WikE 8ue4                        211.4             -4.0      -.      -9.0      7.    '144.     -1.        4.9   -22.5                41    -17.1    -.4.        84       041      10
ftidivea-uIe                               314.5            -102    -1 .9       4.3    .0,5       .14      9.      3a1.9    j.                 40      4.2       1.0      1.5    -4.7       0.0
e- traditiGoal                              251,3           -25.5 42.5          -4i    -514      20.       3.3 -5 .9    -4.0                   12.5    25.6    29.4    21.9    23.4    13.0
KrhMs   4wt i 4734                  442.0              14.8    -7. 1    -26.1    43.2   -22.f    -5,21   -10.9   -20.1                 20.3   -41.1      44.5      8.4      7.5      4.6
CcAsow  8iGGs                              115.1              34.1     4 2.6    23.5    57.4    40.6   -34.4       44.1    5.                 14.6    -1.4      3.4      4.2      4.0      4.0
Rn Matrials ant  wet,rue&t  CS.h           152 .7             4.3    44.1  -51.70       32.5   -2:9       14.1   -19.2   -25.4                -3.1    -1.5       3.4      4.2      4.0      4.0
Capita4l sh s                              194.4              44.2    -4.t   -59.1      J 39.S      2     44.8   -11.2    -.9                 41.4   -48.0      I9.9    12.1    I0.5        4.9
PRICES (4.24)
Expori Prcas losu            I       C       0.0             61.0    75.9   140.4    99.0    15.2         843      9 V.g  4  .                86.7    84.1  Si.          92.5    96.5 12Z.5
4aMrt Prit. Wads                           444.4             84.7    93.8   404.2   102.4    97.0    91.4    95.5   411.0                    408.    444.    I2.        4227    42.3      44,
Teras of Traf Index                       t30.              72.0    80.5 S     4.7    94 .1    18.2    91.0   IO2         13.40.0            8L      712.      1.4    174.83    15.       8.7
Ctaqnatm0 of rerckadic TriOs (t1                                                     Amrp  fA4  Imra  111
(at current prntcl
197     t975      19      1984 __199C       499      4905                             49158    1980P4        2   9mo-
4t.is ano flsr4s                           D9.5    59.1    61.9    46.5    36.9         V.2      SM                                  -4.8   -41.9    -2.4        1.9
Nitrawbecdt                                 5.      2S9.0    22.7    49.t    59.3    44.5    44.4                                   -12.S    -0.4       0.5   -42.3
la- Traditzoool                              4.7    It.9    44.5       2.8      3.8    28.3    52.0                                   2.8   -19.4    S5.1    il.O
ICoousr Oaso                               20.3    00.3    25.4    19.2    24.0    20.9    29.4                                        :9    419.5      t.4      3.4
lotermdiste Goos                            31.4    14.7    32.8    35.9    43.2    23.0    21.4                                     -7.      -t.2    -2.1 2     J2
bstal Ceods                                42.1    4t.1      41.7    44.0    45.8    56.2    59.0                                    -8.5   -:0.S    :1.         5J
DlftEtTIOlt oF tE                              Shttr of Trade aIth                          Sh, of Trnd  with                                 Stare of Trod. with
-lodaitu   Cmatrinull                       Unlqiag Coustri,6D                                isatra Kai  C=dtxi
1975     4984    4904     498l5             4975     1i98     2984     1485              4915  -1980          19      85
Erparts                                      57.2     56.1    39.4    32.2                27.1    36.0    50.2    64.2                  8.4      4.4      2.1      2.4
1*4Wts                                         41    U2.2    56.2    47.5                 37.2    32.7    60.5    51.4                 O.       1.4      1.2      1.3
May  29. 1987



- 51 -
Pauloptwos 6.4 (1951                                 OLIVIA  - BI4E OF PA414S                                 Ranex 1
0f Per Capita: 11S$ 470                              IUS$ d(lli0tf  at tCrnt Picis)                           Page 3 of 4
Atota          Prelia.                         Projected
1983    1984    1985   1:96    1987        998    1989    1990    199I    1995
A. fxports of foods  IFS               852.2   812.0   721.2   660.5   625.5   f67.6   738.9   811.7   893.8  1199.4
1. flercthadise (FOil               755.1   724.5   623.2   543.5   494.8   526.8   536.0   645.5   714.1   953.6
2. Mon-Factor Services               97.1    97.5    98.0   117.0   130.9   140.8   153.0   166.2   179.7   245.8
S. laports of  ods and NIFS            68.5   597.1   70r.9   960.5   798.5   895.0   986.8  1082.0  1171.4  157.7
1. erchanduie (F09)                 496.0   412.3   462.8   601.5   534.4   613.7   685.0   758.7   826.7  1079.7
2. Won-Fattor Services              189.5   I84      247.1   259.0   264.1   281.2   301.8   323.3   344.7   428.0
C. Resource Balance                    166.7   214.9    11.3  -200.0  -173.0  -227.4  -247.9  -270.3  -277.5  -308.3
0. Net factor (nse                   -411.0  -431.2  -410.4  -351.4  -337.4  -376.7  -403.5  -432.4  -44U.7  -676.0
1. Factor Receipts                   46.8    36.0    24.5    22.1    34.3    34.0    32.0    34.0    35.0    42.0
2. Factor Payants                   457.8   467.2   434.9   373.5   371.7   410.7   435.5   466.4   484.7   718.0
(interest payaetsl               341.9   361.3   336.6   281.0   2S9.7   325.7   347.5   375.4   390.7   610.0
E. Not Private Transfers                40.2    21.8    14.5    17.0    20.0    22.0    24.0    26.0    28.0    36.0
f. Curreat fccount Balance            -204.1  -194.5  -384.6  -534.4  -490.4  -582.1  -627.4  -676.7  -699.3  -74.3
S. Long-eTre Capital Inflo             503.2   159.6   183.8   534.6   450.1   570.1   568.3   741.7   784.3   987.4
1. DireCt Investr.nt                  6.9     7.0    10.0    20.0    20.0    35.0    45.0    50.0    55.0    75.0
2. Offtcial Transfers                66.0    66.7    65.5    82.0    95.0   101.0   106.0   111.0   t17.0   142.0
3. Net LT Loans                      51.5  -175.7   108.3   432.6   335.t   434.1   417.3   28r.9   238.7   175.1
a. Oishursteunts                 507.5   159.8   289.2   529.9   427.3   501.3   490.1   490.6   494.1   554.9
a. Repaeents                     454.5   334.3   180.9    97.3    92.2    67.2    72.8   200.7   255.4   37.9
c. Othrr (netl                    -1.5    -1.2       ..       .. 2.            ..      ..
4.  ther It                         378.8   261.6       ..       ..    26.5      0.2    44U.    290.8   373.6   595.3
R. Total Ofhsr teas (netl             -10.6   162.4   234.5   125.2    13.8    11.8    15.0    15.0    15.0    15.0
1. NEt Shert-ters Capital         -113.9   180.5    24N.    118.5    13.8    11.8    15.0    15.0    15.0    15.0
2. Errors and  nissons              103.3     1.9   210.0      6.7      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
1. Change  n M1t Rervsn              -28.5  -147.5   -33.?  -125.4         0.0     0.0      0.0   -80.0  -t00.0   -30.0
(- indicates incree)
Shares of GOP (current 0O):
1. Resurce Balance                   4.01    5.3t    0.31   -5.02   -3.92   -4.82   -4.91   -5.07.   -4.91    -4.32
2. lotal Interest PPaymts             8.32    9.02     8.92    7.1?    6.62    6.92    6.91    6.92    6.81    8.52
3. Current kccout Balance            -4.9l   -4.82   -10.21  -(3.52  -11.12  -12.42  -12.42  -12.52  -12.11  -13.22
4. Lt Copital Inflow (line 81        12.22    4.02    4.9n    13.5S   10.22   12.12    11.21   13.72   13.6S    13.82
5. Iet Credit 4ros the IIF            0.02    0.0O    0.01         0.01     o.1    0.02    0.02   0.0    1    O.2  0.0
flearana Itee
80P (at wrest V9$n                 4124.0  4026.0  3781.6  3965.7   421.3  4708.9  5053.7  5413.5  5770.8  7165.3
Foreign Exchiage  ese
1. Gross Int'l Rsroves ainus Gold   139.3   248.4   234.8   461.9
2. Gold ((nAt. valuation)            37.4    37.9    37.8    37.8
3. Gro  Rewsv  ircl. Gold 2/        (76.7   286.3   272.6   499.7
4. Sr. lntl Rtn. to Months of
leorts of goods                    4.3     9.3      7.1    10.0
EFchanje Rtes (LCUs/US$l
t. Ms. 011.1-Rate lifS (hi          230.0  2178.0   442.9  1922.0
2. I-Rate for GM? Connwrsion        329.0  4853.0   558.8   922.0
- -           -------    -   - - ----        -d              -------                       --       
It Fur t983 and 1984, it refes to Esceeptina  Financing; for195 ad 196 , Exceptionl Financinq is included in Net LT Lon;
frea 1917 onwards the ntrties repernt lot Safill.
21 The seesing inctnsistency beemn the level ef Gross Reseres od Chae  in Rsves is due to the reduction of rewrve
liabilities of the Cetral lni throqh the conversion of short tera st of $US 369.9 dillian in 1983 into duau tore deet.
Sowet  entral Bank of BolivIe, 1M and Mealon satiates.
May 29, 1987



- 52 -
to  latioon: 6.4 f 98Si                                  Ol 191A - EITEMI.L CAPITAL AND DEVt                                                                                   bAOeX I
6f  P., Capita.  USS 470                                --------- - ---- - -------------- - -- -- ----------- - -------                                                        Page 4 of 4
Actutl                                             Est.            Projected
1978      1979     1980      1t91      1982      1983      1984   I9B5         198                 1988      1989     1990      1975
EITEAMAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Mlill tUS curr. Prices)
fress  isburseeeents                               538       337       468       373       194        91       232       290      414       386       460       470       491       555
Bilateral                                       90        75       101       133        91        48      137       120       160       122       I13      2l6        129       145
IBRD 6 IDA                                      26        36        74       46        30        13        16        12        t8        60        77        46       4         67
Other eultilateral                              60        47        61        37        40        25       65        63       160       156       165       t78       179       154
Private                                        362       179       232       157        33         5        14       95        76        48       105       120       135       189
ELternal Public MIlT Debt                         2455      2870      3077      3554      332       4045      4156     4161
Debt Oitstanding afad Diuibufsedi               1719      1908      2229      2679     2769      3103      33203     3259      365        922      4317      4719      504       6142 
official                                       BB        998      1279      1458      21574     2197     2316      2347      2617      2887      '17b      3458      U68       3981
Private                                        831       910      1050      1221     1195       908       887       912       988      1035      114t      1261      139      2162
Dndisbursed Debt                                 736       962       848       875       613       940      953        902        ..        .        .         .
Public .1.T Debt Service
Total Service Paysents                           362       272       290       281       287      294       321       518       378       382       392       421       576       990
Interest                                        86       122       164       171      181       173       201       337       281       289       325       348       375      610
Amortioation                                   275       150       127       110       106       fIt      119       t81        97        92        67        73       201       380
As 1 of Exports of 6WS
Interest                                        12        14        16        17       20        20        25        47        43        46        49        47        46        51
Aeortuzation                                    38        17        12        11        12        13        IS       25        15        IS        10        tO        25       32
Total Debt Service                                            ..             .     .        .         .                 578       429       440       454       4l4       640      1609
Total Publc Dekt Service
iecludOni  IIIF dand short-terol                  ..                  ..        .         ..        .                 525       384       399       414       444       600     1009
Private Debt Service                                        ..        .         ..        ..                  .         53       45        41        40        40        40        40
May 29. 1987



- 53 -
Annex II
Status of World Bank Group Operations in Bolivia
1. Statement of World Jiank loans and IDA oredits (as of March 31, 1987)
Loan or                                                              Amount (lese oancellations)
Credit       Fiscal                                                  Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Number        Year       Borrower      Purpose                      (In millions of U.S. dollaxs)
Ten loas and thirteen credits fully disbursed                       233.2    98.9
933          1979       Bolivia       Omaauyos-Los Andes Rural
Development                          3.0         1.1
940          1979      Bolivia        National Mineral
Exploration Fund                     7.5         5.5
1703          1986      Bolivia        RIC                                    61.0 1     50.8
1719          1986      Bolivia        Vuelta Grande                          16.0  /    13.Q
1404          1977      Bolivia        Education & Vocational
TrainAing                   15.0                 1.4
1489          1977      Bolivia        Urban Development             17.0                 0.2
1510          1978      Bolivia        Ulla Ulla Development          9-0                 4.9
1587          1978      Bolivia        Highway Maintenancoe          25.0                 1.2
Total Original Principal                                            299.2   186*4
Less Cancellations                                                 17.8      0.3
Of which has been repaid                                           81.6      5.4
Total now outstanding                                               199.8   180.7
Amount sold                            .05
Of which has been repaid             .05
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                      199.8   180.7
Total undisbursed                                                                        79.0
2. Statement of IFC investment (as of February 28, 1987)
Loan     Equity     Total
(In millions of U.S. dollars)
Total gross commitments                                               8.3      1.0        9.3
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments, and sales                                             7.7    04          8.1
Total commitments now held by IIC                                     0.6      0.6        1.2
Total undisbursed                                                          -
S 9DR equivalent is 48.4 million
/ SDB equivalent is 12.8 million



54                        ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
SUPPLIKENrAR! PROJECr DATh SWT
Section 1: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Date of first discussion with IDA                        November 1986
(b)  Date of departure of Appraisal Mission                   February 7, 1987
(c)  Date of completion of negotiations                       May 28, 1987
(d)  Planned date of effectiveness                            August 1987
Section II:  Special IDA Implementation Action
None
Section III: Conditions
1.   Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) Execution of a satisfactory Subsidiary Agreement between the
Borrower and the Central Bank and provision of satisfactory legal
opinion of counsel acceptable to the Association (para. 93);
(b) Execution of a satisfactory financing agreement between the
Central Bank and YPFB or ENFE and provision of satisfactory legal
opinion of counsel acceptable to the Association (para. 93); and
(c) Establishment of a Credit Facility satisfactory to the
Association and confirmation of the composition of the Project
Coordinating Committee and of the Commission for Control,
Monitoring and Supervision in the Central Bank (para. 93).
2.   Conditions of Disbursement
(a) YPFB and ENFE would enter into the relevant procurement and
financing agreement; SNC would enter into a procurement and grant
agreement, and each Financial Intermediary would enter into a
Participating Agreement with the Central Bank (para. 93).
Section IV: Credit Conditions
Mid-term Review
(a) A mid-term review of the Government's New Economic Policy (as
summarized in Appendix I), and of the proposed Credit operation
would be held within six months after effectiveness or at anytime
as shall be reasonably requested by IDA (para. 38);



- 55 -                     ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
Public Expenditure Program
(a) The Ministry of Planning would send to IDA by November 30, 1987,
for IDA's review and comment, a letter on the medium-term
expenditure program containing:
(i) the Government's proposed detailed 1988 budget which would
include YPFB's investment budget, physical action program
^..' financing plan; a budget for the agriculture sector that
would reflect a financial commitment commensurate with the
new, more important role being assigned to that sector;
detailed investment and maintenance expenditure plans for
the transportation sector; and
(ii) the Government's longer-term priorities in the social
sectors, including an indication of the level of resources
to be devoted annually in the period 1988-89.
A similar letter would be prepared by November 30, 1988, covering the
proposed budget and priorities for 1989 (paras. 41-47, 54, 57, 61 and
67);
Procurement
(a)  During negotiations, the Government and IDA agreed on measures
for competitive selection of procurement agents intended to speed
Government's procurement under projects;
(b)  The Government would present to Congress a revised Procurement
law by January 31, 1988 that was reviewed and commented upon
beforehand by IDA (para. 42);
Energy Sector
(a)  Within the context of the new comprehensive National Energy Plan,
the Government is planning to take measures to address key
problems in the areas of exploration, production, distribution
and exports. It intends to submit to Congress, by March 31,
1988, new legislation covering these aspects. IDA would be
furnished the proposed draft legislation by January 31, 1988 for
review and comment (para. 54);
(b)  By October 31, 1987, and semi-annually thereafter, the Government
would inform IDA on the status of negotiations, agreements
reached and on progress in implementing such agreements with
respect to payments on contracts with foreign investors in the
petroleum sector (para. 54);
(c)  By December 31, 1987, YPFB and IDA would agree on a timetable and
schedule oi gradual increases to raise domestic LPG price to
reach opportunity cost with the plan then to be executed
according to an agreed timetable (para. 54);



- 56 -                        ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
(d) By October 31, 1987, YPFB would present an action program, to be
reviewed by IDA, on the distribution and marketing of natural gas
within Bolivia (para. 54);
Agriculture Sector
(a) By October 31, 1987, the Government would establish within the
Ministry of Agriculture a central monitoring unit to follow up
and coordinate project preparation and execution by various
agencies involved in the sector (para. 67);
Transport Sector
Railroads:
(a) Not later than December 31, 1987 ENFE would present a plan of
action for restructuring of rail freight tariffs based on the
study completed under the RIC I operation and carry out the
restructuring in a timely manner thereafter (para. 60);
(b) ENFE's ratio of total working expenses to total operating
revenues would not be higher than 0.90 for the year ending in
December 31, 1988 and would decline further thereafter (para.
59);
(c) By December 31, 1988 ENFE would increase locomotive availability
in the Western network to 75% and in the Eastern network to 85%
(para. 58);
(d) By December 31, 1988 ENFE would increase locomotive utilization
to at least 105,000 km per year (para. 58);
(e) Not later than December 31, 1988, ENFE would improve wagon
availability in both the Eastern and the Western networks to 80%
of all available wagons (para. 58);
(f) By July 1987, ENFE would increase passenger fares substantially
in real terms and by March 31, 1988 present a plan of action
satisfactory to IDA designed to ensure that future fares cover at
least the long-run marginal cost (para. 60);
(g) By December 1987, ENFE will have completed its revaluation of
fixed assets and will then use the results in preparing its 1988
balance sheets (para. 61); and
Roads:
(a) Beginning in November of 1987, and annually thereafter, SNC would
send a report for review and comment by IDA indicating a
breakdown of proposed total expenditures (for the coming year)
for the main road network (primary and secondary roads) among
maintenance, rehabilitation, improvement and expansion (para.
57).



____         ~ ~~I         -                                         64
68-                                                     64'                                                      6$?
,00,o                                                                0 L IV BOLIVIA                            ,
-~ t;' 2  Main Roads                  Relief (meters)           Climatic Zones
Secondary Roads               6000 AND ABOVE(450Dm cd obQye(
4000                       COLD  (3004500 man   ov)
5000 -        3COOL 63000            -4500
~~    8ERAtTA       -.---'- Roivroas                       2   -3w                     TEMPERATE
PA  N DQ ti' t               >:'       W                         - Deportment Boundaries              -000            _        SUB-TROPICAL
Internationol Boundaries
Al
-LA ~AZ                                                                                                                                      4A 
U.J ~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                            Or-  asw~cntwm
u55-s                            r"



CHILP    ~ MAL.
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ARGENTINA    /
ti          /   ~~~~~BRAZIL
iIR*A'
ui~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i 
-I040/
22'- ~ ~   -
22 Aw- MO  Pnt 01~                                                                                                                OC"AA
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~                   0        20loPot
Sft-               -                                                    1   jlllcf.4'~4 ~'   ' U
68                                                                         6S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7  ILMTR
AD so/to                                                             m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



