Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1828 BO
(Second Reconstruction Import Credit Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
BANCO CENTRAL DE BOLIVIA
Dated July 31, 1987
CREDIT NUMBER 1828 BO
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 31, 1987 between the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and BANCO CENTRAL DE BOLIVIA (Central Bank).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
the Republic of Bolivia (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed 
to lend to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-six 
million, one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 36,100,000), on the terms 
and conditions set forth in  the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition 
that Central Bank  agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are 
set forth in this Agreement; and
(B)
by a Subsidiary Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
Central Bank, the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit 
Agreement will be made available to Central Bank on terms and conditions set forth in 
said Subsidiary Agreement; and
WHEREAS Central Bank, in consideration of the Association's entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to  undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement  and in the 
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project;
Management and Operations of Central Bank
Section 2.01. Central Bank declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and to this 
end, shall carry out the Project and conduct its operations and affairs, with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with   Appropriate economic, financial and 
investment standards and practices, with qualified and experienced management and 
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants' services required for: (a) Parts A, B, C and E of the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) Part D of the Project and to be 
financed by means of Subloans made from the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed 
by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Central Bank shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions  (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,  records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of the Project.
Section 2.04. Central Bank shall enter into and duly perform all its obligations 
under the Subsidiary Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Central Bank shall not take or concur in any action  which would have the effect of 
changing, assigning, amending, abrogating or  waiving the Subsidiary Agreement or any 
provision thereof.
Section 2.05. In accordance with and subject to the provisions of the 
Development Credit Agreement, the Central Bank shall establish a Credit Facility with 
operations, policies and procedures acceptable to the Association, including, inter 
alia, the following:
(a)
Central Bank shall enter into Financing Agreements, satisfactory to the 
Association, with each of the Public Enterprises in accordance with  the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement for purposes of carrying out  Parts A and B of the 
Project;
(b)
Central Bank shall enter into a grant agreement with SNC for purposes of 
carrying out Part C of the Project, in accordance with the terms set forth in Schedule 
2 to this Agreement except that those terms requiring repayment of funds shall not 
apply;
(c)
Central Bank shall, for purposes of carrying out Part D of the Project, 
enter into Participating Agreements, satisfactory to the Association, with each 
Financial Intermediary, in accordance with the terms of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
(d)
Central Bank shall provide foreign exchange to Eligible Importers for 
imports acceptable to the Association, but excluding those goods listed in Schedule 1, 
paragraph 3 (a), (f) and (g) to the Development Credit  Agreement, against evidence of 
payments made in local currency;
(e)
Central Bank shall exercise its rights under each Financing Agreement, 
the SNC Grant Agreement and each Participating Agreement in such a manner as to 
protect the interests of the Borrower, Central Bank and the Association, and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, Central Bank shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any provision of any 
Financing Agreement, SNC Grant Agreement or Participating Agreement.
Section 2.06. (a) Central Bank shall, at the request of the Association, 
exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the 
Page  3
performance of its obligations under this Agreement, the Subsidiary Agreement, and the 
performance of the Public Enterprises  under the Financing Agreements, SNC under the 
SNC Grant Agreement, and the Financial Intermediaries under the Participating 
Agreements, as well as other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
Central Bank shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes, or threatens to interfere, with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by Central Bank of 
its obligations under this Agreement, the  Subsidiary Agreement, the Financing 
Agreements, the SNC Grant Agreement and  the Participating Agreements.
Section 2.07. Central Bank shall: (a) maintain through completion of the 
Project, the Project Coordinating Committee and the Comision established  under the 
Prior Project for purposes of operating the Credit Facility and  carrying out the 
Project, with membership and responsibilities acceptable  to the Association for 
purposes of coordinating and supervising the implementation of the Project; and
(b)
provide the Project Coordinating Committee and the Comision with adequate 
personnel, funds, resources and facilities to carry out its coordinating, supervising 
and other responsibilities under the Project.
Section 2.08. Central Bank shall not amend its operating policies and procedures 
for the Credit Facility except in agreement with the Association, and shall exchange 
views with the Association on any proposal to modify the same.
Article III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Central Bank shall maintain separate records and accounts 
adequate to monitor and record the progress of the Project and to  reflect, in 
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting  practices the operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of the  Project, including separate records and 
accounts for the Credit Facility, and shall enable the Association's representatives 
to examine such records.
(b)
Central Bank shall:
 
(i)
have the accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related statements referred 
to in paragraph (a) of this Section) for each fiscal year audited, 
including the Special Account, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available but in any case 
not later than four months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, Central Bank shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
separate records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable, the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
Page  4
(iv)
ensure that such separate accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report thereof contains, in respect of such separate accounts, a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to, among other factors, 
whether the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of such 
expenditures were used for the purposes for which they were 
provided.
Section 3.02. Central Bank shall take such steps satisfactory to the Association 
as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk of loss  resulting from changes 
in the rates of exchange between the various currencies used in the implementation of 
the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
Central Bank thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate; or
(ii)
a date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before the date specified 
in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify Central 
Bank of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered  by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
For Central Bank:
Banco Central
Casilla 3188
La Paz, Bolivia
Telex:
2575 NAVIANA BV
Page  5
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Central Bank 
or by Central Bank on behalf of the Borrower under  the Development Credit Agreement, 
may be taken or executed by  its President, or by such other person or persons as the 
President of Central  Bank shall designate in writing, and Central Bank shall furnish 
to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen 
signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as  of the day and year first 
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
BANCO CENTRAL DE BOLIVIA
By /s/ Fernando Illanes
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement of Goods, Works and
Services under Parts A, B, C and E of the Project
1.
Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$1,000,000 or more each shall be awarded through international competitive bidding in 
accordance with procedures consistent with those set  forth in Sections I and II of 
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD  Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to the following modifications:
(a)
Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the following is 
substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a timely manner of the 
opportunity to bid. This will be done by advertising invitations to apply for 
inclusion in a bidder's invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to 
bid; 
such advertisements should be placed in at least one newspaper of general 
circulation in the Borrower's country and, in addition, in at least one of the 
following forms:
(i)
a notice in the United Nations publication, Development Forum, 
Business Edition; or
(ii)
an  advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or technical journal 
of wide international circulation; or
(iii)
a notice to local representatives of countries and territories 
referred to in the Guidelines, that are potential suppliers of the 
goods required."
(b)
The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of the Guidelines:
 
"As a further alternative, bidding documents may require the bidder to 
state the bid price in a single currency widely used in international trade 
Page  6
and specified in the bidding documents."
(c)
Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
 
2.
Contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but 
not to exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded 
through limited international bidding procedures, on the  basis of evaluation and 
comparison of bids invited from a list of at least three qualified suppliers eligible 
under the Guidelines, from at least two qualified countries, in accordance with the 
procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraph 2.8, 
2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
3.
Contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $100,000 each, 
shall be awarded to suppliers of such goods on the basis of comparison of price 
quotations from at least three suppliers eligible under  the Guidelines, in accordance 
with Section I and Section II, paragraph 3.4 of the Guidelines, or with procedures 
acceptable to the Association.
4.
Contracts for goods for which there is a sole source of supply worldwide, or 
that are for proprietary goods, may be purchased by direct contracting with the 
supplier or manufacturer, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
5.
With respect to each contract referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this 
Schedule, Central Bank shall furnish to the Association, prior to the submission to 
the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit 
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed  copies of such contract, together 
with the analysis of the respective bids and recommendations for award, a description 
of the advertising and tendering procedures followed and such other information as the 
Association shall reasonably request.
6.
With respect to each contract referred to in paragraphs 3 and 4 of this 
Schedule, Central Bank shall furnish to the Association, prior to the submission to 
the Association of the first application for withdrawal of  funds from the Credit 
Account in respect thereof, such documentation and information as the Association may 
reasonably request to support withdrawal applications in respect of such contract.
7.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 5 and 6 of this Schedule, where 
payments under a contract are to be made out of the proceeds of the Special Account, 
the copies of such contract or the documentation and the  information to be furnished 
to the Association pursuant to the provisions  of paragraphs 5 and 6 of this Schedule 
shall be furnished to the Association as part of the evidence required under paragraph 
4 of Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement.
8.
The provisions of the preceding paragraphs 5 and 6 shall not apply to  contracts 
on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account 
on the basis of statements of expenditure.
9.
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the  Borrower shall 
cause to be employed, consultants whose qualifications, experience, terms and 
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the  Association. Such consultants 
shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the 
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981.
SCHEDULE 2
Terms and Conditions of Financing Agreements
and SNC Grant Agreement
1.
The Central Bank shall enter into a separate Financing Agreement with YPFB and 
ENFE, and a separate SNC Grant Agreement with SNC for purposes of carrying out Parts 
A, B and C of the Project, respectively, that shall provide the terms and conditions 
for, and procedures to be followed in, carrying out the respective import plan of such 
Public Enterprise and SNC.
2.
The procedures to be followed under each Financing Agreement and the  SNC Grant 
Agreement shall be satisfactory to the Association and shall include, inter alia:
(i)
review and verification by the Comision of proposed expenditures 
for goods under the respective import plan of each Public 
Enterprise and SNC, and of eligibility of proposed expenditures 
Page  7
for services under the Project for purposes of determining 
eligibility for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit;
(ii)
approval and authorization of credit or transfer of proceeds by 
the Project Coordinating Committee;
(iii)
issuance of credit by Central Bank to each Public Enterprise for 
financing the importation of eligible goods, services, or 
technical assistance; and
(iv)
transfer of proceeds by Central Bank to SNC for financing the 
importation of eligible goods and services.
3.
The terms and conditions of the Financing Agreement and the SNC Grant Agreement 
shall be satisfactory to the Association and shall include, inter alia, provisions 
that:
(i)
such credit received by each Public Enterprise shall be 
denominated in dollars and repaid to the Borrower, through the 
Central Bank, in national currency, the rate of exchange to be 
determined as of the date each payment is made, such payments to 
be made at least semiannually;
(ii)
such credit shall bear a fixed interest rate of eight and one-half 
(8.5%) per annum on the principal amount withdrawn and outstanding 
from time to time, or such other rate and on such other terms as 
shall be acceptable to the Association;
(iii)
such credit shall be repaid in full within a period of fifteen 
(15) years, including a grace period of up to three (3) years;
(iv)
the list of specific goods to be imported by each Public 
Enterprise shall form a part of the Financing Agreement, and the 
list of specific goods to be imported by SNC shall form a part of 
the SNC Grant Agreement; each such list may be revised from time 
to time, but only upon prior approval by the Association, such 
list constituting the plan of eligible imported goods;
(v)
the Central Bank, shall have the right, with respect to each 
Public Enterprise and SNC, to:
(a)
require each Public Enterprise and SNC to carry out their 
respective businesses with due diligence and efficiency in 
accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial 
standards, and to maintain adequate records, including 
separate records and accounts adequate to reflect, in 
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting 
practices, the operations, resources and expenditures in 
respect of the Project;
(b)
require that the goods to be financed from the proceeds of 
the Credit shall be procured in accordance with Schedule 1 
to the Project Agreement, and that such goods shall be used 
exclusively for the purposes of the Project;
(c)
inspect, by itself, or jointly with representatives of the 
Association, if the Association shall so request, the goods 
and the installation services so financed, and any relevant 
records and documents;
(d)
require that each Public Enterprise and SNC take out and 
maintain with responsible insurers, such insurance against 
such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with 
sound business practices in order to cover hazards incident 
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods and 
services (financed from the proceeds of the Credit) to the 
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be 
made payable in a currency freely usable by the Public 
Enterprise or SNC to replace or repair such goods or 
services;
(e)
obtain all such information as the Association or the 
Page  8
Central Bank shall reasonably request regarding the 
foregoing administration, operations and financial condition 
of each Public Enterprise and SNC, and the benefits to be 
derived from the goods and services financed under the 
respective Financing Agreement or SNC Grant Agreement; and
(f)
suspend or terminate the right of each Public Enterprise and 
SNC to use the proceeds of the Credit upon failure by the 
Public Enterprise or SNC to perform their respective 
obligations under the Financing Agreement or SNC Grant 
Agreement.
SCHEDULE 3
Terms and Conditions of Participating Agreements
1.
The Central Bank shall enter into a Participating Agreement with each Financial 
Intermediary, for purposes of carrying out Part D of the Project that shall provide 
the terms and conditions for, and procedures to be followed in, making Subloans for 
Working Capital or the purchase of locally  procured goods by Eligible Producers under 
Part D of the Project.
2.
The procedures to be followed under each Participating Agreement shall be 
satisfactory to the Association, and shall include, inter alia:
(a)
notification to Central Bank by the Financial Intermediaries of the 
Working Capital to be financed, or the goods to be locally procured, the  dollar 
equivalent of the amount to be paid for such goods, the name of the purchaser of such 
goods, and the amount of the Subloan;
(b)
review and verification of eligibility by the Central Bank of proposed 
expenditures for locally procured goods by each Eligible Producer; and
(c)
authorization by Central Bank of the making of Subloans by Financial 
Intermediaries to Eligible Producers under Part D of the Project.
3.
The terms and conditions of each Participating Agreement between the Central 
Bank and a Financial Intermediary, shall be satisfactory to the Association, and shall 
include, inter alia:
(a)
credit received by the Financial Intermediaries from the Central Bank to 
be used for Subloans under Part D of the Project shall: (i) be denominated in dollars; 
(ii) be repaid in national currency, the rate of  exchange to be determined as of the 
date each payment is made; and (iii)  bear a fixed interest rate of eight and one-half 
percent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal amounts withdrawn and outstanding from 
time to time, or such other rate and on such other terms as shall be acceptable to the 
Association;
(b)
Central Bank shall provide credit to the Financial Intermediary 
sufficient to cover one hundred percent (100%) of the amount of each Subloan;
(c)
the Financial Intermediary shall make all Subloans to be financed by the 
proceeds of the Credit in accordance with Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(d)
all Subloans under Part D of the Project shall be evidenced by written 
agreements with Eligible Producers;
(e)
each Financial Intermediary shall exercise its rights with respect to the 
written agreements referred to in sub-paragraph (d) above, in such a manner as to: (i) 
protect the interests of Central Bank, the Association  and the Borrower; (ii) comply 
with its obligations under the Participating Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes 
of the Project; and
(f)
Central Bank shall have the right to suspend the right to the use of the 
proceeds of the Credit by the Financial Intermediary upon the failure of said 
Financial Intermediary to perform any of its obligations under the Participating 
Agreement.
SCHEDULE 4
Terms and Conditions for Subloans
under Part D of the Project
Page  9
General Terms and Conditions for all Subloans
1.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, each Financial Intermediary 
shall obtain, inter alia, in respect of Subloans, the right to:
(a)
require the Eligible Producer to carry out its business with due  
diligence and efficiency, in accordance with sound technical, financial and  
managerial standards, and to maintain adequate records including separate  records and 
accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with consistently  maintained sound 
accounting practices, the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the 
Project;
(b)
require that: (i) the goods to be financed by the proceeds of the  Credit 
shall be purchased at a reasonable price, account being taken also of other relevant 
factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and  reliability of the goods and 
availability of maintenance facilities and  spare parts therefor; and (ii) such goods 
shall be used exclusively for the purposes for which the Subloan was requested;
(c)
inspect, by itself, or jointly with representatives of the Association, 
if the Association shall so request, the goods financed under  the Subloan, and any 
relevant records and documents;
(d)
require that the Eligible Producer shall take out and maintain with 
responsible insurers, such insurance against such risks and in such  amounts as shall 
be consistent with sound business practice in order to  cover hazards incident to the 
acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods (financed from the proceeds of the 
Credit) to the place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made 
payable in a currency freely usable by the Eligible Producer to replace or repair such 
goods;
(e)
obtain all such information as the Association, Central Bank or the 
Borrower shall reasonably request regarding the foregoing and to the  administration, 
operations and financial condition of the Eligible Producer and the benefits to be 
derived from the goods financed from the Subloan; and
(f)
suspend or terminate the right of the Eligible Producer to the use of the 
proceeds of the Credit upon failure by such Eligible Producer to  perform its 
obligations under its contract with the Financial Intermediary.
2.
Subloans shall be denominated in dollars and repayable in national currency, the 
exchange rate to be determined as of the date each payment is made.
3.
The Financial Intermediary may charge up to an aggregate of five percentage 
points (5%), per annum as additional interest, commissions, or fees, above the 
interest rate payable by it to the Central Bank set forth in  paragraph 3 (a) of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement, to the Eligible Producer.  The interest rate charged by 
the Financial Intermediary on each Subloan shall be fixed for the term of the Subloan. 
Any commissions or fees charged by the Financial Intermediary shall be charged a 
maximum of one time for each such Subloan and no additional commissions or fees may be 
charged for such Subloan.
4.
The term for repayment of each Subloan shall be a maximum of one year from the 
date of purchase of locally produced goods or imports, or from the  first date of 
disbursing funds for Working Capital, as applicable.
5.
The proceeds of Subloans shall be used only to finance the reasonable cost of 
locally procured goods or Working Capital to be used as inputs in  the operations of 
the respective Eligible Producer.
6.
No Subloan shall finance more than 75% of the cost of such locally procured 
goods.
7.
The maximum Subloan, or Subloans, under Part D of the Project, when aggregated 
together with all other Subloans made under the Project or under  the Prior Project, 
that shall be made to any one Eligible Producer shall be $500,000 equivalent.
8.
The proceeds of the Subloan shall not be used to finance any of the goods listed 
in Schedule 1, paragraph 3 (a), (f), and (g) to the Development Credit Agreement.
Page  10
