Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1828 BO
(Second Reconstruction Import Credit Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 31, 1987
CREDIT NUMBER 1828 BO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 31, 1987, between REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA (the  Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has  requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by the Central Bank of the Borrower with 
the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower shall make 
available to Central Bank the proceeds of the Credit;
(C)
the Borrower has requested from Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of 
Japan (OECF) a loan (the Cofinancing Loan) in an amount equivalent to  $50,000,000, to 
assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions  to be set forth in the 
agreement (the Cofinancing Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and 
OECF; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and  conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement (as hereinafter defined) of even date herewith 
between the Association and Central Bank;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the  Association, dated January 1, 1985 (the General  Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement, with the modification that the last 
sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms  defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement  have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional  terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and 
Central Bank, of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from  time to time, 
and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project 
Agreement;
(b)
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and the Central Bank pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term  includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Agreement;
(c)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(d)
"Credit Facility" means the facility established by Central Bank pursuant 
to Section 2.05 of the Project Agreement for purposes of carrying out the Project;
(e)
"ENFE" means Empresa Nacional de Ferrocarriles, a railway public utility 
wholly-owned by the Borrower and established by Decreto Supremo No. 06909 of November 
1, 1964, of the Borrower;
(f)
"YPFB" means Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales Bolivianos, a petroleum 
company wholly-owned by the Borrower and established by Decreto Ley of December 31, 
1936, of the Borrower, and the term includes any relevant subsidiary thereof;
(g)
"Public Enterprises" means collectively, YPFB and ENFE; "Public 
Enterprise" means either YPFB or ENFE;
(h)
"Financing Agreement" means any of the agreements to be entered into 
between the Central Bank and any of the Public Enterprises pursuant to  the provisions 
of Section 2.05 (a) of the Project Agreement and Schedule 2 thereto;
(i)
"Eligible Producer" means a private individual or entity established 
under the laws of the Borrower, engaged in a productive  enterprise that Central Bank 
has qualified as a producer in the  manufacturing or agricultural-based sectors and 
declared eligible to receive Subloans under Part D of the Project;
(j)
"Eligible Importer" means any private individual or entity established 
under the laws of the Borrower, engaged in agricultural   production or supplying 
eligible goods for agricultural producers and  declared eligible by Central Bank to 
receive foreign exchange under Part E of the Project;
(k)
"Financial Intermediary" means any private banking institution operating 
in Bolivia which has entered into, or proposes to enter into, a  Participating 
Agreement (hereinafter defined) with Central Bank for  purposes of making Subloans 
(hereinafter defined) to Eligible Producers;
(l)
"Participating Agreement" means any of the agreements to be entered into 
between Central Bank and any Financial Intermediary, for purposes of carrying out Part 
D of the Project pursuant to the provisions  of Section 2.05 (c) of the Project 
Agreement and Schedule 3 thereto;
(m)
"Subloan" means a loan denominated in dollars payable in national 
currency (hereinafter defined) made, or proposed to be made, by a Financial  
Intermediary to an Eligible Producer for purposes of financing working  capital or the 
acquisition of locally procured goods under Part D of the Project;
(n)
"Medium-term Policy Framework" means the statement of the medium-term 
economic and financial policy framework for 1987-1989, dated  November 1986, presented 
by the Borrower to the Association, and complementary reform measures adopted 
Page  3
thereafter;
(o)
"Annual PIP" means any of the yearly, detailed public investment programs 
of the Borrower for the years 1987 through 1989;
(p)
"Project Coordinating Committee" means the committee which shall monitor 
and coordinate the carrying out of the Project and which shall be  maintained pursuant 
to Section 2.07 of the Project Agreement;
(q)
"Comision" means the Comision de Coordinacion, Control y Supervision, a 
unit within the Central Bank, which shall be established and maintained pursuant to 
Section 2.07 of the Project Agreement;
(r)
"Administrative Services Contracts" means those contracts  referred to in 
Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement; "Administrative Services  Contract" means any one 
of such contracts;
(s)
"SNC" means Servicio Nacional de Caminos (National Road Services),  a 
division of the Ministry of Transport of the Borrower;
(t)
"SNC Grant Agreement" means that agreement referred to in Section 2.05 
(b) of the Project Agreement;
(u)
"SITC" means the United Nations Standard International Trade 
Classification, 1974 Revision (SITC,  Rev. 2), published in Commodity Indexes for the 
Standard International Trade Classifications, Revised,  Statistical Papers, Series M, 
No. 38/Rev. 2 (1981);
(v)
"national currency" means the unit of currency of the Borrower;
 
(w)
"Prior Project" means the Reconstruction Import Credit Project financed 
from the proceeds of a Credit granted pursuant to Development Credit Agreement No. 
1703 BO entered into between the Borrower and the Association, dated June 2, 1986; and
(x)
"Working Capital" means amounts used by an Eligible Producer in the 
day-to-day operations of its business, represented by the excess of  current assets 
(cash, accounts receivable, marketable securities and  inventories) over current 
liabilities (accounts payable, deposits payable and short-term loans).
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit  Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to thirty-six million  one hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 36,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account, in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such 
Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement  between the Borrower and the 
Association, for amounts paid by Central Bank for expenditures made (or if the 
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable costs of goods 
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars a special account in a 
commercial bank for purposes of the Project on terms and conditions  satisfactory to 
the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the  Special Account shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1990 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower and 
Central Bank of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount 
of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from 
a date sixty days after the date of  the Development Credit Agreement to the 
respective dates on which amounts  shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit 
Account or shall be cancelled.
Page  4
(b)
The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency  specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in 
semiannual installments payable on each April 15 and October 15 commencing October 15, 
1997, and ending April 15, 2037. Each installment to and including the installment 
payable on April 15, 2007, shall be one-half  of one percent (1/2 of 1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be one and one-half percent 
(1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Central Bank is designated as representative of the  Borrower 
for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be  taken under the 
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other  obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement shall:
(i)
cause Central Bank to perform, in accordance with the provisions 
of the Project Agreement, all the obligations of Central Bank 
therein set forth;
(ii)
cause YPFB, ENFE and SNC to perform their respective obligations 
under Parts A, B and C of the Project; and
(iii)
take all actions, including the provision of funds, facilities, 
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable 
Central Bank, YPFB, ENFE and SNC to perform such obligations, and 
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would 
prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall transfer the proceeds of the Credit to Central Bank 
for purposes of establishing a Credit Facility to carry out the Project under a 
Subsidiary Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and  Central Bank, which 
shall include the terms and conditions set forth in  Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not change, assign,  amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary 
Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants' services required for: (i) Parts A, B, C and E of the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project  Agreement; and (ii) Part D of the Project and 
to be financed by means of  Subloans made from the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of  the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services,  plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition,  respectively) in respect of the Project 
Page  5
shall be carried out by Central Bank
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall carry out and cause to be carried out the 
Action Program set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement as the same may  be revised 
from time to time with the prior agreement of the Association.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall cause YPFB, ENFE and SNC to enter into 
separate contracts, acceptable to the Association, for purposes of  providing to YPFB, 
ENFE and SNC, respectively, administrative services for the contracting of any 
consultants and the procurement of any goods to be financed from the proceeds of the 
Credit, and required for the carrying out of Parts A, B and C of the Project, 
respectively.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause YPFB, ENFE and SNC to exercise their respective 
rights under each such contract referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section in such a 
manner so as to protect the interests of the  Borrower and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit  and, except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall ensure that YPFB, ENFE and SNC not assign, amend, abrogate 
or waive such arrangements or any provision thereof.
(c)
The Borrower shall take all measures necessary, including, if 
appropriate, the issuance of a Decreto Supremo, to ensure that the procurement of 
goods and related services and the employment of consultants, in respect of Parts A, B 
and C of the Project, is in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take, or cause to be taken, all action 
necessary or appropriate, to establish and maintain domestic sales prices of Liquid 
Petroleum Gas (LPG) at such levels as shall be required to ensure  economic 
utilization of LPG. To this end, the Borrower shall:
(i)
furnish to the Association, by December 31, 1987, a plan of action 
acceptable to the Association, including a timetable for the 
implementation thereof, to achieve LPG price levels equivalent to 
opportunity costs; opportunity costs shall be determined using 
methodologies and criteria acceptable to the Association, and 
which incorporate factors such as economic utilization and 
socio-economic conditions prevailing in Bolivia; and
(ii)
carry out such plan of action thereafter in accordance with the 
agreed timetable for implementation.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall: (i) furnish to the Association by October 31, 
1987, a plan of action, acceptable to the Association, to  establish the distribution 
and marketing systems for natural gas in  Bolivia; and (ii) cause such plan of action 
to be carried out thereafter.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall cause YPFB to carry out the plan of action 
agreed to by the Borrower, the Association and YPFB to improve the  accounting, 
budgeting, financial control and management information systems  of YPFB, in 
accordance with the agreed timetable for implementation of such plan.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall, by October 31, 1987, establish a   central 
monitoring unit, acceptable to the Association, within the Ministry  of Agriculture of 
the Borrower, with the responsibility to coordinate  project preparation and execution 
among the governmental and private agencies working in the agricultural sector in 
Bolivia.
Section 3.10. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall cause ENFE to maintain, for each of ENFE's fiscal years after the fiscal year 
ending on December 31, 1987, a ratio of total working  expenses to total operating 
revenues of not higher than 0.90.
(b)
Before October 1 in each of ENFE's fiscal years through Project 
completion, the Borrower shall cause ENFE, on the basis of forecasts prepared by ENFE 
and satisfactory to the Association, to review whether it  would meet the requirements 
set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such  year and the next following fiscal 
year, and shall furnish to the Association the results of such review upon its 
completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that ENFE would not meet the requirements set 
Page  6
forth in paragraph (a) for the fiscal year covered by such review, the  Borrower 
shall, or shall cause ENFE to, promptly take all necessary measures  including, 
without limitation, adjustments to the structure or levels of its tariffs in order to 
meet such requirements.
(d)
For purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "total working expenses" means all expenses related to 
operations, including administration, adequate maintenance, taxes 
and payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding depreciation, 
interest and other charges on debt.
(ii)
The term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all 
sources related to operations.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall cause ENFE to: (i) furnish to the  Association 
by December 31, 1987, a plan of action, acceptable to the  Association and based on 
the results of the railway cost study financed  under the Prior Project, for the 
restructuring and improvement of the ENFE  freight tariff structure; and (ii) carry 
out such plan of action in a timely manner.
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall cause ENFE to:
(i)
adjust, by July 31, 1987, passenger fares on its railway network 
to a level acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, by March 31, 1988, a plan of action 
acceptable to the Association, including a timetable for the 
implementation thereof, to ensure that such passenger fares are at 
least equal to the long-run marginal costs of passenger 
operations; such long-run marginal costs shall be determined using 
methodologies and criteria acceptable to the Association; and
(iii)
carry out such plan of action thereafter in accordance with the 
agreed timetable for implementation.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower and the Association shall review the  financial 
condition, investment programs and import plans of the Public Enterprises and SNC. To 
that end, the Borrower shall, and shall cause each  Public Enterprise and SNC to 
provide all information necessary or  appropriate for purposes of conducting such 
review. Such review shall occur  by November 30 of each year through Project 
completion, beginning on  November 30, 1987 and at all other times as the Association 
shall reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall review the progress of 
implementing the Medium-term Policy Framework within six months  after the Effective 
Date of this Credit, and at all other times as the  Association shall reasonably 
request.
(b)
If, as a result of any review referred to in paragraph (a) of this  
Section, it is determined by the Association that additional actions need to be taken 
by the Borrower, Central Bank, any of the Public Enterprises or  SNC, the Borrower and 
the Association shall agree on the actions to be taken and a timetable for completing 
said actions.
(c)
The Borrower shall ensure that such actions referred to in paragraph (b) 
of this Section shall be carried out in accordance with the  agreed timetable, with 
due diligence and in a manner designed to achieve the objectives of this Credit.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Central Bank shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under 
the Project Agreement;
Page  7
(b)
the Borrower and the Association shall have failed to reach the  
agreement referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(c)
the Borrower shall have failed to carry out or caused to be  carried out, 
any of the actions in accordance with the timetable referred to in Section 4.02 (c) of 
this Agreement;
(d)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that Central Bank will be able to perform  its obligations under 
the Project Agreement;
(e)
Ley of July 20, 1928, establishing the Central Bank, as amended by Ley 
No. 9428 of October 20, 1970 and Decreto Ley No. 94440 of November 4,  1970 of the 
Borrower, shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to 
affect materially and adversely the ability of  Central Bank to perform any of its 
obligations under the Project Agreement;
(f)
the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of Central Bank, a  Public 
Enterprise, or for the suspension of their respective operations,  provided, however, 
that the remedies of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions may apply, if the 
Association shall so choose, only to the amount of the Credit that corresponds to the 
part of the Project being carried out by the respective Public Enterprise;
(g)
the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the Project Coordinating 
Committee and the Comision;
(h)
a change shall have been made in any Financing Agreement, SNC Grant 
Agreement or Participating Agreement without the Association's consent, or that a 
default has occurred under a Financing Agreement or Participating Agreement, provided, 
however, that the remedies provided for  in Section 6.02 of the General Conditions may 
apply, if the Association shall so choose, only to an amount of the Credit that 
corresponds to the Credit advanced pursuant to such Financing Agreement, SNC Grant 
Agreement or Participating Agreement;
(i)
the Cofinancing Agreement shall have failed to become effective  by 
February 15, 1988, or such later date as the Association may agree; provided, however, 
that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to 
the satisfaction of the Association that  adequate funds for the Project are available 
to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement; and
(j)
(i)
subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
 
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the 
Cofinancing Loan made to the Borrower for the financing of 
the Project shall have been suspended, cancelled or 
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the 
Cofinancing Agreement; or
(B)
the Cofinancing Loan shall have become due and payable prior 
to the agreed maturity thereof;
(ii)
subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation, termination or acceleration of maturity 
is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its  
obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the 
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms 
and conditions with the obligations of the Borrower under this 
Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (c) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after  notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Association to the Borrower and Central Bank;
Page  8
(b)
any event specified in paragraphs (b), (c), (e), (f), (g), (h) or (i) of 
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(c)
any event specified in paragraph (j) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (j) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Subsidiary Agreement has been entered into between the Borrower and 
Central Bank;
(b)
at least one of the Financing Agreements has been executed by Central 
Bank and a Public Enterprise; and
(c)
the Central Bank has established the Credit Facility pursuant to Section 
2.05 of the Project Agreement and confirmed the composition of the  Project 
Coordinating Committee and the Comision maintained pursuant to  Section 2.07 the of 
the Project Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included  in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and 
is legally binding upon, the Central Bank in accordance with its terms;
(b)
that the Subsidiary Agreement as been duly authorized or ratified by, and 
is legally binding upon, the Borrower and Central Bank in accordance with its terms; 
and
(c)
that each Financing Agreement, entered into in compliance with  Section 
6.01 (b), has been executed and duly authorized or ratified by the  Central Bank and 
the respective Public Enterprise and is legally binding  upon Central Bank and said 
Public Enterprise in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date October 29, 1987, is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Articles III and IV of this 
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit 
Agreement shall terminate or on the date twenty years  after the date of this 
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the  Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Ministerio de Finanzas
Calle Bolivar No. 582
La Paz, Bolivia
Cable address:
MINFIN
La Paz, Bolivia
Page  9
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as  of the day and year first 
above written.
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By /s/ Fernando Illanes
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit  to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Goods and related           9,960,000       100% of foreign
     installation                                expenditures
     services under
     Part A of the
     Project
(2)  Goods under                 5,360,000       100% of foreign
     Part B (1) of                               expenditures
     the Project
(3)  Technical Assis-              380,000       100%
     tance under
     Part B (2)
     of the Project
(4)  Goods under                 2,760,000       100% of foreign
     Part C of the                               expenditures
     Project
(5)  Subloans made               5,360,000       100% of amounts
     under Part D                                disbursed by the
     of the Project                              Central Bank for
Page  10
                                                 Subloans made by
                                                 Financial Inter-
                                                 mediaries
(6)  Goods                       6,130,000       100% of foreign
     under Part E of                             expenditures
     the Project
(7)  Administrative                770,000       100%
     Services Contracts
(8)  Unallocated                 5,380,000
          TOTAL                 36,100,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made for:
(a)
expenditures for goods included in the following SITC groups or 
sub-groups:
     Group                Sub-group         Description of Items
      112                    -              Alcoholic beverages
      121                    -              Tobacco, unmanu-
                                            factured tobacco
                                            refuse
      122                    -              Tobacco, manufactured
                                            (whether or not
                                            containing tabacco
                                            substitutes)
      525                    -              Radioactive and
                                            associated materials
      667                    -              Pearls, precious and
                                            semi-precious stones,
                                            unworked or worked
                             718.7          Nuclear reactors, and
                                            parts thereof, fuel
                                            elements (cartridges),
                                            non-irradiated for
                                            nuclear reactors
                             897.3          Jewelry of gold,
                                            silver or platinum
                                            group metals (except
                                            watches and watch
                                            cases) and goldsmiths'
                                            or silversmiths' wares
                                            (including set gems)
    971.0                     -             Gold, non-monetary
                                            (excluding gold ores
                                            and concentrates)
(b)
payments made for expenditures under Parts A or B of the Project unless 
the Association has received satisfactory evidence that the  applicable Financing 
Agreement and Administrative Services contract have been entered into including an 
acceptable opinion of counsel acceptable to the Association, that the applicable 
Page  11
Financing Agreement and Administrative  Services Contract have been duly executed and 
authorized or ratified by Central Bank and the respective Public Enterprise and is 
legally binding upon the Central Bank and the respective Public Enterprise, in 
accordance with its terms;
(c)
payments made for expenditures under Part C of the Project unless the 
Association has received satifactory evidence that the SNC Grant Agreement and 
applicable Administrative Services Contract have been entered into with respect to 
SNC;
(d)
payments made by the Central Bank on account of a Subloan under Part D of 
the Project unless the Association has received satisfactory evidence that a 
Participating Agreement has been entered into with the appropriate Financial 
Intermediary and that such Subloan has financed no  more than a maximum of 75% of the 
cost of the locally procured goods;
(e)
expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing less than $5,000 
equivalent;
(f)
expenditures for goods and services supplied under a contract financed in 
whole or in part by any national or international financing institution or agency 
other than the Association, or if such institutions or agencies have agreed to finance 
such goods and services; and
(g)
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or 
for luxury consumption.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to help restore economic growth and reactivate 
exports of Bolivia by financing priority imported equipment, spare parts and other 
inputs required by the energy, transport, industrial  and agricultural sectors and by 
financing locally procured goods and  working capital of local producers in the 
Bolivian economy.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
YPFB
 
A program of imports by YPFB that will enable it to acquire spare parts, 
materials and equipment and related services, for purposes of improving production of 
YPFB's oil and gas fields and ensuring continued operation and maintenance of YPFB's 
pipelines, processing plants and distribution systems.
Part B:
ENFE
 
1.
A program of imports by ENFE that will enable it to acquire spare parts, 
materials and equipment, for purposes of improving ENFE's western and eastern railway 
systems.
2.
Technical assistance to ENFE for purposes of restructuring and  implementing 
freight tariffs, preparing and evaluating equipment and services bids and carrying out 
a diagnostic study of railway organization, operation and management.
Part C:
SNC
 
A program of imports by SNC that will enable it to acquire road maintenance and 
construction equipment and spare parts for purposes of maintenance and rehabilitation 
main roads.
Part D:
Subloans
 
A program of Subloans for private entities or individuals (Eligible   Producers) 
engaged in manufacturing industries, including agricultural-based industries, for 
purposes of financing Working Capital and the acquisition of locally procured goods 
that will enable such entities to enhance their productive capacity.
Part E:
Agriculture
Page  12
A program of imports for private entities or individuals engaged in   
agricultural-based industries or agricultural production (Eligible Importers) for 
purposes of enhancing their productive capacity.
*     *     *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1989.
SCHEDULE 3
Action Program
    Action to be taken                       Completion Date
I.   Public Expenditure
     Programming
     A.   Furnish a statement to the      by November 30 of each
          Association for its review      year, beginning on
          and comment, of the proposed    November 30, 1987,
          Annual PIP for the follow-      through Project
          ing year, specifically          completion
          providing inter alia,
          details of proposed invest-
          ments in the energy, trans-
          portation, agriculture and
          social sectors, as well as
          levels of resources to be
          devoted to such investments.
     B.   Furnish a proposed draft of     by November 30, 1987
          procurement legislation to
          the Association for its
          review and comment, for
          simplifying the procurement
          procedures utilized in the
          public sector.
     C.   Present to the Borrower's       by January 31, 1988
          Congress proposed pro-
          curement legislation
          acceptable to the Asso-
          ciation.
II.  Energy Sector
     A.   Furnish a proposed draft of     by January 31, 1988
          hydrocarbon legislation to
          the Association for its
          review and comment.
     B.   Present to the Borrower's       by March 31, 1988
          Congress, proposed hydro-
          carbon legislation accept-
          able to the Association.
     C.   Inform the Association of       by October 31, 1987
          the status of negotiations,     and semiannually
          agreements reached and          thereafter through
          implementation of such          Project completion
          agreements with respect to
          payments on contracts with
          foreign investors in the
          petroleum sector in Bolivia.
     D.   Cause YPFB to furnish to        by November 30, 1987
          the Association for its         and annually there-
          review and comment, a           after through Project
          detailed investment plan        completion
          for YPFB for the following
Page  13
          year, describing specific
          activities to be carried
          out and the financing
          plan for production, ex-
          ploration, refining,
          transport, marketing and
          administration.
III. Transportation Sector
     A.   Cause ENFE to rehabilitate      by December 31, 1988
          and maintain locomotives        and continuing main-
          in order to increase the        tenance thereafter
          availability of function-
          ing locomotives in the
          western rail network to
          75% and in the eastern
          network to 85% of all
          available locomotives.
     B.   Cause ENFE to increase          by December 31, 1988
          utilization of locomotives      and continuing there-
          to at least 105,000 kilo-       after
          meters per year.
     C.   Cause ENFE to improve           by December 31, 1988
          rail wagon utilization          and continuing there-
          by increasing the avail-        after
          ability of functioning
          wagons in each of the
          eastern and western rail
          networks to 80% of all
          available wagons.
     D.   Cause ENFE to complete          by December 31, 1987
          its revaluation of fixed
          assets and utilize such          revaluation in preparing
          its 1988 balance sheets.
     E.   Cause SNC to furnish to         by November 30 of each
          the Association for its         year, beginning on
          review and comment, a           November 30, 1987,
          breakdown of proposed           through Project
          total expenditures for          completion
          the main road network
          (primary and secondary
          roads) among maintenance,
          rehabilitation, improve-
          ments and expansion.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (5) and (6) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to  the Eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $3,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special 
Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the 
provisions of this Schedule.
Page  14
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from  the Credit Account and 
deposit in the Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for replenishment 
of the Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. On the 
basis of such requests, the Association shall withdraw  from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amounts  as shall be required to replenish the 
Special Account with amounts not  exceeding the amount of payments made out of the 
Special Account for Eligible Expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Association from the Credit Account under the respective Eligible Categories and 
in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by  the evidence 
supporting the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for which the 
Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of  this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, 
such and other evidence as the Association shall  reasonably request, showing that 
such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Association  when either 
of the following situations first arises:
(i)
the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the 
Eligible Categories, minus the amount of any outstanding special 
commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall 
be equal to the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the Eligible Categories shall  follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii)  was not justified by the evidence 
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Association, deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such 
deposit or refund.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such  outstanding amount for crediting to the Credit Account 
and immediate cancellation.
SCHEDULE 5
Terms and Conditions of Subsidiary Agreement
1.
The Borrower and Central Bank shall enter into a Subsidiary Agreement that shall 
Page  15
provide the terms and conditions for and procedures to be  followed in the 
establishment of the Credit Facility, satisfactory to the  Association, in order to 
carry out the Project.
2.
The procedures to be followed in operating the Credit Facility by the Central 
Bank shall include, inter alia:
(i)
review and verification by the Comision of Subloans and proposed 
expenditures for imports and services for purposes of determining 
eligibility for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit; and
(ii)
approval and authorization by the Project Coordinating Committee 
of: (a) Subloans to Eligible Producers; (b) credit to each Public 
Enterprise; (c) transfer of funds to SNC; and (d) provision of 
foreign exchange to Eligible Importers.
3.
The terms and conditions of the transfer of the proceeds of the Credit from the 
Borrower to Central Bank and for the repayment of such funds to  the Borrower shall 
include, inter alia, provisions that:
(i)
the proceeds of the Credit shall be transferred to the Central 
Bank for purposes of establishing and operating a Credit Facility 
in order to carry out the Project;
(ii)
the Borrower shall pay an annual fee to the Central Bank of 
one-half of one percent (1/2%) per annum on all amounts 
administered by the Central Bank so long as any principal amounts 
remain due and outstanding;
(iii)
for the transfer by the Central Bank to the Borrower of all 
payments of principal, interest and other charges made to the 
Central Bank by Public Enterprises and Financial Intermediaries on 
funds made available through the Credit Facility; and
(iv)
the Central Bank shall make funds available from the Credit 
Facility:
(a)
by means of loans to Public Enterprises evidenced by 
appropriate Financing Agreements;
(b)
by means of a grant to SNC evidenced by the SNC Grant 
Agreement;
(c)
by means of Subloans to Eligible Producers through Financial 
Intermediaries which have entered into appropriate 
Participating Agreements with Central Bank; and
(d)
by means of provision of foreign exchange evidenced by 
documents showing payment for imports, acceptable to the 
Association for agricultural producers.
