RETURN TO
REPORTS  DESK                        CIRCULTING CoPY  ,
WITHIN                TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS                     g        y
ONE- WEEK<                                             DEsKrILE i^ur
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Publ;c Use
Report No. 196a-HO
APPRAISAL OF TRE
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
HONDURAS
September 12, 1973
Latin America and the Caribbean Projects Department
This report was prepued for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not aa»pt responbility for the
accnracy or comphteness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1  =   Lempiras 2
WEIGHTS AND MEASUR.W
1 kilometer (km)                 0.62 míle
1 millimeter (mm)                0.039 inch
1 m4ter (m)                  =   3.28 feet
1 hectare (ha)        2      =   10,000 square meters = 2.47 acres
laquare kilometer (km )    =   100 ha = 0.386 square mile
1 cubic meter (m3)               1.31 cubic yards
1 million cubic meters (Mm3) =   810 acre feet
1 metric ton (ton)           =   2,2o5 lb
1 kilogram (kg)                  2.2 lb
PRINCIPAL ABEREVIATIONS
AMB      =   Banco Municipal Autonomo (Autonomous Minicipal Bank)
cB       =   Banco Central de Honduras (Central Bank)
NDB      =   Banco Nacional de Fomento (National Development Bank)
CACM     =   Central American Common Market
IDB      =   Inter-American Development Bank
NAI      =   Instituto Nacional Agrario (National Agrarian Institute)
USAID    =   United States Agency far International Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



HONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK  DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT
APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pag e
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .                   ...........................,                         -  1i
I.    INTRODIJCTION ..............................................                                1
II.   BACKGROUND ................................................                                  2
A.    General ..............................................                               2
B.    The Agricultural  Sector ..............................                              3
III.  PERFORANCF.  UNDER TIE FIRST  LIVESTOCX  DFVELOPY-TNT PROJrCT                              8
IV.   THE  SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMFNT PROJECT  .................                                9
A.    General  Description ..................................                              9
B.    Detailed  Features ....................................                             11
C.    Cost  Estimates .......................................                             14
D.    Financing ............................................                              15
E.    Procurement ..........................................                              17
F.    Disbursements ........................................                              18
G.    Organization  and Managenent ..........................                             18
H.     Lending  Procedures  ..................................                            19
I. Accounts and Audit.20
V.    PRODUCTION,  MARKRTS, PRICES,  AND   PRODUCER BENEFITS ........                            20
A.  Production ......................                                                     20
B.    Markets ..............................................                              21
C.  Prices ......................     ;                                                   21
D.  Producer Benefits ......................                                              22
VI.   BEN\EFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ................................                               23
VII.  AGREEMENTS  REACIIED AND  RECOMMENDATIONS  .............3...... 
This  report  is  based  on  the  findings  of  an apDralsal  mission  to Honduras  in
February/March  1973,  composed  of Messrs.  P.  Greening  (LCPA(),  E.  Schertz  (CPS),
G. Kaddar (LCPAG), and C. Bell and C. Percival (Consultants).






SCHEDULE 1.    Abattoir Procurenent Procedures.
SCREDULr 2.    Lending Terms and Conditions.
AMEEXFS
1.   Agriculture and the National Economv
Table 1. Commodity Exports - 1960-71.
2. Merchandise Imports - 1960-71.
3. Value Added in Agriculture - 1958-70.
4.  Composition of Gross Internal Product at Factor Costs - 1969-72.
2.   Land Tenure and Arrarian Reform
Table 1. Farm Size and Land Use.
2. Land Tenure and Land Use.
3.  Existing NAI Agricultural Settlement Projects.
4. Proposed NAI Agricultural Settlement Projects.
5.  Proposed 1AI Forestry Projects.
3.   The Livestock Sub-Sector
Table 1. Livestock Population Statistics (1960-1971).
2.  Livestock Poiulation Statistics
-Distribution by Departments (1970).
3.  Production and Consumption of Livestock Products (1960-71).
4.   Livestock larketing and Processing
Table 1. Beef - Supply and Derand Projections.
2. Pork - Supply and Denand Projections.
3. Raw TI1k - Supply and Demand Projections.
5.   The Banking System
Table 1. Loan Portfolio of the Banking System by Sector Dec. 31, 1972.
2. Source and Use of Agricultural Credit.
3. Central Bank. Surmnary of Financial Accounts (1968-72).
4. Consolidated Balance Sheets of Principal Bankinp, Institutions.
6.   The National Development Bank
Table 1. Summarized Balance Sheets (1968-72).
2. Summarized Profit and Loss Statements (196°-72).
7.   The Autononous Municipal Bank
Table 1. SumTrarized Balance Sheets for 1971 and 1972.
2. SuTmarized Profit and Loss Statements for 1971 and 1972.



-2-
8.   Performance of the First Livestock Developmient Pro_ect
Table 1. Loans by Particiíating Banks as of March 1, 1973.
2. Analvsis of Sub-Loans that have been Legalized in
Comparison with Original Appraisal Report.
9.   Model 1 - Small Dairv Farr
Table 1. Investment Cost Projections.
2. lHerd Developinent Projections.
3. Projections of Sales and Oporating ExDenses.
4. Financial Projections.
5. Financial Rate of Return Calculation.
10.  Model 2 - Medium Dairy Farmn
Table 1. Investment Cost Prolections
2. Herd Development Prolections.
3. Prolections of Sales and Operating Expenses.
4. Financial Projections.
5. Financial Rate of Return Calculation.
11.  Model 3 - Beef Breeding/Fattening Varn
Table 1. Investmnent Cost Proíections.
2. lerd Development Prolections.
3. P'rojections of Sales and Onierating Expenses.
4. Financial Projections.
5. Financial Rate of Return 'alculation.
12.  Model 4 - Beef Breedinp Farm
Table 1. Investrent Cost Projections.
2. Herd Devel-oDpient Projections.
3. Projections of cnies and Oneratinc Exrenses.
4. Financial Proiections.
5. Financial Rate of Return Calculation.
13.  'odel 5 - Pig Breedine/Fatteninc Unit
lable 1. Investrent Cost Projections.
2. lerd Development Projections.
3. Projections of Sales and Operating Expenses.
4. Financial Projections.
5. Financial Rate of Return Calculation.



-3-
14.  Model 6 - Small Municipal Abattoír
Table 1. Investment Cost Projections.
2. Projections of Sales and Operating Expenses.
3. Financial Prolections.
4. Financial Rate of Return <alculation.
15.  Model 7 - Medium llunicipal Abattoir
Table 1. Investment Cost Projections.
2. Projections of Sales and Operating ExDenses.
3. Financial Projections.
4. Financial Rate of Return Calculation.
16.  Model 8 - Large Municipal Abattoír
Table 1. Investment Cost Projections.
2. Projections of Sales and Operating Expenses.
3. Financial Projections.
4. Financial Rate of Return Calculation.
17.  Costs of Project Admínistration, Specialist LivestocV Advisors,
and Prolect Staff Training Reauirements
18. Sunmmary of Total Project Costs
19.  Disbursement and Phasing of Investments
Table 1. Annual Phasing of Investments and Disbursemnents
2. Estimated Scbedule of Ouarterly Dishursements
20.  Projection of Prolect Lending Program
Table 1. Prolected Source and Application of Fumds - Central Bank
21. Benefits to Producers
22. Fconomic Rate of Return Calculations
Table 1. Estimated Rate of neturn to The Economy
lfap of Prolect Area






HONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Government of Honduras has requested IDA assistance to develop
and expand the livestock industry, particularly the production of beef, dairy
products, and pork, and the processing facilities associated with these
commodities. Honduras, the poorest country in Central America with a per
capita income in 1971 of US$290, is heavily dependent on the agricultural
sector since it accounts for 35% of GDP, contributes 80% of total exports,
and provides the livelihood of more than two-thirds of the population.
Bananas are the single most important export item and contribute 42% of
agricultural export earnings. Timber and coffee are next in importance,
though both may soon yield second place to beef following relatively rapid
development of the cattle industry in the last decade. Much of the beef
produced is exported to the US as frozen boneless beef, a market that has
been developed since 1958 and one which is open to Honduras because the
country is free of foot and mouth disease.
íi.       The proposed Project would be a continuation and expansion of the
First Livestock Development Project (179-HO), whose progress has been satis-
factory. The purpose of the Second Project would be to make further IDA
funds available for the overall development of the cattle and pig industries.
Long-term loans (9-12 years) would be made available by means of this IDA
credit to assist with the financing of 700 small and medium-scale beef and/
or dairy farms, 30 pig units, five municipal abattoirs, and an element of
technical assistance. The latter would include provision for four specialist
livestock advisors and training for Project staff. The borrower would be
the Government of Honduras, which would carry the exchange risk and channel
the credit to the Central Bank at an interest rate of 2%. Funds for on farm
developrnents would be on-lent by the Central Bank to seven or eizht commercial
banks, together with the National Development Bank, at a 5% interest rate,
and they would in turn lend to sub-borrowers at 9%. Funds for abattoirs would
be lent direct to municipalities by the Central Bank at a 9% interest rate.
iii.      Total Project costs would be in the order of US$11.0 million, of
which IDA would contribute approximately 60% (US$6.6 million), the partici-
pating banks 16% (US$1.8 million), the Central Bank 6% (US$0.6 million), and
the farmers or municipalities the remaining 18% (US$2.0 million). The proj-
ect would continue to be administered by a Project Director who would be an
employee of the Central Bank. He would be assisted by two assistants and
four livestock advisors, all employed by the Central Bank, and by a number
of general livestock technicians employed by the participating private banks
and the National Development Bank.



- ii -
iv.       Under the Project, on-farm investments would be made in pasture
development, fencing, watering points, breeding stock, and stock handling
facilities. Investments in the abattoirs would, with two exceptions, be in
.small slaughtering units. All goods and services would be procured from
existing commercial sources because of the diversity and small scale of
individual purchases. Tenders for the two larger abattoirs would be published
locally as little response to international competitive bidding can be ex-
pected. Iowever, contracts for the civil works and equipment associated with
the abattoirs would only be awarded after receiving bids from at least three
firms.
v.        The Project would make an appreciable impact on the livestock sub-
sector and add to the momentum of development generated by the First Livestock
Development Project.  Direct beneficiaries would be about 700 farmers and
five municipalities.  Indirect beneficiaries would be more numerous and would
include all those who obtained their meat supplies from the municipal abattoirs
and those servicing the direct beneficiaries in one way or another. At full
development, national annual livestock production would be increased by
22,100 tons of milk, 3,850 tons of beef, and 635 tons of pork, all of which
would find a ready market.
vi.       The financial rates of return are estimated to range from 19% to
25% for farmer beneficiaries and from 14% to 17% for the municipalities. The
economic rates of return are estimated at 18% for the on-farm investments
and 24% for the abattoirs. With the assurances that have been obtained
the Project would be suitable for an IDA credit of US$6.6 million.



HONDURAS
SECOrD LIVESTOCK DrVrLOD FNT PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Yonduras has requested an IDA credit to helD
finance a country-wide proRram designed to increase the nroduction of iilk,
beef, and nork.  The proposed Project would be an extension and enlargement
of the First Livestock Development Project, wlhlch had similar objectives.
1.02      The Banl Group has five ongoing Projects in Vonduras for ports,
power, and híqhways, but has made onlv one loan in the agrícultural sector.
The latter is the First Livestock Development Project (179-HO), for which
an IDA credit of US$2.6 million became effective in October 1970. The
entire credit has been conmitted, and, as of June 30, 1973, 63% of it had
been disbursed. Project lending l,as been afflicted hy certain diffictulties
(para 3.n2), but, despite this, overall procress has been satisfactorv.
1.03      Loans to the agricultural sector have also heen provided by otlier
international and bilateral agencies. Since 1962 the Inter-American Devel-
opment Bank (IDB) has made seven loans, totalling US$35 million.  Of this
US$15.5 million has been for agro-industríes, USS7.7 inillion for acqricultural
settlement, US$2.8 rillion for iminroved extension services, and T'ó<o mil-
lion for crop and livestock development. The loan for crop and livestock
development is the most recent (signed April 1973) and tuo-thirds of it has
been earmarked for the livestock subsector. The other malor contributor has
been the United States Agency for International Development (USAID). In
1968 it provided US$9.5 million to finance grain purchase and storage and in
1970 earmarked US$2.7 million for a cadastral survey.  In 1971 a further
US$2 million was provided for grain rarketinp. In addition, bilateral
technical assistance has been provided by the United Kingdom for irrigation
and land use studies, and h)y Israel and a number of other countries for agri-
cultural settlement.
1.04      The preparation report for the proposed Project was prepared by
the Central Bank of Honduras and was submitted to IBrD in July of 1972.
This anrraisal report is hased on the findings of a mission that visited
Honduras in February/March 1973.  flenbers nf tlhe mission x7ere Messrs. P.
Greening (LCPAG), 7. Schertz (CPS), G. Kaddar (LCPAG), '           Bu' '. P,ell anc1 C.
Percival (Consultants).



-2-
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Honduras is a small mountainous country with a total area of about
115,000 km2 (45,000 sq mí). It is bounded to the North by the Caribbean,
to the South by the Pacific, to the West by El Salvador and Guatemala, and
to the East by Nicaragua. The country is divided into three climatic zones,
the Atlantic (46%), Central (41%), and Pacific (13%) (see Map). Annual
rainfall varíes from 900 mm ín the Central zone to as much as 2,000 mm in
parts of the Atlantic zone, but in all three zones there is a dry season
between January and June. The mountainous areas have shallow soils of low
potential, but along the coast and within several large but discontinuous
inland valleys there are good soíls well suited to intensive crop and líve-
stock production.
2.02      The present population is 2.6 million, but, with one of the liíglhesr
growth rates in the world of 3.5% per annum, it is likely to double by 1990.
The overall population-to-land ratio is favorable at 23 persons per sq km,
but there is a marked concentration of people in the Western half of the
country. The Eastern half, which includes parts of the Atlantlc and Central
zones, is still very sparsely inhabited, although this situation is changing
rapidly as roads improve and population pressures increase in the West (see
Map). Unemployment is at least 8% and adult illiteracy about 50%.
2.03      Honduras is the poorest country in Central America, with a per
capita income of US$290 in 1971. Income distribution is, lhowever, highiy
skewed between the 25% of the population that is urban and the 75% that is
rural.  In the rural areas, where 85% of the people are dependent on agricul-
ture and with a great many living at subsistence levels, per capita income
is half tle national average.  Moreover, íf the high wages paid to the 5%
of the labor force engaged in banana production are excluded, the average
per capita income for tle mnajority of the rural population is in the order
of US$50 to US$60 per year.
2.04      The economy is open and is heavily dependent on the exporr of
bananas. A modest degree of diversification has taken place in the last
decade through the development of export products such as meat, cotton, and
tobacco and through the production of simple manufactured goods. Knowln
mineral deposits are límited. They include silver, lead, and zínc, which
have been exploited on a small scale for decades, and low grade iron ore.
The mountainous nature of the country hiinders agricultural development,
though the Atlantic and Pacific coastal plaíns and several large valleys in
the interior have considerable development potential. A major resource,
only partially exploíted, is extensive natural pine forests.



-3-
2.05      The traditional source of economic growth in Honduras has been the
export of bananas. Largely as a result of expansion in banana production,
there have been two periods of rapid growth since 1950, the first from 1950-
53 and the second from 1964-68, when real per capita GNP grew at annual rates
of 4.4% and 4%, respectively. Since 1969 the economy has been in a state
of recession, similar to the downswing of 1954-63 when the average annual
growth of GNP per capita was less than 1%. Several factors have been respon-
sible for the decline, including severe hurricane damage to the banana planta-
tions in 1969, constriction in world banana markets, the ramifications of the
war with El Salvador in mid-1969, and Honduras' withdrawal from the regional
free trade arrangements of the Central American Common Market (CACM) in
January 1971.1/   This has caused total annual trade with CACM countries to
slump from about US$80 million to US$23 million annually.  Most recently,
the severe drought of 1972,followed by hurricane damage and flooding in the
banana plantations in 1973,have seriously affected agricultural production.
B. The Agricultural Sector
General
2.06      The agricultural sector accounts for 35% of GDP and 80% of total
exports (Annex 1, Tables 1 and 3). Bananas, grown primarily by two US com-
panies (United Brands and Standard Fruit) are the predominant influence.
Although they occupy only 0.2% of the land area and employ less than 5% of
the national labor force, in 1971 they provided more than 42% of export earn-
ings and 26% of total value added in the agricultural sector. Coffee has
been the second most important export crop, accounting for about 14% of ex-
ports in 1971.  Production of this crop, in terms of value added, has grown
by an average of 6% over the last decade. Timber, cotton, tobacco, sugarcane,
maize, and beans are also exported and in 1970 collectively represented about
20% of total exports. Exports of beef are expanding rapidly and have risen
from US$3.5 million in 1960 to about US$14 million in 1972.
2.07      The performance of the agricultural sector in the last decade has
been erratic. Rapid expansion took place in the mid-1960s as a result of a
100% increase in banana production which followed substantial new investments
by the banana companies. But, when production of that crop stagnated in the
early 1960s and then again in the late 1960s, so too did overall agricul-
tural production. The steady increases that have taken place in coffee,
tobacco, sugarcane, forestry, and livestock production have amounted to rela-
tively little in absolute terms of value added and have been unable to offset
the influence of the variation in banana output. In the past, commercial
1/   Honduras remains a member of CACM institutions and has negotiated
bilateral trading arrangements with other member countries to replace
the free trade arrangements from which it has temporarily withdrawn
until new arrangements have been negotiated.



- 4 -
opportunities and natural events have probably influenced agricultural devel-
opment more than Government policies. However, the new military Government
has adopted a more positive attitude and has placed high priority on agricul-
tural development, particularly agrarian reform, improved extension services
for the benefit of the smaller farmer, crop marketing facilities, and expan-
sion of livestock production.
Land Distribution and Farm Size
2.08      The most recent census in 1965 lists 178,350 farmers occupying
2.43 *illion ha throughout the country,l/ an average of 13.6 ha per farm.
Of the total area farmed, 29% was in improved pastures, 18% in natural
pastures, 22% in hills and forests, 14% in annual crops, 8% in permanent
crops, and 9% fallow. Land is, however, very unevenly distributed. About
70% of all listed farms are less than 7 ha in size (average 2.5 ha), yet they
occupy less than 15% of the total farmed land. At the other end of the scale,
some 660 farms, which represent less than 0.5% of the total number of farms,
occupy about 27% of the total farmed land (Annex 2, Table 1) though few are
really big by Central American standards. A large percentage of the small
farms are located in marginal areas.  Most of them are on either "rented"
private or national lands, with many being operated under forms of secondary
tenancy. Conversely, many of the larger farms are frequently located on the
better land and are used for extensive ranching operations although they have
the potential for much more intensive systems of both crop and livestock
production. In some cases, too, they have encroached on national or municipal
lands, but, due to the uncertainty of land registration, it has not been
possíble to correct such encroachments.
Land Tenure and Agrarian Reform
2.09      Honduras has a disorderly system of land titles, with a variety
of systems of tenure superimposed on the traditional Spanish prívate and public
land grant systems. Units of measurement have changed over the years, en-
closure has been haphazard rather than planned, and many property boundaries
bear little relation to those in the original title deeds. There is no up-to-
date land registry and consequently many land titles are insecure and easily
challenged in a court of law. A variety of systems of sub-tenancy complicate
the problem, together with widespread squatting and various forms of share
cropping.
2.10      Government has had no effective policy of land tenure reform, but,
in an effort to resolve immediate problems, it established in 1961 a National
Agrarian Institute (NAI) to implement and enforce an agrarian reformn law
(Decree No. 2 of 1962). The Institute has had a chequered history and has been
the center of considerable controversy, but, on the other hand, it has served
to highlight the size and scope of the agrarian problem and has attracted con-
siderable support from the landlesa peasantry.
1/   This represents less than a fourth of the surface area of the country.
A further 9 million ha ís under forest (of which 2 million ha ís of
little immediate value); much of this land is owned by Government.



2.11       In recent years, increasing land hunger, and rural povert,, nas
precipitated a series of land invasions. causing widespread uncertainty Umoni
land o wers and increasing belligerence among the rural poor.  The new militar-
Governnient took office in December 1972, largely, it is s3id, to fnrestall 9
more violent confrontation with the peasantry.  It quickly issued Decree .-o  8,
under which NAI is empowered to allocate national and municipal lanid to Li-
rural poor and to rent, ín return for nominal payments, privately owined iands
whích are not being "properly farmed."  This is intended to be a temporary
measure to reduce unrest and gain time for the planning of more pernmanen;
solutions to tlie agrarian problem. The Decree is also designed to prote.tr
farmers who are genuinely developing land productively, although it has v.et
to be seen how effectively it can be implemented.  Annex 2 provides furtthur
details.
Supporting Services
2.12       The departments in Government dealing wiith agriculture are not
well developec and suffer fromn a lack of professional staff, poor Long-
range planning, and a shortage of funds.  Extension services to farmers  r
provided by Desarrollo Rural (DESARRURAL), a semi-autonomous agency under the
control of the Ministry of Natural Resources. The agency is short of staf£
and is of necessity primarily committed to trying to service the noed.s <f ,ne
large number of small subsistence farmers and the organizations that  r1,:r-
sent them.  It works in close cooperation with the National Development Banc;
and NAI and is one of the more effective public agencies.  Agricultural r--
search facilities are almost non-existent: the Government station at ro,wa'r-
gua distríbutes improved cattle rather tlían conduct applied researchl, an, I*
banana companies keep tbe results of their extensive research programs  or
tz?eir own use.
The Livestock Subsector
2.13      l     -c n  neni l)_ ir; (tt1o.  flbe cattle inctistrv    raíi- l lr   r )v: 
ir, irnportiice annd the potential for developaent iS conni Xerab1e.  "' f ¿ial
estinates indicnte i natíonal cattl(, 1,rd of l.f million head, aithoughi the.
actual figure is almost certainlv over 2 million and possiblv as hiíglh as
2.3 nillion.  Cattle are widely distributed throughout thr- councry, a¡¡d t1iE
1965 census lists 58Z of all cattle as being on small farTas (less than  '5 i,a
Most of the cattle are of the native type, and, though often small. and
stunted by poor nutrition and bad management. are capable of greate- pro-
ductivity than is currently achieved. There is very little specialized
dairy farming and standards of iiusbandry are low. Most of the milk foi- n'.ma-
consumption comes from predominantly beef-type animals tlat are míIked onc.X
a day.  Beef husbandry standards are also poor.  Details are províded ir
Annex 3.
2.14       Beef production has increased steadily from 15,400 tons ¡i  igh9i
to 38,000 tons in 1971. During this period, exports have risen nearly
tenfold, frojm ',400 tons to 22,130 tons, but domestic consumption h.as Leja.nei
static at about 16,000 tons per year. Mlilk production ínas risen at a Llore
nodest rate, from 128 million liters in 1960 to 153 million liters in ½-



- 6 -
Output has inrt ,Deen able ,o keep up with rising denand aind imports have risen
correspondingly from 12 million liters to 33 million liters (Annex 3, Table 3).
Much of the beef produced is exported, sorne of it as líve animals to
neighboring Guatemala and Nicaragua, but the bulk of it as boneless beef to
the United States. This is possible bcecause Honduras is free of foot and
moutlh disease.  Ihis market was opened in 1958 and has grown rapídly in re-
cent years. The trade is in the hands of seven export packing plants, whlich,
though operating below full capacity, are well run and aggressively managed.
Regulations prohibit the packers from including more than 10% of fernales ln
the animals they slaughter, which has the effect of cl.anneling most of the
cull female stock to thie domestic r.iarket.  These animals are Killed by local
>utchers in municipal slaughterhouses, or elsewhere illegally.  íiost of snc!
abattoirs are poorly equipped and extremely unhygienic (Anaex 4).  ilílk con-
sumption in liquid form is estimated te be ¿5% of total production, thle
balance being used to make cheese and butter.  Most liquid milk is consumed
ir, '4f' .'v''1' r,'ortula`ed areas  -:    Ose y.    i      ,ess  1  . :f-.
r^'ese lanEto .Ire e irter mdlvd^i ll5 1 !§  ;  tJuy'"   b't zrodtl.. r  .-o"r-t 
zbotio tn 4O - )f   7   onsa,-w'd <'-!roe    .s o.l*teuri z<}  .c1 t 'e t omalin,ni g1 
(o]d (wltv-i.  ']< t'l cnnr'is) e.th->r 1]  >tl,- r- t'  ír'; r5ir5 t~    1~;  -:'
2.1.5     Pins  Ihe total pig populatlou *s estímated to be 720,001) jicad.
scattered rraini-. among the large number of small subosistence farmer:.  Se
cialized pig production barely exists. andi only alout ti,% of all pigs can te
tlassed as improved stock. Few producers own more than fi'le sows, antd titen.
is little, if a.y, specializatlon between breeding and fattening. The
majority of pigs have te scavenge for a líving, ani standards of ,íusbaridr'.'
are extremely low. Poor nutrition is the primarv nraBblem. ieading re high
rtoertality and low productivity. Since the export packers are -íot equfoped
for slaughterir.g pigs, all oig,s are, thcrefore, slaug,htered privra tely o~r
ín the municipal abattoirs anu are consumed within the country. Desi;ite Ob-
vious managemear problems. tnere is good potential for increasedi production-,
particularly in the Atlantic and Pacific zones where there is readv access
te locallv grown cereais and croe b y-prodctlcs such as waste banlanas .n
slaughterhouse r esidues.
Agricultura1 Credit
2 . 1      Gener1i.  Honduras hzas a well developedl anc competí iciv  bankind
system, consisting of a nlational Centra Jank (C>), a G.overnrnent-sponsored
National Development Bank (NDB), 10 private cor,7i~ercial hanks, and four spe-
cialized banking institutions (Annex 5). Tne Ci, adoPrts conserva tive. f ISCA1
policies and operates effectively, as a re.;uie oI whiCbI no banks have
failed. The comimercial banks are soundly run and several are whoLlv or in
part owned hy overseas inrerests. The specialized institutions include the
Autonomous Mun.icipal Bank (ANB), a Governn;iet bank which channels credit to
the municipahities for all forms of developtnent. It has not been soundly r.n.
Bank loans are made predominantly fromn denosits, since rediscounting f-acili-
ties and foreig,n comníercial lines of credit are restricted by CR for reasons
of inflation control. The najority of loans maede by commercial banks and
nearly half of those made by NDs are short cera. The hanl-s panv 5% te 6%
interest en rim.e deposits and charge 9% for agricultura', industrial, and



- 7 -
export loans, a rate that is fixed by law.  There is no long-term money mar-
ket in Honduras. Government and the international finance institutions are
practically the only sources of long-term loan funds, which are in short
supply.
2.17      Total loans to the agricultural sector amounted to US$64.5 million
by the end of 1972. The figure has doubled over the four-year period of 1968
to 1972, but the sector's share of total lending has remained constant at
about 30%. There is considerable non-institutional credit to agriculture,
especially from traders, but the amount is not known. The main channels of
institutional lending to agriculture are the commercial banks and NDB. The
latter has made a very large number of loans to small and very small producers,
whereas the commercial banks have preferred to lend to larger producers and
agro-industries.
2.18      Loans to the livestock subsector totalled US$28.1 million in 1972
and were made available to farmers by both NDB (57%) and the commercial banks
(43%). An estimated 60% of the short-term lending for cattle fattening by
commercial banks is channeled through the meat packers. They undertake some
cattle fattening on their own account, but in the main prefer to make funds
available to farrners to do it for them. Annex 5 gives further details on the
banking system.
2.19      The National Development Bank (NDB).  The NDB was established in
1950 as an autonomous Government agency, its purpose being to finance and
develop a wide range of agricultural development schemes. Agricultural lending
is the bank's main function, but it is also engaged in lending to industry
and a range of non-banking activities such as operating the Governnent's
grain marketing program and running a number of farm supply stores.  As of
December 31, 1972, NDB loans to agriculture totalled about US$35 million,
which represents about 60% of all lending to agriculture in Honduras.
2.20      The NDB has operated at a loss for the past four years, aggregate
losses between 1969 and 1972 being US$3 million. When the First Livestock
Development Project was appraised, it was decided that NDB should not particí-
pate, largely because its administration was weak, its technicians fully ex-
tended, and its debt collection poor. Since then, however, NDB's performance
has improved and detailed studies by both USAID and IDB have commented favor-
ably on its revamped administration and supporting techniíal services. IDB
is to use NDB as the lending agency for an agricultural loan of US$9 million,
of which US$6 million will be devoted to livestock development. It will be
disbursed over a three-year period and will finance on-farm improvements
for about 4,800 small crop and livestock producers. The IDB loan also pro-
vides for organization and management assistance to NDB and imposes conditions
of loan disbursement which require a financial restructuring of the bank.
2.21      Improvements in NDB qualify it for participation in the Project.
NDB would provide useful competition to the commercial banks, and, since it
represents the largest single channel of agricultural lending, may well be
an appropriate organization to handle future Bank Group Projects in agricul-
ture. Nor should its IDA and IDB comnitments overlap, since its lending
of IDA funds would be concentrated in certain areas wheréas its IDB funds
will be dispersed throughout the country. Annex 6 provides further details
on NDB.



- 8 -
2.22      The Autonomous Municipal  Bank  IVIB).  The AMB was established by
Government in 1962 to provide municipalities with credit and technical assist-
ance and would normally be the institution that would channel funds to the
municipalities for such developments as new abattoirs. However, AMB is in a
critical financial situation, is poorly managed, and does not have the con-
fidence of the municipalities or Governnent. Its operations are practically
at a standstill. With the assistance of USAID, it is in the process of being
reorganized but it is expected that it will take at least two years before
it is again fullv operational. As all loan comnitments for abattoirs would
be made in the sane period, it would not participate in the Second Livestock
Development Project. Annex 7 provides more details on MIB.
III. PERFORMANCE UNDER TIE FIRST LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
3.01      Under the First Livestock Development Project (179-HO), IDA has
made available a credit of US$2.6 million to help fínance medium- and long-
term loans to farmers to develop their beef and dairy enterprises, working
capital for cattle feeding operations, and funds for technical assistance.
Governnent makes IDA funds available to CB at an annual interest rate of
4-1/2%, which, in turn, makes it available to six participating private
banks at 5%. The private banks on-lend to farmers at 9%, the legal limit
for agricultural loans in Honduras, and, from within the 4% spread that is
available to them, they are required to employ livestock technicians to pre-
pare ranch plans and supervise subloans. These techniciarns are, however,
under the technical supervision of the Project Director, who is an employee
of CB.
3.02      For the first year, the Project went well and farners were quick to
show their interest. Then, in late 1971, there were delays, primarily be-
cause the private participating banks ceased making further loans to farmers
for fear that their investments would be lost as a result of their clients'
farms being invaded by landless peasants (para 2.11). The problem was re-
solved when the CB provided a guarantee which covered loans made by the partí-
cipating banks to farmers whose lands were invaded. The details of this
guarantee such as the timing and method of compensation are still to be final-
ized, but lending operations were resumed in mid-1972 and the Project has
since then proceeded smoothly.
3.03      The Project has been well receíved by local farmers, staff have
performed well, and the President of the Central Bank has given strong per-
sonal support. The national agrarian situation has created uncertainty,
but there has been no deartb of applícations to particípate in the Project.
As of June 30, 1973, 95 ranch investment plans (totalling US.A5 million)
had been approved by the Project Director and a further 48 plans (totalling
US$1.6 million) were in preparation or under consideration. Of the 95
approved plans, 82 have been followed up by loans. Annex 8, Table 2, provides
an analysis of the 72 loans that have hecome effective as per March 1, 1973
in comparison with the Dredictions of the Appraisal Renort. Thts indicates
that actual commitments tallv with the original projections, except



- 9 -
that more has been committed on buildings, machinery, and pasture improvement
and rather less on breeding stock and watering facilities than was anticipated.
Farmers have nevertheless deployed loans sensibly. In 1972 costs incurred by
participating banks were approximately US$750 per loan, without provision for
bad debts. If such provision were made on a loan of US$40,000, costs could
easily exceed 3% of the loan. It is expected that costs wdll be reduced in
future by a greater volutme of lending and better utilization of technicians.
Even so, costs justify the 4%a spread allowed.
3.04      During 1971 and 1972, the average size of subloans was US$40,000 and
US$44,000, respectively. Since the beginning of 1973, however, loan applica-
tions have been smaller in size, and it is envisaged that in 1973 the average
loan will be about US$20,000. As of June 30, 1973, US$1.6 million had
actually been disbursed by IDA. The impact of the Project on the farmers
irnvolved has been considerable and a foundation has been laid for a far reach-
ing program of supervised development credit for the entire livestock industry.
The earlier loans were nade mostly to the larger farmers, a demand now largely
satisfied, and henceforth the medium and smaller scale livestock producers
are likely to dominate the Prolect. Export beef prices have increased appre-
ciably since the Project started and the domestic market is expanding, pro-
viding ample incentive for farmers to increase production. The agrarian
situation gives cause for concern, but the Government is comlitted to both
introducing reforms and preventing unauthorized land invasions. Thore are
obviously risks involved in lending for agricultural developTnent, hut they
are within acceptable limits. This view is shared hv a mrajority of livestock
producers and development is proceeding at a steady pace. The Second Live-
stock Development Project would build on the momentum that has been generated
in the last three years.
IV.  THE SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
A. General Description
4.01      The Project would be an extension and enlargement of the First
Livestock Development Project, its purpose being to make further funds avail-
able for the expansion of the cattle and pig industries hy financing, over a
three-year period, investments on about 730 farns and in five municipal abat-
toirs.  The Second Project xwould endeavor to assist an incrensin, number of
smaller livestock producers, since half tbe nationaJ hercl is owned hy this
category of farmier (para 2.13). rnterprises to be financed and the phasinc
of investments wyould be as follows:



- 1o -
Phasing of Loans   Average       Total
Size       Years         Investnent  Investment
No.  Enterprise                     (ha)  1       2       3     (US$)   (US$ million)
100  Small dairy farms              30  20       40     40      6,800        0.7
200  Medium dairy farmis            50  30       80      90    15,435        3.1
200  Beef breeding/
fattening farms              150  70       70     60    11,524        2.3
200  Beef breeding farms           400  70       70      60    13,010        2.6
30  Pig units                   25 sows 5       10      15    14,350        0.5
3  Small abattoirs                -    1        1       1    43,575        0.1
1 Medium abattoir                 -    1        -      -   344,550        0.4
1 Large abattoir                  -    1        -      -   551,000         0.6
TOTAL (rounded off)                                               10.3
In addition, there would be a substantial element of technical assistance,
including provision for four specialist livestock advisors and the training
of Project staff.
4.02      The CB would continue to administer the Project and channel funds
to the participating banks, including the NDB, for on-lending to subborrowers.
Farmers throughout Honduras would be eligible to receive assistance, though
it is likely, for ecological reasons, that most of the dairy and beef fattening
enterprises would be in the Atlantic and Pacific zones and the beef breedin-
enterprises in the Central zone. For all loans involving cattle, the emphasis
would be on pasture improvement, fencing, watering facilities, and the pur-
chase of additional breedíng stock, rather than on buildings and machinery.
Pig development is likely to be concentrated in the Atlantic and Pacific zones
where cereals are grown, and emphasis would be placed on the purchase of
breeding stock, simple systems of housing, and start-up feed supplies.
4.03      Since the Project would assist the development of the small live-
stock producer, emphasis would be placed where ecological conditions permitted
the development of intensíve dairying at relatively low capital cost. Such
conditions are to be found primarily in the Atlantic zone, where the dis-
tribution of rainfall and soil conditíons enable the establishment of African
star grass and thus permit high stocking rates and high returns from a small
acreage. Where natural conditions are not so favorable, the emphlasis needs
to be on beef production, which is not financially viable in very small
units. Under such conditions, analysis indicates a breeding¡fattening farm
should not be less than about 150 ha, while for breeding alone 400 ha is about
the minimum. The proposed Project allocates resources about equallv between
dairy and beef development.



- 1 1 -
B. Detailed Features
Small Dairy Farm (Model 1, Annex 9)
4.04      Subloans in this category would go mainly to farmers in the Atlantic
or Pacific zones, who occupy good quality land and already own up to a dozen
cows, at a stocking rate of two livestock units per hectare. Such farms would
be intensífied to carry twice as many dairy animals by investment in the introduc-
tion of African star grass in place of indigenous grasses, paddocking by means
of simple fencing, better watering facílities, the modest use of nitrogenous
fertilizer as stocking intensity increased, and a limited amount of concentrate
feeding. Brown Swiss cross cows would largely replace the native stock, although
calves would still be suckled and their dams milked only once a day. All work
would be done with family labor. Steer calves would be sold and only replacement
heifers retained.  Such farms would require an ínvestment averaging 1JS$6,89O.
the bulk of it in the first two years of development.
Medium Dairy Farm (Model 2, Annex 10)
4.05      Farms in this category would be specialized in dairying and would
tend to be concentrated in the coastal areas of the Atlantic and Pacific zones.
The pattern of farm development would be similar to the small daíry farm (para
4.04). The main difference would be in herd management. The cows would be
predominantly Holsteins (3/4 - 7/8 Holstein, balance Zebu). Calves would be
reared separately from their dams, with access to good grazing, and sold at the
weaner stage. Hired labor would be required and there would be more emphasis
on mechanical forage conservation and machine milking. This category of farm
would require better quality management than the small dairy farm. The average
investment would be US$15,435.
Beef Breeding/Fattening Farm (Model 3, Annex 11)
4.06      Participating farmers would be located mainly in the Atlantic zone
and to a lesser extent in the Pacific and Central zones. A typical unit would
have an iniíial breeding herd of about 75 cows, increasing to 105 cows at full
development. By that time, in addition to the sale of cull cows and surplus
breeding heifers, the principal annual output would be about 70 ranch-bred and
60 purchased steers fattened for slaughter. It is expected that the steers
purchased for fattening would be obtained mainly from the Central zone. New
investments would be principally for pasture improvement, fencing for better
subdivision, reticulated stock watering facilities, and machinery for fodder
conservation. Other investments would include the purchase of higher quality
bulls and improved stock handling facilities. An average investment would be
US$11,524.



- 12 -
Beef Breeding Farm (Model 4, Annex 12)
4.07      This type of farm is likely to be situated in the Central zone, and,
because of the poor quality of the land, would be at least 400 ha in size
(para 4.03). A typical unit would have an inital breeding herd of 110 cows,
increasing to at least 160 cows at full developrment. The carrying capacíty
of the farm would be increased by selective brush clearing and the planting
of cleared land with improved grasses. Stock numbers would be increased by
retaining replacement heifers. The farming system envisaged would of
necessity be slow to generate momentum and would not permit lavish invest-
ment, For this reason, it would also be necessary to continue míllcing the
breeding herd, as is customary, until sufficient income was generated fromn
stock sales. The main items of capital ínvestment would be breeding stock,
better watering facilities, and pasture iniprovement. An average investment
would be US$13,020.
Pig Unit (Model 5, Annex 13)
4.08      Small pig units, consistin- of 25 sows and their progeny, would be
developed on a number of existing diversified farms, principally those al-
ready growing corn and with access to crop by-products. A tvpical borrower
would have about five sows before development, and, by the purchase of local
cross-bred gilts, would increase his hreedinz herd to about 25 sows in the
first year. A small proportion of the boars would be imported. Finished
pigs would be taken to 100 kg liveweight, with sales increasing from less
than 60 to around 350 in the third year of production. Other investments
would be in construction of buildings having concrete floors, low side walls,
and partial roofs, with controlled field access through fencing. VWater facil-
ities for cleaning and cooking purposes would also be financed, as would a
hammer mill and mixer for on-farm feed compounding. All investments would
be made in the first year, with the exception of start-up feed costs for
years 1 and 2. An average investrment would be US$14,350, of which about
half would be for start-up feed costs.
Abattoirs (Mfodel 6, Annex 14; Model 7, Annex 15; Model 8, Aniinix 1h)
*',.09    Subloans in this category would be made to municipalities to finance
the construction of five cattle and pi¿ slaughtering abattoirs (three small,
one medium, and one large). The abattoirs would be owned and operated by the
individual municipalities, which would charge a fee for slaughtering. In the
smnall- and mediuri-sized plants, carcasses and by-products would be returned to
the butcher, while in the case of the large abattoir, which would have sufficient
by-products to warrant the installation of a rendering facility, the municipali-
ty would retain the by-products to cover the slaughter fees. However, in the
latter case, cattle hides and by-product values exceed the slaughter fee, and
the excess would be returned to the butcher with the carcass. At least one in-
sulated panel truck would be íncluded for each abattoír to provide the munici-
pality with official transport for delivering fresh meat from the abattoir to
individual butcher shops.



- 13 -
4.10      Abattoirs would be in single story facilities with cerient block walls
finished on the inside to give an impervious washable surface. Concrete floors
would be pitched and fínished with non-slip surfaces. Standard drains would be
provided to carry waste materials and effluent to the oxidation lagoons. All
openings would be screened. Process design would utilize on-the-rail dressing
and eviscerating techniques which are simple and labor intensive.  Refrigerated
storage would be provided in the medium and large abattoirn for about one-third
of the daíly output to assure an adequate local meat supply when tlivestock do
not arrive at the plant on schedule. Since laceV of water is a malor pr-9ltm
at the existing abattoirs, there woutld he provision lor a self-containe(i wacer
system, consisting of deep wells, water storage, and pumps on each site. hot
and cold water for personal hygiene and washing carcasses and by-products and
for cleaning equípment and facilities would also be provided.
4.11      At present meat inspection facilities are poor and require strengthen-
ing. For this reason, assurances were obtained from Governiment during negotia-
tions that:
(a)  Prior to construction, abattoir design would be reviewed
and approved by the Meat Inspection Authority of the
Ministry of Natural Resources, which has the necessary
technical expertise;
(b)  Suitably qualified personnel would be available and on the
premises of the abattoirs during slaughtering to ensure
that only wholesome meat was used for human consumption;
and
(c)  The munícipalities would actively and effectively take
steps to prevent non-inspected neat from entering the
municipalities illegally.
Specialist Livestock Advisors and Project Staff Training (Annex 17)
4.12      Four specialist livestock advisors, covering the fields of farm
management, pig husbandry, pasture management, and cattle husbandry, would
be engaged to strengthen Project staff. Since such experts are not readily
available locally, they would be recruited from outside Honduras. These
specialists would not be involved in routine loan administration but would
instead concentrate on providing technical assistance to farmers and to the
livestock technicinns employed by t'He participating hanl<s.  Assuranee.,- xWere
obtained fron the CB at negotiations that the f.ur advisor- woui tl
for a minimum period of three vears.
4.13      The Project would also provide training for Project staff, mainly
through brief study tours or refresher courses, particularly in Australasia
South America, and the USA. Emphasis would be on the studv of pasture im-
provement and farn management planning techniques in countries where advances
have been made in cheap systems of producing beef from tropical grasslands.



- 14 -
C. Cost Estimates
4.14      Estimated Project costs, together with foreign exchange require-
ments, are detailed in Annex 18 and summarized in the following tables. The
estimates are based on March 1973 prices, including a price contingency of
about 10%.
TABLE 1.  COSTS ACCORDING TO TYPE OF FARM AND TYPE OF ABATTOIR
% Foreign
---(L$ million)--       (US$ million)--- Exchange
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total   Cost
Enterprises
Small dairy farms                1.0    0.4    1.4   0.5    0.2    0.7        33
Medium dairy farms               3.4    2.8    6.2   1.7    1.4    3.1        44
Beef breeding/fattening farms  2.4    2.2    4.6   1.2    1.1    2.3          50
Beef breeding farms              3.6    1.6    5.2   1.8    0.8    2.6        31
Pig units                        0.8    0.2    1.0   0.4    0.1    0.5        19
Small abattoirs                  0.2    0.2    0.4   0.1    0.1    0.2        47
Medium abattoirs                 0.2    0.4    0.6   0.1    0.2    0.3        53
Large abattoirs                  0.6    0.6    1.2   0.3    0.3    0.6        61
Total fixed investments       12.2    8.4   20.6   6.1    4.2   10.3       41
Technical services               0.8    0.6    1.4   0.4    0.3    0.7        39
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS /1        13.0    9.0   22.0   6.5    4.3   11.0       41
/1   Rounded off.



- 15 -
TABLE 2. COSTS ACCORDING TO ITEMS FOR INVESTMENT
 ------------ (in US$ million) -------
? Foreipn
Local      Foreign    Total       Erchang;e Costs
Pasture development                 0.9          0.7       1.6              44
Fencing                             0.4          0.6       1.0              60
Watering facilities                 0.8          0.7       1.5              47
Buildings and civil works           0.7          0.2       0.9 /1           22
Machinery, equipment and
their installation                0.7          1.5 /2   2.2 /1            68
Breeding stock                      2.4          0.3       2.7              11
Technical services and
training                          0.4          0.3       0.7              42
Miscellaneous                       0.2          0.2 /2   0.4 /1            50
Total                          6.5          4.5      11.0              41
/1   Including for abattoirs:  civil works, etc. 0.3; equipment, utilities
and installation 0.7; miscellaneous 0.1.
/2   Including for abattoirs:  equipment 0.5; miscellaneous 0.1.
D. Financing
4.15      The total Project cost of US$11 million would be financed by an
IDA credit of US$6.6 million, which would cover a foreign exchange component
of US$4.5 million and US$2.1 million of local currency financing, together
with ITSS1.8 million from the participatirg banks, US$0.6 million from the CP,
and US$2 miliíon from partlcipating farmers and municipalities.  Local cuir-
rency financing is justified on country grounds. Details are tabulated overleaf:



_ 1 6 _
TABLF. 3. SOURCE AND AMOUNT OF FUND9
Sub-borrowers'Participating   Central                Total
Category                   Contribution       Banks           Bank     IDA      Project
Cost
Us$            US.$          UsS         ITSS        Us$
million   %   million   %- million %  million v  million
A. Cattle Development
1. Small dairv farns      0.1    10      0.1      9      -    -    0.5  81    0.7
2. Mediun dairv anm
beef farms           1.6    20      1.6    20       -    -    4.*  60    0.0
E. Pig Develonment          0.1    20       0.1    20       -    -    0.3  60    0.5
C. Abattoirs                 0.2    20       -      -      0.2  2n    0.7  60    1.1
D. Technical Services         -      -                     0.4  57    0.3  43    0.7
TOTAL /1               2.0      -     1.8      -     0.6   -     6.6   -   11.0
,of Total               -     19      --    16        -          -   60  100.n
/1   Rounded off, and including contingencies of 10%.
4.10      The IDA credit of US$6.6 million under standard IDA conditions, to be
disbursed over five vears, would be lent to Government, which would assume the
foreign exchan5e risk.  The Governnent would on-lend the funds to the CB at 2`
for twentv vears.  CB would repay tbe principal to Government at 1% per vear
during Years 11-19 and the balance at end of year 20.  CB  ould establish and
maintain a Second Livestock Development Account from which funds would be on-lent
to the participating banks. A Project Agreement would be entered into between
IDA and CB, T4ith subsidiary loan agreements betw^en CB and the participatitig
banks which would specify the types of loans eligible for financing, the per-
centage to be financed, the rate of interest, maturity dates, and methods of
repayment, procurement, and audit (paras 4.19, 4.20 and 4.29).  The signing of
such subsidiarv loan agreenents with banks and on terrns acceptable to IDA
would be a condition of disbursement.
4.17      Rollover benefits fron the IDA credit wou]d accrue to the Second
Lívestock Development Account in the CB for 20 years and would be usecl for
further lending in the livestock subsector. Assurances to this effect were
obtained during negotiations.



- 17 -
4.18      The First Livestock Development Project wqas fully conmitted bv
Ilarch 1973, while the proposed Second Project would not be signed until late
1973. To ma!ntain momentum, the Central Bank has authorized the Project
Director to continue processing and approving subloan applications. As the
funds of the First Project will not be fully disbursed for some time, retroac c-
tive financing will not be necessary.
E. Procurement
4.19      For farrm development, the range of items to be financed is varied
and would not be suitable for bulk Drocurement. Farmers would purchase equip-
ment, fencing, fertilizers, seeds, livestock, and construction materials in small
quantities, through existing commercial channels. Machinery and equipment
dealers maintain an adequate supply of spare parts, provide facilities for
repair and servicing, and are suitably competitive. Import duties are not
levied on agricultural imports, including livestock imports. Items such as
fertilizers, fencing wire, agricultural machinery, and equipment are regularly
imported fron the US, UK, Japan, and several Vestern European countries. All
purchases of breeding stock would be subject to the approval of the Project
Director, and would be obtained from srecific repions of the world that are
free from foot and mouth disease.
4.20      The grouping of contracts for construction of the abattoirs would
not be practical since they are dispersed throughout Ilonduras, and the size,
capacity and timing of construction of each would varv.  Detailed procurement
procedures are shown in Schedule 1.  For the three small abattoírs estimated
to cost about US$40,000, (mainly building works) contracts would be unlikely
to attract foreign firms. Avards xould onlv be made after obtaining at
least three quotations. For the new abattoir in San Pedro Sula, and the
rehabilitation of the existíng Tegucigalpa facility, engineering and civil
uworks construction costs of about US$16n,nOO and US$225,nOO respectivelv
would be expected to be awarded locally. Total ecuipment costs for these
abattoirs are estimated at US$160,000 and US$310,000 respectively. Contracts
for these would be grouped into the normal main categories according to usual
suDpliers -- slaughtering, rendering, and refri7eration -- for tenderin7i, and
estimated costs per category would range fron US$30,nno to US$155,00n.  Due
to the relatívely small amounts involved, the impracticalitv of groupínc
contracts for both abattoirs, and the specialized nature of abatúoir eauipment,
it ís not expected that a wide response would be received through international
competitive bidding. llowiever, tenders would be published locally and submit-
ted to known international suppliers, and to all official representatíves in
Honduras of countries likely to be interested.  Bidding documents would per-
mit quoting on the basis of a single contract for the complete works, or for
individual contracts for civil works or equipment. All contracts exceeding
US$75,000 would require prior approval from IDA. Apreement to the procedures
(detailed in Schedule 1) were obtained fron the Central Bank during negotiations.



- 18 -
F.  Disbursements
4.21      Disbursements would take about five years, since the last subloan
commitments would be in year-3. The annual phasing of investments and
the forecast of quarterly disbursements are shown in Annex 19, Tables 1 and 2.
The IDA credit would be disbursed as follows:
(a) Livestock development on medium and larger farms as well as
municipal abattoirs--75% of funds lent against long- and
medium-term loans;
(b)  Livestock development on small farms receiving long- and medium-
term loans not exceeding US$9,000 individually or in aggregate
per farmer--90% of funds lent against long- and medium-term
loans; and
(c) Services of the livestock advisors and training of Project
staff abroad--against 100% of foreign expenditure.
4.22      The CB would disburse to participating banks upon presentation of
suitable documentation. For farm and abattoir investments, and for technical
services, this would include a certificate of expenditure approved by the
Project Director, or his appointed representative, indicating the type of
investnent and, where applicable, the country of origin. The supporting
documentation would not be submitted for review, but would be retained by the
borrower and kept available for inspection by IDA.
G. Organization and Management
Administration
4.23      CB would continue to act as Administering Agencv for the Project.
Coordinating and supervisory authority would remain with the Project Comnis-
sion, created by Governnent decree to supervise the First Livestock Develop-
ment Project. This Commission formulates policies and procedures and is com-
posed of representatives from various Government agencies, participating banks,
and the National Cattlemen's Association. Government is represented by CB,
the Ministry of Natural Resources, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Commerce,
the National Agrarian Institute, and the National Planning Council. A repre-
sentative from the NDB would be added to the Commission, and the Project
Director would continue to serve as Executive Secretary to the Commission.
Assurances covering these points were obtained during negotiations.
Project Management
4.24      The Project would be managed by a Project Director, acceptable to IDA,
with the assistance of two deputies, one for the Atlantic zone based in San
Pedro Sula and the other for the Central and Pacific zones based in Tegucigalpa.



- 19 -
Project headquarters would remaín at Tegucigalpa. The four specialist
advisors (para. 4.12) would be employees of CB and be responsible to the
Project Director. Their location would be determined by the volume of work.
Participating Private Banks and NDB
4.25      The participating banks and the NDB would employ livestock technicians,
whose function would be to assist farmers in the preparation and implementa-
tion of farm development plans. Such technicians would answer administratively
to their respective banks but would be under the technical supervision of the
Project Director. Assurances were obtained fromn CB at negotiations that
the participating banks would be required to make a permanent commitment to
employ a sufficient number of suitable technicians, acceptable to the Project
Director, for a minimum of three years, and refrain from diverting them to
non-Project activities. NDB would participate in the Project on terms similar
to those of the commercial banks, primarily because it is best able to admin-
ister small loans which the commercial banks may be reluctant to handle. Its
participation would also provide useful competition to the commercial banks.
Funds for the abattoirs would be channelled directly to the municipalities
through the CB.
Hi. Lending Procedures
4.26      The CB would maintain a Project account into which the IDA credit
would be paid, and each participating bank would also maintain a separate
account to reflect its activities under the Project. The necessary assurances
were obtained from CB at negotiations. The CB would discount to the par-
ticipating banlks 75% of the loans approved for medium and larger farms, and
90% of the loans approved for the small farmers, at an interest rate of 5%
and relend to sub-borrowers at 9%.1/ This rate is in line with the prevail-
íng legal interest rate for agriculture (para. 2.16). The spread of 3%
accruing to CB would cover costs of administration and technical assístance,
and would leave a surplus in the Project account over the life of the Project
as shown in Annex 20. The spread of 1/2% under the Fist Livestock Project has
proved Co be mnuch too small.  A spread of 3% is needed, particularly as the costs
of technical assistance will increase following more emphasis being placed on
smaller farmers. The 4% allowed to the participating banks would cover
administrative costs and loan risk and leave a reasonable profit (para 3.03).
For projections of the lending program, see Annex 20. Assurances were
obtained fron CB at negotiations that the above conditions would be applied
and that no changes in them would be inade without prior approval of IDA.
4.27      Security for loans would include real estate riortgages based on land,
titles, and, if needed, chattel mortgages on livestock and equipurent. Increas-
ed real estate values resulting from farm improvements would be reflected in
1/   The rate of inflation has been about 3% p.a. in recent years.



- 20 -
the values established for collateral purposes as shown in Annex 20. The
participating banks would bear the full credit risks for all subloans, but
the CB would extend its present guarantee (para. 3.02) to include all subloans
made under the Second Livestock Development Project. Assurances to this effect
were obtained at negotiations. Loans would be made to sub-borrowers on
the basis of development plans prepared by the technicians employed by the
participating banks. All applications and plans would be forwarded to the
Project Director for approval, but, as experience is gained, he would be
permitted to delegate such approval to the participating banks. All in-
dividual farm loans and contracts relating to the abattoirs greater than
US$75,000 would require prior approval by IDA (para 4.20).
4.28      Cash flow projections of typical investments under the Project
(Annexes 9 to 16) indicate that sub-borrowers would be able to repay loans
within nine to 12 years, with grace periods of between two and five years
for the repayment of loan principal. Lending terms and condítions are listed
in Schedule 2 and suitable assurances covering them were obtained at
negotiations.
T. Accounts and Audit
4.29      Under the First Livestock Development Project, the Superintendency
of Banks has audited Project accounts in the CB and the participating banks.
This unit operates in an independent manner and its performance has been satis-
factory. Under the Second Project, these arrangements would continue for the
participating banks, while for the CB its external auditor would assist the
Superintendent o' Banks if required.  Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the CB and each participating bank would maintain separate
accounts for Project activities, and that these accounts would be audited
annually by independent auditors, satisfactory to IDA, whose report would be
submitted to IDA not later than four months after the close of each fiscal year.
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES, AND PRODUCER BENEFITS
A. Production
5.01      The increnental annual production of livestock products produced
and marketed under the Project at full development would include 22,100 tons
of milk, 3,850 tons of beef 1/, and 635 tons of pork 1/. In addition, the
cattle breeding farms would produce about 6,000 heifers which would either
be retained or sold to replace cull cows in other herds. About 3,000 tons
of additional milk would be produced for feeding to calves. Neither iterms
are included in the incremental production marketed for cash.
1!   Carcass weight equivalent.



- 21 -
5.02      The municipal abattoirs would process the incremental production
of cull cows and pigs generated by the Project, as well as animals presently
being slaughtered and transported illegally into the municipalities. The
five abattoirs would provide a total annual slaughter capacity of 165,000
cattle and 315,000 pígs, which should be adequate to provide sufficient proc-
essed beef and pork for the next 20 years.
B. Markets
5.03      Most of the incremental production of cattle financed under the
Project would be exported to the USA as frozen boneless beef. US demand
for boneless beef ís increasing, particularly as lean beef from Honduras
complements rather than competes with more highly finished beef produced in
the US. This market is likely to easily absorb all that Honduras can
produce, even if import quotas were reintroduced. Should this happen, and
in the unlikely event that the Honduras quota was reduced, the European mar-
ket could offer attractive alternative openings. This market has not yet
been tapped. The domestic beef market is also certain to expand, due to
population growth and increasing per capita consumption.
5.04      In the case of dairy products, total milk consumption exceeded
supply in 1970 by 32,000 tons of milk equivalent, which were imported. Pro-
jections show that by 1980 (Annex 4) the production deficit is likely to
grow to about 159,000 tons without the Project. Therefore, the incremental
mílk production of 22,100 tons from the Project would easilv be absorbed
locally and would be used for diréct import substitution. The same would
apply to pork produced through the Project.  Although pork production has
risen very slowly over the period 1967-71, a small increase in the annual
per capita consumption (3.5 kg to 4.0 kg), accompanied by the present popula-
tion growth rate, would result in a production deficit exceedíng 3,000 tons
of carcass meat by 1980. The incremental 635 tons of pork, carcasses equivalent,
generated under the Project would only account for about 21% of the deficit
projected for 1980.
C. Prices
5.05      During the past five years, frozen boneless beef prices on the world
(USA) market have increased by 68%, riost of the rise being in the last 18
months. This trend is expected to continue in view of the world meat short-
age. During the same period, cattle prices in Honduras increased by about
60%, although they are still low by comparison with neighboring Central Ameri-
can countries. Government has no cattle pricing policy and packers establish
prices based upon export opportunities and the availability of cattle. Compe-
tition among packers is increasing, with cattle prices to producers reflecting
such competition. Although cattle prices are expected to continue to increase,



- 22 -
the March 1973 prices have been used in the financial analysis of the sub-
projects in order to calculate returns conservatívely. 1/
5.06      Governnent attaches high priority to increasing beef exports, but
they are concerned that the export business is being developed at the expense
of the nutritional requirements of the local population. So, in order to
boost per capita neat consumption, Government is considering the introduction
of domestic sales quotas on the export packers. The average producer prices
received at present provide adequate incentives for development. However,
if a system of quotas is devised, it is likely that, because of the packers'
strength and influence, beef producers would bear a large proportion of the
losses associated with diverting beef from export markets to local markets.
This could reduce the incentive to expand production, unless compensatory
measures were taken. At negotiations assurances were obtained that Government
would adopt policies with respect to prices, marketing, quotas and taxation,
which, taking into account the needs of adequate internal supply of livestock
products would provide adequate incentives to livestock producers to expand
production.
5.07      Domestic príces for milk, beef, and pork products have not increased
as rapidly as those on the ínternational markets. However, they are suffí-
cient to provide producers with ample incentives to expand production.
D. Producer Benefits
5.08      Returns to farmers and municipalities and financial rates of return
have been estimated on the basis of eight illustrative models (Annexes 9
through 16). 2/ Estimates show that, as a result of investing under the Project,
farmers could expect to receive fair returns on their investmnent and would be
able to generate sufficient incremental incomne to encourage their participa-
tion in the Project.  Estimated financial rates of return would range between
19% for the 400-ha beef breeding farm to 25% for the 50-ha dairy farm. These
figures are in line with results elsewhere and confirm that intensive dairy
farming, where círcumstances permit, is usually more profitable than beef
production. Incremental net income after taxps and debt service would range
between US$1,266 for the small pig unit to US$4,134 for the 50-ha dairy farm.
Municipalities could expect financial rates of return ranging from 14% for
the small abattoirs to 16 to 17% for the large and modern abattoirs, respec-
tively. These figures too are in line with returns elsewhere and indicate
that the abattoirs are financially viable besides providing a necessary
social service.
1/   FAO global forecasts predict an annual 1% increase in beef prices up to
1980, whereas IBRD forecasts are not so optimistic. Boned beef from
Honduras has a specific niche in the market, and demand is likely to
remain strong.
2/   The models show the incremental net income to farmers and municipalities
both before and after deduction of taxes and debt service. Financial
rates of return have been calculated before taxes and debt service and
their sensitivity tested (see Annex 21).



- 23 -
5.09      All the models have heen tested to ascertain to what extent finan-
cial rates of return would be altered by changes in costs and revenues.  Fig-
ures indicate that the dairy and, to a lesser extent, the beef breeding farms
are not very sensitive to reductions of 10% in revenue or increases of 10%4
in cost. The beef fattening/breeding farms are more sensitive to such dIf-
ferences while the pig units are extremely sensitive. These results, however,
are to be expected, particularly in the piz units where so mnuch hinges on the
efficiency of feed use, and is one reason why the pip comnonent of the Project
has been kept to modest proportions.  All the abattoirs are sensitive to costs
increasing by 10%. and revenues declininxv by 107. Fowever, provision is made
to ensure a high degree of utilization to maintain revenues at an adeqtiate
level. If costs should increase undulv, slaughtering fees could be raised
as thev represent onlv 2 to 37 of tbe farmgate price of cattle.
VI. BENFTFTS AND JTUSTIFICATION
6.01      Agricultural development is _learlv of prin'e importance to Honduras
and since the lívestock subsector has already demonstrated its potential, it
would obviously be wise to reinforce success.  The Project would bave signi-
ficant impact and increase the m,omentum of develonment generated hy the First
Project. It would lead to improved husbandry practices, a larger national
cattle herd, 'aigr1er productivity, and greater intensification of land use.
Moreover, most of these improvements would be implemented bv the smaller iíve-
stock farmers and could have significant multiplier effects. The abattoir
component xould havo substantial social benefits in terms of sanitation and
hetter disease control, though such benefits are difficult to quantify. Tihe
pig component, though srmall, would serve as a catalyst for further develop-
ment and could well be tbe forerunner of a domestlc pig industry.
6.02      The economic rates of return of the Project are estimated at 18%,
for the on-farm investment and 24% for the abattoirs (Arnex 22).  The figures
include benefits to the country, in the form of incremental returns to Gov-
ernment from taxes and fees, which-at full develooment would arlount to approx-
imately US$0.1 million annually (Annex 21).  Increased iob opporttrnities
would also result from some 700 farms and five abattoirs beine more effec-
tively and more intensively run, but this is not easy to quantify. Average
annual net income of the participating farmers iould increase from an aver-
age of less than US$500 to more than US$3,000. Total. employment would pro-
bably be the equivalent of 750 new jobs, plus the incremental manpower re-
quirements for the development of supporting services.
VII. AGRMEEENTS RFACHED AND RECOMMtNDATIONS
7.01      During -ngotiations, assurances were obtained on the following
principal points:
(a) Government would:



- 24 -
(i) Require that the municipalities actively and effec-
tivelv take steps to prevent non-inspected meat from
entering the municipalities illegally (para 4.11):
(ii) Accept and apply the on-lending procedures as outllned
in Schedule 2, which would not be changed without prior
approval of IDA (paras 4.26 and 4.28); and
(iii)  Adopt policies with respect to prices, marketing, cuotas
and taxation, which, taking into account the needs of
adequate internal supply of livestock products, would
provide adequate incentives to livestock producers to
expand production (para 5.06).
(b) Central Bank would:
(i) Engage four specíalist livestock advisors for a
minimum period of three years (para 4.12);
(ii)  Ensure that rollover benefits would accrue to the
Project account in the CB for 20 years (para 4.17);
(iíi)  Accept and apply the procurement procedures .ietailed
in Schedule 1 (para 4.20);
(iv)  Continue to act as Administering Agent for the Project,
with the Project Director, acceptable to IDA, serving
as Executive Secretary of the Project Comiíssion,
whose responsibilities would include the second
Livestock Project (para 4.23);
(v)  Require participating prívate banks ana the N1YB to
make a permanent co¿mitrnent to employ an adequate
number of suitable technicians, acceptahle to the
Project Director, for a ninímumr of three vears, and to
refrain from diverting such technicians to non-Prolect
activities (para 4.25);
(vi)  Open and maintain a separate Project account to reflect
its activities under the Prolect, and reauire the partici-
pating banks to do the same (para 4.2F);
(vii)  Accept and aprDI  the on-lendinw  proccdures as outllned in
Schedule 2, which would not be chan-zed without prior
aiproval of IDA; (para 4.26 and 4.28): and
(viíi)  Ensure that its Project account xw,ould be audited bv an
auditor, acceptable to IDA, vuhose report w-nuId be sub-
mitted to IDA not later thar four months after the close
of each fiscal year, and ensure that participating banks
would folloxw the same procedure (para 4.29).



- 25 -
7.02      A condition of disbursement would he that CB liad entered into
project adminístration agreements with each of the participating banks on
terons acceptable to IDA (para 4.16), incorporating the provisions of Schedule
2 (para 4.28).
7.03      With the assurances that have heen obtained, the Project would he
suitable for an IDA credit of US$6.6 million on standard IDA terms.
September 7, 1973






SCHEDULE 1
Page 1
HONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Abattoir Procurement Procedures
The following procurement procedures would be used for awarding
contracts for constructing and equipping the municipal abattoirs included
under the Project.
Small Abattoirs (3)
1.        The municipalities would:
(a) with the assistance of the Project Director prepare abattoir
specifications, drawings, construction and equipment delivery
schedules, and request for bid quotations;
(b)  obtain approval of abattoir design from the Meat Inspection
Authority of the Ministry of Natural Resources;
(c) include in the equipment purchase bidding documents the require-
ment that suppliers make satisfactory arrangements for delivery
as well as being responsible for such equipment until it is
installed;
(d) require construction firms awarded contracts for civil works
to post performance bonds to ensure that the buildings meet
specifications and the completion dates;
(e) obtain quotations from a minimum of three firrms for each of
the following:
(i) civil works and well construction, including equipment
installation; and
(ii) slaughtering and processing equipment, including its instal-
lation.
(f) submit the basis for selection of contractors and purchase
contracts to the Project Director for review and approval
prior to award;
(g) award contracts and follow construction and installation to
ensure that schedules and specifications are met; and



SCHEDULE 1
Page 2
(h) make final disbursement only after civil works construction
has been satisfactorily completed and accepted and to suppliers
of equipment after its satisfactory installation.
2.        The Central Bank would:
(a) review and approve purchase contracts; and
(b)  submit to IDA,for information, a consolidated summary showing
bids received and selected, together with copies of contracts
awarded.
Medium and Large Abattoirs (1 each)
1.        The municipalities would:
(a)  obtain proposals from at least three engineering consulting
firms to undertake the following:
(i) prepare abattoir specífications and plans;
(ií) prepare construction and equipment delivery schedules;
(iii) evaluate bid proposals;
(iv) make contract award recommendations to the municí-
palities, based upon technical and financial analysis
and delivery schedules;
(v) supervise construction and equipment installation; and
(vi) approve acceptance upon satisfactory completion.
(b) evaluate the proposals in (a) above and select an engineering
firm with the approval of the Project Director; and
(c)  award contract to the engineering firm.
2.        The engineering firm would:
(a) prepare specifications, drawings, and construction and
equipment schedules for a new medium sized abattoir in
San Pedro Sula and the rehabilitation of the existing
Tegucigalpa abattoir;
(b) obtain approval of specifications and plans by the Meat
Inspection Authority of the Ministry of Natural Resources;



SCHEDULE 1
Page 3
(c) prepare invitations to bid, so that the municipalities could:
(i) advertise them in at least one newspaper of general
circulation in Honduras; and
(ii) send them to known international suppliers;
(d)  evaluate bids and proposals, prepare a consolidated summary
showing bids received, and make recommendations to the
municipalities for the award of contracts.
3.        The municipalities would:
(a)  obtain quotations from a minimum of three different firms
from at least two different countries for equipment under
each of the following sub-categories:
(i) slaughter and meat processing equipment;
(ii) refrigeration equipment; and
(iii) by-products rendering equipment (Tegucigalpa abattoir
only);
(b)  obtain quotations from a minimum of three different firms
for civil works and well construction, including land pre-
paration, utilities, and equipment installation;
(c)  furnish to firms able and competent to make turnkey installation
the complete set of bid documents;
(d)  select the contractors and suppliers and submit the basis
for selection, along with purchase contracts, to the Project
Director for review and approval prior to awards;
(e)  sign contracts with the contractors and suppliers making
the lowest evaluated bid; and
(f)  make final payments only after receivíng a report from the
engineering firm that the civil works construction had been
satisfactorily completed and the equipment installed.
4.        The Central Bank would submit to IDA a consolidated summary showing
the bids received and selected, together with copies of contracts awarded.
All contracts exceeding US$75,000 would be submitted to IDA for approval
prior to the award of contract.
Septemnber 7, 1973






SCHEDULE 2
Page 1
HONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Lending Terms and Conditions
1.   IDA to Governmient
(i) IDA standard terms.
2.   Government to Central Bank (CB)
(i) Interest rate would be 2% per annum; and
(ii) CB would repay the principal to Government at 1% per
annum during years 11 to 19 and the balance at end of
year 20.
3.   Central Bank to Participating Banks (PB)
(i)  Interest rate would be 5% per annum;
(ii)  CB would refinance 75% of medium- and long-term loans
to medium and large farmers and 90% of medium- and long-
term loans to small farmers where the loan did not exceed
US$9,000 individually or in aggregate per farmer;
(iii) CB would refinance Stage II loans on similar conditions;
(iv)  Repayments to CB would be on terms as granted to sub-borrowers;
(Y)  PB would assume the credit risk for all loans granted by them
to sub-borrowers; and
(vi)  CB would guarantee, on terms acceptable to IDA, loans made by PB
to sub-borrowers in the event of sub-borrowers' farms being in-
vaded.
4.   Central Bank to Municipalities for Abattoirs
(i) Interest rate would be 9% per annum;



SCHEDULE 2
Page 2
(ii) Sub-borrowers would contribute 20% for total long-term
investments; and
(iii) Maximumn grace period for abattoirs would be two years,
Maximum repayment period would not exceed 12 years.
5.   Participating Banks to Sub-borrowers
(i)  Interest rate would be 9% per annum;
(ii)  Sub-borrowers would contribute 20% in case of medium and
large farmers, and 10% in case of small farmers for total
long- and medium-term investments; and
(iii)  Repayment and grace periods,would be flexible, reflecting the
forecast cash flow of the investment plan being financed, but
repayment periods for Stage 1 loans would not be less than seven
years and not exceeding the following:
Maximum
Maximum Grace Period    Total Term
Years              Years
Cattle development                   5                 12
Pig development                      2                  9
6.   Other Conditions
(i)  All loans for on-farm development in excess of $75,000 would
require IDA approval;
(ii)  PB technicians, employed full time for Project purposes, would
assist the sub-borrowers in the preparation of detailed invest-
ment plans, income and expenditure estimates, and cash flows,
and would appraise the plans in terms of incremental returns
and maanagement capacity;
(iii)  All loans would be approved by the Project Director, who may
delegate such authority to participating banks as experience
is gained;
(iv)  The Project Director would ensure, through periodic visits, that
funds were used for intended purposes;
(v)  PB would be responsible for providing short-term funds, including
seasonal working capital, so as to enable sub-borrowers to fulfill
investment plans;



SCHEDULE 2
Page 3
(vi)  CB would rediscount such working capital loans at their full
amount if requested by PBs, and at the prevailing rate of re-
discount for agriculture and livestock; and
(vii)  Sub-borrowers would take adequate measures for the protection
of animal health.
September 7, 1973






[ú:ND1 RAS
SECOND LIVESTOCI DEVELO11FNT PROJECT
°                                                                                                                             C_oofb. EUtv     S  1960-71
P..1im1nary
1960           1961           [962           1963           1964            1965           1966           1967            1968           1969            1970           1971
WORTS. f.o.b.                                   64.3            74.0           82.4           84.3           95.0           128.1          144.3          155.8           181,2          170.7           177.6          193.6
Afríc.ltural jrod-cts                           47.3            55.6           61.5           63.0            70.3           99.2          110,9          112.0           121.3          107.5           111.0          130.4
Ba.b.a.                           ~~~~~~~28.2     39.5           37.7           33.1            34.2           52.9           697             78.5           79.7           74.1            75.3           96.0
CofO..                                        t1.8             9.O           11.5           14.2           16.9           22.1            19.9           14.0            20.8           18.5            25.8           23.0
Cotton                                         0.9             0.5            2.5            3.0            4.5             7.3            8.3            5.8             4.8            3.6             1.1            0.5
Tob.-cco                                       0.5             0.4            0.6            1.0            1.4             1.4            1.9            2.5             2.7            2.3             2.2            2.1
Corn                                           1.0             0 5            3.0            1.8            4,0             5.7            3.0            1.9             2.9            0.9             0.9            1.5
Becos                                          0.9             1.3            1.8            2.2            2.7             3.5            2.4            2.7             4.1            3.2             1.6            2.4
Live Ani-.ls                                    2.4            3.1            3.2            2.9            2.6             2.4            2.7            3.3             2.8            0.9             0.5            0.3
OÉhere                                          1.6            1 3            1.2            4.8            4.0             3.9            3.0            3.3             3.5            4.0             3.6            4.6
Industri-l Prodocts                             10.7            11.2           11.7           13.0           17.0            19.4           24.1           32.4            40.0           48.9            52.3           44.5
Ne.t                                            1.1            1.6            2.6            2.9            2.5             3.3            3.9            4.4             4.7            9.0             9.7            12.5
Sugar                                          -               -              -              -              9.5            8.2             0.5            1.5             1.5            0.9             1.1            0.7
Prooe.ead Fruit.                               _                                                            -               - _.2                         1.4             2.1            2.3             2.1             2.3
Vegetable Lrd                                  - _                            -              -              -                              0.6            0.5             0.4            0.6             1.1             -
L~eb~                                          8.2             7.5            7.1            7.0            81.9            8.6            9.1           11.5            14.4           15.3            16.2           19.0
Tb-be-o                                        0.1             0.1            0.1            0.1 O.1                        0.1            0.1            0.2             0.3            0.2             0.2            0.2
Te.tiles                                        -              -              -              0.1            0.2             0.2            0.3            0.7             1.6            1.5             1.5             1I
Clothing end Shoes                             0.2             0.3            0.5            0.7            1.3             1.6            2.2            3.2             3.4            3.4             1.8             0.2
Papee                                          - _                            -              -              -               -              0.4            0.3             0.5            0.4             0.5             1/
Ch_ic-ls                                                                      0.2            1.0            1.8             3.0            3.1            5.3             6.9            6.0             6.5             1/
Petroleure                                      -              -              -              -                              -              -               -              2.1            4.8             6.2             3.2
Oth«r                                           1.1            1.7            1.2            1.2             1.7            2.4            3.7             3.4            2.1            4.5             5.4             6.4
Mí-e--1 Producta                                  4.4            5.1            5.0            6.3             5.5            7.5            6.7             7.9           11.7             9.4            8.8             8.2
Silver                                          2.3            2.7            2.9            3.5             3.0            3.6            3.2             4.2            7.8            4.8             4.1             3.8
Lead *nd 2inc                                   2.0            2.3            2.0            2.7             2.3            3.8            3.4             3.6            3.8             4.4            4.5             4.2
GoId                                            O.1            D.1            0 1            0.1             0.1            0.1            0.1             0.1            0.1             0.2            0.2             0.2
Re-exports ..d U.claesified Eport,                1.9            2.1            4 2             2.0            2.2            2.0            2.6             3.5             8.2            4.9            5.5            10.5
il¡círded  in r',er'.
Source-  18 RDíco oE- c Report Ju-e 27, 1972. Det-l 9or 1972 not - v--1t ble.



HONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Merchandife Impoeta, 1960-1970
(iUS millions)
1960       1961         1962        1t63          1964         1965         1966         1967         1968          1969         1970
Total merchandise importa, c.i.f.                 73.0        73.2         80.7         96.7        102,1        122.1        151.3        167.3        187.0        187.0        222.9
Consumer goods                                    28.6        30.2         31.1         37.0         39.5         47.2         51.0         56.2         65.0         60.3         67.7
Non-durable                                     21.0        23.0         23.1         26.8         29.7         35.1         37.4         40.9         47.2         43.0         45.9
(Milk producto)                               (0.7)       (0.8)        (0.7)       (1.2)        (1.1)        (1.0)         (1.2)        (1.2)        (1.7)        (2.2)        (2.7)
Durable                                          7.6         7.2          8.0         10.2          9.8         12.1         13.6         15.3         17.8         17.3         21.8
Raw materials                                     22.6        *22.7        25.3         28.6         31.7         41.2         53.7         57.8         65.3         61.3         84.9
Agriculture                                   )                                        2.9          4.5          5.4          5.0          5.3          5.3          5.0          7.9
) 18.5        19.2         19.6
Industry and mining                           )                                       19.3         22.0         29.2         41.2         44.7         52.1         46.2         55.6
Construction                                     4.1         3.5          5.7          6.4          5.2          6.6          7.5          7.8          7.9         10.1         11.4
Lubricante *nd fuela                               6.0         6.8          6.8          7.1          6.6          6.7          7.6          8.0         12.2         12.4         14.6
Capital goods                                     14.2        11.7         16.2         22.4         23.8         26.2         35.3         41.6         40.9         49.1         55.3
Agricultura                                      2.4         2.3          3.4          3.8          4.1          4.3          5.2          5.8          5.6          7.8           8.4
Industry                                         8.4         6.6          8.9         13.2         14.0         14.3         21.5         24.8         23.8         29.0         32.3
Transport                                        3.4         2.8          3.9          5.4          5.7          7.6          8.6         11.0         11.5         12.3         14.6
Unclassified importe and balance of
payments adjustment                              1.6         1.8          1.3          1.6          0.5          0.8          3.7          3.7          3.6          3.9          0.4
Source:  Central Bank.  Data for 1971 and 1972 either incormplete or not available.



CN
o                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~H O N D U R A S
-I.
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Value added in Agriculture, 1958-70
(millions of 1966 Lempiras>
Year: .1958   1959   1960   1961   1962   1963   1964   1965   1966   1967   1968   1969   1970
Crops
Bananas                  55     51      52      61     56      53     55      82    109    119    126    118    120
Coffee                   26      28     29      30     28      36     38      38     46      37      53     41      47
Corn                     29      31     30      32     35      35     41      41     39      41      44     42      43
Beans                    11     12      13      14     15      16     19      14     16      19      21     18      18
Other                    53      5°     50      52     52      57     58      59     58      58      59     59      62
Sub-total:           174    172    174    189    186    197    211    234    268    274    303    278    290
Livestock                  56      57     58      63     65      66     65      66      67     73      76      77     81
Poultry                    12      13     13      14     15      15     16      17      18     18      19      20     20
Forestry                    34     39     38      39      38     40      42     44      44     46      49      51     50
Fishing and Hunting         2       1      3    _3         2      2       2      2       4      5       5              7
Total:                2     282    286    308       S     320              X      E6               2           >4
Source:  Central Bank.  Data for 1971 and 1972 either incomplete or not available.



ANNEX 1
Table 4
HONDt1RA
SECOND LIVIESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Composition of Gross Internal Product
at Factor Costs
1969 - 72
(L millions)
1969      1970                   1972 2
1. Agriculture, Forestry,
Fish and Game                    432       452        479         506
2.  Mining                              28         28        28           30
3. Manufacturing                       160        171       181          193
4.  Construction                        66         68        74           79
5. Electricity, Gas and                 15         16        18           20
Water Supply
6.  Transport, Storage and
Communication                      80         84        88           94
7.  Commerce                           166        176       185          194
8. Banking, Insurance                   30         33        35           37
and Real Estate
9.  Properties                          96        1014      112          122
10. Public Administration and
Defen se                           43         47        50           53
11.  Services                           100        104       114          119
Total Gross Internal Product at
Factor Cost                      1216      1283       1364         1447
1/ Preliminary.
2/ Estimated.
Source: Central Bank of Honduras.
April 6, 1973



ANNEX 2
Page 1
HONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Land Tenure and Agrarian Reform
Tenure and Distribution of Land
1.        Honduras has a dísorderly system of land titles, with a variety of
systems of tenure superimposed on the traditional Spanish private (citio) and
public (ejido) land grant systems. Units of measurement have changed over the
years, enclosure has been haphazard rather than planned, and many property
boundaries bear little relation to their original title deeds. Superimposed
on this are a variety of systems of sub-tenancy, widespread squatting, and
various forms of share cropping. Deed registration is often regarded as an
unnecessary formality and there is no up-to-date land registry. Consequently,
many land titles are insecure and easily challenged in a court of law.
2.         In addition, the distribution of land is skewed.  Reliable figures
are not available, but the most recent census in 1965 states that there are
a total of 178,361 farms occupying a total of 2.5 million ha of land. 1/
Nearly 70% of these farms (120,000) are said to be less than 7 ha in size
(average 2.5 ha) yet they occupy less than 15% of the total farmed land. At
the other end of the scale, some 660 large farms, which represent less than
0.5% of the total number of farms, occuDy about 27% of the total farmed land.
(Table 1 provides further details.) These figures should be viewed with
extreme caution, since the census had no way of checking actual areas with
registered areas, but despite undoubted inaccuracies they provide a good guide
to the size and complexity of the problems of tenure and land use.
3.         It should also be noted that a large percentage of the small farms
are located in marginal areas. This is particularly true in the mountainous
Central zone. Most of them are either "rented` private lands, or a mixture of
leased or squatter occupied ejidal or national lands, with many beíng operated
under other farms of secondary tenancy (Table 2). Conversely, many of the
larger farms are frequently located on the better land, and are used for ex-
tensive ranching operations although they have the potential for much more
intensive systems of both crop and livestock production.  In some cases too
they have encroached on national or municipal lands, but land registration is
so uncertain that it has not been possible to correct the situation.
4.         Three out of every four Hondurans live in the rural areas; 85%' of
these rural inhabitants are dependent on agriculture, and a large nercentage
live at a subsistence level. The average national per capíta income is said
to be about US$290 per year, but in the agricultural sectors it is about
1/  The remainder of the land in Honduras is classed as forest land or is
unhabited.



ANNEX 2
"age 2
half tihis fig,ure.  If, in addition, the hliíb w.a-es paid to the 5- of the labor
forc'  en7aged in banara production is excluded, the. average per capita figure
for 95- of tlie rural nopulation is in the order of USt50 por year.  Against
such a :iac4round of rural poverty and unequal land distribution, it is hardly
suirDrisirv  that acute '3ocial and political pressures are building up pres-
sure-; t  find e.xnression in invasions of far.s by landless peasants.  Thev
are also tlbe pressures that haveo motivated Government to establish ^ -ational
-Xgrarian Institute clhr.ed to try and rened, the situation.
Ins iturto _:acional Ajr (l!ational A5,rarian Institute - IJAI)
5.        Thie Institute v-as established as an autonomous Covernment agency on
arch e6, 1961 ()ecree :o. (9), its prinFe purpose being to implement and enforce
thle Agrarían Reforrn Lav and other supplenentary legislation that is designed
to distribute land and water resources miore eeuitably.  Thie lai7 itself was
approved on Septetnber 2f, 1962 (Decree ',o. 2), biit has since Lbeen amended by
nleans of tro supplementary decrees (Mo. 127 of Tune 6, 1963 and NMo. 98 of
Januar-v 15, 1071). The Institute is headed by a Director, who is advised by
¿a~ ational A'-rarian Couircil of five regular ieribers, and is conposed of 10
onerat4ng 3epartnents who collectively e-iploy ahout 400 peopDe.  Of these
:ibout (6O -re nrofessional 'raduate staff, tlie bulh of tbem heing lawyers (27)
ind engineers (17).
6.        The nain operations undertaken by the NAI are planninr and executirg
settlenent schemes, rmaintaining the National Land Pegister (such as it is),
drafting lawis and regulations concerning land use, and coordinating the efforts
of other Government agencies involved in anricultural development schemes.  In
the 12 years of its existence, the Institute has been responsible for 20 agri-
culturpl settlement schemes, totaling soae 131,000 ha and involving about 8,300
families.  It has a further 11 schemes, totaling 94,400 ha and involving 4,665
famlies, in the planning stage.  Some of these schemes, both actual and pro-
posed, are large and involve as tnany as 1,000 fanilies, but a considerable
number are very smnall and involve less than 100 farilies.  Cooperatives are
encoura-ed in the settlements. In additíon to the agricultural settlements,
11 forestrv projects are planned. Tkese xwould cover 138,000 ha and involve
8,000 famrilies.
7.        The Institute is financed by varíous methods:  from Government appro-
priations, from income from the sale or lease of national land held by the
Instítute, from loans provided by international agencies, and from donations
in both cash and services frori a wide range of sources. By law, Government
is required to provide at least US$1 million annually. To ensure this, in
1968 NAI made a bond issue of US$15 millíon.  Sales and leases of national
land also provide an incone of a further US$0.2 million or so annually. Two
major loans have been negotiated, one for US17.7 million ín 1969 from the
Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) to finance the Aguan and quena Vista
Projects, and another of US$2.7 million from USAID for a pilot cadastral sur-
vey in one area of the Pacific zone.  The latter has yet to be finalized.
In addítion, the NDB has provided nearly US$2.5 million bet"een 1968 and 1971



ANNEX 2
Page 3
for loans to the cooperatives under NAI control.  iLs accounts are nut satis-
factorily kept and it is not known how much has been spent overall since NAI
was established and what have been the costs per family settled.
8.        Since its inception, the Institute has had a checauered history and
has been the center of considerable controversv. It has lad an extremnely
difficult job to do, has been regarded with suspicion and hostility by the
majority of larger farmers and land owners, and has heen ill equipped to oper-
ate on the scale that was necessary. Finances have been inadequate, leader-
ship has been erratic, staff have been ill chosen, and onerational methods
have been faulty. It has, however, served to highli,'ht the size and scope of
the agrarian problem and has attracted considerable suDport from the landless
peasantry, a group that has become increasinglv more vocal and better organ-
ized in recent years.
9.        Land invasions have occurred with ever increasing frequlency during
the last decade and the N;AI has not aluays been able to remedy or contain the
situation. After a two-year period of civilian Covernment, a military Govern-
ment took office, largely, it is said, to forestall a more violent confronta-
tion with the peasantry, and in recognition of the fact that immediate neasures
were required to accelerate policies leading to agrarian reform. A new Direc-
tor of the Institute has been appointed, and most of the Ministers in the pre-
vious Government associated with rural development have been replaced.
10.       Since agrarian reform was a major íssue that Drecipitated a militar',
take-over, it has received considerable attention. On December 27, 1972 the
new Government issued Decree Nlo. 8, w.hich is intended to provide short-term
solutions to the land problem and to provide a breathing space for drauring up
a longer plan for national agrarian reform. The Decree seeks to "incorporate
the rural poor into the national development process, to improve the organi-
zation of agricultural and livestock production and to provide genuine justice
for rural workers`. Under the Decree, the Institute is empowered to allocate
national and municipal land to the rural poor and to exproDriate, in return
for the payment of nominal rentals, privatelv oxmed lands which are not being
"properly farmed.' The Decree is also designed to protect farners who are
developing land productively, although it has yet to he seen how effectively
it can be implemented.
11.       The Institute is now even more prominent that before and is under
even greater pressure to produce and inplement an effective policy of agrarian
reform. It is now directly responsible to the head of state, thus involving
him more personally in agrarian reform. Time is running short, and it appears
that if advantage is not taken of the breathing space provided by Decree No. 8,
rural unrest could increase. It is therefore no exaggeration to say that
agrarian reform is the single most important issue facing Honduras and that
a great deal hinges on how well the Government can rise to the challenge over
the next two to three years.
June 12, 1973






w                                         ~~~~~~~~~~HONDURA
SECOND LIVESTOGK DEVnLOI£NT PROJECT
Table  1: Farm Size and Iand Use
Average        %          %             Area Cultivated %             Idle or
Size           No of Farms       Size       Number    Area       Annual      Permanent     Total      Forest %
1 to 7 ha       120,441           2.5         67.5      12.5      52.1          15.8        67.9        32.1
8 to 35 ha       47,089          14.7         26.4      28.2      17.8          10.1        27.9        72.1
36 to 350 ha     10,164          77.7          5.7      32.3        6.6          5.9        12.5        87.5
351  + ha           666         995.8          0.4      27.0       2.4          .4.4         6.8        93.2
Total        178,361          13.6        100.0     100.0      114.1          7.9        22.0        78.0
Table  2: Ind Tenire and Land Use
No         Area         Annual        Permanent       Other
Tenure                    Farms        (ha)       Crops (ha)    Crops (ha)      Uses (ha)
Privately Owned          39,991     1,106,907      85,157          64,1421      957,328
National                 20,089       204,950      41,373          30,097       169,480
Ejidal (municipal)       44,123       368,671      69,928          38,232       260,510
Rented                  440,053       122,760       68,201          9,796        4414,761
Squatter                  4,308        30,144       8,438           2,565        19,110
Owned + National          1,359        78,636       5,370           7,892        65,373
Owned + Ejidal            3,944       170,335      10,852          11,395       148,087
National + Ejilal         1,777        29,622       4,203          .4,282        21,136
Other Forme              22,717       269,057      48,531          21a725       lq8,8oo
Total                178,361     2,p417,051    342,056         190,1409    1,8884,587
Source:  Director General of Statistics and Census






ANNEX 2
Table 3
HONDURAS
SEGOND LIVESTOCK DEVELO0MNT ROJECT
Existing xaI Agricultural Settlement Projects
Area              Families
Project Name                 Location                    ha) _            Benefitted
Southern Region              Choluteca/Valle           34,944                1,665
San Bernardo               Choluteca                 14,557                 500
Ola                        Choluteca                 10,066                 >45b
Monjaras-B&ena Vista       Choluteca                  5,005                  327
Cedeñío                    Choluteca                  1,348                  142
Candelaria                 Valle                      3,718                  208
San Lorenzo                Valle                        250                   30
Northern Region              Yoro, Atlántida,
Cort¿8, Coln             76,074               5,415
f6uanchias                 Yoro                       6,4h56                 743
La Sarroza                 Yoro                       4,556                  392
Morazan                    Yoro                       1, 430                  51
Mezapa                     Yoro, Atlántida            1,000                 114
San Alejo                  Atlántida                    350                  111
La Masica                  Atlantida                  3,000                  400
Baracoa                    Cortés                     7,722                 430
Naco                       Cortés                       445                  45
La Sabana-Yojoa            Cortes                     1,115                   81
Aguán-!Mrgen Derecha       Colón                     50.,000               3,049
Eastern Region               El Paraíso, Olancho       20,194                1,135
Cropol                    El Raraíso                 3,170                  190
Jamastrán                  El Paraíso                10,932                  612
Soale                      El Para`so, Olancho        1,716                   93
Catacamas                  Olancho                    4,376                  240
Total                                                 131, 212               8L216
April 2, 1973



ANNEX 2
Table 4
HONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVEIOPMENT HROJECT
Proposed N>.I Agricultural Settlement Project.
Area              Families
Project Name                 Location                   (ha)             Benefitted
Northwot. Region             Atlántida, Cepan,
Certéz, Yoro              82,277               3,945
Valle de Leán              Atl,ntida                 22,880                1,300
Guaymas Guaymitas ,        Atlántida                 10,149                  378
El Porvenir-La Union       Atlántida                 14,443                  780
San Juan Guamas            C pn                       6,>435                 360
La Jigua                   Copán                      3,635                  200
Flor del Valle             Cortes                     6,435                  360
Agua Fria                  Yoro                      18,300                  567
Southern Region              Choluteca                  7,695                  450
Santa Catarina de
Las Lajas                Choluteca                  7,695                  450
Central Region               Comayagua,     -
Francisco Morazan          4,428                 270
La Canada                  Comayagua                  1,000                   70
Guasistagua                Coiayagua      ,             925                   60
Crica                      Franrisco Marazan          2J503                  140
Total                                                  94,400                4,665
April 2, 1973



ANNEX 2
Table 
HONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proposed NAI Forestry Projects
Area              Famiilies
Project Name                 Location                   (ha)             Benefitted
Atlántida
Valle de Lean              Lean                      18,000                  900
Colon
Aguan                      Colón y Yoro              10,000                  500
Comayagua
Loma de la Palja           Comayagua                 17,456                1,160
Resumidero                 Comayagua                   8,000                 530
Saxpedrana                 Comayagua                 13,400                  890
2op2n
Ajagual                    Copan                         551                  55
Elencia                    Copan                      7,000                  500
Plantanares                Cqpán                      3,000                  300
Olancho
Catacamas                  Catacamas                  3,000                  150
Tatavicoche                Olancho                   50,000                2,500
Azacualpa                  Olancho                     7,847                 523
Total                                                 138¡254                8,008
April 3, 1973






ANNEX 3
Page 1
IOYD3URAS
SECOND LIVESTOCT: DEVEIOPWEZT PROJFCT
The Livestock Sub-Sector
Beef and Dairy Cattle
1.        General.  Honduras is traditionally associated with bananas, coffee,
and timber and, although these tbree commodities still dominate national ex-
ports, the cattle industry is rapidly increasing in i"portance and may T,ell
overtake both coffee and timber as a producer of foreign exchange in the not
too distant future (Annex 1, Table l).  Though most of the country ís mountain-
ous, and much of it experiences long Deriods .hithout raín, tIc potential for
livestock developrment is considerable. In the Atlantic and Pacific zones,
with the better rainfall and areas of good soils, the potential is in places
extremely high.
2.        The cattle industry is still in its infance  and desrite wide differ-
ences in ecology is still largely unstratified. The fertile coastal ulains of
the Atlantic and Pacific zones lend themselves to intensive dairying and beef
fattening, while the poorer areas of the Central zone are more naturally suited
for breeding and rearing store cattle. Such specialization, however, has yet
to emerge. Traditionally too, mxost cattle are dual purpose, even on the larger
ranches.
3.        It is likely that as stratification develops in the livestock indus-
try in Honduras, the fertile coastal areas of the Atlantic and Pacific zones,
with their potential for high livestock carrying capacities, will develoD as
specialized dairy and beef fattenina areas. The dominant pasture species of
these areas is Guinea grass. With the present lirited suhdivision of fields
there is little control over feed quality and utilization, so that carrying
capacities of one animal unit ner hectare represent only one-kalf to one-third
of their potential levels. Increasing empliasis on the introduction of African
Star grass, the application of fertilizers, and the introductior of tropical
legumes, as proposed under the project, would he thc rmain measures nsed to
increase carrying capacitvz and stock productivitvr.  netter watering facilities
and greater subdivision of fields are also imDortant.
4.        Cattle Ilumbers and Distribution.  Official estinates (Table 1' indi-
cate a national cattle herd of 1.6 million head, althouvh the actual figure is
almost certainly over 2 million, and possibly as high as 2.3 millíon head.
Cattle are widely distributed throughout the country, with about 38% of the
national herd in the Atlantic zone, 46% in the Central zone, and 16% in the
Pacific zone (Table 2).  At least half the national herd is in the hands of
the smaller livestock farmer. The 1965 census lists 59' of all cattle as
being on small farms (less than 65 ha), -222 on riedium sized farns (65 to 320
ha), and 20% on large farms (over 320 ha).



ANNEX 3
Page 2
5.        Breeds.  post of the cattle are of the native or criolle type and,
though often small and stunted by poor nutrition and bad m,anagement, they are
capable of greater productivíty than is currently achieved. In recent years
there has been a sizeable introduction of improved breeds from the United
States. Brahman, Santa Gertrudis, and Charolais are preferred by beef produ-
ducers, while Brown Swviss and Holstein are favored for dairying.  Purebred
bulls are available ín increasing numbers from the C'overntnent's Comayagua Stud
Farr, the Fruit Companies, and several otber orivate ranches.
G.        Beef and J!ilk Production.  Beef production has increased steadily
fron 15,400 tons in 1960 to 38,000 tons in 1971. During this period exports
have risen nearly tenfold, from 2,400 tons to 22,130 tons, but domestic con-
sumption has remained static at about 16,000 tons per year (Table 3). The
latter figure niay not, however, fullv reflect the extent of illegal slaughter-
ing that undoubtedly takes place. Milk production has risen at a more nodest
rate, from 128 million liters in 1960 to 153 million liters in 1971.  Output
has not been able to keep up with rising demand, and imports have risen cor-
respondingly from 12 million liters to 33 million liters milk equtvalent (Ta-
ble 3). It is significant that dorestic consumption has remained static or
actually declined over the last decade, but this is a reflection of a static
econormy rather thar a satisfied demand.
7.        Dairy Husbandry.  There is very little specialized dairv farming at
tle present time in hTonduras.  Most of the rmilk for human consurnption comes
from predominantly beef-type animals that are miílked once a day.  The common
practice is to separate the calf fron its dar, in the afternoon, holding the
calf in a convenient hut nutritionally unsuitable field while the dam is awjay
grazLng.  The dam is milked the followin- morning from tvo to t'nree teats and
tlie calf is then alloxTed to rejoin her for the remainder of the morning.
Daíly nilk production averages 2 to 4 liters ner milked col'. depending partly
upon the nualit,r of the breeding stockl but far more on the level of nutrition.
In the drier and poorer Central zone, milk production per cow is considerably
loiTer than in the Atlantic zone. Calving takes place throughout the year,
rather than being seasonal.  Both calviing rates and weaning rates are low
(50Z' to 45Y, respectively) and growth rares of young stock are poor.  As a
result, heifers do not as a rule calve at less than three years of age.
.         Beef ¡Iusbandry.  For the most Dart, husbandry standards are poor
and annual beef production at 29 kg per ha and 19 k- per aniral is very low.
Steers are usuallv slaughtered at four to five years old, but, even so, seldom
exceed 300 kg in livey.'eight, or 140 kg final carcass weiiqht.  This reflects
poor managem!ent rather than cenetic potentiíal.
9.        Cojmaercial breedinc ranches are miainly 1.ocated in the Central zone
on areas of low fertility, brolken relief, and on lard which has no alternative
uses but forestry.  The Central zone has a canopy of the índirenous 1Tonduran
pine, its density depending unon milling operatíons ardlor frequency of burn-
in-,.  The doi'inant pasture species is  'lrjiraguai" (-Vyperrhenia rufia) and in-
vasion of secondary Sush growth is controlled by frequent hand cutting.  The
difficult contour infn1z3s the use of nachiner-.  The carrving canacity of
this zone is lox at ').5 ani-ial units ner ha ar3 t', e land is not capable of



ANNEX 3
Page 3
turning off fat animals. Cattle are sold either at weaning, 18 months, or
30 months of age for fattening in higher fertility areas. To supplemient in-
come from the sale of surplus heifers and unfinished steers and to provide
working capital, it is a common practice to milk a proportion of the breeding
coWs (up to 40%) once a day.  This practice locks the farmer into an all sea-
son calving pattern and, by depriving the calf of milk, low weaning weights
are common.  One of the principal managenent objectives for this tvpe of farm-
ing should be to phase into seasonal calving (calving t%o to three months be-
fore the start of the wet season) as this would closely equate seasonal pasture
production with the nutritional requirements of the cow and suckling calf and
so derive high weaning weights and a considerable iínrovement in calving rates.
10.       Ranches which combine breedinçt with fattening and finishing are also
found in the Central zone, but the majority of such ranches are in the other
twjo zones, with their higher quality land and better rainfall.
11.       Health and Disease.  Poor nutrition is the main problem that influen-
ces health and disease, particularly in the young stocl.  This is either due
to faulty management or because so many7 farms are undeveloped and little atten-
tion has been paid, until recently, to pasture improvement. Poor nutrition
leads to poor growth, and also makes animals less resistant to internal and
external parasites. Both tuberculosis and brucellosis are present, but nei-
ther disease is thought to be very serious. Levels of infection are said to
be low, but the true position mav be miasked by poor diagnostic facilities.
Fortunately, foot and mouth disease is not endemic, a big advantage since this
has allowed Honduras to export beef to the USA (European markets would also
be feasible if production permitted). The usual range of internal and exter-
nal parasites are to be found, but these can be controlled by routine veteri-
nary practices and should not, with good manaerement, be a major problem.
-í
12.       The total pig population is estimated to be 720,000 head, but
large-scale commercial pig production is virtually non-existent. The pig
population is scattered among many small farmers, mainly in corn producing
areas, and since they often have to compete with humans for food, many have
to scavenge for a living. No reliable statistics exist, but few producers
have more than five sOWs and there is little specialization between breeding
and fattening. Total pork production is said to have risen steadily by about
5% per annun from 7,291 tons in 1960 to 10,383 tons in 1971 (Table 3).  P1is
are still primarily a sideline to most producers, but a few are beginning to
specialize. IWhere this is so the favored breeds Pre Durox, Hampshire, Large
White, and Landrace, with most of the sow0s being crossbreds.  Only about 4%
of the total population can, however, be classed as pedic,ree or improved
stock.
13.       Husbandry standards are lorz, Particularly nutrition and disease
control. A varietv of feeds are available but unler existin- managerment prac-
tices animals are fed unbalanced and inadequate rations. Poor sow nutrition
causes high piglet mortality, and, coupled with the fact that T'any animals



ANTJEX 3
Page 4
are killed at only 30 kg liveweight, Droductivity is low..  It also neans that
the total. Dig population contains an unnecessarily high proportion of breed-
ing stoclk.
14.       Despite obvious management problems, the potential for increased
production is considerable, particularly in the Atlantic and Pacific zones,
where there is access to locally produced feed grains and crop by-products
such as uyaste bananas, cotton seed, slaughterhouse v!aste, and molasses. The
hot, hunid climate of the Atlantic zone should also reduce housing require-
ments to a minimum, permitting simple open shutters to be used as protection
from sun and rain and as a means of dividing pigs into manageable groups for
feedin- and husbandry.  Little specialist kcnowledge is however available, and
there is obvious need for technical assistance to design simple systems of
housing, compound rations from local ingredients, and devise cheap systems
of production.
lIay 10, 1973



HONDUAS                           ANNEX
Table 1
SECOOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT HROJECT           Table 2
Table 1 : Livestock Population Statistics
(1960 - 71)
Cattle           Pigs
(000 head)       (000 head)
1960                             1393.8             725.8
1961                            11411.2             733.2
1962                             1428.9             740.6
1963                             1446.8             748.2
1964                             1464.9             755.8
1965                             1483.2             763.4
1966                             1501.8             771.2
1967                             1520.6             779.0
1968                             1539.6             786.9
1969                             1588.9              794.9
1970                             1578.4             803.0
1971                             1598.1             811.2
Source:  Department of Census and Statistics
Table 2: Livestock Population Statistics,
Distribution by Departments
(1970)
Total       MiLking       Pigs
ATIANTIC  ZONE                           Cattle         Cows
Atlantida                            52,700        5,676        25,248
Colon                                33,700        3,665        31,019
Santa Barbara                       128,800       10340       53,382
Copan                                943,500       9,269       141,118
Gracias a Dios                        9,400          -   1/      7,935
Yoro                                127,1400      11,527 -      62, 759
Ocotepeque                           46, 600       7,142       12,263
Islas de la Bahia                     2,600          336           721
Cortes                              159,000       20,813        25,969
CENI¶AL  ZONE
El Paraiso                          120,900       13,871        47,610
Franciso Morazan                    1143,900      16,1456       67,808
Olancho                             148,400        9,800        86,564
Comayagua                            92,200         7,634       37,511
Intibuca                             53,600        6,414        26,692
La Paz                               47,500        6$,243       18,034
Lempira                              76, 800       6,142        59,152
PACIFIC  ZONE
Choluteca                           193,600       23, 392       69,973
Valle                                62j400         7,o65       47,610
Total             1,5914, 000     165,785 1/  721,368
1/  No information available.
2/ Representa an estimated 46% of the number of cows intended for milk production
Source: Department of Census and Statistics.
April 9, 1973






\o
H                                                                                H0NDUBAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Production and Consumption of Livestock Products
(1960-71)
BEEF                                            PORK                                                     MILK
Production  Exports  Consumption    Per Capita  Production  Exports  Consumption    Per Capita   Production    Imports    Consumption            Per Capita
Year   (metric    (metric   (metric       Consumption   (metric    (metric   (metric         Consumption   (million       (million    (million        Consumption
tons)    tons)         tons)       (kg)           tons)    tons)         tons)       (kg)          liters)      liters)        liters)       (liters)
1960     15,418    2,409      13,009           7.0         7,291      2,000       5,291          3.1           127.6        11.9         139.5            76.0
1961     17,578    3,465      14,113           7.3         7,806      1,779       6,027          3.2           129.7         16.0        145.7             76.1
1962     19,493    6,545      12,948          6.4          8,009      1,471       6,538          3.3           131.9         11.1        143.0             72.2
1963     19,679    7,087      12,592           6.0         8,465      1,110       7,355          3.4           134.1         19.5        153.6             75.1
1964     18,588    5,812      12,776          6.0          8,616      1,059       7,557          3.4           136.3         17.3        153.6             72.7
1965     19,464    7,797      11,667          5.3          8,918        854       8,064          3.5           138.6         13.6        152.2             67.8
1966     19,761    9,005      10,756          4.6          8,765      1,107       7,658          3.4           140.9         14.1        155.0             68.7
1967     23,307    9,238      14,069           5.9         9,054        918        8,136         3.4           143.2         15.7         158.9            68.1
1968     25,984    9,788      16,196           6.6         9,178        896       8,282          3.3           145.6         21.8         167.4            69.4
1969     28,948   16,319      12,629           4.8         9,817        358        9,459         3.4           148.0         32.7         180.7            72.4
1970     29,762   17,836      12,126          4.6         10,240         38       10,202         3.6           150.5         32.3         182.8            71.7
1971     37,973   22,137      15,836           6.0        10,383         -        10,383         3.6           153.4         33.1         186.5            72.1
1/ Liquid milk equivalent.
Source:  Department of Statistics and Census.






ANNEX 4
Page 1
HONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Marketing of Livestock Products
Present Arrangements
1.        Beef.  Most of the beef produced in Honduras is exported, some of it
as live animals to neighboring Central American countries but the bulk of it
as boneless beef to the United States, a market which is open because Honduras
is free of foot and mouth disease. Honduras began exporting processed beef
in limited quantities to the US in 1958, and exports remained limited until
1968 due to the lack of slaughter capacity and the export of live cattle. In
1968, the US Congress imposed a voluntary quota system for all countries ex-
porting fresh beef to the US. Quotas were based on past deliveries and cur-
rently available supplies. Countries with excess beef could sell, out of
quota, processed beef products prepared for direct sale to retail outlets or
for processing into packaged foods by industrial users. In 1972, because of
the shortage of boneless manufacturing beef in the US, the quota system was
suspended, making it possible for packers to export as much as they could
produce and sell to the US.
2.        As a result of this large export market for fresh beef, seven modern
export-oriented slaughterhouses, with a daily kill and boning capacity of
1,445 head, have been constructed in Honduras. Three of the plants, Alus,
Corsa, and Del Norte, are located in the cattle rich northern part of Honduras.
Two others, Ranch Lorenzo and Orinsa, are located in the east central part of
the country, and two more, IGHSA and Carnilandia, are located in the south.
The plant capacity, export quantities, and percent of sales for local consump-
tion are shown below:
Capacity /1      Exports ('000 tons)       % of Sales Local
Plant             (Cattle per day)      1971          1972    Consumption Red Meat
Corsa                    250            5.6           6.9              3
Alus                     400            3.7            3.5            23
IGHSA                    250            2.9           2.9               7
Del Norte                125            1.0            1.1             2
Ranch Lorenzo            170            2.2           2.5              1
Orinsa /2                150            -- -            - -
Carnilandia /3           100            - -           - -            100
Total             1,445          15.4           16.9
/1 Plant capacity utilization, 60% in 1972.
/2 To open in 1973.
/3 Opened in 1972 and has been approved to export.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
3.        The export slaughter plants must meet the US sanitary standards and,
for this reason, they are modern, efficient and well designed units, complete
with boning rooms, refrigerated beef coolers, and freezer storage. Each plant
has a veterinary meat inspector and several assistants available to inspect
the líve animals, beef carcasses and by-products, and the boned meat to ensure
that only wholesome meat products leave the plant. The plants appear to be
well run and have aggressive management.
4.        Since the packers are the main outlet for beef cattle, there are no
cattle markets in the accepted sense in Honduras. Animals are bought by the
packers through comnission agents and are trucked direct from farm to packing-
nouse. The packers also tend to dominate the market in feeder cattle. They
purchase stock from farmers in the breeding areas and transport them to farmers
in the fattening areas for finishing. Varíous arrangements are made, ranging
from outright cattle purchase and subsequent resale to agreements involving
no change in ownership of the cattle and a division of profits between the
feeders and the packers. It is estimated that the majority of cattle pur-
chased for fattening are financed by the packers, in one form or another.
5.        The volume of total annual beef production handled by the packers
(about 63%) partly explains the weight of their influence in the beef industry.
They have successfully influenced Government to enforce regulations on live
cattle exports, i.e. reduced their competition with other markets, but at the
same time, and to the benefit of the industry, they have created and developed
an effective outlet for domestic beef production which did not exist prior ti
the 1960's. Since packing plants operate at levels well below full capacity,1/
they compete with one another for the supply of finíshed animals. This com-
petition has not, however, been conducted to any marked extent with differen-
tial pricing, since there are few enough packers to permit them to control
producer prices.
6.        Despite the financial strength of the packers and despite their hold
on farmers, live animals are still exported, mainly to Guatemala and Nicaragua.
This traditional trade has declined since the growth of the US market for car-
cass meat, from US$2.4 million in 1960 to US$0.3 million in 1971. The decline
has also been due to the tighter enforcement of regulations that penalize the
export of any female animals and male animals weighing less than 300 kg.
Clandestine sales continue, at a higher rate than the official figures suggest,
and producers on the Nicaragua and Guatemala borders receive attractive price
incentives to sell to foreign dealers.
7.        The domestic meat market is at present mainly supplied by culled
female cattle, collected by local butchers and their agents, and killed in the
local municipal slaughterhouses, or elsewhere illegally. Regulations limit
1/   In spite of their underutilization, the export packing houses supply only
a fraction of the domestic market. US sanitary regulations limit the type
of animals they are allowed to process, and supplying the local market,
which requires different cuts, ís less profitable to the packers. Most of
the capacity of the export packing houses will be taken up as exports ex-
pand. In addition, export packing houses are mainly located at a distance
from the centers of population and municipalities traditionally operate
their own abattoirs.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
the slaughter of females by the packers to 10% of their total throughout, and
this has the effect of ensuring a source of animals to the domestic market.
As a result, the majority (above 75%) of animals killed in the municipalities
are females. The domestic market is also supplied to a lesser extent by the
export packers who, in 1972, sold approximately 3.5 million pounds, or 8% of
their total production, to the local hotel and restaurant trade. This repre-
sented about 15% of total domestic consumption of beef. In addition, most
of the offal produced by the packers is sold to the local market.
8.        The municipal abattoirs are generally old, obsolete, small, and
unsanitary facilities where cattle and pigs are slaughtered by individuals
who pay a fee for the use of the plant. Most abattoirs have no overhead raíls
or hooks to hang the carcasses during skinning and eviseration. Most plants
also lack sufficient cold water to wash the carcass and by-products, and have
no hot water for personal hygiene or cleaning the walls or floors. There is
no provision for destroying diseased animals and carcasses, nor for the most
part, is there an inspection service to ensure that only wholesome meat is
delivered to the butcher. As a result of the inadequate facilities, from 40
to 50% of the cattle and 30 to 40% of the pigs consumed in the municipalities
are slaughtered under a tree, or in a farmer's shed, and then illegally trans-
ported into the towns. This practice not only reduces the revenue to the
municipalities but increases the possibility of selling diseased meat to the
consumer.
9.        Prices paid to beef producers in Honduras are low in comparison with
other Central American countries, largely because animals are of poorer qual-
ity. For an 800- to 900-pound male animal, the producer receives an average of
tS$0.15 to US$0.16 per pound liveweight from the export packers, who pay a
premium for heavier animals and a discount for lighter ones. Producers able
to sell to cattle dealers from outside Honduras receive slightly higher prices
(about 17 cents per pound), while producers in remote areas where there is a
single export packer in operation, receive slightly lower prices (about 14
cents per pound)- Because of the restrictions applied to female slaughter in
the export trade, producer prices for cull cows are somewhat lower at 12 to 13
cents per pound. Prices have increased by about 60% since 1968 and have given
rise to a continuing demand for long-term development credits. There is no
Government pricing policy and the meat packers are left to set whatever price
level is necessary to generate adequate producer incentives.
10.       Milk.  Consumption of milk in liquid form is estimated to be 25% of
total production. The balance of production is used to make cheese and but-
ter. Most liquid milk consumption occurs in the heavily populated departments
and those with milk processing plants. These plants are either individually
owned or owned by producer cooperatives. About 40% of milk consumed directly
is pasteurized and the remaining 60% is sold to consumers (without health
controls) either directly by the producer or via retailers. In remote local-
ities, milk is mostly converted into cheese and butter. Because of seasonal
conditions and problems of distribution, producer prices for milk vary con-
siderably from US$0.08 per liter to US$0.13 per liter. Average prices paid
by processing plants are around US$0.09 per liter and are sufficient to pro-
vide producers with a profitable return.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
11.       Pork.  Virtually all pigs are sold to local butchers and slaughtered
either in municipal slaughterhouses or illegally elsewhere. The packers do
not slaughter pigs, since USDA regulations do not permit it. Hence no pig
meat is exported, and all of it is consumed locally. A decade ago there was
a small but useful export outlet (25% of production) to El Salvador, but the
war of 1968 disrupted this trade and it has not since been resumed. Pig pric-
es to the producer are approximately US$0.45 per pound liveweight and are
sufficient, given improved productive efficiency, to justify the development
of commercial pig production.
Future Prospects
12.       Beef.  The domestic and export opportunities for beef are excel-
lent. The domestic market, which absorba about 37% of recorded production,
is characterized by low per capita consumption (estimated to be around 6 kg
in 1972). This will inevitably increase at a minimum rate set by the growth
in per capita GNP (estimated to be an average of 2.8% per annum over the period
1970-80) and by a significantly greater rate if per capita consumption in
Honduras reaches the levels achieved in other Central American countries.
Export opportunities are good. The present US market can absorb all that
Hlonduras can produce and the European market has yet to be tapped. The beef
import requirements of the US market (which account for 90% of Honduran beef
exports) are expanding by an average of 5.1% per anntm 1/ and even if Honduras
only maintains her present share of that market (2.32% in 1971), export demand
will nearly double by 1985. Translated into terms ef future production re-
quirements, there is a need to more than double output by 1985. The natural
growth rate in beef production would fall well short of meeting this require-
ment. If the 4% per annum rate of growth for the period 1962-71 was main-
tained, the supply deficit would exceed 12,000 tons by 1985. Table 1 illus-
trates supply and demand projections up to 1985.
13.       Milk.  Honduran milk production is in deficit.  In 1970, the equiv-
alent of 32,000 metric tons of liquid milk equivalent was imported. Based on
the historical 1.7% per annum growth in supply and an increase in per capita
consumption from 72 kg to 96 kg, the production deficit will amount to 159,000
tons by 1980. Table 2 provides supply anu demand projections for the inter-
mediate years. Hence the prospects for expansion can only be classed as good
to excellent.
14.       Pork.  Pork output has barely risen over the period 1962-71 (average
rate, 1.9%). On the basis of a modest increase in the per capita consumption
(3.5 kg to 4.0 kg) and a continuation of the historical growth rate, the pro-
duction deficit will exceed 3,000 tons of carcass meat by 1980 unless there
is additional investment and improved efficiency in the industry (Table 3).
The projected deficit takes no account of any export markets which may
re-emerge in the future. Here again prospects for expansion are good, parti-
cularly, as is possible, rising beef prices, stimulated by export opportun-
ities, compel the consumer in Honduras to rely more and more on pig and poul-
try meat rather than on beef.
1/   FAO projections for Agricultural Products 1970-80.
%ay 10, 1973.



ANNEX 4
Table 1
HONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVEIOPMENT PROJECT
Beef - Supply and Demand Projections
(in metric tons of carcass meat)
DEMAND                                    SUPPLY
Exports  Per Capita    Total         Total     Estimated    Additional
Year     1/    Consumptiori  Domestic       Demarnd    Production   Production
______           kkg/year Y   Consamption                  2/         Required
1969-71  20,341     4.30         10,896      31,237       31,237           -
1972   22,469     4.49         12,062      34,531       33,786           745
1973   23,615     4.60         12,794      36,409       35,137         1,272
1974  24,819      4.70         13,533      38,352       36,543         1,809
1975   26,085      4.80        14,313      40,398       38,005         2,393
1976   27,415     4.91         15,165      42,580       39,525         3,055
1977   28,813      5.02        16,057      44,870       41,106         3,764
1978   30,283     5.13         16,998      47,281       42,750         4,531
1979   31,827      5.25        18,024      49,851       44,460         5,391
1980   33,450      5.37        19,100      52,550       46,238         6,312
1981   35,122     5.49         20,246      55,368       48,041         7,327
1982   36,878     5.63          21,460     58,338       49,914        8,424
1983   38,721     5.76          22,747     61,468       51,860         9,608
1984  40,657      5.91         24,111      64,768       53,882        10,886
1985  42,689      6.05         25,557      68,246       55,983        12,263
1/ Exports : Projected to grow at an annual rate of 5.1%,
the FAO forecast rate of net  US import demand.
2/ Per Capita Consumption: Projected on the basis of growth in per capita GDP of
2.8% p.a. (1970-80)  and estimated income elasticity of demand
of 0.8.
2/ Production :Projected to grow at annual rate of 4.0%,, reflecting the
historical rate for 1962-64/1969-71.
Source: Economic Planning Council, Department of Statistics and Census
and Central Bank.
April 9, 1973



ANNEX 4
Table 2
HONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Pork - Supi1V and Demand ProJections
(in metric tons of carcass meat)
Per Capita       Total            Estimated          Additional
Consumption      Consumption 2/  Production 1/       Production
kg/year 1/                                         Repuired
Average 1969-71         3.54              8,957           9,200                243
1972            3.64              9,779           9,380                399
1973            3.69             10,263           9,566                697
1974            3.74             10,769           9,758              1,011
1975            3.79             11,301           9,954              1,347
1976            3.85             11,891          10,154              1,737
1977            3.90             12,475          10,356              2,119
1978            3.96             13,121          10,562              2,559
1979            4.01             13,767          10,772              2,995
1980            4.07             14,476          10,986             3,490
1/  Per Capita Consumption:  Projected on the basis of growth in per capita
GDP of 2.8% p.a. (1970-80) and estimated income elasticity of demand of 0.5.
2 Asssumes no export denand.
3/  Estimated Production: Projected to grow at annual rate of 1.9% reflecting
the historical growth rate for 1962-64L/1970-71.
Source: Economie Planning Council, Department of Statistics and Census and
Central Bank.
April 9, 1973



ANNEX 4
Table 3
HONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PRCJECT
Raw Milk - Supply and Demand Projections
(in metric tons)
Per Capita       Total             Estimated 2/      Import
Consumption      Consumption       Production-       Requirements
kg/year 1/                                          (Supply Deficit)
Average 1969-71        73.2            185,335           155,282             30,053
1972          77.3             207,775          160,606              47,169
1973          79.5             211,121          163,337              47,784
1974          81.7             235,325          166,114              69,211
1975          84.0             250,509          168,937              81,572
1976          86.4             266,754          171,809              94,945
1977          88.8             283,972          174,730             109,242
1978          91.2             302,414          177,701             124,713
1979          93.8             322,128          180,721             141,407
1980          96.5             343,053          183,79h             159,259
1/ Per Capita Consumption: Projected on basis of growth in per capita G-DP of
2.8% p.a. (1970-80) and estimated income elasticity of demand of 1.0.
2/ Estimated Production: Projected to grow at 1.7% p.a.treflecting the
historical growth rate for 1962-64/1969-71.
Source: Economic Planning Council, Department, of Statistics and Census
and Central Bank
April 9, 197 3






ANNEX 5
Page 1
HONDURAS
SECON1) LIVESTOCK DVVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Banking Systen
Introduction
1.        Honduran banks, both private and government, play an iimportant
role in providing credit to agriculture. In 1972, approximately 33% of total
credit went for agriculture, compared with 21% for industry, 18% for housing,
16% for comnerce, 6% for consumption, 4% for services, aud 2% for transport
(Table 1). Traditionally, most of the agricultural credit has been provided
by the Government's National Development Banlk (NDB) although the private com-
mercial banks also play an important role in aaricultural financing (Table 2).
Banco Central de Honduras (Central Bank)
2.        The Central Bank of Honduras (CR), an autonomous Government institu-
tion, heads the banking system. It was established by the National CongreFS
in February 1950 and has headquarters in Tegucigalpa, a branch office in San
Pedro Sula, and eight agency offices throughout Honduras. It is governed by a
Board of Directors composed of the President of the bank, appointed by the
President of the Republic; the Minister of Finance and Public Credit, an
ex-officio member; a representative from NDB; a representative fron the Dri-
vate connercial banks; and a representative from the private sector.  T.ach
member has an alternate.
3.        The President of the bank, in office for a seven-year term that uiiay
be extended, proposes to the Board of Directors the measures and resolutions
necessary to execute bank policies and informs it of issues nost relevant to
the operation of the bank.  He also perfortns the legal renresentation, together
with or apart from the management, and directs the relations of the bank and
Board with public authorities, "J,ith the banking system, and with various in-
ternational organizations wjhere it represents Government.
4.        The lManager of the banl is in charge of its direct administration
and day-to-day operations.  Hle is appointed hy the Board, beirig responsible
to it as well as to the President, and is assisted by several departnent man-
agers wjho, upon his recommendation, are appointed by the Board. An internal
atditor, also appointed hy the Board, is responsible for the inspection and
continuous audit of accounts. An external auditor, appointed by the President
of the Republic and adninistratively responsible to the M4inister of Economic
and Finance and Public Credit, annually audits the departments of the bank for
legal and financial compliance with the national banking laws and regulations.
The Superintendent of Banks, appointed by the Board and administratively respon-
sible to the Manager of the bank, is responsible for e-anining the operations
of all private banks, finance coFmanies, and Governrent banus.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
5.        Characteristically, CB acts as banker, fiscal agent, and economic
and financial adviser to Government, to its Ministríes and Departments, and
to official and sermi-official entities. Primarily, its purpose is to promote
monetary, credit and exchange conditions favorable to the development of the
national economy. CB may grant advances and rediscount at 100% on credit in-
struments not exceeding 360 days for financing the initial stages of agricul-
tural and industrial development. For such advances, it charges interest at
4% per annum, while for other types of paper, it charges 5%. It establishes
the interest rate structure for all bank deposits and loans, as well as the
reserve requirements against deposits. 1/ The bank may also establish limits
on advances, línes of credit in foreign currency, and rediscount facílities
to private banks. CB may borrow from international lending institutions and
it would act as fiscal agent for Government and as Adninistering Agency for
the proposed project, a role it has successfully plaved for the First Live-
stock Development Project.
6.        CB allocates its net earning to its capital and to a Securities
Fund. None of its earnings, therefore, flow into the National Income and
Expenditure Budget. Summarized financial accounts for 1968 to 1972 are shown
in Table 3.
Private Coinmercial Banks
7.        The Honduran economiy is conpetitively serviced by 10 private commer-
cial banks, seven of which are participating in the First Project (Table 4).
1.   Banco Atlantida, an affillate of Chase %anhattan Bank; 2/
2.   Banco de Capitalizadora Pondurena (BANCAHSA); 2/
3.   Banco de Honduras, an affilinte of First National
City Bank; 2/
4.   Banco de El Ahorro Hondureno; 2/
5.   Bank of America;2/
6.   Banco La Financiera Hondurena; 2/
7.   Banco de Londres y llontreal;
8.   Banco de Comercio;
9.   Banco de Occidente; 2/
10.   Banco de Los Trabajadores.
1/ The interest rate of loans to agriculture and industry ís legally set at
9% p.a. For other purposes, higher interest rates may be charged.
2/ Banks participating in the First Livestock Development Project.



AM1EX 5
Page 3
Banco Atlantido holds about 30% of total resources and 44% of total depo4its
in the conmercial banking system.  In recent years, tbree locally ownled banks
(Bancahsa, Ahorro, and Occidente) have come under joint control and have
expanded their share of the banking system to the extent that by the end of
1972 their combined deposits and loans almost equal those of Banco Atlantido.
The same group of locally omed banks has also developed the main momentum in
lending under the First Livestock Development Project.
Specialízed Institutions
8.        Four institutions fall within this category -- Banco Nacional de
Fomento (National Development Bank - NDB); Banco Municipal Autonomo (Autono-
mous ilunicipal Bank - AMB); Banco Hipotecario; and La Vivienda.
9.        Further details on the NDB and YM,B are provided in Annexes 6 and 7,
respectively. Neither of the other two institutions mentioned above are large
and their activities do not affect the Second Livestock Development Proiect.
Interest Rates
10.       All credit institutions are legally required to conply ijith the
rates established by CB.  According to its resolutions dated August and Sep-
tember 1972, current maximum charges are as follows:
1. Small Loans:
up to L1,OOO                  -  12-14%d interest, plus up to
1-1/2% (flat) commission fees
1,000 to 2,500               -  10-12% interest, plus up to
1-1Y%' (flat) commission fe-es.
2.   Loans for more than L2,500:
for trade and
consumption               -  up to 18%
for agriculture and
industry                  -  9%,
Commissions are limited to 1-1/2% of (flat) and
compensating balances to 10% of outstanding loans.
The National Development Bank charges fariners 9%,
interest only, with no penalty on arrears. It
charges cooperatives 7 to 9%I', uihich, in turn,
charge 12% to their members.
3.  llortgage Loans on Urban Properties:  10-11%  interest,
plus 2-3%' commis-
sion charges
4.   Interest on Deposits:  Saving Deposits  -  4-5% (with
tax benefits)
Time Deposits  -  4-7% (without
tax benefits)



ANNEX 5
Page 4
5.   Central Bank rediscounts bills at 4-5%.  The lower rate
applies to first -
8tage financing for
crops, livestock,
and industry.
6.   The inter-bank lending rate ia 7-7 1/2%.
lay 10, 1973



HONDURAS
o.                                                     SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
*                                         Loan Portfolio of the  Bankíng System by Sector. As of Decenber 31, 1972
(Lempiras miltion)
Commercial Banks               Development Banks 1/              Other Institutions              Entíre Banking System
Sector                  Amount       % of Total         Amount      Z of Total          Amount       % of Total          Ahount           7e of Total
Agriculture
Crops                     23.1           8               36.2           41                0.3             2                59.6               15
Cattle and Pigs           23.6           8               32,4           37                0.2             1                56.3               14
Fisheries                  7.0           2                *             _                 -               -                  7.0               2
Poultry                    1.7           1                1.4           2                 -               _                  3.1               1
Forestry                   3.1           1                0.1           -                 -               -                  3,1               1
Sub-total                  58.5          20               70.1           80                0.5             3               129.1               33
Industry                     71.4           24              11.1           13                0.2             1                 82.7              21
Housíng                      57.5           19                1.1            1              14.7            90                 73.3              18
Commercial                   62.2           21                2.8            3                0.3             2                65.3               16
Consumption                  22.6            8                0.4            1                0.3             2                23.3               6
Services                     13.6            4                0.9            1                0.3             2                14.8               4
Transport                     7.7            3                0.1            -                *               -                 7.8                2
Mining                        0.7            -                0.9            1                -               -                 1.6                -
Others                        1.8            1                -              -                -               -                 1.8                -
Total                 296.0          100               87.4          100               16.3           100               399.7              100
1t National Development Bank (...7,) and Municipal Bank (...7/).
* Less than 100,000 Lempiras.
Source:  Central Bank



ANNEX 5
Table 2
HONDURAS
SECQOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMT PIDJECT
Source and Use of A  icultux'l Credit
uILfA-lon)
1968    ;1969         1970       1971      1972
otoal Agricultural Lending        63.3      B3.5        115.6      116.7    129.1
- livestock 3/                  21.7      26.9        48.1        50.2      59.4
- crop,etc.                     41.6      56.6        67.5        66.5      69.7
Comjercial Bank Lending           31.2      53.4        80.9        56.3      58.5
- livestock 1/                  11.1      16.3        32.3        23.0      25.3
- crope,etc.                    20.1      37.1        48.6        33.3      33.2
B N F Lending                     29.5'    27.5         24.5        60.0      70.1
- livestock y                    9.1       9.7        10.8       27.1       33.8
- crops,etc.                    20.4      17.8        13.7       22.9       36.3
Other Institutions                 2.6       2.6        10.2         O.J-      o.5U
Share of Total (%)               100       100         100        100        100
- comnercial bankcs             49        614         70         48         45
- fNF                           47        33          21         51         54
- others                         4         3           9          1          1
1/   IlclpdiW p ultry             _           --
I/  In 197], La Financiera Hondureña obtained the status of a comrcial bank.
Source: 'BNF and Central Bank
March 27, 1973



ANNEX 5
Table 3
Page   1
HONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVEOPMENT PP:)JECT
Central Bank  Summary of Financial Accounts. 1968 tirough 1972
(L million)
Liabilities                    1968       1969       1970      1971       1972
Foreign Liabilities                         45.9       44 4      71.1      79.0        96.2  /
Domestic Liabilities:
Notes in Circulation                    60.4       73.8     77.1       80.7        91.4
Coina in Circulation                     7.1        7.6       8.3       8.7         9.2
Central Government Deposita             15.8       12.8      11.1      14.0        35.2
Local Government Deposita                0.1        0,1       0.2       0.3         0.3
Autonomous Institutiona Deposita         6.0        8.9       6.1       4.6         5.8
Gomierical Banks                        17.6       17.8      25.4      30.8        23.1
National Development Banks               0,7         0.8      1.7        1.5        1.1
Other Institutioñs                       0.6        0.7     0.8        0.2        0.4
Private-Sector Deposits                  0.8  -      2.2     1.3        1.5        2.0
Miscellaneous                            1.3         9.3      2.0       2.5         3-4
Total                            156.3        178.4   205.1      223.8      270.1
Ca@ital and Reserves                    15.2        1       17.1       19.9        22.7
Total                            171.5        197.2   222.2      243.7      292.8
1/  Private banks have at their disposal foreign lines of credit totaling  L23 million.
Source: Central Bank.
March 27, 1973



ANNEX 5
Table 3
Page 2
HoNDU1U.S
SEOCND LIVESTOCK DEVEIOPNET PROJECT
Central Bank SumuarZ of Financial Accounts, 1968 through 1972 (Contínuéd)
(L reslli4n)
Assets                          1968        1969        1970        1971      1972
International Reserves                120.2       115.0        118.1      124.2     165.4
Domestic Assets
Public Sector Credit:
Central Government                  5.1        26.2        37.3        53.1      54.5
Local Government                    0.3         1.3          3.6        7.2      11.0
Autonomous Institutions             3.9         3.0          5.5        5.1        5.8
Banking Sector Credit:
Commercial Banks                    9.8        15.7        20.4        19.2      19.2
National Development Banka         11.5        13.9        13.0        16.7      16.1
Other Financial Institutions        1.5         3.1          4.2        0.3        0.5
"rivate Sector Securities               0.1         0.1          0.1        0.2        0.3
Miscellaneous                          19.0        18.9         20,0       17.7       20.0
Total                             171.4       197.2        222.2      243.7      292.8
Source:  Central Bank
March 27, 1973



HONOURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCE DEVEWP~T PBO¿ECT
;                                             Couaoltda.ttd BalencceSheet, eE 1'5inctpal Bnking TInstitutions
Deaceaber 31. 1972
(l~pira  *illion)
Prívate COMer%i«ale_                                    _    Nat irnal       Autonou.s
de      Bl s  ro        2ao                      lanh       Financiera  Developaeent    lMtncipal
ASS¡IB                     Atlaníida    E Ibaa   Oodur beo   Occidente                    of 4_ries   ilondurena  Bak (Gov't)    Bank
Cv;rgnnt
C*ss                              4.2         0.9         2.1          0.5          1.8          0.5           0.1          1.9           0.1
Depodte -- Central Bank          3.9          5.6        4.0           0.6          2.7          1.5          0.8           1.7           0.5
Govern t SecurítIoa             24.1          3.9        S.5           1.4          7.2          3.3          0.9          0.7            1.0
tiher Depoolte & Chequcs         4.5          2.1         3.6          0.4          2.4          1.9           0.5          2.3            0.2
Sub-total                    36.7         12.5        18.3          2.9         14.1           7,2          2.3         6.6            1.8
Dnt_
Loan* ao  Dtscounts             84.6         26,3        35.5         10.0         39.5         19S3          21.7        84.2             2.8
Other raveetmente nnd  ~'onda    4.0          -           0.6          0.2          0.4                        1.0          8.3            0.5
sub.-total                   86.6         26._       36. 1         10.2         39.9         19.3         28.7         92.5            3.3
Real Eatete ad Equipasnt        11.5          1.5         0.9          0.4          2.3          0.6           1.4         12.7           0.3
Coottifnent Aseste              13.1         26.7         7.2          4.0         12.2         18.4          12.3         13.1            8.S
Other                            6.4          1.2         2.8          0.5          3.7          1.8           1.5         19.6            6.8
Total                       156.3         70.2       653           18.0         72.2         47.3         46.2        144.5           21.0
LLUILrTIES
OBeosite
D~                              58.5         20.8        U.7           4.7         19.0         15.6          20.4        46.2             1.9
Tim                             65.2         11.6        33.0           7.2        20.0          9.7           0.1         13.6            1.8
Upectal Savingls                                                                    96 
Sub-total                   123.7         32.4       51.7          11.9         4S.6         25.3         20.5         59.8            3.7
0ther Liabtlitien
Central Ban                      0.4          0.5         0.8          0.1          0.3          -             0.2         16.8
Accou,Cs Poyable                  0.5         0.5         0.3           -           0.3          0.1           0.3          0.2            0.3
Long-Ter. Poreign Lo-s&          2.0          0.5         1.2          0.4          6.2          -            4.3           2.1           1.0
MtiscelaneouS                    1.6          1.4         1.2          0.2          0.8          0.1           2.4          0.2            0.2
Sub-toLeI                     4.5          2.9        3.3           U./          7.6          0.2           7.2        19.3            1.5
Contiogent Llabilitiea          13.1         28.7         7.2          4.0         12.2         18S4    _     123          13.1            8.8
CAPITAL AU£ 8£SERVES
Lepital -- paid u;                 4.0          3.0         0.4           1.0         2.0          3.0           5.0         37.8            3.6
Capital Payable                     -           -           -             -                        -             -            -              3.1
Legal Reserves                     7.2          2.5         1.8          0.3          0.6          -             0.4
Contlagency Remerves                -           0.1         0.3          0.1          0.5          0.1           0.3          0.2
Valu4tion Reserves                  1.8         0.6         0.44         0.2          0.7          0.3           0.5         14.3            0.3
Sub.toteí                      15.0          6.2         2.9          1.6          3.8          3.4           6.2        52.3             7.0                     1
Total Liabilitise. Capital
*nd Reserves                156.3         70.2       65.3          18.0         72.2         47.3         46.2        144.5           21.0
Soorce:  cntral oan7 4f Hondur.,,






ANNEX 6
Page 1
HONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BANCO NACIONAL DE FOMENTO
National Development Bank (NDB)
Functions
1.        NDB is the major development bank in the country.  It was founded
in 1950 and has been the main source of institutional lending to agriculture.
By the end of 1972, it financed about 60% of total loans to the agricultural
sector. The major part of its lending is medium and long term (about US$19
million) but it has also extended about US$16 million of short-term loans to
the sector. NDB's activities are not restricted to agriculture. It has an
industrial loan portfolio of about US$3 million and is involved in extensive
non-banking activities such as operating the Government's grain marketing and
atorage program and running a series of farm supply stores and, by means of
ita Development Department, an active technical assistance and promotion pro-
gram in both agriculture and industry. NDB also operates as a commercial bank
ínsofar as it solicits deposits (about US$3 million) from private and public
institutions and makes commercial loans.
Administration
2.        NDB is governed by a Board of Directors, composed of a President
(appointed by the President of the Republic), four Government Ministers, one
representative of the Central Bank, one representative of the private banking
sector, and three representatives of the business community.
Resources and Financial Structure
3.        In December 31, 1972, the consolidated balance sheet showed total
assets of US$64 million (Table 1). Its main liabilities were owned capital
of US$17.7 million, long-term loans (mainly from IDB and USAID) of US$15
million, rediscounts from Central Bank of US$8.4 million, time deposits and
short-term borrowings of US$6.8 million, and demand deposits of US$3.9 mil-
lion. Its main assets were loans due after 18 months, US$32.8 million; loans
due within 18 months, US$7.2 million; fixed assets, US$5.2 million; invest-
ments in various enterprises, US$3.3 million; and cash and holdings in the
Central Bank, US$2.1 million. According to these figures, the overall debt/
equity ratio is 2.6:1 and its term debt/equity ratio, 0.9:1.  This seems a
satisfactory situation, resulting largely from the fact that Government's
contribution to NDB's share capital has more than offset its balance sheet
losses.
Financial Results
4.        NDB has operated at a loss for several years.  During the four years
1969-72, annual losses have varied between US$0.3 million and US$1.2 million



ANNEX 6
Page 2
and have totaled US$3.0 million, approximately equivalent to the provision
for bad debts made in this period. The losses incurred were in the Credit
Department of NDB and not in the Development Department. Reserves of US$2.5
million are not sufficient, considering the number of problem loans and the
length of arrears.  Table 2 presents a summarized profit and loss statement.
Use of Resources
5.        NDB's prime function is to make small agricultural loans, as in 1971
when it approved 10,865 loan applications as follows:
Amount of Loan                                              1 9 7 1
in US$                                  Number      %       Amount      _
(US$ '000)
Up to 100                                      408     3.8          34      0.2
From 101 to 500                             6,508    59.8        1,869      9.2
From 501 to 2,500                           3,078    28.3        3,625      17.8
Sub-total                              9,994    91.9       5,528      27.2
From 2,501 to 10,000                           671     6.2       3,277      16.1
From 10,001 to 50,000                          154     1.5       3,348      16.5
From 50,001 to 250,000                          42     0.4       5,750      28.3
From 250,001 to 500,000                          3       -         900       4.5
More than 500,000                                1       -       1,500       7.4
Sub-total                                871      8.1      14,775     72.8
Total                               10865   100.0       20,303    100.0
Loans were given for a wide variety of enterprises and many farmers had
several loans with the bank. Some 92% of all loans were for US$2,500 or less.
6.        In 1972, NDB approved 37,000 loans amounting to US$49.3 million in
total. Detaíls were as follows:



ANNEX 6
Page 3
Average Amount of
Percent of Loans  Percent of Amounts        Loan US$
Long term                     3.4                31.5               6,100
Medium term                   22.8                23.0                 670
Short term                   59.1                 31.5                 350
"Automatically Renewable
Advances"                 14.7                14.0                 630
Total             100.0%              100.0%                660
About 70% of the total (97% of the loans) went to the agricultural sector, about
10% went to industry, and the remainder went to other sectors of the economy.
Lending Policies and Procedures
7.        Loans may be approved in accordance with the following schedule:
Limit for Loan Approval
(US$ Equivalent)
Board of Directors                                   from    100,000
Credit and Operations Comnittee /1                           37,500 - 99,999
Executive Comnittee /2                                       25,000 - 37,499
Central Office Credit Committee /3                           up to 24,999
Branches: /4
San Pedro Sula and Choluteca                            up to 19,999
Other branches have limits varying from                 999 to 7,499
/1 Composed of members of the Boards of Directors and the Board member repre-
senting the private banking system.
/2 Composed of the President of NDB, the manager of the Credit and Operation
Department, and the Chief of the Credit Division.
/3 Composed of the manager of the Credit and Operations Department, the Chief
of the Credit Division, and the Chief of the Loan Section.
/4 At branch level, loans are approved by a comnittee composed of the Manager,
the Accountant, and the Chief of the Loan Section.
Collateral
8.        NDB's policy states that:



ANNEX 6
Page 4
(a) for working capital loans, the normal collateral 1s the pledge of
the crop itself;
(b) investment loans for terms of four to seven years are secured by
chattel mortgages covering crops and investments. The amount of the loan may
not exceed 80% of the value of the guarantee (insofar as livestock are used
as collateral, the legislation covering branding is not satisfactory);
(c) mortgage loans are granted for a period of five to 25 years for on-
farm investment, land purchase, and the construction of houses. The aiount
may not exceed 60% of the value of property pledged.
Interest Rates
9.        For several years NDB has been charging an interest rate of 9% on
its short-, medium- and long-term loans although lower rates (normally 7%) are
charged for loans to cooperatives and farmers' associations. NDB's loans are
actually cheaper than those of the commercial banks, who generally add commis-
sions and compensating balance requirements to increase their returns.
Accounts and Audit
10.       The Accounting Division within the NDB ia responslble for maintaining
all accounting records and ensuring that they are kept up to date. Separate
records are kept for the Credit and Operationa Department and for the Develop-
ment Department. Data processing is carried out by an IBM 360-20 located at
Tegucigalpa, the headquarters of the organization, but the computer is not
being used to full capacity because, to date, the loan portfolio has not been
computerized for lack of a detailed classification system.  A system has been
designed for the loan information required and the only remaining work ¡s the
writing of the computer programs. NDB proposes to carry out this work during
the first half of 1973 with the help of IBM de Honduras. The Internal Auditor
of the NDB is appointed by the Board of Directors and aided by a total of 16
auditors. External auditing is carried out by the Superintendent of Banks in
ac,cordance with the banking laws of Honduras.
Anaisís of NDB
11.       NDB is faced with three main problems -- a poor investment portfolio,
too wide a range of activities, and weaknesses in administrative arrangements.
These are discussed belou.
12.       Portfolío Weakness.  Out of a portfolio of US$40 million, US$7.2
million is already in arrears of repayment and a further US$5.8 million ja
being refinanced. In effect, US$13.0 million, or a third of the total loana,
are not working out as planned. It is possible that arrears will increase and
that roughly half of the entire loan portfolio may be difficult to collect.
Yet, as of December 31, 1972, NDB's write-offs and reserves for loans where



ANNEX 6
Page 5
recovery is doubtful were only US$2.7 million, an increase of US$1 million
over the previous year. It is, therefore, evident that NDB must, as a matter
of priority, "clean" its portfolio and replenish its capital.
13.       There are a variety of reasons for a poor loan repayment record,
including the following:
(a) Certain crops such as coffee and rice have not been profitable to
farmers due to poor yields and lack of good market facilities;
(b) For many commodity loans, the harvest has been the sole collateral
and poor harvest has inevitably led to poor loan repayments;
(c) Poor credit control within NDB;
(d) Inadequate legal procedures within NDB for loan collection;
(e) Pressure by Government agencies to engage in marginal enterprises;
(f) Lack of flexibility in loan repayment schedules; and
(g) Lack of a penalty interest rate for loans in arrears.
14.       Diversity of Operations.  Since its inception, NDB has been required
by Government, sometimes against the better judgment of management, to engage
in a range of activities that elsewhere would not be considered suitable for
a development bank. This is partly because there have been no other agencies
that could undertake such functions. Examples are grain marketing, retail
store management, and the operation of dairies and coffee processing plants.
Management has not been equipped to run such operations directly.
15.       Administrative Problems.  In recent years, NDB has attempted to re-
organize itself, but reforms have been piecemeal rather than comprehensive
and have, on occasions, either complicated issues or lead to duplication of
effort. One major reform has been introduced, the partial computerization of
records and bookkeeping, and NDB is now in the process of being further
reorganized as a result of atudies and advice from IDB and USAID.
Participation by NDB in the Second Livestock Development Project
16.       When the First Livestock Development Project was appraised in
January 1969, it was decided that NDB should not participate, largely because
its administratlon was weak, its technicians fully extended, and its debt col-
lection poor. Since then, however, circumstances have changed and NDB's per-
formance has improved. Detailed studies by both the US Agency for International
Development (USAID) and the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) have commented
favorably on its revamped administration and supporting technical services.



ANNEX 6
Page 6
IDB ís to use NDB as the lending agency for an agricultural loan of US$9 mil-
lion, of which US$6 million will be devoted to livestock development. It will
be disbursed over a three-year períod and will finance on-farm improvements
for about 4,800 small farmers. Loans will be made at 9% p.a. ínterest and for
terms ranging between seven and 10 years. In addition, the IDB loan provides
for organization and management assistance to NDB and imposes conditions of
loan disbursement, which require a financial restructuring of NDB.
17.       The Loan Agreement with IDB stipulates that NDB must increase its
capital resources by an equivalent of US$9.2 mllíon (to be placed at its dis-
posal by Government) during not more than five years and within seven years of
the date of contract signature. If this ls not done, the loan will be reduced
from US$9.2 to US$6.1 million. The financial structure of NDB will be further
strengthened by creating a "Capitalization Fund" in the Department of Credit
and Operations, into which will flow a part of the interest paid by farmers on
the loans under the above-mentioned contract, i.e., 4.5% p.a. duríng the grace
period and 3.5% p.a. during the amortization period of the loan. Projections show
that this Capitalization Fund should accummulate almnost US$5 millíon during
the first 20 years of the program.
18.       Participation by NDB in the Second Livestock Development Project ls
both possible and desirable.  It is possible because of the improvements that
have already been made in NDB's operations and those that are anticipated as a
result of its IDB loan. It ís desirable because NDB is well placed to service
and administer loans to the smaller farmers, which commercial banks are
reluctant to handle. NDB staff will benefit from the assistance and super-
vision of the project unít in its appraisal and lending technlques. In
addítion, many of the smaller livestock producers are already tied to the
NDB through exísting loan agreements, and, since the private banks do not
accept second mortgages as collateral for long-term loans, the NDB represents
the only means of approach to these producers. For its part, NIDB ís also
anxious to participate in the Second Project, under conditions similar to
those of commercial banks in the First Project.
19.       A joínt IDA/NDB lending program would not conflict with the IDB/NDB
lending program.  The latter is focussed primaaily on the very smallest líve-
stock producer (less than 30 ha), whereas loans channelled through NDB under
the proposed IDA project would go to rather larger sízed producers though
still much smaller than those financed under the First Project. Additionally,
involvement by NDB in the proposed project would provide useful competition
for the private participating banks. Furthermore, sínce NDB is the channel
for nearly 60% of total credit to the agricultural sector, It represents the
most appropriate vehicle to handle future Bank Group projects in agriculture.
May 10, 1973



HONDURAS                             ANN'EX 6
Table 1
SECCND LIVESTCCK DEVELCPMENT PROJECT
NATICNAL DEVELOPMENT BA.UN
Sumarized Balance Sheet (1968 - 72)
Deceuber 31
1De    319      1970      1971     1972
ASSETS
Cash in banks and holdings at
Central Bank                               5.7      3.9      3.4      4.3      4.2
Interest receivables (leas reserves)          3.3      3.6      3.3      3.2       2.4
Loans and discounta
Loans due within 1-1/2 years
(less reserves)                           11.6    16.3      21.1     11.3     14.4
Loans due aftar 1-1/2 years
(lass reserves)                           39.8    45.3      45.0     57.4     65.15
Investeanta (lees reserves)                 5.7      7.0      8.7      8.8       6.7
Total Loans      66.1    76.1      81.5     85.0      93.2
Fixed assete (net)                            4.9      5.6      7.6      9.6      l0.4
Contingent assete                              5.3     9.4     11.4      15.7     13.1
Other assets                                  5.5      7.8      6.4      7.2      11.1
TOTAL ASSmTS     81.8    98.9    106.9    117.5    121.E
LIABILITIES
Demand deposits                               5.4      5.2      5.2      6.1       7.7
Other current liabilities                     2.3     9.1       4.5      6.1       5.8
Time deposits                                 5.5      7.4      7.9     11.6      13.6
Liabilities due to domestie banks
Central Bank                               11.2    13.6      11.8     15.1      16.8
Other                                       0.4     0.9       -        -         _
Total            11.6    14.5      11.8     15.1      16.8
Liabilitiss due to for3ign institutions        28.6    29.4      35.5      28.5     34.8
Contingent liabilities                           5.3     9.1h    11.4      15.7     13.1
Other liabilíties                             1.4     0.5       0.5      0.7       0.6
Net Worth                                    21.7    23.4      30.1     33.7      35.4
TOTAL LIABILITIES     81.8    98.9    106.9    117.5    127.8
3/  Consolidated and covering Credit D_pa.rt.aen,   -. .v Ipacnt                .       -
roles played by these two departments are partially reflect :d by .he follow ng dL ta
for the Development Departúent (in millions of lempiras, and çor Decamber 31):
1968     1969     1970      1971     1972
Current assets      4.9       4.2      2.6       4.6      7.3
Investments         5.7       7.0      8.7      8.8       6.6
Total assets       10.9      11.7     13.5     17.8      19.0
Net worth          10.4      11.0     11.8     11.1      14.1
/  Exchange rate:  I.2. ,,er ¡1 5oUar.
Ar:-l 9j, 1S73



ANNEX 6
HCNDURAS                              Table 2
SECCND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
Summarized Profit and Loss Statements (1968 -.72) 1/
(L millions) 2/
1968       1969      1970      1971      1972
A. Income Statement
Gross Income
Financial                             4.6         4.7      5.9       6.5        6.9
Other                                 3.9         3.7      2.7      2.7         2.2
Total          8.5         8.4      8.6       9.2        9.1
Expenses
Administrative and other              7.6         8.6      6.0       5.5        8.6
Financial                             1.9         1.9      2.2       2.7        2.9
Total          9.5        10.5      8.2       8.2       11.5
(1.0)      (2.1)     0.4       1.0       (2.4)
B. Ratios
Earnings/average net worth          (4.9O% )   (9.30/o)   1.5°/o   3.10/o   (6.90/o)
Percent of Average Assets
1968       1969      1970      1971      1972
C. Summary
Gross income                           10.7         9.2      8.4       8.2        7.4
Financial expenses                      2.4         2.0      2.1       2.4        2.4
Gross spread                            8.3         7.2      6.3      5.8         5.0
Ahdmgintrative and other expenses       9.6         9.5      5.8      4.9         7.0
Oross profits                          (1.3)       (2.3)     0.5      0.9        (2.0)
1/  Consolidated and covering Credit Department and Development Department.  The losses
were incurred by Credit Departmqxt,
2/ Exchange rate: L2.0 per US dollar.
April 9, 1973



ANNEX 7
Page 1
HONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Banco Municipal Autonomo (The Autonomous Municipal Bank)
Functions
1.        The Autonomous Municpal Bank (AMB) was established in 1962, its
purpose being to provide municipalities with credit and technical assistance
and other financial services such as the placement of municipal bonds.
Adminis tration
2.        The bank is administered by a General Manager who is responsible
to a five-man Board of Directors. These Directors are the President of the
Bank (appointed by the President of the Republic) and representatives from
the Ministries of Finance and local government, the Central Bank, and the
National Port Authority. Bank headquarters are in Tegucigalpa. Tlere are
no regíonal branch offices. Its present staff totals 60.
Resources and Financial Structure
3.        The municipalities were originally required to deposit their revenues
in AMB and to use 5% of their gross annual income to purchase AMB shares.
This process was intended to finance AMB but capitalization has been utterlv
inadequate and slow, management inefficient, and political influence strong.
AMB has now lost the confidence of the municipalities as well as of Government.
The municipalities refuse to deposit their funds, purchase AMB shares, or use
AMB as their fiscal agent, and have instead obtained loans from other banke.
AMB has tried to attract public deposits through commercial operations, but
it cannot compete with larger and more experienced private banks.
4.        The balance sheet for 1972 totals US$10.5 million, about twice thie
figure for 1971 (Table 1), but AMB's financial statements appear to be
totally inadequate, if not grossly misleading. For example, in 1971, the
guarantees extended to municipalities (about US$2.5 million) were not ineluded
in the balance sheet, but in 1972 they were shown correctly as contingent
liabilitíes. The balance sheets show "other investments" of US$3.4 and
US$2.2 million in 1971 and 1972, respectively, but very few details on the3e
"investments" are available. They appear to include considerable sums whích
should be accounted for as operating expenses, thus greatly increasing losses.
The paid-up capital amounted to US$1.8 million in 1972 1/ as compared to
US$1.4 million in 1971. Nearly half of the capital owed to AMB by the
municipalitíes has not been paid up and there is no likelihood that it will
be.
1/   Of this, US$1 million was supplied by the Government.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
5.        AMB shows a loss of US$100,000 ¡i 1971, but this seems to be a
gross understatement (Table 2). AMB's accounts are unsatisfactory and as
no proper audit has been carried out, it ís not possible to express an
opinion of the extent of the losses.
Use of Resources
6.        In 1972 loana amounted to US$1.7 million, of which US$0.3 million
were to municipalities and the rest was classified as commercial loans.
According to their accounts, 70% of the individual loans show arrears and
the latter represent 40% of the total portfolio. In accordance with its
charter, AMB guarantees and sells bonds issued by the municipalities. It
has marketed US$4 million of these bonds, with bonds worth US$2.6 million
outstanding as of the end of 1971. The buyers have been the Central Bank
and the National Port Authority. Bonds worth about US$0.5 million, which
could not be sold, are held by AMB itself. About 60% of the issues are in
arrears with their installment payments and 33% of the issues sh1ow overdues
of six months or more. If the municipalities do not pay, AMB, as guarantor,
must do so instead. AMB has also contracted with the municipality of San
Pedro Sula to finance its airport by means of a bond issue and bonds worth
more than US$1.75 million have been sold against pledges of city and airport
revenues. In addition, about US$1.0 miliíon has been advanced to the same
client to finance construction and procurement expenses. The total obliga-
tion of more than US$2.5 million to o e client, however, is incompatible
with the resources of the bank.
Reorganization of AMB
7.        A program to restructure and recapitalize the bank has been worked
out by USAID and an agreement for its implementation signed with the Govern-
ment in February 1973. The progran envisages:
(a) a complete evaluation of AMB by outside consultants;
(b) disposal of its commercial portfolio;
(c) relieving AMB of its administrative and financial responsibilities
for the San Pedro Sula Airport;
(d) reduction of its staff from about 60 to 35 through reorganization;
(e)  installation of a management information and asset control system;
(f) recapitalization by Government, after the evaluation has been
completed;
(g) development of a technical staff capable of providing and
coordinating technical assistance to municipalities and finding
suitable revenue sources for them; and



ANNEX 7
Page 3
(h) development of AMB's senlor management staff through on-job
training and short courses in Honduras and abroad.
The execution of this program will start In 1973 and its completion is ex-
pected for 1975.
June 7, 1973






HONDURAS
SECO0ND LIVTSTOCK DEVELOMNT  ROJECT
Autonomous Municipal Bank
Suminaarised Balance Sheets for 1971 and 1972
(L million)
Dec.31    Dlec.31                                          Dec.31      Dec.31
ASSETS                          1972        1971               LIABILITIES                  1972        1971
Current                                                      Deposits
Cash                                 0.1        0.2          Demand                             1.9         1.7
Deposita - Central Bank             0.5         0.3         Time                                1.8         1.7
Government Securities               1.0         1.3
Other Deposite and Cheques          0.2        0.3                 Sub-total                    3.7         3.4
Sub-total                        1.8        2.1       Other Liabilities
Accounts Payable                   0.3         1.1
Irnvestments                                                    Long-Term Foreign Loans             1.0
Loans and Discounte                  2,8        3.3          Miscellaneous                      0.2         1.1
Other Investanents and Bonde        0.5        0.3                  Sub-total                   1.5         2.2
Sub-total                        3.3        3.6
-         Contingent Liabilities                 8.8         0.2
Real Estate and                          0.3        0.2             CAPITAL AND RESERVES
Cont ingffent Assets                    8.8         0.228
Capital -- Paid-Up                    3.6         2.8
Other                                    6.8       4.4       Capital Payable                        3.1         1.8
-                                                         Valuation Reserves                     0.3         0.1
Sub-total                       15.9       4[.8                 Sub-total                   7.0          4.7
TOTAL ASS}TS                21.0       10.5       TCrAI, LIABTIITIES, CAPITAL           21.0        10.5   (D x
AND RESERVES



ANNEX 7
Table 2
HONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT ROJECT
Autonomous Municipal Bank
Summarized Profit and Loss Statements for 1971 and 1972
e L '000)O 
1971          1972
Gross Income:
Interest                                    394            668
Coammissions                                 91            139
Miscellaneous                                11             11
Total                               496            818
Expenses:
Interest paid                               121            167
Personnel compensation                      334            3h1
Depreciations                                27             24
Rentals and maintenance                      30             28
Miscellaneous                                71            100
Total                                583           660
Earnings                            (87)          (158)
NOTE:  No provision has been made for uncollectable loans.
May 2, 1973



ANNEX 8
Page 1
HONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Performance Under the First Livestock Development Project
Background
1.        The project was appraised by a Bank Group mission in January/Feb-
ruary 1969, was signed on March 2, 1970, and became effective on October 5,
1970. Under the project, IDA has made avaílable a credit of US$2.6 million
to help finance medium- and long-term loans to farmers to develop their beef
and dairy enterprises, working capital for cattle feeding operations, and
funds for technical assistance. The project is administered by the Central
Bank (CB), which employs a Project Director financed out of the credit. Gov-
ernment makes IDA funds available at an annual interest rate of 4-1/2% to CB
which, in turn, makes them available to six participating private banks at
5%. The private banks then on-lend to farmers at 9%, the legal limit for
agricultural loans in Honduras. From within the 4% spread, private banks are
required to employ livestock technicians to prepare ranch plans and supervise
subloans under the technical supervision of the Project Director.
2.        For the first year, the project went well and farmers were quick to
show their interest. Then, in late 1971, there were delays, primarily because
the private participating banks ceased making further loans to farmers for
fear that their investments would be lost as a result of their clients' farms
being invaded by landless peasants.  The problem was partially resolved when
CB, at the suggestion of IDA, provided a guarantee which covered loans made
by the particípating banks to farmers whose lands were so taken, and lending
operations resumed in mid-1972.  The project has since proceeded relatively
smoothly.
Performance
3.        Project staff has performed well and the President of the Central
Bank has given strong personal support to the project. The costS incurred by
the Project Director and his small staff are not fully covered by the 1/2%
spread that CB is allowed, but this has not prevented it from developing the
project. Reception of the project by the six participating banks has been
mixed, partly because of the novelty of the scheme and more particularly be-
cause of the national uncertainties created by land invasions. The Ahorro
group of banks has been particularly quíck to take advantage of the scheme
to the extent that this group's loans now represent 61% of all lending under
the project. The other participating banks have been slower to respond, but
there are now indications that others will become more active. To date it
has been the local Ronduran banks, rather than those controlled by overseas
interests, that have been most interested in lending under the project
(Table 1).



ANNEX 8
Page 2
4.        The project has been well received by local farmers.  For many of
them, it has been the first opportunity they have had to obtaín long-term
credit for the development of their cattle enterprises. It is clear that
farmers would welcome more technical information and advice, little of which
is currently available from the Government extension service, since it is
short of staff, particularly livestock specialists, and is already heavily
committed in trying to provide for the needs of the really small peasant pro-
ducers.
5.        As of March 1, 1973, 89 ranch investment plans (totaling US$4.0 mil-
lion) had been approved by the Project Director and a further 52 plans (total-
ing US$1.2 million) were in preparation or under consideration. Of the 89
approved plans, 72 have been turned into loans. Table 2 provides an analysis
of the 72 loans that have been turned into loans in comparlson with the ori-
ginal Appraisal Report. This indicates that actual comíitments tally with
the original proiections, except that more has been committed on buildings,
machinery, and pasture improvement and rather less on breeding stock and water-
ing facilities than was anticipated. Farmers have nevertheless deployed loans
sensibly.
6.        Analysis shows that during the years 1971 and 1972, the average size
of the loans was US$40,000 and US$44,00o, respectively. Since the beginning
of 1973, however, loan applications have been very much smaller in size and it
is envisaged that in 1973 the average loan will be about US$20,000. From
these figures it is apparent that the first applications were from the bigger
ranchers, but since there are relatively few of them in Honduras, it is unlikely
that many more will seek loans under the First Project.
7.        As of March 1, 1973, US$2.4 million of the credit had been committed
by the Project Director and US$1.3 million had actually been disbursed by IDA.
The difference between the two figures is accounted for by the time lag that
exists between the finalization of individual loans, draw down by farmers from
the participating banks, and reimbursement of funds to the participating banks
from CB and IDA reimbursement to CB.
Impact
8.        Progress to date has been satisfactory.  The impact of the prolect
on the farmers involved has been considerable and a foundation has been laid
for a far reaching program of supervised development credit for the entire
livestock industry, which has been accepted by the comnercial banking sector,
technical staff, and livestock farmers.  Since demand from the larger farmers
is now largely satisfied (para 6), medium and smaller scale livestock pro-
ducers are likely to dominate the project from now on.
9.        Export beef prices have increased appreciably since the project
started and the domestic market is expanding, which provides ample incentive
for farmers to increase production. The agrarian situation gives cause for
concern, but the Government is committed to both introducing reforms and pre-
venting unauthorized land invasions. The threat of invasion is in fact a
stimulus for development and without it many farms might remain underutilized



ANNEX 8
Page 3
indefinitely. There are obviously risks involved in lending for agricultural
development, but they are within acceptable limits, a view shared by a majority
of producers. Insofar as the livestock industry is concerned, development ís
therefore proceeding at a steady pace. It is the purpose of the Second Live-
stock Development Project to build on the momentum that has been generated in
the last three years.
May 10, 1973






ANNEX 8
Tab?ge1
HONDURAS                                Tab e  ¿
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Performance Under the First Livestock Development Project
Table 1 : Loans by Participatin¶ Banks as of March 1, 1973
Loans Approved                                               Reimbursements
Bank               by                                                       Requested from
Project Director      Loans LegaTLzed        Disbursements      Central Bank
No.       Amount      No.      Amount            Amounts          Amnount
Atlantida    22        929,709      14      463,678           255,989         191,992
Ahorro       24     1,272,185       21    1,077,419           596,850         447,637
Bancahsa     18       639,610       16      532,560           322,050         212,941
Occidente    11       518,775        7      282,000            75,468         115,763
Financiera    6       181,466        6      181,468           122,290          91,718
Honduaras     8       506,852        8      5809000           340,222         255,167
Total     89     4,o48,597       72    3,117,125        1,712,869        1,315,218
Remark:  As per March 1, 1973, 199 loan applications totaling  US$8.75 million were receivel
58 of these totaling  US$2.5 míllion were withdrawn by farmers or rejected by bank
and 52 totaling US$1.1 million were still under study pending the approval by the
Project Director.
Table 2 : Analysis of Subloans that have been Legalized in
Comparison with Estimates in Origional Appraisal Report
Appraisal Estimate       Actual to Date (3.1.73)
(Us$)     (%)           (US$)           (%)
Pasture Improvement              806,250    20           964,156         24
Fencing                          328,750     8            314,556         8
Watering Facilities              476,250    12            262,154         7
Buildinge and St,o^k Handling    186,900     5            497,658        13
Iachinery and  quipment          313,750     8           462,885         12
Bresding Stock                 1,913,100    47         1,409,737         36
Total           4,025,000   100          3,911,146       100
NOTE: Though the items on which investment has been made are generally in line
with the Appraisal Report, the actual number of loans differ.  Whereas
the Appraisal Report envisaged a total of 135 loans, the actual number is
likely to be about 90 with the funds available. This is because the size
of loan has been bigger than originally anticipated.
April 9, 1913






HONDURAS
:o                                                                                 SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model 1:  Development o£ Small Dairy  Farm, 30 ha
Investment Cost Projections
(Lempiras)
[rnvestments bv Year
Units      Unit   Cost per    1        1       2      2         3       3     Foreign Exchange Component            Total Cost for 100 Parmá
per Farm   Cost      Farn    Units  Cost  Units  Cost    Units   Cost                                          Local  Foreign    Total    US$ Equivalent
I-ve-t~eot Category                     (No)      (L)      (L)       (No)   (I)   (No)   (L)         (No)    (L)        %         Amount (L)        (L'000)  (L'000)  <L'000)            (USS'OO)
Pastures (ha)
New                                    6          160       960      3       480   3        480       -        -        40          384                 58        38        96                 48
Renovated                              9           60       540      9       540    -       -         -        -        50          270                 27        27        54                 27
Fences (km)
New                                    3          400    1,200       1       400   1        400      1        400       60           720                48        72       120                 60
Renovated                               .5        200       100        .5    100     -      -         -        -        40           40                  6         4        10                  5
Water Facilities
Pump and Motor (No)                    1          800       800       -      -      1       800       -        -        80          640                 16        64         80                40
Pipe <k.)                               .5      1,600       800       -      -       .3    500        .2      300       50          400                 40        40         80                40
Troughs (No)                           6          100       600       -      -      3       300      3        300       30           180                42        18         60                30
Buildings (No)
Dairy Barn Renovation                  1          800       800        -     -       -      -        1        800       20           160                64       l          80                40
Machinery (No)
Tractor                                 .1    10,000      1,000        .1  1,00C     -      -         _       -         80           800                20        80        100                50
Forage Equipment                        .1      4,000       400        -     -        .1    400       -       -         80           320                 8        32         40                20
Milk Cooíer                             .1      3,000       300        -     -       -      -         .1      300       80           240                 6         24        30                15
Breeding Stock (No)
Heifers 24-36 months                  10          500    5,000       5    2,500   5    2,500          -       -          0             0               500          0       500               250
Sub-Total                                           12,500             5,020         5,380              2,100                 4,154                835       415    1,250                 625
Price Contingency                                              1,282              514           553                215                   426                 85        43       128                 64
TOTAL                                                13,782            5,534         5,933             2,315                  4,580                920       458    1,378                 689      oX



HONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PRDSECT
Model 1 - Development of Dairy Famn, 30 ha.
Herd Development Proiections
Before               ----------------------------------  End of Farm Year -------------- _
Development            1         2         3         4         5         6         7         8-9          10         11-12
Herd Composition (No.)
Bulls                                              1                1         1         1         1         1         1         1           1          1            1
Cows in Milk                                      11               14        18        20        22        25        25        25          25         25           25
Dry Cows                                           9               10        10         9         8         8         9         9           9          9             9
Heifers - 24-36 months                            3                 3         5         5         7         9         8         8           8          8            8
Heifers - 9-24 months                              3                5         5          7        9         8         8          8          8          8            8
Heifer  Weaners                                    5                5         7         9        10        11        12        12          12         12           12
Steer Weaners                                     6                 6         7         9        10        11        13        13          13         13           13
Total Herd                                 38               44        53         60       67         73        76        76         76         76            76
Animals Units                              27                33        39        42       47        51         51        51         51         51            51
Mortalitz (No.)
Cows                                               1                1         1         1         1         1         1         1           1          1            1
Sales (No.)
Cull Bulls                                         -                1         -         -         1         -         -         1           -          1            -
Cull Covg                                          2                3         3         3         3         3         7          7          7          7             7
Heifer Weaners                                     2                -         -         -         -         2         3         4           4          4            4
Steer Weaners                                      6                6         6         7         9        10        11        13          13         13           13
Total                                     10               10          9       10        13        15        21        25          24         25           24
Purchases (No.)
Bulls                                              -                1         -         -         1         -         -          1          -          1             -
Heifers - 24-36 months                             -                5         5          -             -              -          -          -          -             -
Total                                     -                6         5                    1        -         _          1          -          1             -
Production Data
Effective Calving Rate %                         55                55        60        65        70        75        75        75          75         75           75
Mortality - %                                      4                4         3         3         2         2          2         2          2          2             2
Cow Culling Rate %                                10               15        12        12        12        12        20        20          20         20           20
Cows in Milk %          1                        55                55        60        65        70        75        75        75          75         75           75
Daily Milk Production -  litres                    3              3.5       3.8       4.0       4.3         5       5.5       5.5        5.5         5.5          5.5
Annual Milk Production   litres ('000s)          12.5            14.1      19.4      26.3      31.4      40,1      50.2      50.2       50.2        50.2         50.2
Stocking Rate AU's/ha                              .9             1.1       1.3       1.4       1.6       1.7       1.7       1.7         1.7        1.7          1.7         - 
-1 Per cow ixi milk.                                                                                                                                   (D >n
1/   Per cow inl milk.                                                                                                                                                            ç



HONDURAS
SECOND LIVFSTOCK DVELO~fEl T PROJECT
Model 1 - Develoraient of Dairy Farm, 30 ha.
Pro1ectiona of S.les and Operatine Expenses
(.empiras)
,  Unix Value    1/ 'Before                                 ------- Fra Year -------------______________-________
0-5 1tT   b-lZrs-             Developmnt          1       2        3       4        5       6        7       8        9        10       11.12
'o
;        S A L E S
Cull Bíllls                                250       300                    -             250      -        -      250       -       -       300      -        -      300          -
Ceul C~                                    190       220                   380            570     570      570     570     570   1,540   1,540   1,540   1,540   1,540          1,540
Daifer Weaners                             120       150                   240             -       -        -       -       240     450      600     600      600     600         600
Steer We~aera                              120       150                   720            720     720      840   1.0]0   1-200   1.650   1.950   1.950   1.950   1.950          1.950
Total Cattle Sales                                                   1,340          1,540   1,290   1,410   1,900   2,010   3,640   4,390   4,090   4,090   4,390           4,090
llilk Sales -/                                                           2,250          z,540   3,490   4,735   5,650   7,220   9,035   9,035   9,035   9,035   9,035           9,035
Total Sales                                                          3,590         4,UoO   4,780   6,145   7,550   9,230  12,675  13,425  13,125  13,125  13,425           13,125
OPUATING EUSES
Animal flealth-3                                                            80            115     175      190     210      230     230      230      230     230    230          230
Salt and Nineras1,41                                                        55             80     115      125     140      155     155      155     155      155    155          155
Haintenance - Pasture 5      /                                              90            100      150     180     240      300     800      800     800      800    800          800
- ence & Wter~                                                 40             40      100     220     290      300     310      320      320     320    320           320
- Building2'                                                  150            150      150     150      190     190      190     190      190     190    190           190
- lachinery-/                                                 300            300      350     360     450      470     470      470      470     470    470          470
Concentrates91                                                              -              -        -       -      395      450     450      450     450      450    450          450
Wages - Ovners                                                           2,nG0          2,000   2,000   2,000   2,400   2,400   2,400   2,400   2,400   2,400  2,400            2,400
- Stockhandsl°/                                                       -              -       -      600      600     600      600     600      600      600    600          600
Fuel Oil & Lubri.  trll/                                                   150            275     300      300     300      300     300      300     300      300    300          300
Bull and or A.B.-                                                            -            400     500      600     600      625     650      650     650      650    650          650
Sub-total                                                           2,865          3,460   3,840   4,725   5,815   6,020   6,555   6,565   6,565   6,565  6,565            6,565
Miscellaneous (S7)                                                         145            175      190     235     290      300      325     330      330     330    330           330
Total Expenses                                                           3,010          3,635   4,030   4,960   6,105   6.320   6,880   6.895   6.895   6.895  6.895             6,895
=====~.. === ------  ==== . »e .. .=..    .... =    -_   _-s    --.   . ==w=  =====                ... ==
Net Operating Income                                                       580            445      750   1,185   1,445   2,910   5,795   6,530   6,230   6,230  6,530           6,230
1/ Due to improvement ¡n weight and quality.
2/ Average farm gate price LO.18 per litre.
3/  Before development L3 per AU, tnereasing to L4.5 by year 2.
4/ Before development L2 per AU, increasing to L3.0 by year 2.
Clearing LIO per Ha; Fertilizer 50 kg per Ha from year 6.  Cost L33 per 100 kg.
6/ Fences L20 per km. Water lOt of investoent cost.
7/ 51 of initial value and investment cost.
8/ lOt of initial value and investment cost.
9/  Sum;er supplement; 1 kg per day per milking cov.   Cost LO 15 por kg (18 per  ¡ilking cow).
10/ Youth to assist at ailking time.
ll/ Year 2 on extra 300 hours at LO.50 per hour.
12/ Average annual bull replacement cost plus artificiai breeding at L10 per inseninaLion.



Fo
HONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model 1: Development of Small Dairy Farm, 30 ha
Financial Pro jections
(L'000)
Before           -------------------------------- Farm Year -- -
Development           1       2       3       4       5       6       7       8        9       10      11       12
1.   Cash Inflow
Total Sales                              3.6             4.i    4.8       6.1     7.6     9.2   12.7   13.4   13.1   13.1   13.4   13.1   13.1
Farmer Contribution                        -               .5      .6      .2      -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -        -
Loan                                      -              5.0     5.3      2.1      -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -        -
Total Cash Inflow                        3.6             9.6   10.7       8.4     7.6     9.2   12.7   13.4   13.1   13.1    13.4   13.1   13.1
2.   Cash Outflow
Operating Expenses                       3.0             3.6    4.0       5.0     6.1     6.3     6.9     6.9     6.9      6.9     6.9     6.9     6.9
Investment                                -              5.5     5.9      2.3      -       -       -       -       -       -        -       -       -
Total Cash Outflow                       3.0              9.1     9.9     7.3     6.1     6.3     6.9     6.9     6.9      6.9     6.9     6.9     6.9
3.   Balance Before Debt Service               0.6               .5     .8     1.1      1.5     2.9     5.8     6.5     6.2     6.2      6.5     6.2     6.2
4.   Debt Service
Interest on Bank Loan                                      .5      .9     1.1     1.1     1.1     1.1     1.0       .8      .6      .5      .2       .1
Loan Amortization                          -               -       -       -       -       -      1.7     1.7     1.8      1.8     1.8     1.8     1.8
5.   Cash Balance after Debt Service           0.6              _       (.1)     -       .4    1.8      3.0     3.8     3.6     3.8      4.2     4.2.    4.3
April 9, 1973



HONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model 1:  Development of Dairy Farm, 30 ha.
Fixriancial Rate of Return Calculation
(Leipras)
Net            Inoremental
Total        Operating         Operating        Net Operating          On-Farm           Net
W  Years         Sales          Costa            Income             Income             Investnent      Cash Flow
0          3,590          3,010               580                -
1          4.080          3,635               445               (135)              (5,270)          (5,405)
2          4,780          4.o030              750                170               (5,650)          (5,480)
3          6,145          4,960             1,185                605               (2,205)          (1,600)
4          7,550          6,105             l,445                1865                 -                865
5          9,230          6,320             2,910              2,330                  _             2,330
6         12,675          6,880             5,795              5,215                  -             5,215
7         13,425          6,895             6,530              5,950                  -             5,950
8         13,125          6,895             6,230              5,650                  _             5,650
9         13,125          6,895             6,230              5,650                  -             5,650
10         13,1425          6,895            6,530              5,950                  -              5,950
11         13,125           6,895            6,230              5,650                  _             5,650
12         13,125           6,895            6,230              5,650                  _            18,860  /
(D >
Finwaicial fi.¿te £f fieturn  23;                                                                                     U,
i/ Including Increme,rtql aerd Value L13 21C0






HONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MODEL 2: Development of Dairy FarL, 50 ha
Investmenr, Cost ProJectiona
'0                                                                                           (Lempiras)
Investments by lear
Unite        Unit   Cost per         1         1         2       2         3       3       Foreign Exchan4  Component           Total Cost for 200 Faryn
perFarw      Cost       Fa=n       Units     Cost      Unita    Coet    Unita    Cost                                     Local Foreign  Total  US$ Equivalent
Investment Category                  (No)        (L)        (L)        (No)       SL)      (No)      (L)     (No)     (L)         7.        Amount (T)       (T. 0005  (L'0OO)(T 000)   (USS'00o)
Pastures (Ha)
New                              10          160       1,600         5         800      5         800     -        -          40           640              192      128    320         160
Renovated                        15           60         900        15         900      -         -       -        -          50           450               90       90    180          90
Fencea (km)
New                               5          400       2,000         1         400      2         800     2        800        60         1,200               160      240   400          200
Renovated                         1          200         200         1         200      -         -       -        -          40            80                24       16    40            20
Water Facilities
Well (No)                         1           300        300          -        -        1         300     -         -         10            30                54         6    60           30
Pump and Motor (No)               1          -         1,000         -         -        1       1,000     -         -         80           800                40       160   200          100
Pipe (km)                          .8      2,000       1,600         -         -          .4      800      .4      800        50           800               160       160   320          160
Troughs (No)                      6          100         600         -         -        3         300     3        300        30           180                84        36   120           60
Buildíngs (No)
Barn Renovation                   1        1,000       1,000         -         -        1       1,000     -         -         20           200               160        40   200          100
Laborers' Quarters                 .3      1,500         500          -        -        -         -        .3       500       2C           100                80        20   100           50
Machinery (No)
Tractor                            .3    12,000        4,000         3       4,000      -         -       -         _         80         3,200               160       640   800          400
Forage Equipment                   .3      4,500       1,500          -        -          .3    1,500     -                   80         1,200                60       240   300          l50
Milking Machine                     .5     4,000       2,000          -        -          .5    2,000     -         _         80         1,600                80       320   400          200
Mílk Cooler                        .5      4,000       2,000          -        -          .5    2,000     -         -         80         1,OO                80       320   400          200
Breeding Stock (No)
Bulls                             1        1,300       1,300          1      1,300      -         -       -         -         20           260               208        52   260          130
Heifers 24-36 months             15           500      7,500         10      5,000       5      2,500     -         -           -            -             1,500        -  1,500          750
Sub-Total                                         28,000                12,600             13,000            2,400                  12,340             3,132    2,468 5,600         2,800
Price Contingency                                      21870                 1 291                                  246                   _265               320       254   574          287   H
TOTAL                                           30,870                13,891             14,333            2,646                  13,605             3,452    2,722 6,174        3,087      x
c,



_'. hAS
SECOND .IJESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Mo-del 2;- De-e-o---  nt of Dair Fsm.  50 ha
Herd Develoment Pro; jct3.ons
Before                 ------------------------------------------------ End of Fare Year -------- ------------------- ,--_- ----------
Deve1o ment                1             2             3              4              5             6              7               8-9          10          11-12
Herd Vops   lic  (N.
B,lls                                                            I                  1              1             1              1             1              1              1                 1           1             1
Coqa in Milk                                                    17                 27            33             38            41             44             46            49                49           49           49
Dry Cows                                                       13                  11             11            12             13            14             18             lt                16          16            16
Hetfera - 24-36 months                                           4                  7              7             4              6             7              9             8                  8           8             8
Heifers -  9-24 months                                           8                  8              9            13            15             19            19             15                 15          15            15
Hatfer Weaners                                                   8                  9             13            16            19             20            22             23                 24          24            24
Steer Weanera                                                   9                   9            13             17            19             21            22             23                25           25           25
Steera - 9-24 montha                                             8                  8              9            12            14              5                     -                -                    -             -
Total Hard                                           68                 80            96            113           128            131            137           135               138          138           138
Animal Unita                                         51                 62             70            80            90             90             90            89               -89           89            89
Mortality (No.)
Cov.                                                             1                  I              1             1              1             1              1             2                  2           2             2
Heifera- 24-36 months                                            1                  1              1             -              -             1              1              -                             -             -
Heifers-  9-24 months                                            -                  -              -             -              1             -              1              1                 1           1             1
Steero-  9-24 months                                             1                  1                                          _ 1  -                                                                    _ -_
Total                                                 3                  3              2             2              2             2              3              3                 3           3             3
Sales (No,)
Cull Bulla                                                       -                  1              -             -              1             -              -             1                  -           1             -
Cull Co,.                                                        3                  5              5             5              6             8             12            12                 13          13            13
Heifera- 24-36 montho                                            3                  -              -             -              -             -              -             2                  -           -             -
Heifer Weeners                                                   -                  -              -             -              -             -              -             6                  7           7             7
Steer Weaners                                                    -                  -              -             -              3            14             21            22                 23          23            23
Steera - 9-24  ontha                                           _8                   8              8             9            12             14              5             -                              -
Total                                                14                 14             13            14             22            36             38            43                 43          44            43
Purchaes_ (No.)
Bulla                                                            -                  1              -             -              1             -              -             1                  -           1             -
Heifera - 24-36 menth_                                                             10              5
Total                                                 -                 11              5             -              1             -             -               1                -
'roduction Data
Effective Calving - %                                           55                 60            70             75            75             75             75             75                75          75           75
Mortality - .                                                    4                  4              3             2              2             2              2              2                 2           2             2
Cow Culling Rate - %                                            10                 15            12             12            12             15             20            20                 20          20           20
Cove in Milk-7.                                                 55                 60            70             75            75             75             75             75                75          75           75
Daily Milk Production   1/  litres                               ,                  3 5            4             4.5            5             6              7              7                 7           7             7
Annual Milk Production          litres  ('0009'                 18                 23.0           39.4          54.2           69.4          89 8          112,4         117.5              125 2       125.2       125.2
Annual Calf MilkZ!/              litres  k'OOs)                  -                 --              7.8           9.9           11.4          12.3           13.2           13.8              14.7        13.8         14.7
Annual Mílk Sold                 litres ('O0Os)                 l8 8               23 0           31.6          44.3           58.0          77.5           99.2         103.7              110.5       110.5       110.5
Stocking Rate AU's/ha                                            1.0                1.2            1.4           1.6            1.8           1.8            1.8            1.8               1.8         1.8         1.8
1/  Per cow ín milk.                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
2/  300 litres per calf.



HONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MODEL 2: Development of Dairy Farmn, 50 ha
Projection of Sales and Operating Expenses
(Lempiras)
'o
Unit Values           Before                                                   Farn Year  - - - - - - - - - - - - - -    -              - - - - -  -  -
0-5 Yrs   6-12 Yrs-  Development         1         2        3       4          5         6         7         8         9        10        11        12
S A L E S
Cull Bulls                          250        300             -           250       -        -        250       -         -         300       -         -          300       -         -
Cull Cows                           190        220             570         950       950      950   1,140      1,520    2,640      2,860     2,860     2,860    2,860    2,860        2,860
Heifer 24-36 months                 120        250             360         -         -        -        -         -         -         500        -         -         -         -
Heifer Wesnera                       -         150             -           -         -        -        -         -         -         900    1,050    1,050    1,050    1,050    1,050
Bull Weaners                        120        150             -           -         -        -        360    1,680    3,150    3,300    3,450    3,450          3,450    3,450    3,450
Steers 9-24 months                  125        160           1,000       1,000    1.000   1,125'  1,500    1,750           800                            -         -         -         -
Total Cattle Sales              -           -           1,930       2,200    1,950   2,075   3,250    4,950    6,590    7,860    7,360   7,360               7,660    7,360      7,360
Milk Sales                           -           -           3,350       4,140    5.690   7,975  10,440   13.950   17855   18665                                19,890   19,890   19,890
Total Sales                     -           -           5,280       6,340    7,640  10,050  13,690   18,900   24,445   26,525   27,250  27,250    27,550   27,250   27,250
OPERATING EXPENSES
Animal Health    4/                                            155         215        315     360      405       405       405        400       400      400        400       400       400
Salt and M4inerals-   5/                                       100         155       210      240      270       270       270       265        265      265        265       265       265
Maintenance - Pasture-        61                               150         200        250     300      400    1,325    2,150       2,150    2,150   2,150         2,150    2,150      2,150
- Fence & Water-                                  50           50       120      340     490        520       520       520       520      520        520       520        520
- Building 7/                                    150          150       150      200      225       225       225       225       225      225         225       225       225
- Machinery 8/                                   300          300       500   1,000   1,250    1,250    1,250    1,250    1,250   1,250             1,250    1,250       1,250
Concentrates 9/                                                -           -         -        -      1,370    1,475    1,585       1,655    1,765   1,765         1,765    1,765      1,765
vages - 0mers                                                2,400       2,400    2,400   3,000   3,000    3,000    3,000           3,000     3,000   3,000       3,000    3,000      3,000
- Stockman                                              960         960        960     960      960       960        960       960       960      960        960       960       960
Fuel Oil & Lubricants -                                        200         450       450      450      450       450       450        450       450      450        450       450       450
Bull and or A.B. 11/                                           -           -         -        100      600       600       650        650       700      700        700       700       700
Sub-total                                               4,465       4,880    5,355   6,950   9,420   10,480   11,465   11,525   11,685  11,685              11,685   11,685    11,685
Miscellaneous (Sl)                                             225          245       265     345      470       525        575       575       585      585        585       585        585
Total Expenses                                               4,690       5,125    5,620   7,295   9,890   11,005   12,040   12,100   12,270  12,270    12,270   12,270   12,270
Net Operating Income                                           590       1,215    2,020   2,755   3,800    7,895   12,405   14,425   14,980  14,980    15,280   14,980   14,980
1/  Due to improvement ín weight and quality as a result of upgrading.
2/  Average farm gate price L0.18 per litre.
3/  Before developuent L3 per AlJ increasing to L4.5 by vear 2.
4/  Before development L2 per AU inereasing to L3.0 by year 2.                                                                                                                                    9 x
5/  Clearing LIO per ha; fertilizer 50 kg per ha year 5, 100 kg per ha from year 6. Cost L33 per 100 kg.
6/ Fences L20 per km. Water 10% of investmnent cost.
7/  52 of initial value and ínvestment cost.
8/  10%. of iniial value and investment cost.
9/  Suimser supplemer.t; 2 kg per day per milkiug cow.  Cust LO.15 per kg (L36 per milking ctw).
10/ Year 1 on extra 500 hours at L0.50 per hour
l1/ Bull at L1500 per head, artificial breedirg LIO per inseminarL,n



HONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MODEL 2: Development of Dairy Farm, 50 ha
Financial Proiection
(L'000)
Before           ------ -------------------_-___ Farm Year__----------------------------------
Development         1      2       3      4       5      6       7      8       9     10      11     12
1.   Cash Inflow_
Total Sales                           5.3            6.3    7.6   10.0   13.7   18.9   24.4   26.5   27.2    27.2  27.2   26.9   26.9
Farmer Contribution  1/                -             2.8    2.9    0.5      -       -      -       -      -        -     -       -       -
Loan                                   -            11.1   11.4    2.1      -       -      -       -      -        -     -       -       -
Total Cash Inflow                     5.3           20.2   21.9   12.6   13.7   18.9   24.4   26.5   27.2   27.2   27.2   26.9   26.9
2.   Cash Outflow
Operating Expenses                    4.7            5.1    5.6    7.3    9.9   11.0   12.0   12.1   12.3   12.3   12.3   12.3   12.3
Investment                             -            13.9   14.3    2.6      -       -      -       -      -       -      -       -       -
Total Cash Outflow                    4.7           19.0   19.9    9.9    9.9   11.0   12.0   12.1   12.3   12.3   12.3   12.3   12.3
3.   Balance Before Debt Service            .6            1.2    2.0    2.7    3.8    7.9   12.4   14.4   14.9   14.9   14.9   14.6   14.6
4.   Debt Servíce
Interest on Bank Loan (9%)             -             1.0    2.0    2.2    2.2    2.2    1.9    1.5    1.1    0.8    0.4          -       -
Loan Amortization                      -              -       -      -       -     3.6    4.2    4.2    4.2    4.2    4.2        -       -
5.   Cash Balance after Debt Service         .6            .2      -                                                                                       u5 1.6    2.1    6.3    8.7    9.6    9.9   10.3   14.6   14.6
1/ 20% of Investment Cost.



HONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model 2:  Development of Dairy Farm, 50 ha.
Financial Rate o£ Return Calculations
-7~~~(Lmpra)
Net                Incremental                                    Net
Total           Operating            Operating            Net Operating              On-Farm               Cash
Years            Sales              Costs               Income                 Income               Investment               Flow
0               5,280              4,690                  590               
1               6,340              5,125                1,215                   625                   (13,230)            (12,605)
2               7,640              5,620                2,020                 1,430                   (13,650)            (12,220)
3              10,050              7,295                2,755                 2,165                    (2,520)               (355)
4              13,690              9,890                3,800                 3,210                      -                  3,210
5              18,900             11,005                7,895                 7,305                      -                  7,305
6              24,445             12,040               12,405                11,815                      -                 11,815
7              26,525             12,100               14,425                13,835                      -                 13,835
8              27,250             12,270               14,980                14,390                      -                 14,390
9              27,250             12,270               14,980                14,390                      -                 14,390
10             27,550             12,270               15,280                14,690                      -                 14,690
11             27,250             12,270               14,980                14,390                      -                 14,390
12             27,250             12,270               14,980                14,390                      -                 39,3501/
Financial Rate of Return = 25%
X Ix
1/  Including Incremental Herd Value L24,960                                                                                                            ,1






HONOURAS
SaIE<nD LIVESTOCI< DEVE QONOT PI.OJICT
Mode1 3   Developreí1 t of Bf eE  B d1o/Fotíco1ogFcr, i50 45
IV-St .e.t Caet Po.c.ti.on.
e5                                                                                                                            (Laepiras)
Invest-ens by Ysr                   ___-__
Unit.            Uit         Co.t per            1            1             2            2             3            3           Foreign Exch..ge Coopoment            Tot   CoSC  for 200 Fa.rl
P-r Faa           Cat F,                        Unit.         CosIt         Unu.i         Cosít       UClt           Cost                                         Local  For.igt    Total  US$ íquívoleol
"'    Invostoeí Cate2or7                                 _ (NO)           (L)                     tL)                              -(-)___-ía__    CIc>                                  ( _ <lo)  <L)  11             7. Anol <U  (L00 i (L0001  (LT000l  UPOS E 1et
Postores (ha>
N..                                              30               110          3,300             20          2,200         10           1.100          -            _              40            1 320           396      264      660          330
R-o-ated                                         50                60          3 000             50          3,000         -                           -            -              50            1500            300      300      600          30<
Pe-ceo (<k)
-                                                 6               430          2 700              2            900           2            900          2            900            60            1,620           216      324       540         270
ileaceated                                        3               200            600              2            400           1             200         -            -              40              240            72       48       120          60
W ll (No)                                         1               300            300                                         1             300                                     10               30            54        6        60          30
P-p  nd Motor (Ms)                                1             1.900           000               _           _              1          1.000          _            _              80              800            40      160       200         100
P0ps (<-)                                         1             2,000          2,000              -           -             .           1,000          .5        -1,000            50            1,000           200      200       400         200
Tro-gh. (No)                                      6               133            800              -           -              3            400          3            400            30              240           112       48       160          so
B.ildi.se (NB)
Corrl Sed Chota Rnosvatio                       .6             1.500            900             .6            900          -             _             _            _             20              180           144       36       180         90
Bara Raso,sariee                                 .7             1,000            700              -           -              2             700          -            -             20              140           112       28       140         70
liachisen' (Beo)
Trctor                                           .2            12,000          2,000              2          2,000          -             -             -            -             80            1.600            80      320       400         200
P-r.ge Ooouip-t                                  .3             4,500          1,50C              -           -             .3           1,500          -            -             80            1,200            60      240       300         130
Spray Eooip-ent                                  .3               300            100             .J            10                         -             -                          80               s0              4      16        20          10
Breedina Stock (NB)
BuIls                                             2             1.000          2, O                          1,000 1                                    1          1.000           20              400           320       80       400       _27C
Sob-totol                                         -               -           2(.900              -         10,500           _           7.100          -          3.300           45           10 350         2.110   2,070    4.180         .209C
Prie Coolin9gnoy                                   -               _            2,142              -          1,07'                                      -            338                         1,060           216      212       42        _
TOTAL                                                                      23,042                        11,576                      ;,828                     3,638 S1,410                                 2,320   2,232    4,608        3,
TOTAL



HONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
Model 3 - Developnent of Breedin./Fattening Farm, 150 Ha
Herd Developrent Prolectiona
-                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(Lempí ras)
lo
w                                                         Before                 -------------------------------------- End of Farm Year ------------------------------
Category                                    Development                1           2            3           4             5            6           7            8            9-12
Eerd Casosition (No.)
Breeding Cows                                    75                    75         84           92         102            105         105         105           105           105
Bulls                                             3                     3          3           4            4              4            4          4             4             4
Weaned Calves                                    41                   45          49          59           69             77           77         79            79            79
Hefera-  9-24  onths                            19                   19          21          23           28             34           37         38            36            38
Heífers- 24-36  sonthe                           10                    18         18          21           20             18           18         18            18            18
Steers-   9-24 »nths                             20                    20         22          24           29             33           38         39            39            39
Steers-  24-36 uonthg                            19                   19          19          21           23             28          32          37            38            38
Total Herd Numbere                       187                   199        216         244          275            299          311        320           321           321
Ani~al Unlts                             146                  154         167         185          206            222          234        241           242           242
Purchased Steers                                                26         58           70          79             78           66         59            5B            58
Total Animal Units                       146                   180        225          255         285            300          300        300           300           300
Nort-lity eso.)
Br.sding Cov                                      3                     3          2            2           2              2            2          2             2             2
Hleifera-  9-24  onths                            1                     1          1          -            -               1            1          1             1             1
Relfers- 24-36    thas                            1                     1          1            1           1              1            1          1             1             1
Steers-   9-24 wnths                              1                     1          1            1           1              1            1          1             1             1
Steera-  24-36 uaths                              1                     1          1            1           1              1            1          1             1             1
Purchased Steers                                                        1          1            1           1              1            1          1             1             1
Total                                      7                     8          7            6           6              7            7           7             7            7
Sales (No.)
Cull co.                                          7                     7          7            8           9             15           16         16            16            16
Cull Bull}                                        -                     1          -            -           _              1           -           1            -              1
Heifera- 24-36   'ntho                            8                     -          -            -           3              9           15         .18           19            19
Steers-  24-36 monthe                            19                   19          19          19           21             23           28         32            37            38
Sub-Total                                 34                    27         26           27          33             48           59         67            72            74
Purchased Steers                          -                     25         57           69          78             77           65         58            57            57
Total                                     34                    52         83           96         111            125          124        125           129           131
Purcha*es (No.)
Bulla                                            -                      1         -             1          -               1           -           1            -              1
StrsT-                                                                 26         58           70          79             78           66         59            58            58
Total                                                           27         58           71          79             79           66         60            58            59
Productio. Date                                                                                                                                                                              5
Effective CalvDS Rate -                          55                   55          60          65           75             75           75         75            75            75
Mortality - I                                     4                     4          3            2           2              2            2           2            2             2
CoO Culling Rate - z                             10                    10         10           10          10             15           15         15            15            15
Extrwctim Rate - I                               18                    14         13           13          14             18           18         21            23            23
Stocking lste AU's/Ha                           1.0                  1.2         1.5         1.7          1.9            2.0          2.0        2.0           2.0           2.0



O8DUURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVSL0PMEW    PROJECT
?lodel 3 - DevelopMent of Bef Breedina/Fattenioa  Fami5, 150 Ha
Prolection of Sales sod Operating Expenses
Unit Values       1/       Befare            --------- End of Fara, Y                                  e ar ----------------------
0-5 years     6-12 vears-     Developaent           1          2           3          4          5           6           7          8          9-12
Sales
CuIl Cow                                      155            220             1,085           1,085      1,085       1,240      1,395     2,325        3,520      3,520       3,520        3,520
Cull Bulls                                    250            340               -               250        -           -          -         250          -           340        -            170
Reífers- 24-36 uonths                         145            195             1,160             -          -           -          435     1,305        2,925      3,510       3,705        3,705
Steers-  24-36 mnths                          190            290            3.610            3.610      3.610      J3610       3.990     4.370        8.120      9.280      10,730       11,020
Sub-Total                                                             5.855            4.945      4.695      4.850       5.820     8.250       14,565     16,650      17.955      18,415
Pattened Staers                         225            290              -5625                    12.825      15.525     17.550    17.325       18.850      16.820     16.530       16,530
Total Cattle Sales                                                    _85             10.570     17.520     20.375      23.370    25.575       33.415     33.470      34.485       34.945
iilk Sales 21                                                          2.955           2.955      2.955       2.955      2.955     2.955 
Total Sales                                                           8,810           13.525     20.475      23.330     26.325    28.530       33.415     33.410      34.485       34.945
OperatiuR    eses
A~1 Halth 3/                                                                   365             450        560         255        710        750         750         750        750          750
Salt - limarals 4/                                                             220             270        335         380        425        450         450         450        450          450
Patre  intenance 5/                                                           500              500        700         900      1,100      1,300       1,500       1,500      1,500        1,500
Fence and Vater  isantesance 6/                                                120             120         120        390        640        640         640         640        640          640
Juilding Naintenance 7/                                                        250             250         250        250        330        330         330         330        330          330
Machínery Naintenance 8/                                                       500             500         700        850        850        850         850         850        850          850
Vages - Ouer                                                                 3,000           3,000      3,000       3,000      3,000      3,000       3,000       3,000      3,000        3,000
Vagas - Sto~kn (2)                                                          1,920           1,920       1,920      1,920       1,920     1,920       1,920       1,920      1,920        1,920
Fuel, Oil aod Lubricants 9/                                                    300             550        550         550        550        550         550         550        550          550
Bull Replacement 10/                                                           -               -           -          -          -        1,000         -         1,000         -           500
Selling Costs llJ                                                              170             385         700        825        945      1,010         945         915        930          940
miscellaneoua (57.)                                                            365             395         440        465        525        590         545         595        545          570
Intereat On Short Ter Loan                                                     -               232         517        624        704        695         745         666        655          655
Total                                                                  7,710           8,572      9,792      10,409     11,699    13.085       12,225      13,166     12,120       12,655
Parchase of Steers                                                       -             3,900      8.700      10.500     11,850    11.700       12,540      11.210     11,020       11.020
Total Expenses                                                         7.710          12,472     18,492      20.909     23.549    24785        24,765      24.376    ~23140        23.675
Net Operating Income                                                   1,100           1,053      1.983       2,421      2,776      3,745       8,650       9,094     11,345       11,270
1/ Due to improvement íD weight and quality as a result of upgrading.
2/ Hilking 15 cows daíly producing 3 litres per cow, selling at LO.18 per litre.
3/ L2.5 per AU.
4/ Ll.5 per All.                                                                                                                                                                                      -i
5/ LIO per Ra.
6/ Vences L20 per Kn; Water 107. of investment cost.
7/ 5% of initíal value and investaeut cost.
8/ 10% of initial value and investaent cost.
9/ Year 1 on extra 250 hours at LO.50 hour.
10/ L1,000 per head.
11/ Transport L5 per head for herd sales; L10 per head for fattening steers.



HONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model 3 - Development of Beef Breeding/Fatteníng Fra,   150 Ha
Financial Projection
(L ' 0O)
Before                -------         -----------          ------------ par. Ye-r --------------------------------------
Develop.ent              1            2            3            4          5            6            7            8           9            l0            11            12
1. Cash Inflow
Total Salen                                             8.8                13.5         20.5         23.3         26.3       28.5         33.4         33.5         34.5        34.9         34.9          34.9          34*9
Paear Conttibution                                       -                   2.3         1.6            .7          -                        -           -             -          -                                         -
Long Term Loan                                                               9.3         6.2          2.9           -           -            -            -            -          -             -             -             -
Short Ter. Loan 1/                                                          3.9          8.7         10.5         11.8       11.7         12.5         11.2         11.0        11.0         11.0          11,0          11.0
Total Cash t.nfloi,                              T1          E       29.0    3     7.0         37.4         38.1       40.2         45.9         44.7         45                        5            45.9          45.9
2. Cash Outflo
Operating Expenses                                      7.7                12.4         18.5         20.9         23.5       24.8         24.8         25.4         23.1        23.7         23.7          23.7          73.7
Invect_enr                                              -                  11.6          7.8          3.6           -          -            -                         -           -            -             -
Short Tert  Loen                                                            3.9          8.7         10.5         11.8        11.7        12.5         11.2         11.0        11.0         11.0          11.0          11.0
Total Csbh Outflow,                               7.7                27.9         35.0         35.0         35.3        36.5        37            66          341            .7        347           34.7          347
3. Balance Before Debt Service                                1.1                  1.1          2.0          2.4          2.8        3.7          8.6          8.1         11.4        11.2         11.2          11.2          11.2
4. Debt Service
Interest on Bank Loen (95)                               -                     B         1.4          1.7          1.7        1.7          1.7          1.4          1.2          .9           .7             5             .2
Loen Amortization                                                             -           -                         -           -          2.8          2.6          2.6         2.6          2.6           2.6           2.6
5. Cash Balance After Debt Service                             1.1                   .3           .6           7          1.1         2.0         4.1          4.1          7.6         7.7          7.9           8.1           8.4
1/ Steer fattening períod 8 raonths.
Jlox



HONDURAS
ei                                                      SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 3:  Development of Beef Breeding/Fattening Farn., 150 -.a
H                                                       Financial Rate of Return Calculation
(Lempiras)
Net                Incremental                                   Net
Total         Operating           Operating           Net Operating             On-Farm              Carh
Years            Sales           Costs              Income                Income                Investment            Flow
0             8,810             7,710               1,100                   -
1             13,525          12,472               1,053                   (47)                (11,025)            (11,072)
2             20,475          18,492               1,983                  883                   (7,455)             (6,572)
3             23,330          20,909               2,421                1,321                   (3,465)             (2,144)
4             26,325          23,549               2,776                1,676                     -                  1,676
5             28,530          24,785               3,745                2,645                     -                  2,645
6             33,415          24,765               8,650                7,550                     -                  7,550
7             33,470          25,376               8,090                6,990                     -                  6,990
8             34,485          23,140              11,345               10,245                     -                 10,245
9             34,945          23,675              11,270                10,170                    -                 10,170
10            34,945          23,675              11,270               10,170                     -                 10,170
11            34,945          23,675              11,270               10,170                     -                 10,170
12            34,945          23,675              11,270               10,170                     -                 51,105
Financial Rate of Return = 21%
1/ Including incremental herd value,L40,935,
>r






HONDU0RAS
SFCOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
Hodel 4 - D.velor~.ot of B.aL _reodino  F"r, 400 R.
1ovt.baet Coso Pro trOtona
(LmDpiral)
-                                                                                                    Ln~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Iveats.st By Osar
Unito            Unlt            Cot Por                              1            2            2              3             3          Fpr-ísn ENohange Compoment               Total Cost for 200 Frt
P-r y'rOr Cost                       F.-                 u.Oos          Coso        U.t.s         Cost          Uatos          Cost                                         Locl  Noreig.   Tot.l  US$ Equiv-lent
Investsnt C.tegosr                             (No)              LN ()                                                                                                                              A  (L)  <No>  (   No>  7.  ,OAont (L)  (L1000)  (L'0003    wL'0O0   (<u000)0 n
Pastures (No)
New                                          10                120             1,200                 -             -             5           600            S             600           40           480                 144       96        240         120
&e.-o.ted                                    60                 tO             3.600                20           1,200          20         1,200           20           1,200           50        1,a00                  360      360        720         360
Fe---.. (K.)
New                                           4               450              1,800                 -             -             2           900            2             900           60         1,080                 144      216        360         180
Renovated                                     3                200               600                 1              200          1           200             1            200            40          240                  72       48         120         60
1.ter FPcilíttss
DOm  (No.)                                                       -               500                 -              -            1           500                          -              10           50                  90       10        100          50
Pipe (Ka)                                   1.5             2,000              3,000                 -              -           .5         1,000             1          2.000            50        1,500                 300      300        600         300
TroSgh. (No)                                  6                150               900                 -              -            2           300            4             600            30          270                 126       54         180         90
0oildi.gs (No)
Corroí and Chute Rerovrtior                  .5             2,000              1,000                 ,              500          -           500             -            -              20          200                 160       40         200        100
M.chin-rv
Sproy Euip--ent                              .S             1,000                500                 -              500          -           -               _            -              80          400                  20       80         100         50
V.ighbrldge                                  .3              1,500                500                -              500                      -               -            -              80          400                  20       80         100         50
Brsedi.z Stock (No)
Bu.1s                                         4             1,000              4,000                 2           2,000           -           -               2          2,000            20          800                 640      160        800         400
Ne .fera                                     20                300             06000                20           6,000                       -               -                                                         1.200         -     1.200         600
S.b-Totl                                    -    .              -            23,600                 -          10,900                     5 S,200           -          7,500            28        7,220               3,276   1,444       4,720       2,360
Prios Contingency                                                             _2419                             1.117                        533                           769                       740                 336      148        484         242
TOTAL                                                                     26,019                            12,017                     5.733                        S,269                      7,960               3,612   1,592       j,204       2,602



HONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model 4 - DeveloLment of Beef Breediog Farm, 400 Ha
Herd Develomwnt Pro1ectiona
'o
'o                                                  Before                ------------------------------------- End of Paru  Year ----- ---------a----
i2,      Categorv                                 Develovment1                             2            3             4            5            6             7           8              9-12
Herd Compo,ition (10>
Breeding Cows                                   110                 135         140           146            150         160         160            160          160              160
Sulla                                             4                   5            5            6              6           6           6              6            6                6
Calves weaned                                    61                  66          88            98            110         112         120            120          120              120
Heifera-  9-24 montha                            29                  29           32           43             48          54           55            59           59               59
Heifers- 24-36 montha                            28                  28           28           32             43          47           53            54           58               58
Steers-   9-24 months                            30                  30           32           43             48          54           55            59           59               59
Steers-  24-36 monthn                            29                  29           29           42 42                     -47          53             34           58               58
Total Rerd Nuwberm                           291                 322         3S4          400            447          480         502            512         520               520
Animal Units                                 230                 256         266           302           337          368         380            392         400               400
Mortality <No)
Breedtng Cows                                     5                   4           4             3              3           3            3             3            4                4
Heifera-  9-24 monha                              1                   1            1            1              1           1            1              1           1                1
Heiferas- 24-36 iontha                            1                   1            1            -              -           1            1              1           1                1
Steern-   9-24 monthe                             1                   1            1            1              2           1            1             1            1                1
Steera-  14-36 months                             1                   1            1           -               1           1            1              1           1                1
Total                                          9                   8           8             5              6           7            7             7            8                8
Sales (No)
Cull Cows                                        11                  16           16           16             21          22           23            23           23               23
Cull Bulla                                       -                    1           -             1              1           1            1              1           1                1
Heifers- 24-36 months                            12                   3            3            3              4           8           21             27          27               31
Steera-  24-36 months                            29                  29           29           29             32          42           47            53           54               58
Total                                         52                  49          48            49             58          73          92            104          105              113
Purchanes (No)
Bulla                                            -                    2           -             2              1           1            1              1           1                1
Heifera- 24-36 months                            _                   20           _            _                          _ -  -               -                      -
Total                                         -                   22           -             2              1           1            1              1           1                1
Production Data
Effective Calving Rate (/)                       55                  60           65           70             75           75          75             75          75                75          I..3
Mortality(%)                                      4                                3            2              2            2           2              2           2                 2
Cow Culling Rate <7)                             10                  15           12           12             15           15          15             15          15                15
Extraction Rate (t)                              18                  1#           16           14             15          16           19             21          21               22
Stocking Rate AU'a/Ha                             6                    7          .7           .8             .8           .9         10             1.0         1 0              1.0



HONDURAS
SECON33 LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
_Idel 4 - Deveooprsent of Beef Breedi.ng PareI,, 400 Ha
Prolection of Sales and Overaefng Expenses
(Lespiras)
Unit Values                         Bef-re -------------------------                                Far Year----------------------------_---
0-5 Years           b-12 Years -/         Develovment             1           2           3           4            5           6           7           8           9-12
SALES
Cull Cos.                                       155                   210                 1,705               2,480      2,480        2,480       3,255       3,410       4,830      4,830         4,830        4,830
Culi BSlía                                      250                   315                   -                   250         -           250         250         250         315         315          315          315
Haefers- 24-36 months                           130                   175                 1,560                 390         390         390         520       1,040       3,675      4,725         4,725        5,425
Steers-  24-36 months                           175                   225                 5.075              5,075       5,075       5.075        5.600       7,350      10.575    11,925         12,150       13,050
Total Cattie Sales                                                                    _8,340              8           JZ94        8,195 _,6               12,050      19,395    21,795        22,020        23,620
Milk Sales 2/                                                                          °1_9 721.                       1,970       1,970       1,970       1,970         _     -           -                   -
Total Sales                                      0,310,1  _65                                                         9915       101,595                  14,02D                21,795         22,020       23,620
OPERAT ING EXPENSES
Anl..1 Health 3/                                                                            575                 640         665         755         845         920         950         980        1,000        1,000
Salt and MineraIs 4/                                                                        345                 385         400         455         505         550         570         585          600          600
Pasture Maintenance 5/                                                                      500                 500         500         700         900       1,500       2,400       2,400        2,400        2,400
Fence and Water Maintenance 6/                                                              200                 200         200         200         330         500          500        500          500          500
Building Maintenance 7/                                                                     300                 300         300         300         325         350          350        350          350          350
Machinery Masntenance 8/                                                                    500                 500         500         550         600         600          600        600          600          600
Wages - Owner                                                                             3,000               3,000       3.000       3.000       3,000       3,000       3,000       3,000        3,000        3,000
Wages - Stockmen  7)*                                                                     1,920               1,920       1,920       1,920       1,920       1,920        1,920      1,920        1,920        1,920
Puel, Osl and L.bris,nts                                                                    400                 400         400         400         450         500          500        500          500          500
8ull Replace.ent 9/                                                                         500                 -           -           -         1,000       1,000       1,000       1,000        1,000        1,000
Selling Costs 10/                                                                           365                 345         335         345         405         510          645        730          735           790
Miscellaneo.s (55,.)                                                                        430                 410         410         430         515          565         620        630          630           635
Interest on Working CapIal                                                                  _                  -            _           100         200         200          200        100          -            -
Total Expenses                                                                        9.035                          8                          995      12,115      13,255    13,295   1.31.2
Net Operating Incose                                                                  1.275              1,565        1.285       1,010         600       1,905       6,140      8,500         8,785      _10325
1/ Due to ixsprovenelt -u veight s-d tualtty s,s result of ipgradi,g
and iupro,ed management,
2/ Milkng 15 cows deily prodcssg 2 lite-s, sell-,g ao  L018 per liter.
3/ L2 5 per AU.
4/ LIS. par AU
5/ L6 pe. AU,.
5/ Fences L20 per  r; Watelr S7  of --ves-t.en-   ost
7/ 55, of nitial valie and , .es, nt e     s-
8/ l0' or inical Vaída sod bnseol-d       o01
9/ Ll.00 per head.
17lTransport L7 per head sol?



HONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model 4 - Develo.pent of Beef Br.edding  OFl1, 400 Ha
Financi1 IProI«tion
4                                                ~~~~~~         ~         ~~~~~~~Bef-r  --------------------- -----------~~--------------------------- Farm  Year -----------------------------------------------_______     ___        ____
w                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~         ~       ~~~Develo~.ret  1  2345678910                                                                                                                         11                12
1. Cash Inflo,
Tot-l Selto                                         10.3                    10.2          9.9           10.2           11.6          14.0           19.4           21.8           22.0           21.6           23.6             23.6              23.6
Parmar Contribution                                    -                     2.4          1.1            1.7             -              -             -              -              -              -              -                 -                -
Loan                                                                         9.6          4.6            6.6             -              -             -              -              -              -              -                 -                -
Vorking Capital                                        -                                   _.            0*9            1.3-
Total Cash Inflpv                                10.3                   22.2 2        15.6           19.4          12.9           14.0           19.4          21.8           22.0            23.6          23.6              23.6             23.6
2.  CsIh Outflow
Operating Expenses                                    9.0                    8.6          8.6            9.1           11.0          12.1           13.3           13.3           13.2           13.3           13.3             13.3              13.3
Inve.t.nt                                              -                    12.0          5.7            8.3             -              -             -              -              -              -              -                 -                -
,rkíng Capita1l Aortízation                                                                 -              -                     -                    1.4           0.8              ----                                                           -
Total Ca.h Outflow                                9.0                   20.6         14.3           17 4           11.0           12.1           14.7          14.1           13.2           13.3           13.3              13.3              T3
3.  Balance B.fore Debt ServIce                                  1.3                    1.6           1.3           2.0            1.9            1.9           4.7            7.7            8.8           10.3           10.3              10.3             10,3
4. Debt ServIce
Interest on Bank Loan                                  -                    0.9           1.3            1.9            1.9            1.9           1.9            1.6            1.4            1.1            0.8              oS5               o.3
Loan Aoortir.tion                                      -                      -              -            -              -              -            2.8            3.0            3.0            3.0            3.0               3.0              3.0
5.  Cash Balance after DebtService                               1.3                    0.7             -           0.1             -                             -            3.1            4.4            6.2            6.5               6.8              7.0



HONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model 4 - Development of Beef Breeding Farm, 400 ha
Financial Rate of Return Calculation
(Lempiras)
Net                Incremental                                         Net
Total           Operating             Operating            Net Operating              On-Farm                    Cash
Years           Sales             Costs                Income                 Income                Investment                   Flow
O            10,310             9,035                 1,275                     -
1            10,165             8,600                 1,565                    290                  (11,445)                 (11,155)
2             9,915             8,630                 1,285                     10                   (5,460)                  (5,450)
3            10,165             9,155                 1,010                   (265)                  (7,875)                  (8,140)
4            11,595            10,995                   600                   (675)                     _                        (675)
5            14,020            12,115                 1,905                    630                      -                         630
6            19,395            13,255                 6,140                  4,865                                              4,865
7            21,795            13.295                 8,500                  7,225                      -                       7,225
8            22,020            13,235                 8,785                  7,510                                             7,510
9            23,620            13,295                i0,325                  9,050                                             9,050
10           23,620            13,295                10,325                  9,050                      -                      9,050
11           23,620            13,295                10,325                  9,050                      -                      9,050
12           23,620            13,295                10,325                  9,050                      -                     76,510-
Financial Rate of Return = 19%
1/  Including Ineremental Herd Value L67,460
P) .






HONlUOV.S
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELÚI2ME4T lkROjECT
0                                                                                          vHodel 5 - Píg Breeding/F:ttening Unit, 25 Sows
Investment Cost Projections
(Lempiras)
investments b_  Year              Foreigo ExchApye               ToaL _ Cost for 30 Units
Units       CuoÁ    (C  t ver   Year 1   Year 1   Year 2    Year 2            ComiDponent                                             ii,
Investment Categories          Unít   Per Farm  p;,  n t:   rarm          Units       Cost    Units        Cost       %         Amount    Local   Foreign    Total           al,euVaínt
(No)        (1.>       6i,)      (No)        (L)      (No)         (L)                  (L¡       (>2000)   L'000        L'000      ($nr
Fencing
New                                       Km        I         1 ,noQQ    1,000       1         1,000      -           -       60            600       12          !6        30         15.0
Water Facilities
Well                                                            ;o l000              1           300       -          -       10             30         B          1          9         4 5
Pump t    Motor                           No        1           820         820      1           B20      -           -       80            656        5          20        25         1.
Buildings
Farrowing Pen                             9m2       4           t0          720      4            720      -          -       .20           144       18           4         22        1I.0
Dry Sw ?en                               í5m2       2           20)         420      2           420       -          -       20            105       10           3         13         i.5
Boar Pen                                  9f2       1           13ir        135      1            135      -          -       20             27         3          1          4         2.0
Weaning Pen                               3m2       4            120        480      4           480       -          -       20             96        11          3         14         /.0
Pattening Pen                            l9m,       4           210         840      4           840       -          -       20            168       20           5        25         12.5
Feed Store                               37m        1         .,.10        .110      1         1,110       -                  20            222        26          7         33        1(.5
Nachinery
Rammer Mill/Mixer                         No        i         1,000       ! o,000    1         1,000       -          -       80            8U0         6         24         30        1S U
Breeding Stock
Gilts                                     No       25            175      4,375     25         4,375       -                  10            437      ll'          1:3       131        f'5
Boar                                      No        l           400         400      1           400       -          -       30            120         8          4         12         ".2
Start Up Feed Costs                               Kg  80,222            0.18   14,440  30,222          5,440  50,000   9,000          10      +      44      390          43       43.> _i_S
Subtatal                                                                   76,040               17,040              9,000                    '.869      635        14G       ,.;l       39U
Frice  Contingency                                                           25                   -_ 322                                                                      _,, 1,  . 
TOTAL                                                                    28,709               18,787              9,922                   3. 46       70G                  .1         431(Y



ANNEX 13
HONDURAS                             Table 2
SECCND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPIENT PROJECT
Model -5 -- Deve1oPment of Pia Breeding¿tattenijna UnIt * 25 Sows
Herd DeveloDment Pro.ections
Before           --     End Of Year---
Development          1        2        3-12
Herd Composítion (No)
Sows Replacement                6                30      30         30
Boars                           1                 2       2          2
Pigs  0-6 weeks                10                52      52         52
Pigs  6-12 weeks                 8               45      45         45
Pigs 12-34 weeks               26              107      158        158
Total Pigs                  51              236      287        287
Total Births (No)                 100               Q      500        500
Purchases (No)
Gilts                            -              24       -          -
Boars                                             1       1          1
Total Purchases              -               25        1         1
Mortality (No)
Breeding Females                 -               1        1          1
Pigs  0-6  weeks               30               60      100        100
Pigs  6-12 weeks                 7              12       25         25
Pigs 12-34 weeks                 3                       14         14
Total Mortality             40               80      140       140
Sales (No)
Cull Sows                       2                 2      10         10
Cu1l Boars                                       -        1         1
Finished Pigs                  58                58     221        350
Total Sales                 60               60      T10       361
Production Data
Conception Rate (o/O)          80               80       80         80
Number Boars/Farrowing         10               10       10         10
Number of Farrowing/Fertile
Sow/Year                     2                2        2         2
Average Number of Farrowing/
Female in Breeding Herd       1.7              1.7      1.7       1.7
Sow Culling Rate/Year (o/o)   40                40       40        40
Boar Cilling Rate/Year
(O/O)                       40               40      40         40
Mortality (O/o)
Breeding Female                 2                2        2          2
Boars                           1                1        1         1
Pigs  0-6 weeks                30               20       20        20
Pigs  6-12 weeks               10                5        5          5
Pigs 12-34 weeks                5                3        3         3
April 9, 1973



HONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model 5 - Development of Pig Breeding/Fattening Unit. 25 Sows
Projection of Sales and Operating Expenses
"o                                                   (Lempiras)
Unit Value            Before             ------- Ranch Year -
0-12 yrs.          Development          1           2           3-12
SALES
Cull Sows                       100                  200             200       1,000         1,000
Cull Boars                      100                    -              -          100           100
Finished Pigs 1/                121                 7,018          7.018     36.179         42.350
Total Sales                                   7,218           7,218     37,279         43,450
OPERATING EXPENSES
Feed 2/                                             5,290          5,290      28,850        30,890
Wages - Owner /                                       600            600       2,400         2,400
Animal Realth -                                       100            600         600            600
Boar                                                  aoo             -          400           400
Maintenance                                             o 50         200         730            730
Miscellaneous                                          50            200         400            400
Working Capital Interest                                            _  3         153
Total Expenses                                6.190           7j0h3      33,533        35.420
Net Operating Income                          1,028             175       3,746         8,030
1/ Ll.21 per kg liveweight for pig weighing 100 kg.
2/  Average price of feed consumed LO.18 per kg.  Based on corn price of L154 per kg.
Feed consumption of sow or boar per year - 1,000 kg                                                       O'Z
Feed consumiption of weaner (0-6 weeks) - 3 kg                                                            1 
Feed consumption of grower (6-12 weeks) - 41 kg
Feed consumption of finisher (12-34 weeks) - 325 kg
Feed consumnption of pig 6-3h weeks - 366 kg
Feed conversion of pig 6-3h weeks - (10 kg - 100 kg) - 4.o6 kg
Overall feed consumption per finished pig - 113 kg
Overall feed conversion per finished pig - L.h3 kg
3/  L20 per sow.
k/  10% of irmtial v;'ue tlus investment cost.



RONDIRAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOP~ENT PROJECT
Mbdel 5 - Development of Pig Breeding/FatteninR Unit. 25 Sows
90                                                                                    -                 Financial   ojaction
lo
Before              -------- Ranch Y                                  e    ars -----------------------------------
Develotaant           1         2        3         4        5         6         7         8        9          10-12
1. Cash lnflow
Total Sales                                      7.2               7.2     37,3      43.5     43.5      43.5      43.5     43.5      43.5      43.5        43.5
Faxru  Coot:ibotion                               _38                       2.0                 -                   -         -        -         -           -
Loa                                                              15,0       7.9        -        -         -         -         -        -         -           -
Working Capital                                  -Ll                           .                          --                 -                  -  
Total Cash Infíow                          7.2              27.7      47.2     43.5      43.S     43.5           43 ,5 43.5          43.5            43.5
2.   Cash Outfloé
Operating Expenses                               6.2              7,1      33.5      35.4     35.4      35.4      35.4     35.4      35.4      35.4        35,4
lnveatnent                                       -               1B.8       9.9        -        -         -         _         _        -         _           _
Working Capital                                   -                 -        1.7                 -        -         -                    
Total Cash.Outflow                         6.2              25.9    4_-5       35.4      35.4      35-4 4             35.4      35,4  5 .4            35.4
3.   Balance B fore Debt Service                      1.0               1.8      2.1       8.1       8.1      8.1       8,.1      8.1      8.1       8.1         8.1
4.   Debt Service
Interest on B#nk Loan                            -                1.4       2.1      2.1       1.8       1.5       1.2      0.9       0.6       0.3          -
Loan Amortization                                 -                -         -        3.3      3.3       3.3       3,3       3.3      3.3       3.1          -
5.   Cash Balance After Debt Servlces                 1.0                0.4       -       2.7       3.0      3.3       3,6       3.9      4.2       4.7         8.1



ANNEX 13
Table 5
HONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model 5:   Development of Pig/Breeding Fattening Unit, 25 Sows
Financial Rate of Return Calculation
(Lempiras)
Net        Incremental                     Net
Total   Operating   Operating    Net Operating        On-Farm       Cash
Years    Sales       Costs      Income          Income         Investment    Flow
0      7,218      6,190       1,028              -
1      7,218      7,043          175           (853)       (17,892)       (18,745)
2     37,279    33,533         3,7h6          2,718          (9,h50)       (6,732)
3-11    43,450    35,420         8,030          7,002                         7,002
12     43,450    35,420         8,030         7,002                         23,405 A 1/
Financial Rate of Return =21%
L/  inclii'  incremental herd value,L16,h03.
,,pril 9., 197.3



1



ANEX Ub
Table 1
HONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT FROJECT
Model 6: Small Municipal Abattoir, Caacity 20 Cattle and 25 Pigs Daily
Investment Cost Projectione
(Lempiras)
------ Year 1 -------        - Total Cost  3  Units --
Local   Foreign    Total    Local    Foreign    Total
Investment Category
Land                                 10,000      -     10,000    30,000         -      30,Q00"
Corral /1                        2   2,500       500    3,000      7,500      1,500     9,00C
Civii Wiorks /2              lOOm   12,000    3,000   15,000    36,ooo        g,ooo    45,000
Slaughterirg Equipment /3             1,000   11,000   12,000      3,000    33,000    36,00C
Water System /4                       8,000   14,000   12,000    24,000    123000    36,10C
W4ater Storage Tank /5                1,500      500    2,000      4,500      1,500     6,00o
Water Heater /6                         500    2,500    3,000      1,500      7,500     9,00C
Truck /7                             1,000   14,000   15,000       3,000    42,000    45,00C0
Equipment Installation /8            3,000    1,000    4,000       9,000      3,000    12,000
.Engineering Services                 3,000       -      3,000      9,000       -        9,000
Sub-total                        42,500   36,500   79,000   127,500   109,500   237,000
Price Contingency                    4,358    3,742    8,100    13,074    11,226    24,30o
TOTAL                         46,858  140,242   87,100   140,574   120,726   261,300
/1   15m x l5m divided for pigs and cattle.
/2   Simple masonry structure, concrete floors.
3   On the rail dressirg system for cattle and pigs includes importirg charges.
/4   Deep well with pumps to provide 7 gallons per minute.
/5   Water storage 2,500 gallons.
/6   Direct fire commercial heater 200 gallons, storage tank (heat 2,000 gallons to 18C F
in 8 hours).
/7   Panel Truck.
/8   Includes electric hook-up.
April 9, 1973



AMIEX1,
Table 2
HONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVEWPIMENT PROJECT
Model 6: Small MuniciPal Abattoirp CapacitY 20 Cattle and 25 Pias Daly
Pro ections of Sales and Oeratin  benses
Before     Year      Years                Years      Years
Develoment   1         2-6        7-11     12-16      17-20
REVENUE
Cattle Slaughter Fee ¿/          7.2       10.4     20.2       25.2       30.2      35.3
Pig Slaughter Fee /2             8.6       12.8     25.2       30.6       36.0
Total ¿2                   15.8       23.2     45.4       55.8      66.2       76.7
OPERATING EXPENSE
Labor ¿4                         9.3       12.1     20.5       25.9      33.9       42.0
Utilities ¿                      1.6        2.4      4.2        6.2        7.7       8.9
Maintenance /6                   0.8        1.3      2.4        2.4        2.4       2.4
Fuel and Oil 77                  1.0        1.0      1.2        1.4        1.6       1.9
Miscellaneous 78                 0.2        0.6      1.2        1.7        2.0       2.4
Total                      12.9      17.4      29.5      37.6       47.6       57.6
Net Income                       2.9        5.8     15.9       18.2      18.6       19.1
/1  Slaughter and delivery fee,L  before and L7 after development.
/2 Slaughter and delivery fee,L3 before and L5 after development.
13 Quantity slaughtered per day during project period:
Before     2-6       7-11      12-16      17-20
-----years---------------
Cattle           5          8       10         12         14
Pigs             8         14       17         20         23
/4 Manager, driver, five butchera (year9 2-6); average wage includíng social oharges-L243kIonth
aÉ Electricity, gas and,water punping charges.
/6 Equipment, 3%; civil works, 1%.
/7 For use in truck for delivering meat to butcher shops.
/8 Knives, sharpening stones, hooks, containers, insurance, and such.
April 9, 1973



SECOND LIVEISTCK DEVELOFfEOr PPOJECT
Modd1 6: S-11 MHnipa _Abettoir. CPACIíty 20 Cattle *nd 25 Pra. Dally
Flan oial projectíoDO
tL .000>
Bf ccc
Develo=nt   Year 1    Yar 2    Ye-r 3    Ye-r 4    Ye.r 5    Year 6    Year 7    Yesr 8    Ys-  9    Y«er 10   Yar 11   Veor 12   Year 13   Yers 14-16  Tear 17   Ye"r 18   Year. 19-20
1. Caah Inflpv
Rev.*                            15.8       23.2      45.4       45.4       45.4       45.4       45.4       55.8      55.8       55.8       55.8       55.8       66.2       66.2         66.2        76.7       76.7         76.7
Loen                              -.-       66.4        -.-       -.-        -.-        - -        -.-        -.-             .       _  _ _      _ _       _ _     _.         _ _           ._         _ _        _ _           _ _
KoneLop.l COoírtb.tioo            -.-       16.6          -       -.-        -.-        -.-         .-        -.-       -.-        -.-        -.-        -.-        -.-        -.-          -.-         -.
Total C.oh Infl                 15.8      106.2       45.4      45.4       45.4       45.4       45.4       55.8      55.8       55.8       55.8       55.8       66.2       66.2         66.2        76.7       76.7          76.7
2. Csch Outflov
Operation  E nes                 12.9       17.4       29.5       29.5      29.5       29.5       26.5       37.6       37.6      37.6       37.6       17.6       47.6       47.6         47.6         57.6      57.6          57.6
Iosest~et                         -.-       83.0        -.-       -.-        -.-        -.-        -.-       15.0       -.-        ---        -.-        ---        6.0       15.0          -.-         -.-       15.0
Total C.sh Otflow               12.9      100.4       29.5       29.5      29.5       29.5       29.5       52.6       37.6      37.6       37.6       37.6       53.6       62.6         47.6         57.6       72.6         57.6
3.  Balance Before Debt Service       2.9        5.8       15.9       15.9       15.9      15.9       15.9        3.2       18.2       18.2      18.2       18.2       12.6        l.6          18.6        19.1        4.1         19.1
4. Debr Servíce
Intsrest op B     Loan            -.-        3.2        6.3       5.6        5.0        4.4        3.8        3.2       2.6        2.0        1.4        0.8        -.         -.-          -.-         --          --           -
Losn A.ortlsatton                 -.-        -.-        6.9        6.9        6.9       6.9        6.9        6.9        6.9       6.9        6.9        7.6        --         ---           -                      --_-  -_       -
5.  Cash Balance after
Dcbt ServIce                      2.9        2.6        2.7       3.4        4.0        4.6        5.2      (6.9)       8.7         9.3       9.9        9.8       12.6        3.6         18.6         19.1        4.1         19.1



HONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model b: Small Municipal Abattoir, Capacity 20 Cattle and 25 Pigs Daily
Financial Rate of Return Calculation
(L'GOO)
Net            Incremental
Operating,      Operating         Net Operating
Years        Revenue            Costs           Income              Income            Investment         Net Cash Flow
0           15.8              12.9              2.9
1           23.2              17.4               .6                2.9               (á3.O)               (óO.1)
2           45.4              29.5             15.9              13.0                  -.-                 13.0
3           4_.4              29.5             15.               13.0                                      13.G
a           45.4              29.5             15.9               13.0                 -.-                 13.0
5           L5.4              29.5            15.9               13.0                 ---                  ]3.0
6           45.4              29.5            15.9               13.0                  -.-                 13.0
7           55.8              37.6            18.2               15.3               (15.0)                  0.3
8           55.8              37.6            18.2               15.3                  _.                  15.3
9           55.8              37.6            18.2               15.3                  _.                  15.3
10           55.B              37.6             18.2               15.3                 _                   15.3
11           55.8              37.6             18.2               15.3                (6.0)                 9.3
12           66.2              47.6             18.6               15.7               (15.0)                 0.7
13           66.2              47.6             18.6               15.7                 -                   15.7
14           66.2              47.6             18.6               15.7                 _                   15.7
15           66.2              47.6            18.6               15.7                  _                   15.7
16           66.2              47.6             18.6               15.7                 -.-                 15.7
17           76.7              57.6             19.1               16.2                 ---                 16.2
18           76.7              57.6             19.1              16.2               (15.0)                  1.2
19           76.7              57.6             19.1               16.2                 -.-                 16.2
20           76.7              57.6             19.1               16.2                 ---                 16.2
Financial Rate of Return lh%
cr 
H IL>



ANNEX 15
Table 1
HONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMNT PROJECT
Model ': Medium Municipal Abattoir, Capacity 150 Cattle and 250 Pigs Dai1y
Investiient Cost Projections
(Lempiras)
- Year 1 ----
Local      Foreign       Total
Investment Category
Land                                       h0,000            -       I0,00O
Land Preparation                            15,000       5,000       20,000
Corral /1                                    8,300       1,700       10,000
Civil Works /2         650m2                94,400      23,600      118,000
Slaughtering Equipment /3                   17,000     203,000      220,000
Refrigeration System /l                      4&,800     55,200       60,000
Water System /5                             34,000      16,000       50,000
Water Storage Tank /6                        2,500         500        3,000
Electric Installation                        6,000       3,000        9,000
Sewer System /7                              8,000       2,000       10,000
Truck /8                                    1,000       14,000       15,000
Equipment Installation                      15,000       5,000       20,000
Engineering Services                        50,000           -       50,000
Sub-total                                296,000     329,000      625,000
Price Contingeney                          30,000       33,800       64,100
TOTAL                                 326,300      362,800     689,100
Ll  5Om x 50m divided for pigs and cattle.
/2  Masonry structure   with sanitary kill area.
13 On the rail dressing system for cattle and pigs.
/4  Chill rooms 4OC, 50 beef and 100 pig carcasses.
¿5  Deep well with punps to provide 20 gallons per minute.
/6 Water storage 4,000 gallons.
/7  Includes oxidation lagoon.
/8  Panel truck.
April 9, 1973



ANNIEX 15
Table 2
HONDURAS
SECOKD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model 7: Medium Municipal Abattoir, Capacity 150 Cattle and 250 Pigs Daily
Projections of Sales and Operating Expenses
(L'000)
Before      Year   Year    Years   Years   Years   Years
Development     1       2       3-6      7-11   12-16   17-20
REVENUE
Cattle Slaughter Fee /1       57.6        57.6  129.6   2C1.6   239.0   277.2   315.0
Pig Slaughter Fee /2          86.1        86.4  178.2   270.0   315.0   360.0   405.0
Total ¿I               144.0       144.0  307.8   471.6   554.0   637.2   720.C
OPERATING EXPENSES
Labor  4                      16.4        16.4   76.4   136.5   168.9   198.6   231.0
Utilities 15                   9.L         9.4   39.7    70.0    80.8    93.2   103.7
Maintenance /6                 4.4         4.4   16.6    29.0    29.0    29.0    29.0
Fuel and Oil  _                2.4         2.4    3.6      4.5      4.9     5.4      6.1
Miscellaneous /8               3.0         3.0    7.5    12.0    14.0    17.0    19.0
Total                   35.6        35.6  143.8   252.0   297.6  3U3.2   388.8
Net Incomne                  108.4       108.4  164.0   219.6   256.4   294.0   331.2
/1  Slaughter and delivery fee hL before and 7L after development.
12  Slaughter and delivery fee 3L before and 5L after development.
13  Quantity slaughtered per day during project period:
Before        2-6    7-11    12-16   17-20
-----------years------------
Cattle         40          80     95       110     125
Pigs           80         150    175       200     225
/4  Manager, 3 foremen, 2 drivers, 30 butchers, 8 others (years 2-6) average wage including
social charges = 258L/month.
15  Electricity, gas and water pumping charges.
/5  Equipment, 3%; civil works, 1%.
/7  For use in truck for delivering meat to butcher shops.
,/8 Hand tools, containers, insurance, etc.
April 9, 1973



-                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;EC0OND LIVESTOCKC DEVELOPMENT PROJECO
Model       MedleaencnlAater                   .aty10Ctlrad20Fn    aí
FIrn 1P-niectíofl
OaVan.aoret   y... 1    Y.., 2          On-   1    Y-e  4       Ino-  5     Fo-   4    Yna-  7       Y-o  8      On-         FeY..  10    Ve-n 11    SCan  12   Yen   '3-- lea_ 14    Yea-  15    yea. 16    Ynr  17    Oear 10    Yea-  19    Y.a-  20
1.  -CanO 1nflan
R.~,..                              144.)        144 1        07.8       471.6       471.6       471 b       471          554.o      S5.44        554 C       551S'        154.0       63 7 .2     637 2        '37.2       637.2        637.2       720.0       720.0        720 0       720.0
L...                                    -         551.2         -.-          -.          -.           .          -             .-         -            .-         -.-           .-          .---                      --.---                               -- -.--                               -
ilo.cicpe1 Contnib.ti.                  -.        137.8         -.-           .           .          --                      --                                               --           --          --          .-           --..                     --.---
T.t.l Caa6 IefIo-                     144.7       0533        307.8       471.6       471.',      .71         & 71 e       .54.0       554.0       554 0       554 1)       ,4.0        637.2       637 2        637 2       637,2        637.2       720.0        720.0       720.0        720.0
2.  C..h 0.tfl..
Ope-t-gc tEp.ene                       35.fi       15         143.'       2452        712.2        557 ..     Id           297         297 6       297.0       297.0        297.0       343.2        343 2       343.2       343.2        343.2       388.8        388.0       300.0        388.8
I---at ...rt                            -         69-           -.-          --          -            .           .          0.             -         -.                                  80.0        320 .0       - .-         -.-         - -          - .-        -.-        30.0-
Occa1 Co.6 0e,tfíon                    35 6       174.6       141.8       2 52 .7     '52 1.      ?27          232.5       527 6       271.6       297.6       297 6        297 6       423.2        373.2       343.2       34.3.2       343.2       300.0        380.0       410.0        386.0
3.  Baac Ofere  Sabt Sar--ce              108.4        1os 4       164.0       219 6       21' 6            '      77  6        71261       256 4       256 4       256 4       256.4        214.0       264.0        294.0       294.0        294.0       351 7       331.2        301.2        331.2
4    Debt 5-rn-
I.t----'.  -  Bank L..,                 -.-        24         4'-.d        49.4        .4.0         39.6        34.4        29.7        24.7         1.8.        14.8          9.9        4.8           -                        -.           .                                                -
L---cAnetc-t-oe                           -                                55 0        55.n        55.5)        55.0         5 n 0      440          540         44             ee                       -           --                                  -                         -
5.  CanOB Ocaren efc-
labt Servtce                          10.           3        l511..       115.i       121) 1      125 0       10 .5        141 7       176.1       181 6       186 6         191.5      153 0        264.0       294.0       294.0        204.0       331 2        331.2        70i1 7      331.2



HONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMEN T PWOJ 'CT
Model 7: Medium Municipal Abattoir, Capacity 150 Cattle and20 Pigs Daily
Financial Rate of Return Calculation
(L 0oo0o
Net             Incremental
Operating        Operating         Net Operating
Years         Revenue            Costs           Income               Income             Investment         Net Cash Flow
0           144.0              35.6            108.4                 _ _
1                o144.o        35.6            jo8.h                 _                  (656.3)            (656.3)
2            3C7.8            143.8            164.0                55.6                   ---               55.6
[471.6           252.0            219.6               111.2                   _                111.2
4            471.ó            252.0            219.6               111.2                   _ _              111.2
5           h7l.6             252.0            219.6               111.2                   _,               111.2
6           471.6             252.0            219.6               111.2                                    111.2
7            554.o            297.6            256.4               14B.O                 (30.0)             118.0
8           554-.0            297.6            256.4               148.o                   - -              1h8.o
9           554.0             297.6            256.4               148.o                   -.-              148.o
10           554.0             297.6            256.4               148.0                   -.-              148.0
11            55)4.0           297.6            256..L              148.0                   -.-              148.0
12            637.2            343.2            294.0               185.6                 (80.0)             105.6
13            637.2            343.2            294.0               185.6                 (30.0)             155.6
14            637.2            343.2            294.0               185.6                   -.-              185.6
15            637.2            343.2            294.0               185.6                   -.-              185.6
16            637.2            343.2            294.o               185.6                   -.-              185.6
17            720.0            388.8            331.2               222.8                   -.-              222.8
18            720.0            388.8            331.2               222.8                   -.-              222.8
19            720.0            388.8            331.2               222.8                 (30.0)             192.8
20            720.0            388.8            331.2               222.8                   -.-              222.8
Financial Rate of Re turn 17%



HONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model 8: Large Municipal Abattoir. Capacity 250 Cattle and 550 Pigs Daily
'o
Investiaent Cost P'rolections
(L'OOO)
Year 1                                       Year 2                                       Total
Local         Foreign         Total          Local         Foreign         Total          Local          Foreign         Total
Investment Category
Plant Renovation /1                              90.0           10.0          100.0             .-                                          90.0           10.0           100.0
Corral Renovation!/2                             16.8            3.2           20.0            --               .              .            16.8            3.2            20.0
Slaughtering Equipment /3                        21.7          253.3          275.0            -.-            -                .-           21.7          253.3          275.0
Water System /4                                  54.4           25.6           80.0            6.8             3.2           10.0           61.2           28.8            90.0
Refrigeration System /5                           6.0           69.0           75.0            -.-              .              .-            6.0           69.0            75.0
Rendering System /6                              15.0          195.0          210.0            -.-              .              .-           15.0          195.0          210.0
Civil Works (Rendering) /7                       16.0            4.0           20.0            _,_             _,_            _,_           16.0            4.0            20.0
Sevage System /8                                 20.8            5.2           26.0            3.2            0.8             4.0           24.0            6.0            30.0
Refrigerated Storage /5                          16.0            4.0           20.0            -.-              .              .-           16.0            4.0            20.0
Electric Installation                             6.7            3.3           10.0            6.6             3.4           10.0           13.3            6.7            20.0
Equipment Installation                           36.0            4.0           40.0            9.0             1.0           10.0           45.0            5.0            50.0
Trucks (2)                                        -.-            -.-            -.-            2.0            28.0           30.0            2.0           28.0            30.0
Miscellaneous Equípment /9                        2.7            0.3            3.0             6.3            0.7            7.0            9.0             1.0           10.0
Engineering Services                             40.5            -.            40.5           19.5                           19.5           60.0            -.-            60.0
Sub-total                                  342.6          576.9          919.5           53.4           37.1           90.5           396.0          614.0        1,010.0
Price Contingency                                36.9           57.6           94.5            4.1            5.4             9.5           41.0           63.0           104.0
TOTAL                                      379.5          634.5       1,014.0            57.5           42.5          100.0          437.0           677.0        1,114.0
/1 Renovate existing abattoir 45m x 20m.
/2 Enlarge and modernize existing corral.
/3 Complete on the rail slaughtering systems for both cattle and pigs,
/4 Includes drilling deep well, installing putmps for delivering 35 gallons per minute.
/5  For chillrooms 4°C, 150 beef aud 300 pigs capacity.
o, z
/6  Complete dry rendering system, breaker, cooker, press, hammermill, boiler, grease pump, etc.
/7  Separate rendering shed  300 m2.
/8 Includes oxidation lagoon.
/9 Includes saws, knives, grinders, gambrels, hooks, sharpening stones, clothing, etc.



HONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model 8: Large Muncipal Abattoir. C9pacity-250 Cattle and 550 Pigs Daily
Projectiona of Sales and Opeorating Expenses
(L '000)
Before    Year      Year       Years      Years     Years      Years
Develoi,ment  1         2         3-6        7-11     12-16      17-20
REVUENJ
Sales Cattle By-Products L                     .-        .       453.6     907.2   1,036.8   1,166.)4   1,296.0
Sales Pig By-Products ¿-.                                .-     198.7      397.14     463.7     529.9      596.2
Cattle Siauighter fee UL/ead                 76.9      38.5        -          .--.--                           
Pig Slaughter fee    3L¡head                -59.7      29.8          _______
Total/ ¿2                                  3-3   1,30                           ÓT         &3      1892
OPFaA¶TING EXPENSPAS
Credit for Cattle hide 9L ¿&-                                   226.8      453.6      518.4~   583.2       648.o
Labor ¿I                                     16.4      16.4    149.4       298.8      346.6     402.1      466.4
Packaging ¿                                     --.-              15.0      30.0       34.5      39.7       45.6
Utilíties                                    11.5       5.3       63.0     126.0      143.2     16o.8      179.2
Maintenance /810.0                                      5.0       36.0      72.0       72.0      72.0       72.0
Gasoline and Oi  ¿y                           3.0       1.5        6.o      12.0       13.8      15.9       18.2
Miscellaneous /10                             7.7       2.1       18.0      36.0       41.0      46.8       53.3
Irnsuance                                      ..12.0                       12.0       12.0      12.0       12.0
Total                                  486        30.3     526.2   1,040.4   1,11173 fT,325  -T,91-.7-
Net Income                                   88.0      38.0     126.1      264.2      319.0     363.8      397.5
/~Edible offal, bono and meat mueal, inedible fat-and hides.
/2Edible offal, bone and meat meal, inedible fat (retain ekuils for meal production).
ZiQuantity slaughtered per day during project períod:
Before Development      2-6     7-11     12-16      17-20
Cattle                41              14       160      -1180       200
Pigs                  71              240      280       320        360
Return 9L por head (cattle) to owner.
Plant manager, foremen, butchers, administratíon, drívers, unskilled workers, clerks, total 80 (years 2%>)
average wage including siocial charges 311.L/month.
6  Bags for meal, containers, paper.
Electricity, gas and water pumpinpa charges.
Equipment, 3   civil vorks, 1%.
For use in trucks for delivering meat to butcher shops.
Hand toolS, clothing, saw blades, water hoses, etc.
Total/3  13Rá.-& -§T73 304S§---1 07 §§.3 1,892.2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3.



1.L: 454,¿06LLIM0&7t1  PI«-.Vy
Y..!oeo    Va   2    Yece  2      Ye-   3     Oee4          iOar5        Osr£ nr            7     Y-a   8      Y-c          Vear--  15    y---  ti    Ya.  12    Yac.---         .    1'.    year K-                    1---6 ca   17  e---  18    y---  Si)   y--r 20
Reva..s                                   136.6         63.3        652.3    1,1,4.6    1,304.6    1>204.6           135,r4.5    2,500.5    t .500.5    1,500.5            500.5    .,'I.         1,696        1,696           656.3    1,696.3    1,696.3    1,892.2    1,892.2    1,892.2    1,892.2
tLa....                                                RiI.2        100.0           -.           .           --           --           --           --           --
Total  Casb  1.fl.c                       136.6    1.082.9          752.2    1,304..       2,a4j4.6    1,3094.6    1,304.'    1,500.1          1 ,060  5    1 ,55r.0.5    1,530  5          , 500. 5    1,604  3    1 SoS,    ,696 3    1,696.2    2,606.3           .0892.2    I,892.2    1.h92.2    1,892.2
2.  Casi, Queflee
0perstieg Expenses                          48.6        30.3        526 2    1,040).4    1,040.4    1,404.4          1r, . .    1,181.5    1,181.5    1,8.í             1181.5    2,181.0    1,332.5    1,33a.-              1,332.5    1,332.5    1,332.5    1,494.2            1,494.7    1.484-7    1,494.7
Ieoesneenc                       ,.   ~~~~~~~~       ~~1,014.0  102.0  - .-       -- --    -                --          30.0           -,-         -.-          - .-         - -        140.0         30  .         -.           -.-          -.-            .--.                    30.0          --
Total  Cas, OUtfIaw                         48.6    1,064.3         626.2    1,540.4    1,040.4         1,000.4    1,340.4    1,221.5    1 181.5    1,10  .5    1,101.0               1,181 1    1,422.1    1,361            1.332.5    2,332.15    1,332.5         1,494.'      1,494.7    1.524.7    1,49,4 .7
3.    alaIen Befoca Debe Seevíce                 80.0        30.0        126.1        264,2        64.1        ¿6l'Z.       064.2        <00         319.0        319.0        315 0        319,0        223.8          331.9       363.8       363.9         3623.9       399.5        397.5        367.5        397.5
4.   Bebt 5-nv1-
:nte-e-t ce  EB-k tose                       -.          36.1        76.4         80.2         72.2         44.2        56.5         48.1         42.1         35  1        24.1         16.1          8.0o                                                                                                       
toa   A-ctcíetin-                                                                 8 - -.   9 1  89.1        59 1         o9 1         -.            9.1        83.1         89.1         09.1         89,3
5.  Cash Balace   ai-
Debít Se-ci-n9                                           1.5         49.7         943        1502910.'53               16.3         1,11.        189.0        197.0         oS          213.0        1246         535  8             aS      363.8        363.6        397.5        397.5        367.~         197,5



iJ.
,-  S:LJONI) L,. VES TO iK DFVSL0PN-EN  PROJECT
Model O:  Lar   Mnlclpakkbattolr, Capacity 250 Cattle and 550 Pigs naily
Financial Rate of Return Calculation
(L1000)
'Net              Increrienteil
Operatiqg              Operating            Net perating                        iyet
Years            Revenue                 Oos ts                 Income                Income         Ilvestnent   .ash Flow
0               136.6                      68.0 _,_
1                68.3                    30.3                   38.0                 (50..)           (966.0)    (1,016.0)
2               652.3                  526.2                  126.1                   38.1             (95.0)        (56.9)
3             1,304.6                1,-l40.4                  26>4.2                176.2               - -         176.2
4             1,30o4.6               1,040.                    264.2                 17ó.2               i.          176.2
6             1,304.6                1,0140.4                  264.2                 176.2               - -         17S.2
6             1,500.5                1,lBl.54                2319.2                  217.2            (3-G -O
7             1,500.5                1,181.5                  319.0                  231.0            (30.0)         201.C
9             1,500.5                1,181.5                   319.0                 231.0               -.-         231.-
9             1,500.5                1,181.5                   319.0                 231.C,                          231.0
10             1,500.5                1,181.5                   319.0                 231.0                 _-        231.0
11             1,500.5                1,181.5                   319.0                 231.0                .           31.0
12             1,696.3                1,332.5                   363.8                 275.8            (140.0)        135.8
13             1,696.3                1,332.5                   363.8                 275.8             (30.0)        275.8
1>4            1,696.3                1,332.5-                  363.8                 275---.                         25.
15             1,696.3                1,332.5                   363.8                 275.3               -.-         275.8
16             1,696.3                1,332.5                  363.8                  275."                ._         275.8
17             1,892.2                1,49>4.7                 397.5                  309.5                .          309.5
18             1,892.2                1,494.7                   397.5                 309.5               -.          309.5
19             1,892.2                1,L9>4.7                  397.5                 309.5             (30.0)        279.5
20             1,892.2                1,>494.7                  397.5                 309.5               - -         309.5
Financial Rate of Return 16,%
H o



HONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELGPMENT PROJECT
Costa of Specialist Livestock Advisora and Proiect Staff Training Recuirements
Itemi                                No. of Units       Unit Cost             Phasing of Investment                          Total Cost                  Foreign Exchange Component
(Lmapíras)         Year 1       Year 2       Year 3             Lmpira             USS                 %1               US$
1.  Project Administration                                                            (Lempiras)
Salaries /1
Project Director /2            3 man yeare        40,000             40,000       40,000       40,000             120,000          60,000                 -                    _
Asaistanta (four) /3           8 man years        30,000             60,000       78,000       96,000             234,000         117,000
Seeretaries (two) 74           6 man years         6,000             12,000       12,000       12,000              36,000          18,000                 -
Driver/Messenger (one) /5    3 man years           4,000              4,000        4,000        4,000              12,000           6,000                 -                    -
Per Diem /6                     12 man years          1,500             4,500        6,000        7,500               18,000          9,000                 -
Office Expenses /7                     -              1,000             2,000        2,000        2,000                6,000          3,000                20                  600
Transportation                  12 man years          6,000            18,000       24,000       30,000               72,000         36,000                33              12,000
Miscellaneous                          -              2,000      2       ,           2000         2000                 6,000          3.000                 -
Sub-total                                                      142,500      168,000      193,500              504,000        252,000                 5               12,600
2. Specialist Livestock Advisora
Salaries (4 apecialista) t8   12 man years          50,000            200,000      200,000      200,000             600,000         300,000                75             225,000
Housing Allowances              12 man years         14,000            56,000       56,000       56,000              168,000         84,000                 -                    -
Per Diem, etc.                  12 man years          5,000            20,000       20,000       20,000               60,000         30,000                 -
Car Allowances                  12 man years          6,000            24 000       24,000       24.000               72.000         36.000                50               18,000
Sub-total                                                      300,000      300,000      300,000              900,000        450,000                 54             243,000
3.  Proiect Staff Training
Fares, per diem & travel
expenses /9                     2 n --  onth./
year for 3 years  10,000             20,000        20,000       20,000              60.000          30,000               100              30.000
4.  Total Costs                                                           462,500      488,000      513,500            1,464,000        732,000                 39             285,600
Price Contingency                                                      46, 250      48 800       51,350              146,400         73,200                39               28.560
TOTAL COSTS for First and Second Livestock Projects                  508,750      536,800      564,850           1,610,400         805,200                39             314,160
Leas Costs for Firat Livestock Project                              70,000       70,000       70.000             210,000         105.000                               _
TOTAL COSTS for Second Livestock Project                             438,750      466,800      494,850           1,400,400         700,200                               314,160
/1 All salaries for negotiation between Central Bank and staft concerned.
/2 Hondurien national.
/3  At present, Project Director has one assistant who manages the Atlantic Region.  A second would be recruited to man the Central and Pacific Regions.  In year 2, a
second assistant would be recruited for the Atlantic Region  (L18,000/pa)   and  in year 3, a second assistant for the other two regions.  This is to allow for flexibilllv
of staff, possible resignations,and expansion of schene.
/4 One at Tegucigalpa and one at San Pedro Sula.
/5 One at Tegucigalpa.
/6 Director and assistants for 50 days st L30/day.
/7  Por two offices at Tegucigalpa and San Pedro Sula.  For stationery supplies, telephones, and. such.  Space provided by the Central Bank.
/8  The four specialistswould cover pasture managemenet  estle husbandry, farm management,and pig husbandry.  They are all likely to he recruited overseas oc three-year contracts.
Attractive salaries are essential in order to obtain suitable personnel.
/9 Training costs assume that two men will be able to travel overseas everv year to obtain technical training in either Australia, the USA or South America.
Íi`



HONDURAS
>                                                                                                                  SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Summary of Total Proict CostS
Model I                         Mode! _                         Mod,l 3                           ',del 4                             >'.odel 5                  Foreign
Sost per      Cort 100          Cost per       Cost 200         Ce-t per       Cort 200            C-t prí   r   Cost 200            Cest per       Cest JO              E-ch..ge        Total
Fri                                            F Fr- F.r  Farms  ore           F.ms,                --l-t-                            F.rm  F:.rm   F-rma                 Costs         L--- 
(LempIra)      (L'00)           (Lempira)      (L'()            iLempiral    (L'0007 1Lee,ico)                   (L0r03               (Lempira)    (L'00)               (L million)  (L million)
On-Farm Oeoeiópmemt
Ptstures                        1.5400           150              2,500           500            6,300          ',26r.              B000            460               !.000            30                  1 3            2.9
Fe-.ing                         1,300            130              2,200          440             3,300            660              ',400            480               1,120            34                  1.0            1.8
klreeing Faciliti-e              2.200           220              3,500           700            4,100            820              4,400            880               3,705           111                  1.3            2.7
11ui Idigr                        800             80              1,500           l00            !,600            320              1, 00            200               1,000            30                  0.2            1.0
m-chinry                        1,700            170              9,500         i,900            3,600            720              1,0n            200               4,775           143                  2.4            3.0
Bre-dfng Steck                  5,000            S00              8.8O0        1,760             2,000            400              14.045         2,000              14,440           433                  0.3            4.S
Scott .p Feeds                                                                                                                                                                                              -             0.S
Price 'C-etínge.cy              1,282            iz1              Z,870           574            2,142            428              2,419            464               2,669             el                 0.7            1.7
4,4,-LoterOl                13,787         1,378             30,670         6,174            23,042         4,608              26,019         5,204               28,709           862                 7.2           18.4
6,od   6                                             Model 7                                          Model 8
C.rt per      C.it                                     C0,t per                                       Cort per
Unit         rete                                     Unit                                            'IeiL
Ie--pí re      .064000                                                                                  ('3900
AI,;ittoer Coe,POer.,t
l.ad -a, L.nd Prr.1tiO,                         13,640           J9                                           70                                               o                                        )  0.1             0.2
Ciel WorKr                                      Is,oor           25                                          11                                              -             ,                                              0.3
Eqwlopmert                                      27,700           81                                          295                                             60,                                            0.9            1.0
lUt uiti,o                                      17,400           S)                                           72                                             140                                            0.1            0.3
t4lip,mOt l--teollr,tio-                         460l,i          13                                           70                                              50                                             -             0,1
F,r i , ít r in, S-rire-                          , 3,,)0         9                                           so                                              66                                             -             0.1
Fríc    - tl.n6e-y                               8,100           24                                          65                                                ,1. O.l                                                     0.2
r,6. 1,401                                 07, (00         261                                          690                                           (  V4                                            1.2            2.2
Irtla, il Sr rvieet0 0.6                                                                                                                                                                                                  1.4
O~rot  Prl. e,s  10,o                                                                                                                                                                                  9.Ú           22.0
M.l, ,J.d Mf  I ¡g---.



HONDURAS
SEI:OND LIVESTCCK DEVELOPENT PROJET
Annual Phasing of Investments and Disbursements
H                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~(Lempira Mlillions) 
________________--- Year
1             2              3             4            5      Total
A.  Annual Phasing of Project
Investment:
Farms                                 2.3            4.7            6.6          3.7          1.1      18.4
Abattoirs                             1.9            0.2            0.1            -           -        2.?
Technical Services                    0.4            0.5            0.5           -            -        l.)
Tota].                       4.6           5.4            7.2           3.7          1.1     22.0
B.   Beneficiaries Contribution                0.8           1.0            1.3           0.7          0.2      4.0
to Fixed Investments
C.   Disbursements:
Particí2atipg Banks
Development Loans                   0.8            1.0            1.3          0.7          0.2       4.n
D.      Central Bank
Development loans                   2.6            2.9            4.1          2.3          0.7      12.6
Technical Services                  0.4            0.5            0.5           -            -        1.4
Sub-total                        3.0            3.4            4.6          2.3          0.7     14.0
Total                        á.6           5.1            7.9           3.7          1.1     22.0
E.   Disbursements by IDA
Developtnent Loans                  2.6            2.9            4.1          2.3          0.7      12.6
Technical Services                  0.2            0.?            0.            _            _        0.6      (D x
lotal                        ?.1j            .            >4.3          2.3          0.7     13.2



ANNEX 19
Table 2
HONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMET PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule of IDA Credit
(US$ millions)
IDA Funds
Calendar                             Cumulative       Disbursement
Year              Quarter          Disbursement       Percent       Undisbursed
1973                  4                   -               -             6.6
1974                  1                  0.4              -               -
2                 0.5
3                 0.8
4                  1.4           21.0             5.2
1975                  1                  1.8              -               -
2                  2.2
3                 2.6                              _
4                  3.0           46.o             3.6
1976                  1                  3.5              -
2                 4.0
3                 4.5              -
4                  5.1           77.0             1.5
1977                  1                  5.4              -
2                 5.7
3                 6.o              -
4                  6.2            94.0            o.4
1978                  1                  6.3
2                 6.4
3                 6.5              -
4                  6.6          100.0
June 7, 1973



r_                                                                                           h~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ON¿DUf¿S
a                                                                                                          SECONi) LIVESTOCK DEVEOPiENT PROJECT
Prolected Surce. dnd APPIc-tfon of Funde - Centr-l Bank Liveístnk Account
(L nlílín)
--------------_ _-----_-------------------------------------------- ------- Y E A R ----------------  -----------------------------------------.-----------------------. .-..--
C.tesnry                              1          2           3          4          5         6            7          8          9          10         11          12         13          14         15          16         17-27
Source of Fund.
IDA Credit for:
Firet Inane                                 2.5        3.0         4.0         2.2        0.7        -            -                -
Te.hnícl servmice  1/                      0,2        0.2         0.2          -          -         -            -          -          -
Inícresc Receipto frt PB a
Firt l.nan.  57.                              0.1        0.3          0.5        0.6        0.6       0.6          0.6        0.5        0.4         0.3         0.3        0.2         0.1
Second lon. 07. 5                                          -                -           -              . -         0.1        0.1        0.2         0.3        0.3         0.4        0.4         0.4        0.4         0.4
Repanue.t of Prieuipel by PB'.
Ft-et lo-ns 2/                                 -          -           .1         0.1        0.1       0.2          0.7        1.3         1.6        1.6         1.6        1.6         1.5        1.3        0.6         0.4           -
Sec.od loan.  3/                                          --                                 -          -          ..         0.2        0.3         0.4         0.5        0.6         0.7        0.8        0.8         0.8          0.7
Total                                  2.d        3.5          4,7        2.9         1.4       0.8         1.4         2.1        t.5        2,6         2.7        2.8         2,7        2.5         1.8        1.6          0.7
Applicatlon of Funda
Firet lon.s to PBe                            2.5        3.0          4.0        2.2        0.7                     -           -          -           -          -                -           -          -           -           -
Second 1na.s tu PB's                           -          -            -          -           -       0.5          0.7         1.3        1.6        1.6         1.6        1.6         1.5        1.2         0.6        0.3
Techninal servces _/                          0.4        0.5          0.5        0.2        0.2        0.2         0.2        0.2         0.2        0.2         0.1        0.1         0.1        0.1         0.1        0.1
Intereat Paynaent ta Govre.eent (1 3/4)
Firit lon.                                   ..         0.1          0.2        0.2        0,2        0.2         0.2         0.2        0.2        0.1         0.1        0.1         .
Se.o.d lone                                    -          -            -          -           -        ..          ..          O 0.1      0.1        0.1         0.1        0.1         0.1        0.1         0.1        0.1
Priíuipal payeent te G-uer-nent 5/             -          -            -                      -         -           -           -          -          -          0.1        0.1         0.1        0.1         0.1        0.1
Livestock uec.unt 6/                         (0.1)      (0.1)          -         0.3        0.3       (0.1)        0.3        0.3         0.4        0.6         0.7        0.8         0.9         1.0        0.9         1.0
T.tal                                 2.8       _3.5          4.7        2.9         1.4       0.8         1.4         2.1        2.         2.6        2.7         2.8        2.7        2.5         1.8         1.6           _
Inueurt;tl nel flov uf live-stck
acuuuint                                   '0.l)      (0.2)        (0.2)       0.1        0.4       0.3          0.6        0.9         1.3        1.9         2.6        3.4         4.3        5.3         6.2        7.2
1/  Including salarien etc. f.r .epatriate specialísts .ed trnlC -g airead t-r locul person-es1.
2/  B-aed un gr-en aud repay euu  tetsn es per rgdel plus use vear addntconsl gra-e und ose  rur additiosal rnpayeent per--d  ftos partíc-pattsg Sbeks.
3/ BSand uu a 10-ye-r repuyment period.
4/  Includieg funds f-ro  IDA pics local c-s-t  of .echnical and ad.ies-trative  -urvice staff; pr--r-  o-tiugecy 107 per-useus.
N/ Nu payments dunteg Ye-r-  1-10 and  --s. per-cent pe  yeor d-r-in  Yere 1-16 (IDA  -ue-) es L12.2 sillíee  (10$6.6 millioe).
6/  Central Be-k weold recovsr defícitt  uf Ynera  1 --d ` i Yer  3 a--d 4.  atoe 1I reol-1er ledieg  -oeid begin ce Year ó.
Lens than LO(,O()O.






ANNEX 21
Page 1
HONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMN FROJECT
Benefits to Producers, etc.
1.   Returns to farmers and m enicipalities are estimated on the basis of the
eight illustrative models in Annexes 9 through 16. Benefits can be sumnarized
as follows:
1/            1/
Operating            Debt     NetU  Incremental] Financial
Income   Taxes  Service  Income  Net Income   Rate of
A. Farms                     ------(US$)--------------------- Return
Model 1
30-ha Dairy Farm
Pre-Development          290      9        -        281        -           -
Full Development       3,115    106      1,350    1,659      1,378        23
Model 2
50-ha Dairy Farm
Pre-Development          295      9        -        286        -           -
Full Developmient      7,490 o   .24     2,650   44,416      h,130        25
Model 3
150-ha Beef Breeding/
Fattening Farin
Pre-Development          550     17        -        533        -          -
Full Development       5,635    276      1,750    3,609      3,076        21
Model 4
400-ha Beef Breeding Farm
Pre-Development          638     19        _        619        -
Full Development       5,163    215      2,200    2,748      2,129        19
Model 5
25-Sow Pig Unit
Pre-Development          514     15        -        h99                    -
Full Developient       4,015    150      2,100    1,765      1,266        21
1/  This is operating income after debt servicing.  The latter includes loan
amortization,which represents capital accumulation to the farmer.



ANNEX 21
Page   2-
)peratirE  Debt    Ned'           ~~1/
1-)Perating          Debt     Net/ gIncrementar Financial
Income   ','axes   Service  Income  Net Income  Rate of
------------(Us$) -                              Return
B. Abattoirs
Model 6
Small. Abattoir
Pre-Developrnent     1,350       -        -      1,350      -            -
Full Development     9,100       -      4,8Qo    4,300   2,950          14
Model 7
Medium Abattoir
Pre-Development     54,200       -        -     54,200      -            -
Full Development   128,200       -     40,350   87,850  33,650          17
Model 8
Large Abattoir
Pre-Development     44,000       -        -     4,ooo       - 
Full Development   159,500       -     65,350   94,150   50,150         16
2.  The sensitivity of these models to charges in costs and income has been
tested. Results can.be summarieed as follows:
Assumptions                                Percent of Financial Rate of Ret*rn
--____-_-_---- Models --------------
1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8
1. As estimated                               23   25   21   19   21   14   17   16
2. Operating costs up 10%                     19   21   14   16    8    8   14    j
3. Operating costa up 20%                     15   17    8   13   -7   -1    9    -
4. Revenue down  10%                          17   18   12   15    5    5   10    2
5.  Revenue down  20%                         10   11    4   11  -14    -    -    -
6.  Investment costs up 10%                   21   22   20   18   19   12   16   1h
1/ This 1S operating in ome after debt servicing.  The latter includes loan
amortization,which represents capital accumulation to the farmer.
April 9, 1973



ANNEX 22
Page 1
HONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return Calculations
1.           Two different economic rates of return for the Project have been
calculated, one for the farm lending program and one for the abattoirs. In
both cases, investments, operating costs, and prices have been calculated
at current rates as detalled in Table 1.
The Farm Component
2.           The following farm prices have been used for both economic
and financial analyses:
<a) Cull bulls are prices at L250 (US$125) for years 0 to 5 and
at L300 (US$150) from year 6 onward, assuming higher liveweight
as a result of improved techniques. These prices correspond
to US$0.33 to 0.35 per kg liveweight, accordíng to the size
of the animal, and are those paid currently by the local
packers who export to the US market and compete among themselves
and with purchasers of live cattle from neighboring countries.
The relatively low prices reflect the present inferior quality
of the cattle in Honduras.
(b) Cull cows are priced at L190 (US$95) for years 0 to 5 and at
L220 (US$110) from year 6 onward. Export packers are restrieted
by law from slaughtering cows In excess of 10% of total kill. The
remainder uust be diverted to the local market, which pays about
LO.04 (US$0.02) less per kg. This "subsidy" to local beef
consumptíon has been taken into account as a benefit in the
economic rate of return calculation.
(c)  Milk is priced at LO.18 (US$0.90) per liter, as It replaces
imported milk pewder.
(d) Pigs are priced at L1.98 (US$0.09) per kg, as it il consumed
locally.
(f) Labor of farmers and their workera la priced at current levels
(about US$2 per day).



ANNEX 22
Page 2
3.           Costs include the technical services of the Central Bank (the
Project Director, his supporting staff of assistants, and livestock advisors)
as well as the livestock technicians employed by the participating banks.
4.           Based on the above assumptions, the economíc rate of return of the
farm component over the Project life of 20 years is 18%.
The Abattolr Component
5.           Benefits from the abattoirs would come from improvement of the
quality of the meat and better utilization of the by-products. Meat spoil-
age would be reduced because of refrigeration and improved distribution. No
quantification has been attempted for the quality improvement of the meat and
it has not been taken into account in the calculation.
6.           The economic rate of return calculations have therefore been based
only on the value added to the by-products. The by-products would be col-
lected more efficiently and be of increased value, due to improved slaughtering
facilities. For the large abattoir, the value added by processing of by-
products is about one-third of the sale revenues. For the small and medium
sized abattoírs, which have no mechanical rendering facilities and would re-
turn the by-products to the butcher, the value added is estimated at 50% of
the amount added by the large abattoir. Labor has been priced at actual
costs.
7.           Based on the above assumptions, the economic rate of return of the
abattoirs over the project life would be 24%.
June 15, 1973



-                                                                                                    HONDURAS
-                                                                                   SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
EstiraatedRtep of Return to the Economy
(L' 000)
___   _____   _-_-----------   -----_------                                  YEAR----------------------------------------------------------------- Y-  
1           2           3           4           5            6           7           8           9           10           11          12-19          20
FVra Investments
Coste:
Fermns 1/                              2,534       5,283       7,281       4,064       1,359         -             -          -           -             -           -             -             -
Technical services and
livestock technicians 2/               692          998       1,120         520        520       520           520        520          520          520          427            91            -
Benefita:
Net incrementel operation income         (12)        134         412          789      1,347    2,841         4,738      6.381        7,057        7,054        7,499         7,547        7,499
Residue herd value                         -           -            -           -          -         -             -          -           -             -            -            -       28,484 3/
Adjustments 4/                            26          53           79         106        132       158           185        211         211           211         211           211          211
Net incremental income to the
*conomyy                            (3,240)    (6,094)       (7,910)     (3,689)       (400)   2,479         4,403      6,072        6,748        6,745        7,283        7,667        36,194
Rate of Return to the Econom"Y f_
Abettoirs
Costs:
Investzsent                            1,791         187           87                                             -            -           -                  -            -             -
Replacement of  machinery                  -            -           -           -          -         15           75         15            -            6          101           42             -
Benef it:
Net incremental value                      -         270         539          539        539       539           615        615         615           615         615           698           698
Net incremental income to the
economy                              (1,791)         83         452          539        539       524           540        600         615           609         514           656           698
Rate of Return to the Economy 24%
1/   On-farm investments plus tncremental working capital.
2/   Including livestock technicians of participating banks.
3/   Shown at the dífference between borrowers' initial herd and that of full development herd value.
4/   This represents the difference (LO.04/lb) between the price paid to ch: producer for cull fe.ales for the local market and rhc ev' e receiverl for similar anímals on the export market,                            z






F7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                                                                                 I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRD  10416
|   E   y                                                                        ollar IS>ALYO                                                                                                        \                   l     N D UEAS   X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5E 
E- , OS                 FH O, s,                                                                                                                                rAS
---'       ---'' Ii                                                      -,^_    ,
15 <--                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    t e   J  t   t  RRI.  FSTFFtA   't a e ñ ^ 4 9 S ¿ < 5 @ P P ; 9 e R E S O  -  (  -  í  v 2 Rr4  CL,4A   N E 
IA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~        RIF                                                                                        D
9~ ~     ~    ~ ~       --        El 0; R; 00 $i    ? t              X                                                            L--[>l -/> R A C                                                                                                                                  I  A S   AA    i  oS
S5^  JO4DE C                                                                                                                                                                                                            \/t
111-'lb~ ~ ~~~~~~15                                          ~                          9            ' 
E"'5                                                                                                                         0,4~~~~~~~~01OR1
<                                                                                                                                                               C |) A >C A LA AELRD--:R LW1= lE R A                                                                                    O =
pW' f ' ": -'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0                                                                R         >       A  z  , N  fI " , " 
.    NCTOLQ                  s 1  1 Np T                                                  A                                                                                                        CN t:;:A    L= D ApS -;N 1
F     O 1           Q t                                                                                              ST0ACA    ,                                      TE jD-<
-E                   4                                            C    IAsT                  O         CEDROVIS¡j  SDEM¡  ;0UTT:g',  ,;  ;,   iCrLkFa   :;j7. z"  ;;3
OTS5OFSFt 0i0BE~'< AIO ' 0T:TS ; ;0%00t  '   l:;=.fe..:l;:i;TACAS                              n:''0                                                                                                                                                        ;'t ;E1  12f  HONrDIR2:, 'l;i;.:,:LAS
RANO 11.               ¡                        LATAN  ANT
~~~AL~~~~~    ~j                                                          ANTA MA-I            _E*                                                             ELf          s     0S   PMB    ARR
TEGCIGLPA                                      El         P     R    J So               '"'ROOT   E055                                                                        SD
RA'                          "-"                         ~~~~          ~~~~      ~~P AZ  OL                          RbS*,JA                                          ET915    uSEPS                                                                              S4OL 
A: £~~~~~~~V  D; 0STSSOCORTT                                               ',         TER9S'                                                       '     :+                                                     19           R
EL  lADO'  --~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,<                  ,    ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     ~    ~ ~ 0
Iz~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MÚRA
711R0 - LOf"'BSSPR*
EL  S LVA           OR                            OASEIF           AL~                                        ¡       CLRXN                                   '' 
tLOOFESRN q,F 
SCACEA           3      TIOTO                                                          _________________________
IiziiíiL-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -  -  ,   1:,  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~e                           O FSTAAAAS--T'S TARSA, F



