Document of                          F
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4250
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 434-HO)
December 30, 1982
Project Unit
Central Bank of Honduras
Projects Department
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office             F             COP Y
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Local Currency               Lempira (L)
US$1.00                   L 2.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
COHBANA      Honduran Banana Corporation
Corporacion Hondurena del Banana
CATIE        Center for Research and Teaching in Tropical Agriculture
Centro Agronomico Tropical de Investigacion y Ensenanza
NDB          National Development Bank
Banco Nacional de Fomento (BANADESA)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 434-HO)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
COUNTRY PROJECT REPORT
Preface .            ........................................................
Basic Data Sheet ................................................                                   i
Highlights  .....................................................                                 iii
COUNTRY PROJECT REPORT
I   Background  ...............................................                                  1
II   History  of  the Project  ...................................                                I
III   Project Execution  ........................................                                  7
IV   Impact  of  the Project  ....................................                               18
V   Financial  and Economic  Rates  of  Return  ...................                            21
VI   Institutional  Output  and Development  .....................                               22
VII   Special  Questions  ........................................                                27
VIII   Role  of  the World Bank  ...................................                               28
IX   Conclusions  ..............................................                                28
Tables 1A - 23
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN REGIONAL CRITIQUE
Tables A - K
Map        IBRD  10416  Project Areas
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HONDURAS: SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 434-HO)
PREFACE
This is a Completion Report of the Second Livestock Development
Project in Honduras for which Credit 434-HO in the amount of US$6.6 million
was approved on October 9, 1973. The credit was closed in December 1979
after a delay of one year. The final disbursement was made on January 1980
and the credit was fully disbursed.
The Project Completion Report (PCR) comprises a report prepared in
October 1981 by the Project Unit of the Central Bank of Honduras following
consultations with Bank staff and a LAC Regional Critique of that report
(Critique) dated April 1982. A mission from the Projects Department, Latin
America and the Caribbean Regional Office (LAC) visited Honduras in December
1981 to discuss the report and to look at project achievements in the field.
The results of the mission's findings and of the Regional review of the
report are summarized in the Critique. The points discussed in the Critique
have been selected because of their relevance for this and other Bank-
supported projects and to complement the analysis provided in the Borrower's
report. The valuable assistance provided by the staff of the Project Unit of
the Central Bank is gratefully acknowledged.
A copy of the PCR was sent to the Borrower on September 30, 1982
for comments but none were received. A separate audit by the Operations
Evaluation Department was not undertaken.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HONDURAS: SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 434-HO)
PREFACE
This is a Completion Report of the Second Livestock Development
Project in Honduras for which Credit 434-HO in the amount of US$6.6 million
was approved on October 9, 1973. The credit was closed in December 1979
after a delay of one year. The final disbursement was made on January 1980
and the credit was fully disbursed.
The Project Completion Report (PCR) comprises a report prepared in
October 1981 by the Project Unit of the Central Bank of Honduras following
consultations with Bank staff and a LAC Regional Critique of that report
(Critique) dated April 1982. A mission from the Projects Department, Latin
America and the Caribbean Regional Office (LAC) visited Honduras in December
1981 to discuss the report and to look at project achievements in the field.
The results of the mission's findings and of the Regional review of the
report are summarized in the Critique. The points discussed in the Critique
have been selected because of their relevance for this and other Bank-
supported projects and to complement the analysis provided in the Borrower's
report. The valuable assistance provided by the staff of the Project Unit of
the Central Bank is gratefully acknowledged.
A copy of the PCR was sent to the Borrower on September 30, 1982
for comments but none were received. A separate audit by the Operations
Evaluation Department was not undertaken.






- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 434-HO)
BASIC DATA SHEET
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal
Item                                  Estimate                       Actual
Total Project Cost (US$ million)                      11.0                         12.6
Overrun (%)                                           -                          14
Credit Amount (US$ million)                            6.6                          6.6
Disbursed                                            6.6                          6.6
Cancelled                                             -                            -
Repaid
Outstanding                                          6.6                          6.6
Exchange Adjustment                                   -                            -
Borrower's Obligation                                6.6                          6.6
Delay (years)                                           -                           1
Economic Rate of Return (Y)                           18                           12
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Original
Item                               Plan                      Revision                   Actual
First Mention in Files                     12/30/69                        -                         -
Negotiations                               08/09/73                        -                    08/09/73
Board Approval                                -                            -                     10/09/73
Credit Agreement Date                                                      -                    10/29/73
Effectiveness Date                            -                            -                    01/18/74
Closing Date                               12/31/78             (06/29/79, 12/31/79)            12/31/79
Borrower                 : Republic of Honduras
Executing Agency            Central Bank of Honduras
Follow-on Project Name    Agricultural Credit Project
Credit Number          :  628-HO
Amount (US$ million) :  14.0
Credit Agreement Date:  07/02/76
MISSION DATA
Sent         Month/          No. of         No. of                             Date of
Item                       by           Year           Weeks *         Persons         Manweeks          Report
Appraisal                        IDA         02/73             3.0              5              15              09/12/73
Supervision I                    IDA         12/74             1.5              1               1.5            01/22/75
Supervision II                   IDA         08/75             1.0              1               1.0            09/16/75
Supervision III                  IDA         05/76             2.0              2               4.0            07/01/76
Supervision IV                   IDA         10/76             1.5              2               3.0            11/05/76
Supervision V                    IDA         09/77             0.5              3               1.5            10/06/77
Supervision VI                   IDA         01/78             1.0             1                1.0            02/14/78
Supervision VII                  IDA         06/78             1.0              2               2.0            08/07/78
Supervision VIII                 IDA         10/78             0.5              1               0.5            10/10/78
Supervision IX                   IDA         01/79             0.5              1               0.5            02/28/79
Supervision X                    IDA         09/79             1.0              1               1.0            10/10/79
Supervision XI                   IDA         11/79             0.5              1               0.5            11/30/79
Supervision XII                  IDA         02/80             1.0              1                1.0           03/14/80
Supervision XIII                 IDA         05/81             0.5              2               1.0
Total                                                       15.5                             33.5
Completion                       IDA         12/81             1.0              3               3.0            12/30/81
* Figures rounded to nearest half week.
COUNTRY EXCHANGE RATES
Name of Currency (abbreviation)                                                            Lempiras              L
Year:
Appraisal Year Average                                                                   Exchange Rate:  US$1 = L 2
Intervening Year's Average                                                                                US$1 = L 2
Completion Year Average                                                                                   US$1 = L 2






- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HONDURAS: SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 434-HO)
HIGHLIGHTS
The production of beef, dairy products and the outputs of
processing facilities associated with these commodities make an important
contribution to the production of the agricultural sector which in 1980
accounted for 24% of GDP, provided employment for over 55% of the active
population and generated more than 75% of the total value of exports.
The Central Bank, on behalf of the Government of Honduras,
requested IDA to assist in financing the project which was appraised in early
1973 and approved in October 1973. This project was a continuation and
expansion of the First Livestock Development Project (Credit 179-HO), whose
progress had been generally satisfactory. The purpose of the project was to
provide long-term finance for the development of the livestock industry. The
IDA credit was partially to finance subloans to (a) small and medium dairy
farms; (b) dairy/beef farms; (c) breeding/fattening farms; (d) beef breeding
farms; (e) pig units; and (f) construction of abattoirs and, by an amending
agreement of May 25, 1975, also the rehabilitation of about 2,000 ha of the
Isleta Banana Cooperative.
It is estimated that at full development (year 12) incremental beef
production will be close to appraisal estimates and the appraisal goal of 750
additional jobs was reached or exceeded (Critique paras 31 and 32). In
addition, other farmers have adopted improved technology through observation
and association with project beneficiaries.
The lack of clear Bank requirements had been given by the Borrower
as the reason for failure fully to meet adequate standards of accounting and
auditing. Subsequently, Bank missions, particularly in recent years, sought
to improve the accounting and auditing procedures for the project.
Improvements were achieved through repeated meetings of Bank staff with the
independent auditor and this finally resulted in achieving (a) separate
presentation of project accounts; (b) use of uniform classification of
project income and expenditures by all financial intermediaries; and (c)
supplementary financial information on arrears separately presented for
principal and interest including analysis of arrears age as an integral part
of audited project accounts of financial intermediaries. These achievements
were also implemented in both follow-on projects (Critique paras 45, 47 and
48).
\.



- iv-
Technical assistance provided by the project was satisfactory,
although the lack of applied research data, especially concerning suitable
pasture species and mixtures, fertilizer requirements and the different
breeds of cattle for the various environments within Honduras, adversely
affected the technical assistance results.
Lessons and other points of interest are:
-    Medium size dairy production requires better quality management
than small scale operations. The difficulties associated with
departure from the widely used dual purpose (dairy/beef) system
towards specialization were underestimated at appraisal (Critique
para 6).
-    The new technologies that were adopted by beneficiaries are well
suited to conditions in Honduras at present. These are dual-
purpose production using cross-bred cattle, with feeding based on
rotationally grazed pastures with some fodder grown as stand-by
feed for the dry season, and use of hand labor for milking and weed
control (Critique paras 13 and 14).
-    During project execution the basis was laid for a full scale
monitoring and evaluation system and, by using data processing
equipment, this will also serve all other projects which are
managed by the Project Unit (para 6.12).
-    The wide spread participation of public and private banks in
project implementation indicates that the lending terms, such as
spread, rediscounting margin, adequate lending rate of interest
associated with rigorous promotion, were appropriately designed to
attract participation of the whole banking sector in financing
long-term agriculture development (paras 6.06 and 6.07 and
Critique paras 41 to 45).
-    The financial rate of return as calculated by the Project Unit of
the Central Bank for the typical dual purpose farms in the Atlantic
Zone and Central South Zone were found to be 13% and 20%
respectively. The Critique, however, states that the financial
rate of return was 17% and 14%, respectively (paras 5.01 to 5.04
and Critique Tables I and J).



HONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 434-HO)
COUNTRY PROJECT REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
1.01      The economy of Honduras depends more heavily on the agriculture
sector than any other. In 1980, it accounted for 24% of GDP, provided
employment for over 55% of the active population and generated more than 75%
of export revenues. Nevertheless, the gross value of agricultural production
has increased only quite slowly, from L 466 million in 1973 to L 491 million
in 1978 (31% and 24% of GDP, respectively), with negative growth indexes in
1974 and 1975 (Table 1-A).
1.02      Although crop-growing activities make by far the largest
contribution to the formation of agriculture sector GDP (67% in 1979),
stockraising showed larger relative annual increases over the period
1973-79. The major activity in the livestock subsector is beef/dairy cattle
farming, with a total herd of over 2 million, concentrated mainly (86%) in
the Atlantic and Central regions of the country. There are an estimated 1.5
million hectares of pasture, varying in topography and fertility. With these
resources, Honduras supplied 100% of domestic demand for beef and
approximately 80% of that for milk products. Beef exports (approximately 60%
of all beef produced) accounted for 8% of the value of all Honduras exports
in 1980, without including by-products from the subsector.
1.03      Despite livestock improvement programs focused on achieving better
yields, there remain certain factors of production in the sector which have
not improved to any really significant degree. In general, however, there
have been gradual increases in yields per animal unit, and in the number of
animals carried per unit of area, especially on farms benefiting under the
First and Second Livestock Development Projects partially financed by IDA.
1.04      General conditions still favor successful expansion of the
stockraising industry in Honduras, and, in this regard, participation by both
governmental and private agencies in the ongoing provision of credit and
technical services for the agriculture sector would continue to be an
important link in the introduction of appropriate on-farm technology, with
accompanying direct benefits for the national economy.
II. HISTORY OF THE PROJECT
Origin and Preparation
2.01      In July 1972, the Central Bank, on behalf of the Government of
Honduras, submitted to IDA a loan application for assistance in financing the
Second Livestock Development Project, proposed as a continuation and
expansion of the First Livestock Development Project (Credit 179-HO). The
latter, at a total cost of L 10.4 million and with partial financing from IDA
of L 5.2 million, was designed to provide farmers with long-term funds-- to
be channeled to them on appropriate terms and conditions through commercial
banks-- for development of their beef and dairy enterprises. Studies for the



-2-
slaughterhouses in four different capacity ranges, located mainly in the
Atlantic and Central regions of the country.  Also included was a technical
assistance component to ensure accomplishment of the objectives and targets
formulated. The main source of data utilized in designing the Second Project
in its original version were the stock of experience gained during the
earlier project and the information and statistics division of the various
governmental, semi-autonomous and autonomous agencies.
Appraisal
2.02      The project as proposed was appraised by a World Bank mission of
four persons (three Bank staff members and one consultant), who visited
Honduras in February/March 1973. (On October 29 of that year, Development
Credit Agreement 434-HO was signed, the total estimated cost of the venture
being US$11 million with a US$6.6 million contribution from IDA.) The
project in its original form was modified substantially as regards the total
sum to be invested, the number and size of the target farms and the
percentage shares to be contributed by each of the sources of funds.  As
finally negotiated, the project called for increased participation by the
sub-borrowers, the Central Bank and, of course, IDA, while the participation
by commercial banks was cut back considerably.
2.03            The main outlines of action agreed upon for the First Project
(179-HO), particularly with regard to project organization and management on
the one hand and participation by commercial banks on the other, remained
essentially the same for the Second. The only change was the inclusion of
NDB (National Development Bank -- Banco Nacional de Fomento), an autonomous
government agency, as a participant in the venture; given its main focus of
action, it was regarded as creating healthy competition to the commercial
banks in making credit services available for the development of stockraising
activities.
2.04      Again in contrast to the First Project, modifications were now made
with regard to: rediscount rates on subloans by the Central Bank to
participating banks; percentage contributions by the sub-borrowers; the
maximum subloan amount that could be approved by the Project Director; and,
in particular, the margin enjoyed by the Central Bank on the differential
between the cost of funds obtained from the Government and the annual
interest rate at which those funds could be lent to the participating banks.
This margin would enable the Central Bank to cover the local costs and office
expenses of the Project Director and reimburse itself for costs incurred in
administering project funds; under the First Project, the major part of these
costs had been met from the Central Bank's own resources.
2.05       In addition, the terms and conditions to apply to subloans to
municipalities for the construction of slaugherhouses were fixed, as were the
norms for approval and application of the procedures associated with
procurement of those facilities.
2.06      As originally proposed to IDA, the Second Project had not concerned
itself with the matters enumerated in paragraphs 2.03, 2.04 and 2.05 above.



-3-
Negotiations
2.07      Negotiations for the Second Project took place in Washington during
the first week of August 1973 between representatives of the Government, the
Central Bank of Honduras and the World Bank. In particular, agreements were
reached on the matters referred to in paragraphs 2.03, 2.04 and 2.05. By
comparison with the First Livestock Development Project (Credit 197-HO), the
major changes introduced reflected the intention of both IDA and the
Government of Honduras to ensure that project funds benefited a larger number
of small livestock producers, the owners of half the national herd, and at
the same time encourage the commercial banks to risk their own funds.  It was
with these considerations in mind that different rediscount rates and
different percentages for sub-borrower contributions were brought in, on sub-
loans to medium-and large-scale producers as well as on those to small
producers.  Likewise, a lower ceiling was set than under the First Project on
the size of individual subloans that could be approved by the Project
Director.
2.08      During negotiations, assurances were obtained on the following
major points: from the Government that it would accept and apply the loan
procedures agreed upon; implement policies on prices, marketing, quotas and
taxation to favor project objectives; and introduce effective measures to
improve the quality of products put out by the slaughterhouse that were to
receive project financing; and from the Central Bank that it would follow the
norms and procedures agreed on as regards project organization and
adminstration; accept and apply the procedures for procurement of municipal
abattoirs; contract the services of livestock specialists in order to
strengthen the project staff group; and, finally, enter into agreement with
each of the participating banks as regards project administration and the
contracting of technicians to assume responsibility for activities in the
field.
2.09      The Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement with the
World Bank (IDA) were signed by the Republic of Honduras and the Central Bank
of Honduras, respectively, on October 29, 1973, as was the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement between the Republic of Honduras and the Central Bank of Honduras.
These legal instruments were ratified by the Honduran Head of State acting in
the Council of Ministers, through Decree No. 96 of December 17, 1973.
Description of the Project
2.10      The new project was to be a continuation and expansion of the First
Livestock Development Project (Credit 179-HO), which had given satisfactory
results.  Its aim was to make further IDA funds available for the overall
development of the cattle dairy and pig-farming industries.  The proceeds of
the Credit were to be made available in the form of long-term subloans (9 to
12 years) with a maximum grace period of five years to assist with the
financing of 700 small-and medium-scale beef and/or dairy farms, 30 pig
units, five municipal abattoirs and a small technical assistance component.
The latter would include provision for four specialist livestock advisors and
training for Project Unit staff. The borrower would be the Government of
Honduras, which would carry the exchange risk and channel the credit to the
Central Bank--which would continue to serve as administering agent for the



-4-
Project-- at an interest rate of 2%.  Funds for on-farm improvements would be
on-lent by the Central Bank to the participating commercial banks and to NDB
at a 5% interest rate, and they, in turn, would lend to sub-borrowers at 9%,
the ceiling rate on agricultural loans at that time.
2.11      Farmers in all areas of the country were to have access to these
credit facilities, although, given its ecological structure, the probability
was that most interest in dairying and fattening farms would occur in the
Atlantic and Pacific zones and in breeding farms, in the Central zone. The
emphasis would be on pasture improvement, fencing, watering facilities,
purchase of breeding stock and the building of stock-handling facilities.  To
a lesser degree, investments would be made in putting up buildings and
purchasing farm machinery.  With two exceptions, the investments in abattoirs
would involve the setting up of small slaughtering units.
2.12      Total project cost was estimated at US$11 million, of which
approximately 60% (US$6.6 million) would be contributed by IDA to cover the
foreign exchange component (US$4.5 million) and US$2.1 million equivalent of
local currency costs. The participating banks would contribute 16% (US$1.8
million), the Central Bank 6% (US$0.5 million) and participating farmers and
municipalities the remaining 18% (US$2 million). Local currency financing
was justified on country grounds. The project would again be administered by
a Project Director, who would be employed by the Central Bank; he would have
the services of two assistants and four livestock advisers also employed by
the Central Bank and several livestock technicians engaged by the
participating private banks and NDB (now known as BANADESA).
2.13      Although not included in the project, an important element in total
costs would be short-term working capital subloans, which, during the initial
year of a farm improvement plan, would cover major operating expenses and the
purchase of stock for fattening (which would consume surplus feed during the
period the herd was being expanded to optimum size). Such short-term
financing would be provided entirely from the resources of the participating
lending institutions, with a 100% rediscount from the Central Bank of
Honduras.
2.14      Given their diversity and small-scale, all project goods and
services would be procured from existing domestic commercial sources.
Invitations to bid on the construction of the largest abattoirs would be
issued only within Honduras, since the contracts were not regarded as large
enough to attract sufficient international interest; nevertheless, contracts
for civil engineering works and equipment for these facilities would be
awarded only after at least three proposals had been obtained.
Project Benefits and Justification
2.15      Implementation of the Second Project was expected to have a
considerable impact on the livestock subsector and increase the momentum of
livestock development generated by the First Project. It would lead to
adoption of improved husbandry practices, a larger national cattle herd,
higher productivity and greater intensification of land use. Moreover, most
of these improvements would be implemented by the smaller livestock farmers
and could have significant multiplier effects. The abattoir component would
provide substantial social benefits in terms of sanitation and better disease



-5-
control, though such benefits are difficult to quantify.  Indirectly, the
project would benefit a much greater number of persons, among them those who
supply meat from the abattoirs to the major retail and consumer centers and
those who in one manner or another provide services for the direct
beneficiaries.  The pig component of the project, though small, would serve
as a catalyst for further development and could well be the forerunner of a
domestic pig industry.
2.16      The economic rates of return on the project were estimated at 18%
from on-farm investments and 24% from the abattoirs; the financial rate of
return for the typical livestock farmer was projected at between 19% and 25%
and for the municipalities at between 14% and 17%. The economic rates of
return given included benefits to the country in the form of incremental
returns to Government from taxes and fees, which at the full development
stage of the project would amount to approximately US$100,000 per annum.
Increased job opportunities would also result from the more efficient running
of some 700 farms and five abattoirs, although this was not easy to
quantify. Average annual net income of the participating farmers would
increase from less than US$500 to more than US$3,000. Total employment would
probably be the equivalent of 750 new jobs, plus the incremental manpower
requirements for the provision of supporting services.
Objectives and Targets
2.17      The principal objective of the Second Livestock Development Project
was to improve the Honduran livestock industry, with special emphasis on
production for export without prejudice to domestic consumption. The methods
of action chosen would increase not only domestic consumption of meat and
milk per head, but also the country's external trade balance, through import
substitution (in the case of milk) and higher foreign exchange revenues on
meat exports.
2.18      The incremental annual production of livestock products produced
and marketed under the project in the full development stage would include
22,100 m ton of milk, 3,850 m ton of beef (carcass weight equivalent) and 635
m ton of pork (carcass weight equivalent). In addition, the cattle breeding
farms would produce about 6,000 heifers, which would either be retained or
sold to replace cull cows in other herds. About 3,000 m ton of additional
milk would be produced for feeding to calves. The municipal abattoirs would
process the incremental production of cull cows and pigs generated by the
project, and their total annual processing capacity would be adequate to
provide sufficient processed beef and pork for the next 20 years.
2.19      The production figures given in the preceding paragraph would
represent the direct result of: (a) capital investments (pasture improvement,
subdivision of cattle ranches, provision of watering points, purchase of
breeding stock and building of stock-handling facilities); (b) efficient
utilization of inputs (fertilizers, concentrated feed, vaccines,
anti-parasite products and mineral supplements); (c) improved husbandry
methods (rotation of pasturing areas, establishment and maintenance of
pastures, registers); and (d) development of improved administrative
capacity. Indirectly, those figures would be the result of the technical
services provided by the Central Bank and the participating commercial banks.



-6-
2.20       The impact of the project on production would result from the
achievement of specific objectives in the area of productive efficiency.
Indications were that, once herds had been stabilized on the beneficiary
livestock farms, the following annual technical coefficients would apply for
all of them:
-    an annual calving rate of 75%, with a mortality rate
below 2%;
-    annual culling rate of 20% for cows on dairy farms and 15% on
breeding and fattening farms;
-    total culling rate on breeding and fattening farms would
remain stable at 22%;
-    milk production would reach 5.5 liter/cow/day on small dairy
farms and 7 liter/cow/day on medium-sized farms;
-    carrying capacity per unit of area would be one animal unit/ha
on breeding farms, 1.7 animal units/ha on dairy farms and two
animal units/ha on breeding and fattening farms.
On pig farms, the major production coefficients would stabilize at:
-    birth rate of 80%;
-    an average of two litters per sow per year and 10 piglets per
litter;
-    culling rate of 40% for sows and boars;
-    mortality rate no higher than 1% for boars, 2% for sows, 20%
for piglets up to six weeks old, 5% for piglets six to 12
weeks old and 3% for animals 12 to 34 weeks old.
-    feed conversion rate would be 4 kg of feed per kg of meat
produced.
Importance of the Project to the Sector
2.21       The Second Livestock Development Project was a continuation of the
effort begun in 1970 through the First Project to benefit small livestock
producers in Honduras by making them medium- and long-term subloans to
finance the development of their farms. Small cattle farms were not only
numerous, but supported over 50% of the national livestock population,
generally in conditions that left much to be desired. The Second Project was
important in making a reality of the country's considerable livestock
potential.
2.22       The number of livestock farms targeted under the Second Project
(730) represented approximately 1% of the total of such enterprises
throughout Honduras, while the area involved (123,000 ha) represented 11% of
national pasture lands.'/ The project's nature seemed to indicate that the
1/ According to the 1965 Agricultural Census, there were 82,520 livestock
farms, occupying a total of 1.1 million ha of pasture land.



- 7 -
multiplier effect would be significant.  Projected production was to be more
than triple that actually being achieved by participating farmers at the time
of the appraisal mission, increasing national meat and milk production by 12%
and 60% respectively.
Role of Other Donor Agencies in Livestock Development
2.23      Prior to 1973, the only international agencies to make loans for
the Honduran agriculture sector, with the exception of IDA (Credit 179-HO),
had been IDB and USAID. Beginning in 1962, IDB had granted seven loans
totaling US$35 million, of which US$15.5 million had been allocated for
agro-industries, US$7.7 million for farm settlement schemes, US$2.8 million
for upgrading farm extension services and US$4.9 million for agricultural
development (US$0.6 million earmarked for the livestock subsector); in all
these cases, the funds had been channeled through NDB. USAID had made US$9.5
million available in 1968 to finance the purchase and storage of grains,
US$2.7 million in 1970 for a study of land tenure patterns, and US$2 million
in 1971 for a grain marketing system. In addition, the United Kingdom had
made bilateral technical assistance arrangements for studies on irrigation
and land use, and Israel and other countries for farm settlement schemes.
2.24      The above figures justify the view that the IDA loans for the First
and Second Livestock Development Projects should be regarded as a more
decisive and coordinated effort to make credit and technical assistance
available to the livestock subsector.
III. PROJECT EXECUTION
Entry into Effect and Commencement of Operations
3.01      The Second Livestock Development Project (Credit 434-HO) was
declared in effect as of January 18, 1974. The time lapse between signature
of the Development Credit and Project Agreements in October 1973 and their
actual coming into effect allowed for compliance with the conditions for
effectiveness, among them the following: ratification of the loan by the
Chief of State acting in the Council of Ministers (December 1973) and
drafting and signature of project administration agreements between the
Central Bank and each of the participating banks.2/
3.02      Disbursement of Second Project funds began immediately.  Commitment
of these funds had begun in the second quarter of 1973, when the proceeds of
the First Project Credit 179-HO had been fully disbursed.
Project Amendment
3.03      At the request of the Government of the Republic of Honduras, an
Amending Agreement to Development Credit Agreement and Project Agreement No.
434-HO was signed with IDA on May 25, 1976, whereby US$1 million of the funds
previously allocated for livestock subloans was to be reallocated for the
rehabilitation and improvement of the infrastructure of banana farms located
in Districts D and E of the Isleta zone, Sonaguera, Colon Department, which
2/ During the first quarter of 1974, six participating banks signed such
agreements.



-8-
had been devastated by Hurricane Fifi.  The beneficiary of this arrangement
would be Empresa Asociativa Campesina de Isleta, which had 1,352 members; the
funds involved were to be channeled through COHBANA (Corporacion Hondurena
del Banano), with NDB acting as intermediary. The Amending Agreement was
ratified by the Chief of State acting in the Council of Ministers, through
Decree No. 352 of July 5, 1976, and on December 10 the same year IDA declared
it to have come into effect.
3.04      The resulting cut in the funds available for livestock development
led to a reduction in the number of livestock farms targeted for financing;
at the discretion of the Project Director, the original 735 were cut back to
610 (including five municipal abattoirs) and the new loans to Isletas. These
new arrangements allowed for the financing of: 10 small (30 ha) dairy farms;
168 medium-size (50 ha) dairy farms; 157 cattle breeding and fattening farms;
149 cattle breeding farms; and 30 pig farms. The channelling of funds (all
external) to the Isleta program also made it necessary to reduce total direct
on-farm investments from US$10.3 to US$9.7 million in order to offset the
reduction in the external funds originally allocated for livestock
development.
3.05      The changes resulting from the Amending Agreement also raised the
question of re-estimating the production targets and the economic and
financial rates of return projected in the original version of the project,
but because of the difficulty of the necessary calculations, it was simply
assumed that there would be a small variation.
Results of Project Execution
3.06    * Three hundred and ten subloans were approved against the proceeds
of the Second Livestock Development Project, but only 307 were actually
used.3/ The distribution being as follows: 296 subloans for the development
of cattle enterprises (including 10 expansions); 6 for pig farms; 4 for
municipal abattoirs; and 1 for the Isleta banana program. A total of 297
undertakings were financed, but 1,941 producers benefited since participants
included six farm cooperatives with a total of 303 members as well as the
Empresa Asociativa de Isleta with its 1,352 members. 4/ Tables 2 to 9
provide details on the distribution of subloans by type of farm enterprise,
size of subloan, size of farm and by beneficiary. They also give figures on:
type, average size and total area of the livestock farms financed; regional
distribution of the number of subloans granted and the total amounts
involved; and regional distribution of beneficiaries according to their
occupation and place of residence (PRC paras 1 and 2).
3.07      Final results as to the number, type and size of the farms financed
differed widely from the projections made at the time of the revised
appraisal.  Nevertheless, it is important to note that although the final
Note: * A paragraph carrying an asterisk is commented on in the PRC
(Project Report Critique); at the end of the paragraph, a specific reference
is given.
3/ One subloan was withdrawn after signature, and two (one of them for an
expansion plan) were not used by the subborrowers.
4/ Direct beneficiaries of municipal abattoirs are excluded, since no
estimation was possible.



-9-
number of farms financed (297) was only 48% of the projected number (610),
the Second Livestock Development Project brought direct benefits to a higher
number of producers and covered a 4% larger geographic area than initially
projected.
3.08      Although the original appraisal contained no specific projections
on the development of dual-purpose and fattening farms, they made up 84% of
all beneficiary farms (Table 2) and took up 63% of the total land area
affected by project execution (Table 6). In general, dual-purpose operations
predominated, reflecting the usual situation among Honduran livestock
producers. Development of breeding and fattening operations was much more
relevant, in terms of both numbers and land area involved, than that of
dairying and breeding farms, which together represented only 3% of the number
of farms financed and affected an area equivalent to 1% of the total project
area.
3.09      Project experiences are conclusive in reflecting the real structure
of the livestock subsector in Honduras, as opposed to the original appraisal,
which projected the achievement of a certain degree of specialization in the
subsector, particularly as regards milk production. Some of the major
reasons explaining this behavior are that: (a) there has never been a clear
price policy on milk within the economic context of the country-s livestock
industry, so that it has been more susceptible to the constant fluctuations
of the market; (b) a farmer engaged exclusively in milk production needs to
be highly specialized in both the technical and managerial senses, something
not normally true of the typical Honduran cattle farmer; (c) the intensive
nature of specialized milk production requires a high initial investment,
which has never been within the reach of the typical Honduran cattle farmer;
and (d) the genetic character of the Honduran cattle herd fits it basically
for meat/milk (dual-purpose) operations, with a greater tendency toward meat
production.
3.10      In nominal terms, total loan funds made available exceeded the
figure projected at appraisal by 22%, but at constant 1973 prices the
difference was not so great. Of that total, 50% went to finance dual-purpose
enterprises, which, as pointed out above, were not considered in the original
appraisal; they were followed in order of importance by breeding and
fattening enterprises and the Isletas subloan which absorbed 16% and 10%,
respectively, of the total. In neither case did actual results coincide with
the projections (Table 2).
3.11      * The average subloan by type of enterprise financed was generally
higher than the average envisaged at appraisal for each case -- except pig
farms and medium-sized abattoirs, where the average was fairly close to the
projected figure. On the other hand, the average subloan for small
abattoirs, at constant 1973 prices, was 57% lower than the projected average
for such facilities (Table 2) (PRC para 3).
3.12      Forty percent of subloans granted fell within the range US$12,500
to US$25,000 and account for 23% of the total value of the subloan
portfolio. Small subloans of less than US$12,500 made up 23% of the total
number, accounting for 6% of the subloan portfolio (Table 3).



- 10 -
3.13       With regard to subloan distribution according to size of farm,
there is a more stable situation for holdings in categories below 500 ha, in
both the number of subloans granted and the total amount per category.
However, the figures on subloans for farms covering more thin 500 ha are
quite significant, representing 20% of the total number of subloans granted
and 41% of the total financing made available.  The subloan for the Isleta
program (Table 4) had a strong bearing on these figures.
3.14       As far as concerns subloan distribution according to the size of
subloan principal, those in the US$12,500 for US$25,000 per person category
were the most frequent. Nevertheless, approximately 82% of direct
beneficiaries received an average subloan per person of less than US$9,000,
a category that covers all the agricultural cooperatives (including Isleta).
At constant 1973 prices, that percentage rises to 88%, given the transfer of
beneficiaries from the category immediately above (Table 5).
3.15       * The average size of the farm benefited was 343 ha, compared with
a projected average of 165 ha. That, however, indicates very little as to
relative size by type of enterprise or its frequency. Breeding and fattening
enterprises showed the highest average, at 922 ha, in comparison to a
projected average of 150 ha.  These were followed in order of actual average
size by fattening enterprises (554 ha) and meat/milk (dual-purpose)
enterprises (233 ha). Because of the low number of breeding enterprises
financed, there is no adequate basis for comparison with initial
projections. As was to be expected, farms used more intensively per unit of
area (with regard to both capital and manpower) are smaller on average than
those on which extensive methods of husbandry are employed. It is also
logical that 52% of farms in the latter group are located in grazing areas
where the terrain is very irregular, although, by the same token, it is
surprising that commercially scaled fattening enterprises, supposedly showing
good economic rates of return, are located in districts where the terrain is
71% rough (Table 6) (PRC para 3).
3.16      As predicted in the original appraisal, the majority of subloans
(including those for expansion plans) went to beneficiaries in the Atlantic
zone, where the Project Unit has two regional offices (San Pedro Sula and La
Ceiba), through which 74% of subloans were handled and 68% of total portfolio
funds committed. It was followed by the Central zone, with 17% of all
subloans and 22% of total funds committed, and finally by the Southern zone,
with 9% of all subloans and 10% of fund commitments (Table 7).
3.17       If each participating agricultural cooperatives is taken as a
single beneficiary, then 59% of direct beneficiaries has as their main
activity stockraising and/or agriculture. Furthermore, 64% of all project
beneficiaries lived on their farms (Tables 8 and 9).  If all members of the
agricultural cooperatives are included as individual beneficiaries, those two
figures rise to 94% and 95%, respectively, making it more evident that the
project achieved its general objective of benefiting a large number of
agricultural and livestock producers.



- 11 -
Physical Progress
3.18      The proceeds of the Second Livestock Development Project made the
following physical investments possible amongst others: establishment of
23,600 ha of new pastures and the improvement of an additional 19,400 ha;
installation of 3,200 km of new fencing and repair of some 2,600 km of
existing rences; constrution of 238 corrals for stock-handling purposes; and
purchase of 159 purebred females, 10,829 commercial standard females and 940
bulls for improvement of the breeding herd. 5/ In addition, short-term
(working capital) loans financed the purchase of approximately 32,000 steers
of fattening (Table 10-B).
3.19      The financing assigned to banana growing allowed the rehabilitation
and improvement of 2,000 ha located in districts D and E of the Isleta zone
in the Northeastern region of the country, which had been devastated by
Hurricane Fifi in 1974. This component also included the purchase of heavy
agricultural machinery.
3.20      Construction of, and provision of basic equipment for, the
municipal abattoirs made it possible to meet the demand for slaughtered
animals in four large municipal districts, three of them in the Northwestern
region of the country and one in the Central region.  The technical
specifications called for the building of simple structures equipped to
function efficiently and cheaply and to ensure adequate sanitary conditions.
In view of the projected demand for meat for human consumption in those
municipalities, the total installed capacity of the new plants make it
possible to process approximately 125,000 head of cattle and 194,000 pigs
annually.
3.21      The measures taken to develop six pig farms (20% of the total
projected) consisted of the purchase of improved stock and building of the
necessary installations. This program may very well prove to have been the
bridgehead for the introduction of more technically-oriented methods of pig
farming, as was the initial intention of the project.
Procurement
3.22      The various inputs utilized in developing the livestock operations
financed under the project were purchased through existing market channels in
Honduras. The commercial standard females, animals for fattening and
approximately 95% of the purebred animals used to upgrade the national
breeding stock were bought from domestic producers. The small percentage of
purebreds obtained from abroad, with prior approval from the Project
Director, met the current Honduran health requirements.
3.23      * Construction and equipping of the municipal abattoirs -- small,
medium or large--went ahead in accordance with the procurement regulations
established. Continuous supervision of building contractors and suppliers by
the municipalities (for small abbatoirs) and by consulting firms (for medium
and large abattoirs) ensured adherence to plans and specifications developed
from the original designs. But even so, slow progress with construction of
the Tegucigalpa facility resulted in postponement of its final completion,
while post-completion inspection of the San Pedro Sula abattoirs revealed
certain structural faults in the floor supporting the main items in the
5/ Sixty percent of the animals purchased were beef cattle.



- 12 -
slaughtering plant, in the drainage and oxidation system and in the corrals
used for reception of livestock. Building materials were purchased on the
local market on satisfactory terms, while special slaughtering and
processing equipment was obtained through international bidding procedures
(PRC para 15).
Total Project Cost and Financing
3.24      The total cost of the project and the sources of financing used are
shown in Tables 10 and 11. Excluding the financing of working capital needs
needs6/ the total recorded cost of the project in nominal terms was 21%
higher than estimated. However, in constant 1973 prices, on-farm investments
and total project cost were similar to the estimates given in the original
appraisal report. If the additional working capital is included, total
project costs were 34% higher at 1973 prices, as shown below:
PROJECT COST
(US$000 at 1973 prices)
As estimated
at appraisal      Actual
On-farm investments               9,700           9,726
Additional working capital          -             3,591
Technical services                   700            700
Total          10,400         14,017
3.25      The most obvious conclusion to be drawn from the above table is
that, although total project cost at constant prices (excluding working
capital) was similar to the appraisal estimate, total unit costs per farm
financed were higher in the majority of cases, given the actual number of
such farms (para 3.11).  Full details are given in Table 10-A.  Unit
investment cost was closely related to the average size of the farm financed.
3.26      * Percentage distribution of project components by total investment
cost compared against cost as estimated at the time of original appraisal
(excluding working capital) is as follows (PRC para 8):
6/ The original appraisal made no allowance for the additional cost of
financing working capital needs.



-13 -
PROJECT COMPONENTS BY TOTAL INVESTMENT COST
(at constant 1973 prices)
PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL        EXECUTED AS PERCENTAGE
INVESTMENT            OF ORIGINAL APPRAISAL
As estimated a/
at appraisal Actual b/
Pasture devlopment                  13            17                   131
Fencing                              9             9                   100
Water supply                        12            10                    83
Structures                           9            15                   177
Machinery and equipment             21            13                    62
Purchase of animals                 26            27                   104
Other and technical services        10             9                    90
Total   100%          100%                  100%
a/ For 610 enterprises.
bI/ Including working capital and technical services, 1973 prices.
3.27       * The largest variations from the appraisal estimates were the
virtual doubling of the percentage for structures (buildings and
installations) and, though to a lesser degree, that for pasture development.
This result is a consequence of many of the factors enumerated already. Once
again, it should be noted that although fewer enterprises received financing
than had been projected, those which did occupied a total area slightly
larger than that identified in the original appraisal as being distributed
among 610 enterprises (para 3.07). In addition, the types of livestock
enterprises which absorbed most financing (meat/milk and fattening) did not
coincide with the type expected (para 3.08). It can be inferred that the
larger the average size of a farm, the larger the investment in pasture
development, as the majority of enterprises financed were initially deficient
in this regard. In addition, meat/milk, breeding/fattening and fattening
enterprises, which together absorbed approximately 68% of the total project
investment, required larger investments in pasture development and in
buildings and installations; with regard to the latter, the figures on
construction of sheds and stables, corrals and spray-races, and housing for
managers and workers are significant (Table 10-B) (PRC para 8).
3.28       * The fact that the investment in machinery and equipment was 33%
lower than originally estimated is very probably explained by the
topographical features of the terrain in the project zone (para 3.15).  The
investment in tractors was low, and most of the forage equipment financed was
of the stationary type (PRC para 8).
3.29       * It is considered important to mention that many of the partial
amounts given in the original appraisal report for the various components
financed can be regarded as somewhat conservative, and therefore as having
been one factor--in addition to the others already discussed --in the degree
of variation noted (PRC para 8).



- 14 -
3.30      Regarding the sources of project financing, the IDA contribution
fell from the 64% proportion of the total given in the original appraisal to
53%, owing to the increase in the nominal cost of the undertaking.  The
Central Bank of Honduras increased its participation from 6% to 16%
(excluding its loans for working capital), which offset that difference.
Contributions from sub-borrowers and participating banks were maintained at
the levels projected in the original appraisal (Table 11). The following
summary table compares the percentage participations by the various sources
of financing:
PERCENTAGE DISTRIBUTION: SOURCES OF FINANCING AND TOTAL INVESTMENT IN THE
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(at current prices)
Participating Central
Sub-borrowers       banks        Bank  IDA  Total c/
As estimated at a/ appraisal        16              14           6    64    100%
Actual b/                           17              14          16    53    100%
a/ 610 enterprises. b/ 297 enterprises. c/ Working capital funds not
included.
Schedules of Delays
3.31      Disbursement of the proceeds of Credit 434-HO was somewhat slower
than projected at the time of the original appraisal, as may be seen from
Table 12. Although the individual time differences observed were not of
great significance, the final disbursement date had to be postponed for six
months, from June 30, 1979 (the date projected at appraisal) to December 31
of the same year. Commitment of Second Project funds, however, had begun in
mid 1973 (para 3.02), and the short delays in subsequent disbursement can be
ascribed for the most part to: (a) promulgation of the new Agrarian Reform
Law in December 1974; (b) the delay in completion of construction works on
the Tegucigalpa municipal abattoir; and (c) the major cause, the delay
occasioned by the formalities for the transfer of funds to the Isleta
program (rehabilitation of banana farms in the Atlantic coastal zone), and
their subsequent disbursement.
3.32       Some small part of the delay can also be traced to the procedure by
which the Central Bank requested reimbursement from IDA, although direct
disbursements to sub-borrowers had been made before the dates listed in Table
12. Furthermore, in late 1974, only six banking institutions were
participating in the project; the fact that five other banks joined in
later--among them NDB, the Central Bank itself and Banco Sogerin--was
decisive for the disbursement process, a subject that is discussed further
on.
3.33      * The New Agrarian Reform Law:  Promulgation of the new Agrarian
Reform Law (Decree Law No.170) in December 1974 led the banks to make a
considerable cut-back in the acceptance of new loan business, a reaction that
had been expected following the issue of Decree No. 8 sometime earlier. The



- 15 -
majority of the participating banks refused to go on granting financing
secured on rural mortgages until they were given guarantees (in a form more
attractive than agrarian debt bonds) against the risk of loss of their
investment should expropriation occur.  In order to rectify the problem, the
Board of Directors of the Central Bank of Honduras passed a resolution on
October 20, 1976, whereby the liquidity of the banks would be assured by the
Central Bank acquiring, with the resources of its Securities Fund, all
agrarian bonds received by the participating banks in settlement of subloans
granted within the context of the IDA Credit Agreement, whenever the bonds
had been received in payment of mortgages on land and/or improvements
expropriated under the new legislation, on condition that such expropriation
could be proved. There is no doubt that this move persuaded the private
banks to participate once again in the Second Livestock Development Project,
judging by the figures given in Table 12 on the year-by-year distribution of
investments (PRC paras 38 and 46).
3.34 * Construction of the Tegucigalpa Municipal Abattoir: By virtue,
first, of the procedures stipulated for the construction and equipping of
municipal abattoirs, and, second, of the fact that this was the only
large-scale facility of its type financed from the proceeds of Credit 434-Ho,
this project component did not get under way until late in 1978, after a long
process initiated in 1976 with the approval of the financing plan by the
Central Bank and followed in 1977 by approval from the World Bank for the
feasibility study. The final step in the preliminary train of events was the
issue of invitations to bid, in early 1978. Since the necessary construction
and equipping works were scheduled to last 10 months, they went beyond the
original limit date set for the conclusion of project disbursements, namely,
June 30, 1979 (PRC para 15 through 23).
3.35     Disbursements for the Isleta Program: Similarly, funds reallocated
for rehabilitations of the banana plantation run by the Empresa Asociativa
Campesina de Isleta were not fully disbursed until late in 1979, but solely
because the internal organizational problems affecting the Empresa made it
necessary to postpone signature of the subloan contract with NDB and
COHBANA. Although all the legal requirements stipulated in the Amending
Agreement under which funds were assigned to Isleta had been completed as
early as mid-1977, signature of the subloan contract did not take place until
November 1979.
3.36      As may be seen in Table 12-A, project execution--as evidenced by
the number of investment plans launched each year from 1974 onward, and by
the investment subtotals for each year--did not follow the pattern
expected in the original appraisal. This was undoubtedly a direct result of
the negative effect of the new agrarian reform legislation and, to a lesser
extent, of the fact that certain important banking institutions were slow to
begin their participation. However, it will also be seen from the table that
the appraisal estimates were exceeded in all respects in 1974.
Special Conditions
3.37      The special conditions embodied in the Development Credit and
Project Agreements were in the form of undertakings, assurance and specific
procedures affecting project administration and management and the granting



- 16 -
of subloans which governed all entities participating in execution of the
project (para 2.08).  The institutions involved complied satisfactorily, with
none failing to abide by the special conditions stipulated.
Agreement between the Central Bank of Honduras and CATIE
3.38       Since the Agreements entered into with IDA called for the services
of livestock specialists who would strengthen the capability of project
personnel to provide both farmers and the livestock technicians engaged by
the participating banks with the necessary technical assistance, the Central
Bank of Honduras in 1976 signed an agreement with CATIE (Centro Agronomico
Tropical de Investigacion y Ensenanza --Center for Research and Teaching in
Tropical Agriculture), a body with headquarters in Costa Rica.  Under the
terms of this agreement, CATIE was to assign three specialists to the project:
for a two-year period, one each in the fields of animal production, fodder
production and management of agricultural enterprises. The three were to
work at the headquarters of the Project Director, who was to,assign Honduran
counterparts to each of them and to provide the resulting work team with the
means and resources to carry out its appointed function in the proper manner.
3.39      This technical group began its work in March 1977 with the arrival
of two of the specialists, the third taking up his duties in October the same
year.  It set up headquarters at the regional office of the Project Unit in
San Pedro Sula, concentrating its efforts in the northwestern and
northeastern sections of the country. Of approximately 180 livestock farmers
who made use of the project credit facilities irn 1977, the group visited and
subsequently monitored the farms run by 54, which together accounted for
5,481 ha of pasture and 6,830 head of livestock. A preliminary
reconnaissance study showed the most widespread problems to be improper
feeding, herd management, animal health, genetic factors and administration.
3.40      The results achieved by the technical group over the period
1977-1979 were summarized in a final report dated May 1979, from which the
following facts were taken:
(a) Technical assistance and training on the farms selected was
designed to introduce 18 tecniques affecting feeding, herd
management and administration;
(b) Adoption of these techniques resulted in a significant
improvement in reproductive performance, the calving rate
rising from 63% to 75% on farms where assistance was provided
over an 18-month period and from 64% to 67% where it was
provided over six months. Milk production increased from 3.8
to 4.9 liter/cow/day and from 3.7 to 3.9 liter/cow/day,
respectively, on the two groups of farms;
(c) Special attention was paid to the direct instruction and
continuous training of five local counterparts attached to thLe
Central Bank of Honduras.  Most of the instruction and
training for professionals in the livestock and private
banking sectors and for the beneficiaries of the project
credit facilities was provided through meetings, field days,



- 17 -
courses and mini-courses, about 500 persons being reached in
this way; and
(d)  In addition to its teaching and training work in the livestock
sector, the technical group put out 21 livestock bulletins, 12
press articles and 13 special documents.
3.41      To date, the results flowing from this technical services compone-.
have been satisfactory and of considerable benefit to both the Project Unit
and the farmers contacted. The Honduran counterpart personnel have developed
sufficient capacity and skill to be able to continue these activities alone,
and could well be posted to other regions of the country. In this regard,
present consulting personnel should be kept on and training of new
counterpart personnel arranged.
3.42      Since the technical assistance component introduced as part of the
Second Livestock Development Project has been in effect only a short time, it
is not yet practicable to evaluate it from the cost/benefit standpoint as a
means of assessing its economic and productive impact on the farms where
assistance was provided. Furthermore, since these services were made
available exclusively on farms benefiting from project funds, it would
be difficult to distinguish the incremental costs and benefits attributable
to the investment financed from those attributable to the assistance
provided.
Investment in Isleta
3.43      As indicated already (para 3.35), disbursement of the US$1 million
allocated to the Isleta program took place only a few days prior to the
closing date of the Second Livestock Development Program. The investments in
question, made in accordance with the technical documentation incorporated
into the Amending Agreement dated May 5, 1976, to the Development Credit and
Project Agreements (Credit 434-HO), were as follows:
ISLETA INVESTMENT PLAN
(US$-000)
Category                           Amount
Water supply                                372.3
Construction and installations              216.0
Machinery and equipment                     411.7
Total         1,000.0
3.44      A financial analysis of the Isleta production project conducted a
short time ago showed that, although the production targets projected in the
original study for the program are being achieved, the financial rate of
return for recent fiscal years has been low. Both marketing and operating
costs--and specifically, overheads and administration expenses--have
increased considerably in the last few years and show a tendency to continue
doing so. The Empresa Asociativa has even had serious difficulty servicing
its earlier loans.



- 18 -
3.45       Such unexpected financial results suggest the need for a full-scale
external audit accompanied by an in-depth socio-economic study of the
possible causes are to be ascertained, but the firm opposition of the member
farmers has, so far, prevented this.  The apparent managerial irregularities
in the Empresa, and particularly the recent social and political disturbances
at its headquarters attributable to antagonism among the factions into which
its members are grouped, have led the Government of the Republic to intervene
in its administration until the situation returns to normal and there can be
a restructuring of what should have been, from the outset, a campesino
organization run fully along the lines of participatory management. Under
the circumstances, it is unwise to continue risking the proceeds of
agricultural borrowing arrangements such as those destined under the First
Agricultural Credit Agreement (628-HO).
IV. IMPACT OF THE PROJECT
4.01       * The contents of this chapter are based on a fairly representative!
survey of dual-purpose (dairying and breeding) farms conducted by the Project
Unit in late 1979. The sample consisted of 72 farms that had taken part in
the project, representing approximately 33% of all farms of that type and 252
of all beneficiary livestock enterprises. The questionnaire used covered
both production and financial variables for each farm at the time the survey
was carried out, while earlier project data were obtained from Project Unit
files. The figures used in evaluating the project impact relate, for the
most part, to farms associated with the project for periods of three or more
years. Although the validity of the indexes obtained in this manner may be
questioned on grounds that experience so far in project follow-up and
evaluation has been limited owing to the difficulty of gathering more
accurate field data, they are the only reliable indication available as
things now stand and have, therefore, been used in drawing up the report
given here (PRC para 24).
4.02       The analysis and evaluation procedure was geared primarily toward
identifying two different representative dual-purpose farms, one in the
Atlantic zone to serve as a model for such farms financed in the northeastern
and northwestern regions, and another in the Central-South zone to serve as a
model dual-purpose farm for the rest of the country. The existence of
specific inter-regional differentials with regard to climate and soil types
and overall availability of production resources preclude generalization from
one model designed to represent the entire country.
4.03       It was not feasible to draw comparisons between project performance
and the projections embodied in the original appraisal, since farms of the
dual-pupose type were not envisaged at that stage (para 3.08). The report
given here is therefore limited to a discussion of the major indicators of
on-farm project impact for each of the representative models serving as the
basis for the evaluation.  The indicators are summarized in Table 13.
Production Capacity
4.04       As may be seen from Table 13, the average size of the dual-purpose
farm in the Central-South zone is 28% larger than its counterpart in the
Atlantic zone.  Nevertheless, although the increase in area under pasture was



- 19 -
greater in relative terms in the Central-South zone, improved pasture
development was greater in relative percentage terms in the Atlantic Zone.
Consequently, and since the total initial investment in livestock was
apparently similar in the two zones (Tables 14 and 15), the average total
initial investment per farm (at current prices) was 23% higher in the
Atlantic zone. Furthermore, the better environmental conditions and the
greater -vailability of production resources in the Atlantic zone explain, to
a large extent, the relatively greater increases in herd size and number of
breeding cows.
Income-generating Capacity
4.05      On average, relative increases in post-development are 100% for
gross income and 240% for net (Table 13). As was to be expected of farms of
this type, a high percentage of gross income (an average 60%) comes from the
sale of milk (Tables 16 and 17). The emphasis among Honduran livestock
farmers on the simultaneous production of milk and meat is not only a result
of the type and quality of their animals, which adapt with ease to the
prevailing environmental conditions, but also in part to their need to assure
themselves of a regular cash flow from which to meet their daily working
capital requirements.
Coefficients of Productivity
4.06      The majority of post-development productivity coefficients are more
than satisfactory (Table 13). Despite the questionable realiability of the
data on the pre-development situation of each subproject, such coefficients
as the calving and milk-productivity rates per cow appear to show significant
increases. Results from the Central-South zone are of greater relevance,
especially as regards the increase in the calving rate and the size of the
milk-productivity index, both before and after Year 4 of the project. The
latter of the two seem to be explained by the nutritive qualities of the
pasture there, since, in the Atlantic zone, there is more grazing available,
given the more evenly distributed rainfall. Mature animal mortality and
extraction rates tend to be stable at 2% and 19%, respectively, for the
country as a whole.
Incremental Production
4.07      As a group, the dual-purpose farms (218) financed under the Second
Livestock Development Project will probably produce an additional 2,900 m ton
liveweight a year and 9,800 m ton of milk, as may be seen from the following
figures:



- 20 -
DUAL-PURPOSE FARMS: INCREMENTAL MEAT AND MILK PRODUCTION
(m ton)
Atlantic Zone a/ Central-South Zone b/ Total
Incremental production
liveweight                           2,146                746              2,892
Incremental production of milk         6,296              3,508              9,804
a/ 162 farms                                      b/  56 farms
4.08      Although there is little likelihood of being able to draw
comparisons with the original project goals recapitulated in paragraph 2.18,
which are projections of different on-farm development plans, it can
nevertheless be said that the total anticipated increase in both meat and
milk production is highly satisfactory in proportion to the small number and
the type of farms focused on in this analysis. These levels come up to
approximately 40% of the levels projected in the original appraisal. The
additional milk produced for use in feeding calves may in fact reach the
appraisal figures, since meat/milk farmer almost invariably reserve a certain
proportion of milk to be left in the udders for that purpose. On that
assumption, the volume of milk obtained per cow would be higher than
indicated in the evaluation being given here.
Attribution
4.09      It is impossible to quantify that proportion of incremental meat
and milk production which would have occured on the participating farms if
there had, in fact, been no project.  However, the slow growth in the
production of both commodities on a national scale (about 4% annually for
both) indicates that the growth achieved on the project farms (approximately
10% annually for both) can be attributed to a great extent to the project.
In the absence of reliable information to be used as a basis for comparison,
it is reasonable to conclude that the elements of production financed through
the project-- pastures, water supply, buildings and facilities for stock
handling, improved animals and technical assistance-- placed beneficiary
farmers in a position to take advantage of circumstances that favored meat
and milk production.
Transfer of Assets
4.10      Approximately 26% of on-farm assets consists of commercial-grade
animals (Table 10-B), which would undoubtedly have produced and milk without
the project, probably at the average productivity level of the country as a
whole. But, as pointed out in the preceding paragraph, the absence of
reliable figures on national productivity makes it impossible to quantify
that proportion of anticipated incremental production (para 4.07) of both
meat and milk which would have been obtained without the impact of the
project.



-21 -
Employment
4.11       * Although no quantitative information is available, it seems
probable that at the full development stage the project would easily generate
some 200 additional permanent jobs on dual-purpose farms, given the
substantial increase in the head of cattle and the greater emphasis on
dairying, which is more labor-intensive. It is quite likely that the project
would also generate employment on the other types of farms financed and in
the activities that would support the expected incremental
production--namely, transportation, marketing, processing and distribution
(PRC para 32).
V.    FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RATES OF RETURN
5.01       At constant prices, the financial rate of return for the typical
dual-purpose farm in the Atlantic zone has been estimated at 13%, and for its
counterpart in the Central-South zone at 20% (Tables 18 and 19). Although no
sensitivity analyses were made, that rate would be very much subject to
changes in productivity levels and therefore to changes in gross income from
sales of meat and milk, the only farm products marketed.
5.02       The rate of return on the farmer's own capital investment was
estimated at approximately 20% for the typical farmer in the Atlantic region
and at 34% for his counterpart in the Central-South region. Those figures
cover not only the return on the investment itself, but also the advantage
the farmer draws from being able to finance a substantial part of that
investment through long-term loans at an extremely low real interest rate of
3% (Tables 18 and 19).
5.03       The economic rate of return on the project as a whole has been
assessed at 12% (Table 23). In arriving at that figure, since it was
difficult to obtain accurate information, the following assumptions were
used:
(a) gross incremental income from meat sales was increased by 10%
at current prices to adjust it to economic efficiency
prices;7! milk was regarded as a non-commercial product;
(b) since the major part of production is sold directly by the
farmer as non-pasteurized whole milk; the farm-gate price was
therefore used in both the financial and economic analyses;
(c) the economic cost of technical services was taken as the total
cost of operating the Project Unit for purposes of the Second
Livestock Development Project;
(d) incremental taxation on volume of sales was treated as an
economic benefit for the project; and
7/ Given the confidentiality of information, it was impossible to derive
farm-gate economic prices from the f.o.b. meat export price with
adjustments for processing, marketing and transportation.



- 22 -
(e) given the difficulty of establishing national productivity
figures, the opportunity cost of the production assets
transferred to the project from non-participating farms was
not taken into account.
5.04      It should also be noted that the incremental economic benefits
obtained from the dual-purpose farms assisted prior to 1976 (82 in the
Atlantic zone and 36 in the Central-South zone) were not included, as the
production and economic averages obtained from the evaluation survey
conducted in late 1979 were only for farms assisted 1976 onward. It is
apparent, therefore, given the nature of the assumptions enumerated in the
preceding paragraph, that the economic rate of return on the project is very
much underestimated.
VI. INSTITUTIONAL OUTPUT AND DEVELOPMENT
Organization and Management
6.01      The same organization and administrative entities used for the
First Livestock Development Project (179-HO) remained in use for the Second.
The Central Bank continued to act as the highest authority and administering
agency for the project. Coordinating and supervisory authority remained with
the Project Commission; this body, initially composed of representative of
Government, the participating banks and the farming and livestock
entrepreneur sector, was restructured--under Governmental Decree No.494-A of
December 16, 1976, shortly after the transfer of funds to the Isleta
program-- to include representatives of COHBANA and the existing campesino
organizations (FECORAR, ANACH and UNC). Despite its By-Laws, the Commission
has not always met with the expected frequency, and in most cases members
were not present in adequate numbers and were not of sufficient seniority
within the organizations they represented.
6.02      The quality of project management--in the hands of a Project
Director appointed by the Central Bank--and on-farm technical assistance was
good. In this regard, the experience gained earlier from the First Project
was so invaluable, that by late 1974 the obvious success with the process of
committing Second Project funds made it feasible to plan on launching
preparatory studies for a third project by mid 1975; in September of that
year, the Government of Honduras submitted a credit application to IDA for
that purpose.
6.03      Second Project funds were committed at all times in accordance with
the lending procedures agreed upon, whether as subloans to livestock farmers
or for municipal abattoirs or in the transfer of funds to Isleta.
Personnel and Training
6.04      At the beginning of 1974, the Project Unit already had three
regional offices (Tegucigalpa, San Pedro Sula and La Ceiba) and an integratedl
project team with 11 members, six of whom were technicians assigned by the
participating banks and five by the Central Bank. By the time the First
Agricultural Credit Project (628-HO) came into effect in December 1976,



- 23 -
Project Unit staff had grown to 20 individuals, 12 of whom were assigned by
the pariticpating banks, while another four acted as assistants to the
Project Director. As a result of its increased volume of operations, by late
1977 the Project Unit had a fourth regional office, at Choluteca, and an
integrated staff team of 37,20 of them technicians assigned by the
participating banks, six technical assistants to the Project Director
and six other technical personnel (advisers and their counterparts) brought
in under the CATIE/Central Bank Agreement.
6.05      As will be seen from the following table, training of technical
personnel was a continuing activity within the Project Unit over the period
1974-77.8/ Priority was given for those courses, whether national or
international, which offered the training prospects most likely to directly
to benefit the Unit:
TRAINING ACTIVITIES UNDER THE SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
No. of
Parti-
Year    Type   cipants  Duration         Topic         Country       Organizer
1974  Seminar    10       2 days    Dairy and beef   Honduras        EXPICA '74
cattle
1974  Seminar    10       11 days   Pasture-fodder   Honduras        IICA
1974  Course       1      2 months  Project prepa-   U. S.           EDI/IBRD
ration and
appraisal
1975  Seminar      4      2 days    Livestock          Costa Rica   EXPICA  75
1975  Course       2      8 weeks   Pasture-fodder   Mexico          BAMEX
1976  Course       3      10 weeks  Project prepa-
ration and
appraisal
1976  Seminar      2      1 week    Pig breeding       Costa Rica   UCR/CIAT
1976  Seminar      2      1 week    Livestock          Mexico        BAMEX
management
1976  Course       1      2 months  Project prepa-   U. S.           EDI/IBRD
ration and
appraisal
1977  Course       1      6 weeks   Animal
Productivity      Costa Rica   CATIE/IICA
Role of the Participating Banks
6.06      * A total of eleven banks (two state and nine private) participated
in the Second Project. In late 1974, only six banks (all private) had become
involved, but they had already committed 29% of total loan funds, the number
of subloans then granted representing 36% of the final total.  In 1975, two
state banks and one more private bank9/ joined in; their participation was
of fundamental importance in implementing the project, since together they
8/  Training activities under the CATIE/Central Bank Agreement were detailed
in paragraph 3.40.
9/  The Central Bank of Honduras, which made all subloans for municipal
abattoirs, National Development Bank (NDB) and Banco Sogerin (initially
known as Banco Hipotecario).



- 24 -
committed 47% of the portfolio and 36% of the total number of subloans
finally granted (PRC para 41).
DISTRIBUTION OF SUBLOANS, BY PARTICIPATING BANK
Average Amount
Subloans            Total Amount         per Subloan
No.       %        US$ 000        %            US$
Atlantida             13          4         353.5         4          27.2
Ahorro Hondureno      44         14         857.0         9          19.5
Bancahsa              55         18       1,367.3        14          24.9
Occidente             34         11         931.7        10          27.4
Financiera            22          7         493.6         5          22.4
Honduras              23 a/       8         956.7         9          41.6
Fomento (NDB)         68         22       2,198.2        23          17.9 b/
Sogerin               40         13       1,006.0        10          25.2
Comercio               2          1          60.2         1          30.1
Continental            2          1         113.4         1          56.7
Central Bank c/        4          1       1,397.5        14            -
307 d/    100       9,735.1       100
a/ Includes 4 subloans sold to Banco de Comercio and 11 to Banco Sogerin.
b/ Excluding the Isleta subloan (US$1 million)
c/ Granted subloans for municipal abattoirs only.
d/ Includes increases made in 10 loans.
6.07      As shown by the foregoing table, NDB was the most active financial
intermediary; besides granting a one million dollar loan to Isleta, it
concentrated on the granting of small subloans.  In order of importance
Bancahsa, Banco Sogerin, Banco de Occidente, Banco de Honduras and Banco del
Ahorro Hondureno played significant parts in the implementation of the Second
Livestock Development Project.
6.08      Nevertheless, the participating banks could have been more active,
considering the number of loan applications received and, more especially,
the number of studies approved by the Project Unit.10/ In percentage terms,
the number of applications examined and for which studies were then approved
represented 72% of the total submitted, while 83% of all studies approved by
the Project Unit led to formal financing agreements.  Inadequate mortgage
collateral and problems of land tenure were the major reasons why
applications with approved studies were rejected; to a lesser degree,
refusals were occasioned by doubtful financial feasibility or the fact that
some participating banks failed to recruit sufficient technical field
personnel or used slow, cumbersome procedures for handling loan applications
(very true of NDB). Many of these difficulties were mitigated considerably
during subsequent phases of the Agricultural Credit Project.
6.09      * As is apparent from the accompanying table of subloan repayment
figures, arrears of interest are a serious problem for most banks, accounting
on average for 58% of total arrears. Except for Banco Continental, Banco del
Comercio and Banco de Occidente, all banks have arrears of principal beyond
the six-month mark, the most serious cases being Banco de Honduras and
10/ Of a total of 517 applications lodged, 62 were rejected, 63 were
withdrawn and 22 remained pending. Of 370 studies approved by the
Project Unit, 48 were rejected or held pending by the participating
banks (NDB particularly) and 15 were withdrawn by the sub-borrowers.



- 25 -
Bancahsa with 73% and 40%, respectively, of installments over one year in
arrears and Banco del Ahorro Hondureno with 64% of installments over two
years in arrears. Generally speaking, the arrears problem affecting some
banks seems to be the result of their inadequate accounting procedures and
poor collection methods, while in other cases on-farm technical problems
appear to be the underlying cause. However, it was not possible to pinpoint
which banks and in which zone specific cases of these types arose (PRC
para 44).
ARREARS OWING TO BANKS PARTICIPATING IN THE
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT a/
(US$ 000 as of December 31, 1979)
Arrears
Total                                                      as % of
Principal                                   Arrears          Out-
Out-      Less than  6-12   1-2  Over 2    of         Total  standing
Banks    standing  6 months  months years years  Interest Arrears Balance
Atlantida       229.1      5.0       8.8    -      -      18.2    32.0       14%
Bancahorro      584.9    19.2      10.5   2.9   4.5       20.8    57.9       10%
Bancahsa      1,133.8    26.7       5.9   0.9    -        50.9    84.4        7%
Occidente       621.3      2.0       -      -     -       38.5    40.5        7%
Financiera      269.6    10.3      15.1    -       -      26.5    51.9       19%
Honduras        205.2    14.5       0.8   7.1    -         8.1    30.5       15%
NDB           1,906.7      9.1     21.3    -      -       61.1    91.5        5%
Sogerin       1,148.4    24.6       6.0    -      -       41.1    71.7        6%
Comercio        176.0      2.9       -      -     -        5.8      8.7       5%
Continental    155.1        -        -      -     -        5.1      5.1       3%
Source: Audit Reports as of December 31, 1979, Superintendency of Banks,
Central Bank of Honduras.
a/ Includes working capital.
Information, Accounting and Audit
6.10      Project information, accounting and audit mechanisms have proved
satisfactory. As stipulated in the Credit Agreement, the Project Director
has furnished quarterly and annual reports on progress with the
implementation process. Also, the Central Bank and the participating banks
have each maintained separate project accounts, which were recently broken
down into sub-accounts reflecting specific operations preceding (179-HO) the
Second Livestock Development Project and subsequent to it (628-HO,
1005-HO/1833-HO). Over the very short term, that procedure has had a notably
favorable effect on Project Unit management, reflected in its control,
supervision and evaluation systems. The Superintendency of Banks within the
Central Bank, which has an audit function and operates independently,
examines the accounts and sub-accounts of the Project Unit and the financial
intermediaries annually.



- 26 -
Follow-up and Evaluation
6.11      Although one of the major activities of the Project Unit has been
the follow-up and evaluation of projects, its limited experience of systems
of this type has meant that it was not always in a position to generate the
kind of continuous, reliable and sufficiently useful information needed for
measurement of the effects and impact of a project precisely when needed.  So
far, its follow-up procedures have consisted of monitoring execution of the
investment process by subloan beneficiaries and in supervising the
modifications in farm management that will guarantee achievement of the
production goals established in the particular project study documentation.
Its evaluation procedures have consisted of the annual verification of
performance as revealed by livestock inventory, production rates, sale of
products and operating income and expenditure.  The periodic evaluations
obtained up till now have clearly shown on-farm achievements.  For example, a
late 1977 evaluation study of farms with an average of two and a half years
in the project, which drew comparisons with their pre-development situation,
gave the following: a 38% increase in livestock inventory; and 11% increase
in calving rates; a 56% increase in revenue from sale of livestock and milk
products; and a 10% reduction in the mortality rate. It is the aim of this
Project Completion Report to summarize in chronological detail the average
production performance on the dual-purpose farms financed from the proceeds
of the Second Livestock Development Project, using as reference framework the
pre-project Appraisal Report and the 1979 survey taken in year 4 of the
development phase.
6.12      Because the World Bank wishes to see its borrowers develop a
greater capacity to set up effective systems for the follow-up and evaluation
of agricultural projects, the Project Unit has arranged access to experience
gained in this field in other Latin American countries, first through a
seminar on Project Monitoring and Evaluation held in Costa Rica in late 1979
under the sponsorship of the World Bank and subsequently through a two-week
contract with a recognized international expert on the subject, whose
contribution has proved most valuable. As a result, the Project Unit
Director has decided, not only to include a section specializing in follow-up
and evaluation in its operational structure, but also to lay the foundations
for a full-scale data collection and analysis system.
Financial Return on the Project Unit
6.13      Given the organizational demands made on the Project Unit and its
accompanying institutional growth, its administrative expenditures grew year
by year under the Second Livestock Development Project. However, the success
achieved in mobilizing Credit proceeds have meant that the Unit has been
showing a favorable financial return.  In time, administration costs will
probably stabilize at relatively low levels, and, to the extent the Unit is
able to mobilize the proceeds of subloan repayments, its financial position
will improve. The following table provides details of the financial record
of the Unit under the Second Livestock Development Project over the period
1973-79:



- 27 -
FINANCIAL CASH FLOW ON THE AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT UNIT
UNDER THE SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
(US$ 000)
1973    1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979
Financial Revenue: a/
(a)  Direct                 -     10.5    68.1   123.3   186.6   213.9   251.2
(b)  Subloan repayments   -        -        -        -        1.4    10.3    12.9
Expenditure
(a)  Financial b/           -      4.1    27.6    51.7    70.1    89.6   105.8
(b)  Administrative c/  13.2    40.4    71.6    87.7   143.6    90.9   121.5
B A L A N C E    (13.2)  (34.0)  (31.1)  (16.1)  (25.7)   43.7    36.8
Source:  Credit and Securities Department, Central Bank of Honduras.
a/ Interest earned.
b/ Interest paid to the Government.
c| Expenditure on personnel, offices, furniture and fittings, equipment, etc.
6.14      In nominal terms, Project Unit administrative expenses are
equivalent to 6% of the Second Livestock Development Project subloan
portfolio, an acceptable level in keeping with the nature of the project.
VII. SPECIAL QUESTIONS
Substitution and Diversion
7.01      Since the funds channeled through the Central Bank's Agricultural
Credit Project, which include the proceeds of the Second Livestock
Development Project, constitute the only line of long-term credit available
in Honduras for the production of meat and milk, it is unlikely that they
have substituted other funding available for investment in livestock
activities.
7.02      The careful supervision, referred to in paragraph 6.11, of the
farms which benefited under the Second Livestock Development Project
guaranteed that Credit proceeds were actually put into the material
investments envisaged in the project studies and not diverted for other
purposes. Project execution arrangements were so organized that any
unapproved use of funds at farm level was likely to result in cancellation of
the particular subloan contract.
Interest Rates
7.03      Sub-borrowers were charged a nominal interest rate of 9%, but since
the project was implemented during a period of inflation (5% to 8% between
1973 and 1978), the real rate paid by those who joined in the initial years
will prove substantially lower. For instance, on a subloan taken out in
1976, assuming an 8% annual inflation rate, the real interest rate would be



- 28 -
approximately 3% (Tables 18 and 19).  Given the present upward trend in
prices, the real interest rate paid by Second Project sub-borrowers will
probably come out at zero or below, with consequent adverse effects on the
national economy as a whole in the form of subsidies implying a high social
cost.
VIII. ROLE OF THE WORLD BANK
8.01      The role played by the World Bank throughout the execution of this
project was highly satisfactory. Without doubt, the experience gained and
success achieved with the First Livestock Development Project made it
possible to refine coordinatory mechanisms by adhering to a supervision
schedule which ensured greater frequency of visits, greater time
availability, continuity of supervisory personnel and ample opportunity for
staff to perform the duties specified in their terms of reference.  Relations
among Bank, Government and Project Unit personnel were cordial at all times,
and the Bank acted supportively and flexibly in solving operational problems
as they arose.
8.02      The only criticism, which has already been made in earlier chapters
of this report, concerns the design of the project as appraised and approved
by the World Bank. The farm models used were not fully representative of the
realities of life in Honduras either as to type or size of the farms to be
financed, while the number of farms targeted for assistance was too
optimistic. The most serious design errors were perhaps:
(a) to believe, on the basis of the technical and economic
reasoning followed, that livestock farmers could be
induced to specialize; and
(b)   to attempt, without prior analysis of the situation, to
benefit the majority group of small- and medium-scale
livestock producers.
This experience has shown that, given the economic and social environment in
which the typical Honduran livestock farmer lives and works, the usual thing
is for him to use his production resources to run a mixed meat/milk
operation, which exposes him to fewer production and economic risks (para
3.09).
IX. CONCLUSIONS
9.01      Although the results, benefits and impact of the project were
markedly different from what had been anticipated at the time of the original
appraisal, the most reliable evaluation methods available show that the
financial and economic impact of the project was satisfactory and that a
considerable increment in production was achieved.
9.02      Despite the fact that this Project Report has been drawn up at an
early stage, it may be stated that when the project has reached its
full-development phase (in 1987, approximately) the largest group of farms
financed, namely, those classified as dual purpose, should show an annual
production increment of 2,900 m ton of meat on the hoof and 9,800 m ton of
milk.



- 29 -
9.03      As regards rates of return and degree of institution building,each
and every entity involved in the project, from the identification to the
execution stages, performed satisfactorily, while full use was made of
previously established administrative mechanisms in channeling the proceeds
of the Credit. The Project Unit, in the persons of the Director and his
staff, gave proof of considerable technical capacity and ability in the
management of Credit proceeds. In fact, the overall success of the Second
Project resulted in the approval, in 1976 and 1980, of two new development
projects.
9.04      One major achievement was the decisive participation by the Drivate
banking system in the channeling of subloan funds to the direct benefijaries
of the project, an element of success regarded as attributable to a
well-designed incentives package offering acceptable interest margins and a
reduced degree of risk and to the flexibility and thoroughness with which
subloan applications were processed.
9.05      Finally, this project demonstrated clearly that, although
structural design faults may be inevitable in projects of this nature, an
essential element in achieving the objectives set is the flexibility used in
ensuring the spread and final use of funds. This realization was of value in
designing and executing subsequent ventures, namely, the First Agricultural
Credit Project (628-HO) and the Second Agricultural Credit Project
(1005-HO/1833-HO).






IIONUURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPi'IENT PROJECT ( CR- 434 -1iO)
COMPUE'TION REPORT
COMPOSITION OF CROSS INUIRNAL PRODUCT AT MARKET PRICES
(Millions of 1966 Lempiras)
1973      1974      1975      1976      1977       1978      1979      19801.
1. Agriculture, forestry, fish & gsame          466       417        378       416       448       469        505       491
2. Mining                                        34         45        33        28        27         28        29        30
3. 1Zatnufacturing                              192        190       195       215       236       260        281       297
4. Conbtruction                                  46         51        52        54        57        63         68        66
5. Electricity, gas  and water supply            15         14        17        18        19         20        21        22
6. Tranisport, storage and communication        111        120       125       132       137        151       163       169
7. Cornuerce                                    147       145        147       155       158       179        194       201
8. banking, Insurance and real state             39         44        46        50        58         60        64        66
9. Properties                                    96        100       105       111       116        122       127       131
10. 1'ublic administration and defense            51         49        49        57        63         67        71        74
11. Services                                     157        167       168       171       170       187        193       197
G.I.P. at factor costs                1,354     1,342      1,315    1,407      1,489     1,606      1,716     1,744
Net Indirect Taxes                       135       143       145       176       232        236       250       272
C.I.P. at market prices               1,489      1,485    1,460    1,583    1,721        1,842    1,966    2,016
I/ Preliminary.
Source; Central Bank of l1onduras
October, 1981



- 32 -
TABLE 1-B
HONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK' DE'iETOPMENT PRBOJECT (CR-434-HO)
COMPLZTION REPORT
VALUE ADDED IN' AGRICULTURE 1973-79
(Millions of 1966 Lempiras)
1973    1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979
CROPS
Bananas                      146      103       56       81       98      95      111
Coffee                        56       55       61       59       65      79       87
Corn                          44       45       40       44       39      41       44
Beans                         13       16       15       13       13      13       13
Other                         63       65       67       72       80      84       84
SUB-TOTAL         322      284      239      269     295      312      339
Livestock                     64       57       61       66       66      70       75
Poultry                       16       16       18       20       20      20       22 .
Forestry                      58       55       52       54      58       59       60
Beekeeping, Fishing, Huntina 6          5        8        7        9       8        9
T O T A L         466      417      378      416     448      469      505
Source: Central Bank of Honduras
October, 1981



SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOI'PNIN'r PROJECT    (CR- 434 - 110)
COMPLETION REPORT
LOAN PORTFOLIO. NUM1BER. AV RAC.E SIZE OF SUBLOAN AND TOTAL
AMOUNT BY TYPE O1F EXPLOTATION
FINANCE'I
(US$) I/
Appraisal Estima;tes *                       A   C   T   U   A   L
Average       Total                      Current prices               1973  Prices 2/
Amount/      Amount                 Average       Total amount   Average    Total amount
TYPE OF EXPLOTATION           N          unit    Subloans           N'  amount/tunit      Subloans      amount/unit  subloans
Small Dairy Farms            100        6,000      600,000           -         -              -                -            -
tiedium Dairy Farms          168       12,380   2,080,000            7        30,320         212,243          23,454       164,178
Dairy/Beef Farms              -           -          -             218        22,483       4,901,193          18,373    4.005,445
Breeding/Fattening Farms   157          9,171   1,441,000           37        38,192       1,413,098          34,667    1,282,715
Beef Breeding Farms          149       10,738   1,600,000            2        52,477         104,954          52,477       104,954
Beef Fattening Farms          -           -          -              22        27,186         598,091          21,337       467,215
Pig Units                     30       13,333      400,000           6        18,020         108,120          13,135        78,812
Small Abattoirs                3       26,666       80,000           2        17,323           34,646         11,453        22,906
Medium Abattoirs               1      320,000      320,000            1      413,037          f13,037        347,382       347,382
Large Abattoirs                1      480,000      480,000           1       949,808         949,808         727,265       727,265
Bananas (Isleta)               1   1,000,000   1,000,000             1    1,000,000        1,000,000         765,697       765,697
T  0  T  A  L          610           -     8,000,000          297         -           9,735,190           -         7,966,569
* Revised Appraisal
1/ IDA plus participating banks funds. Loan extensions (10) are included in original loans.
2/ Deflator: Consumer Price Index (1973 - 100)
Source:  Central Bank of Honduras
October, 1981.



- 34 -
TABLE 3
HONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCC DEVELOP?NT PROJECT (CR-434-HO)
CO.'LETION REPORT
LOAN PORTFOLIO. DISTRIBUTION OF LOA,,NS AND TOTAL
AMOUNT BY LO"IAN SIZE
(US$' 000)
No. of                  Total Amount
Loan Size               Loans I/    2          (Current Prices)      x
Up to $. 9,000              31         11              233.0            2
$. 9,000  - S. 12,500       36         12             403.0            4
$.12,500  - S. 25,000      118         40           2,183.0           23
$.25,000  - $. 37,500       54         18           1,706.0           18
$.37,500  -  5. 50,000      31         10           1,342.0           14
$.50,000  - $. 75,000       21          7           1,470.0           15
S UB-  T O T A L         292         98           7,337.0           86
Tsleta                       1          0.3         1,000.0           10
Municipal Abattoirs          4          1.7          1,398.0            4
T   0   T   A   L         297        100%          9,735.0          100C
1/ Loan extensions are included in original loans.
Source: Central Bank of Honduras
October, 1981



- 35 -
TABLE 4
HONDURAS
SECOND LIVE-STCCK DZVELOF.M,NT PROJECT (CR-434-HO)
COMILETION RE?ORT
LOAN PORTFOLIO. DISTRIBET10' OF LOANS AN;D TOTAL
Amount By Farm Size 1/
(US$'000)
No. of                     Total Amount
Farm Size (Ha)           Loans        Z           (Current Prices)         Z
Less than 100 ha.            80         27               1,386.7             17
100  -  200 ha.              75         26              1,517.4              18
200  -  500 ha.              80         27               2,021.0             24
500  - I00O ha.              37         13               1,318.6             16
More than 1,000 ha.           21         7               2,093.3             .25
T   0   T   A   L       293 2/    100%              8,337.0             100%
11 Loan extension are included in original loans.
2/ Lioans for municipal abattoirs (4) are not included.
Source: Central Bank of Hondaras
October, 1981



- 36 -
TABLE 5
HONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOP.MENT PROJECT (CR-434-HO)
COM2LETION RE?ORT
LOAN PORTFOLIO. DISTRIBUTION OF LCANTS ,AND TOTAL AMOUNT BY AMOUNT
PER BENE FICIARY    1/
(US$'000)
C U R R E N T   P R'I C E S    C O N S T A N T   P R I C E S 2
Category             No.of  No.of Bene   Total          No.of  No.of Bene   Total
Amount/benefiaciary Loans   ficiaries  Amount    %   Loans   ficiaries  Amount   2
3_      _3/
up to S. 9,000          37..    334       461.0      5    5 5      352         506.0   6
$.9,000 - $.12,500      35       35       392.0      4    42        42         450.0   5
$.12,500 - $.25,000   117       117    2,168.0    22   116         1.16     2,038.0  26
$.25,000 - $.37,500    53         53    1,650.0    17    43         43      1,263.0  16
$.37,500 - $.50,000    31       '31    1,342.0    14    21          21         868.0  11
$.50,000 - $.75,000    19         19    1,324.0    14    15         15         978.0  12
S U B - T O T A L      292      589    7,337.0           292       589       6,103.0
I S L E T A              1-4!  1,352    1,000.0    10      1i/  1,352          766.0  1i
1'unicipal Abattoirs     4        -     1,398.0    14       4       -        1,098.0  14
T 0 T A L           297    1,941    9,735.0   100%  297    1,941         7,967.0 100
I/ Loans extensions (10) are included in original loans.
2/ Deflator: Consumer Price Index (1973 = 100)
31 Includes 6 cooperatives with 303 members.
4/ An Associative Enterprise.
Source:  Central Bank of Honduras
October, 198i



- 37 -
TABLE 6-A
HONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEZELOPvENT PROJECT (CR-434-HO)
CO)MPLETION RB?ORT
LIVESTOCK FAPkfS  FIN'ANCED. N=3ER. AVERAGE SIZE AND
TOTAL AREA BY FARM TYPE
CNa)
APPRAISAL ESTIMATES                   ACTUAL
Average    Total                Average    Total
FARM TYPE             No.       Size      Area         No       Size       Area
Small Dairy Farms         100         30      3,000         -         -          -
Medium Dairy Farms        168         50      8,400          7        74       516
Dairy/Beef Farms           -          -         -         218        233   50,879
Breeding/Fattening Farms 157         150    23,550         37        922   34,116
Beef Breeding Farms       149        400    59,600           2       275       550
Beef Fattening Farms       -          -         -          22        554   12,183
T 0 T A L             574         -     94,550        286         -    98,244
Source: Central Bank of Honduras
October, 1981



- 38 -                                TABLE 6-B
HONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CR-434-HO)
COMLETION 7ErPORT
GRAZING .LAJ   TOPOGRAPHY IN LIVESTOCK EX?LOTA I0'"S F '.INNCD
(Ha)
PLAIN             HILLY               TOTAL
FARM TYPE                    No,  No.           7o                 No. NO
Dairy Farms                  412      80        104    20          516       0.5
Dairy/BeefFarms         24,775       49    26,104    51       50,879       52
Breeding/Fatt. Farms..  16,088        47    18,028    53       34,116       35
Beef Breeding Farms          329      60        221    40          550       0.5
Beef Fattenring Farms     3,511       29      8,672    71      12,183       12
T 0 T A L           45,115             53,129             98,244
%  OF  TOTAL                       46%              54%                 100%
Souree: Central Bank of Honduras
October, 1981



-39 -
TABLE 7
HONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMF .T PROJECT (CR-434-HO)
COMPLETION: R-?ORT
DISTRIBUTIC'i OF SUBLOANS BY RECTON *
CNumber and amount)
Total Amount
R  E  C  I  O  N          No.       Z            (Current USS)
North West (S.P.S)          131 11   43               3,821,453           39
North East (Ceiba)            95 2/   31              2,809,634           29
Central    (Tegucigalpa)    52 3/   17                2,108,164           22
S6uth      (Choluteca)       29        9                995,939           10
T O T A L            307    100%               9,735,190        100%
* IDA plus participating banks funds.
1/ Includes 4 loan extensions and 3 subloans for municipal abattoirs.
2/ Includes 4 loan extensions.
3/ Includes 2 loan extensions and 1 subloan for a municipal abattoir.
Source: Central Bank of Honduras
October, 1981



- 40 -
TABLE 8
HONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELCPMENT PROJECT. (CR-434-HO)
CCMLETION REPORT
DISTRIBUTION OF BENEFICIARIES BY ACTIVITY AND REGION 1/
North West      North Easc    Central        South       Total
OCCUPATION        No.                                            N NO.  7    Mm  *    %    No.  h
Livestock/Agric.    81         65    46       49      28    57   17    59   172   59
Proffesional          24       20    14       16       8    16    7    24    53   18
Employee               3        2      8      10       4      8    1      3    16    5
Other                16        13    23       25       9    19    4    14    52   18
T 0 T A L    124        100%   91    100%    49   100%  29   100%  293- 100%
1/ 10 beneficiaries are repeaters. The real number of beneficiaries is 1,941,
since there are 5 cooperatives with 303 members and one Associative Enter-
prise (Isleta) with 1,352 =e.mbers.
2/ Municipal abattoirs are excluded.
Source: Central Bank of Honduras
October, 1981



- 41 -
TABLE 9
HONDURAS
- SECOND LIVESTOCK D'EELOPMENT PROJECT (CR-434-HO)
COMPLETION REPORT
DISTRIBUTION1 OF BENEFICIARIES BY RESIDEN'TIAL LOCATICNO A"D REGIO'N I/
Location of       North West       North Last      Central        South        Total
Residence      No.            'NO.        Z   No.      %    NO.          No. X
0i- Farm          75      60       64      70   27      55    21    72   187         64
Off -Farm         49      40       27      30, 22       45      8    28   106        36
T 0 T A L     124      100%      91     100%  49    100%   29   IO%  293 2/  100%
1/ 10 beneficiaries are repeaters. The real number of beneficiaries is 1,941,
since there are 5 cooperatives with 303 members and one Associative Enter-
prise (Isleta) with 1,352 members.
2/ Municipal abattoirs are excluded.
Source: Cantral Bank of Honduras
October, 1981



IIONDlURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CR-434-llO)
COMPLETION REPORT
PROJECT COSTS ACCORI)INC TO ITEMS FOR INVESTMENTS
(US S)
ACTUAL COSTS AS
APPRAISAI.  ESTItATES  *                     A  C  T  U  A  L  1/  % OF APPR. ESTIMA%TES
C A T E C O R Y                                                                         Amount $'000              Current       1973
Amount ($'000)                          Current Prices   1973 Prices   Prices         Prices
1. Pasture development                     1,400                 13                  2,181            1,771          155         126
2. Fencing                                   900                  9                  1,121              938          124         104
3. Watering Facilities                     1,300                 12                  1,312            1,011          100          77
4. Farm structures                           900                  9                  1,952            1,628          216         180
5. Machinery and equipment                 2,200                 21                  1,643            1,356           74          61  s
6. Cattle                                  2,700                 26                  3,418            2,814          126         104
7. Miscellaneous                             300                  3                    266              208           88          69
8. Technical Services                        700                  7                    700               700         100         100
T  0  T  A  L                      10,400                100                12,593            10,426         121         100
* Revised Appraisal.
1/ Working capital; $. 5,033,037 in nominal terms equivalent to $. 3,591,154 in real terms.
Source: Central Bank of Honduras
October, 1981



6fCONO L!UrSTOCb  DfV(L01'ftTrttojrr,t (CR-43t..yOl
cmo.PLrT;Otj PrVnnT
7'IAL PoO3rCT rOST AtiO CWST PFR WtITT.
APPPAISAL  lSTTMATS               *                  A   C   T   U   A   t
TOTAL AMOUNT   COST FFR UNIT                TnT1A i141t1.T                    rr.YT  pro  t1,41 I               ACTIAI rl.',T o)'9 ir     6
cusl5nnno)       CU5S'                  CUJRCtIT PnICES jq31 PlICESY  CUFPFNT PAICfS  i?71  Prices-    Pi;cIIrrf.)  r- :'91:'
0 C S   A_I P T I 0 f              No.  1973 Price.         1971 PrIces      Ng.   (S!"I            (U5!1 (S!)                                     CURrNT PArT i' 
A.  trtnr':
*.  S-nil D.1ev rar.s          1na      700.0             7,nn0         ,
t. r4,tu  DOtrv For.-          16a     ,600.0            15,4.76          7      265.3ns           ?n3.042        3,q9nl          7P 0n6              2LY                   10
a Olrv/l.vr F,res               -           -              -           216    6,105,6qi         4.9on,606        28,009           22,.k6             --
fire.                     1s7    .,t;@. 7            *l,4(          *' 7,765,658            1,59s,qs9         #7,77          4.,2).3 ?#6% 
5.  Ort.  brecdlnq  fterm      14.9   3,On0.0            13.42m           2      1)1,193           131,19)        6.,597           65.5q17            4.89
I..  fl.nt Vettrnlnqfre..                   .              .            22       *144,92)          576,183        33,860           26,10S
S.  Sn', Pl) i *I'J1TS1             30     5snn.0             6,667          6       133,275            97,226        22,213           16,204.           1i3l                  '11
C.  A9ATtfll'5:
1   SrrIl Ab.ttalr.              3      100a.            33,3)3          2        S.3.3n0           28,633        21.654.          II.  -             6SS        ,
7,   Irvt,,a ,httOlre            I      *nn0.0           on.000           1      516.29&           &)t,22a       s16,296          6)4,228              0n1 %
1.  L.rra  nbbti,ttC             1      600.0           600.n0o           1   1,187,261            90s,082    1,167,261           909,08t             1,8      
0.  Ar1RI Cjit'Ar 
.,  nnrna  (Ielet.l              1   1,0a0.0         1,000,0no            1   1,,fno,0na           765,697    1,0lao000          765,697              M0I%
S    fl - * 0 T A L.           61n   q,i7fn                            7497  1 1l,9I, 11        9,775,0fln
Vr.  TI rttc.I 5,vyrog                       7nn 00n,nno                                                iOn,nnn
0  tT.  AL2,593,112                                                                                    AA
1i  Cnneuo*r Price Indeu (1973.100)
*    -..4.-.A .nnr... $
Source; Central Bank of lHonduras
October, 1981



- 44 -
HONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOP.ME.T PROJECT (CR-434-HO)         TABLE 10-B
COMPLETION RE?ORT
DETAILED DISTRtEUTION OF PROJECT COSTS ACCORDINO TO ITEXS FOR LNVESThENTS
LIVESTOCK PROJECTS
(Current US$'000)
Project Expenditure                No.          Total Amount            %
Pasture ITorovenient              43,007           2,181.0             24
New Pasture (Ha)                  23,567           1,630.0
Existing Pasture (Ha)             19,440             551.0
Fencing                            5,775           1,121.0             12
New (Km)                           3,161             858.0
Repair (Kn)                        2,614             263.0
Watering Facilities                  -               926.0             10
Wells and dnms                       299             286.0
Water pumps                           95              78.0
Water tanks                          962             309.0
Pipe (,ts)                           299             251.0
Other                                -                 2.0
Farm Structures                      -               907.0             t
Corrals and chutes                   238             217.0
Spray equipment                       19              28.0
Silos                                 21              27.0
Barns                                190             248.0
Laborers' quarters                   169             207.0
CUttle feeders and mineral boxes 1,806                87.0
Roads (Km)                            95              38.0
Other                                                 55.0
Machinerv and ecuipment                              493.0              6
Tractors                               7              39.0
Forage equipment                      49              93.0
Vehicles                              27              97.0
Milking machines                       4              14.0
Other                                -               250.0
Breeding Stock                       -             3,380.0             38
Bulls                                940             904.0
Purebred heifers                     159             133.0
Comnercial heifers                10,829           2,343.0
Frozen semen                       1,590               5.0
T  O  T  A  L                                 9,013.0            100%
* Loans for Operating Capital amounted to US$5,033,037.00 which was used
for the purchase of about 32,000 fattening steers.
Source: Central Bank of Honduras
October, 1981



- 45 -
HONDURAS                            TABLE 10-C
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPEV"T PROJECT (CR-434-HO)
COMPLETION REPORT
DETAILED DISTRIBUTION OF PROJECT COSTS ACCORDING TO ITEMS FOR I            NES'!ENTS
IN OTHER PROJECTS
(Current USS'OOO)
Sow Pig        Municipal         Bananas
PROJECT E.PE1DITURE         units  7.   Abattoirs  Z    (Isleta)  %
Land purchase                -       -       84.0     5        _      _
Fencing                       0.7 -           -       -        -      -
Watering facilities          11.0    8        3.0     -       372.3  37
Structures                  76.2   58       753.0    43       216.0 -22
Machinery and equipment    12.1    9        725.0    42       411.7  41
Stock                       33.0   25        -        -        -      -
Other                        -       -      182.0    10        -      -
T  0  T  A  L          133.0  100%  1,747.0   100%   1,000.0 100%
Source: Central Bank of Honduras
October, 1981



I1IONDUI AS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CR-434-HO)
COMPLETION REPORT
SOURCE AND AMOUNT OF FUNDS
(Current US$'000)
Sub-borrowers   Partic. Banks    Central Bank           I.D.A.        Total Project Costs
C A T   G 0 0 R Y                Amount        X   AmoUI1t           Amount      %   Amount      X            (US$'000)
Appraisal Estimates
Small dairy farns                  100.0      10     100.0      9       -        -     500.0   81              700.0
Medium dairy & Beef farms        1,280.0      20   1,280.0    20        -        -   3,840.0   60           6,400.q
Pig Uniits                         100.0      20     100.0    20        -        -     300.0   60              500.0
Abattoirs                          220.0      20      -         -    220.0    20        660.0   60           1,100.0
Bananas (Isleta)                     -         -      -         -       -        -   1,000.0  100           1,000.0
Tecthnical Services                  -                -         -    400.0    57       300.0   43              700.0
T  0  T  A  L           1,700.0           1,480.0            620.0           6,600.0               10,400.0
%   O F      T O T A L                 16                14              .6               64            100%
Actual
Small dairy farms                    -         -                -       -        -        -      -
Medium dairy 6 Beef farms        1,783.4      20   1,784.7    20  1,038.2    12   4,406.6   48              9,012.9
Pig Units                           25.2      19     203.0    15        -        -       87.8   66             133.2
Abattoirs                          349.4      20      -         -    587.0    34        810.5   46           1,746.9
Bananas (Isleta)                     -         -      -         -       -        -   1,000.0  100           1,000.0
Technical Services                   -         -      -         -    404.8    58        295.1   42             700.0
T  0  T  A  L           2,158.0                            2,030.1           6,600.0               12,593.1
X   O F      T O T A L                 17                14              16               53            100%
Working capital: $. 5,033,037.0 in nominal terms, equivalent to $. 3,591,154.0 in real terms.
Source:  Central Banlc of lHonduras
October, 1981



- 47 -
TABLE 12-A
HONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CR-434-HO)
COMPLETION REPORT
SCEULE OF LOAN DISBURSEMENTS
CJMULATIVE DISBURSEMENTS (USS'000)                    ACTUAL AS %
FISCAL YEAR      APPRAISAL ESTLMATE   ACTUAL DISBURSEMN-TS   NEW ESTIMATE          OF ESTIMATE
1973/74
Jun. 30/74             500.0                     -                                     -
1974/75
Dec. 31/74           1,400.0                     800.0                                 57
Jun. 30/75           2,200.0                   1,300.0                                59
1975/76
Dec. 31/75           3,000.0                   1,900.0                                63
Jun. 30/76           4,000.0                   2,500.0                                63
1976/77
Dec. 31/76           5,100.0                   3,100.0                                61
Jun. 30/77           5,700.0                   3,500.0                                61
1977/78
Dec. 31/77           6,200.0                   4,000.0                                65
Jun. 30/78           6,400.0                   4,600.0                                72
1978/79
Dec. 31/78           6,600.0                   5,200.0            6,100.0             85
Jun. 30/79           6,600.0                   5,600.0            6,600.0             85
1979/80
Sept.30/79                                     5,600.0            6,600.0             85
Dec. 31/79                                     6,600.0            6,600.0            10l0%
Closing date: December 31, 1979.
New estimate: As of Feb., 1978.
Source: Central Bank of Honduras
October, 1981



IIONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOP4EN'1 PROJECT (CR-434-HO)
COMPLETION REPORT
YEARLY DISTRIBUTION OF FARM PLAtNS AND FARM INVESTMIENTS INITIATED  1/
(US$'000)
1 9 7 4         1 9-7 5          1 9 7 6          1 9 7 7         1 9 7 8         T 0 T A L
No,_  Amount No_   Amount  No.   Amount   No.  Anount   No.   Amount No.                Amount
APPRAISAL ESTIMATES *             165   2,619.0  226   3,589.0  219  3,492.0                                       610   9,700.0
A C T U A L
a) Current Prices                 112   3,565.7   51   2,353.3   63  2,585.1 2/ 62  1,730.4   19   1,658.5 307  11,893.0
b) Constant Prices (1973)                2,917.8         1,945.2         2,139.7          1,361.7         1,361.6         9,726.0 m
* Revised appraisal.
1/ Fund commitment.
21 Loan for Isleta is included.
Source: Central Bank of l3onduras
October, 1981
F-4



- 49 -
TABLE 13
HONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENIT PROJECT (CR-434-HO)
COMPLETION R?PO77
MAIN INDICATORS OF O:;-FARM IMPACT. ATLMNTIC A':D SCL"TH-CE2TRAL ZONME
REPRESENTATIVE FAi?M MODEL'
ATLAN'TIC          SOUTH-CEN-TRAL
ZONE FAR_M 1/         ZONE FARM  :i
I. Production Caoacirv Indicators:
1.1. Average Total area (Ha)                   230                  294
1.2. Area under grass (Ha)
1.2.1. Before development                 169                  203
1.2.2. After development                  190                  248
1.3. Improved Pastures (Ha)
1.3.1. Before development                131                   179
1.3.2. After development                 183                   207
1.4. Total Cattle (Heads)
1.4.1. Before development                240                   261
1.4.2. After development                 425                   423
1.5. Beeding cows (Heads)
1.5.1. Before development                 83                    94
1.5.2. After developmenc                 125                   126
11. Farm Income (Constant 1973 dollars) 3/
2.1. Cross Income
2.1.1. Before development              6,511                 7,890
2.1.2. After development              12,626                16,542
2.2. Net Income
2.2.1. Before develooment              1,208                 1,436
2.2.2. After development               3,657                 5,480
III. Productivitv Coefficients 4/
3.1. Birth Race (x)
3.1.1. Before development                 54                    43
3.1.2. After development                   60                   60
3.2. Adult Mortality (%)
3.2.1. Before development                   2                    2
3.2.2. After development                    2                    2
3.3. Milk per Cow per Day (Lts)
3.3.1. Before development                  3.3                   4.8
3.3.2. After development                   3.8                   5.5
3.4. Take Off Rate (%)
3.4.1. Before development                 19                    19
3.4.2. After development                   17                   19
IV. Rates of Return
Financial, at constant prices                   13                   20
On-Farmers' equity, at conscant prices          20                   34
Economic. at constant prices a 12%
1I  Representative of 58 dual purpose farms with an average initial investment
under the project of S. 38,236 in currenc prices.
2/ Representative of 14 dual purpose farms with an average initial investment
under the project of S. 30,993 in current prices.
3/ 4/ Comparative figures after development correspond to year of evaluation(1979).
Source: Central Bank of Honduras
October, 1981



- 50-
SECOND LI'JESTOCK  ENVELCPMENT PflO2fCT (CR-43t,Hn)                 TABLE 14
COMPLETIONI fEPr1nT
-OVCLOPMENT OF A TVrTcAL ATLA!TT7C 70?IF FAP4.  HFPD DE2JELnPME%T
PR0JECTTOJ
UNIT      BEFORE        1      2      3      4      5      S       7       8 - 12
WEIGHT   DFVELOP.                                 P  R  0  Jf  E  C  T  E  D
'c: COr7COCSTT0ON          (Lbs)    1975        4q76  Iq77  157^ 19    7   Q ", l  11M I     3 iq7   I3A3_A7
Sulls                        950        3         4      4      4      4      d      5       5           5
Breeding  Cows               7S0      83        103   307   112    118   124   125         125        1t5
COlvPs                      250      55         66     69    76    77    88    8q          89         89
HMetpre 9-2L m.              500       34        25     31     32    36    36    42         42         4.2
Heifers 24-36 m.             650       26        33     25     30    31    35    35         41          41
Hel'ers    36 M.             700        -        19     17     15    17    16    12         12          12
Steers 9-24 i.               550       26        26     31     32    36    37    42         43         43
Steers 24-36 m.              600        7        25    25      30     31    35    36        41         41
Steers    36 m.              650        6         5    1i5    13      1 4    15    24       27         27
T 0 T A L                            240        306   324   346   364   392   41C    42S              425
A U                            185       Z40   255   270   287   304   321          336         336
-CRTALrTv
Adults                                 4          5      4      4      6      6      6       7          8
Calves                                  3         4      4      4      4      4      4       4           4
T 3 T A L                              7          9      a      a.10         10    0a       11         12
OURCHASES
Sulls II0                               -         3      -       1     -      2      -       1           -
Cows                         7no        -        16      -      -      -      -      -       -          -
Meifers                      650        -        17      -      -      -      -      -                   -
T Q T A-L                              -         36      -      t      -      2      -       t          -
Lbs Purchased                               24,650       -   800       - 1,600       -    800            -
SALES
Bulls                      1,100        -         2      -      t      -      t.    -        t           _
Cows                         700        3        17     15     16     17    18    19        19         '19
Heifers 8-24                 600        3         -      -      _         _      _      _
I4eifers 24-36               650        3         -      -      -      -      -      -       -           6
Heifers    36                700        -         -     13      4      2      5    16       12          12
Steers 8-24                  650       15                -      -      -             -       -           -
Stepra   24                  750       11         8    15    25    30    ?R    26           32         Cs0
T S T A L                                       25 27    43   46    49    52    61         64         77
COEFFICTENTS
!irth Rite                              54       54     55     60     60    63    65        65         65
filk/Cow/day (lts)                      33        3    ;5       7      38    '3    3,9      ;9         4,
A.U./Ha. Pasture
Total lbs. beef sold              23,850   20,100 30,A5C 33,850 35,200 35,200 44,C0O  46,800   53,000 *
Total lts. milk sold              36,580   44,566 49,822 59,422 64,790 70,737 75,44c 75,445   75,445
* PLUS ADDITIONAL INVL'YORY OF CATT.E - 105,350 Lbs.
Source:  Central Bank of Honduras
October, 1981



HUONDURAS
SECOND LIVSTOCK DEVrLOl>HENT PROJECT (CFLDIT 434-110)
COHPLETION REPORT
Davelopme.it of a Typical South Central Zone yarn -
Herd Development Projection
Unit          before           1           2          3           4           5            6            7          8-12
Weight      Developenat
IlEl0 COMPOSITION                 (kga)          1975           1976        1977       1978        1919        1980         1981        1982        1983-8
8ulls                            950               4              5           5           5          5           5            5            5            5
Cow&                              700             94            110         121        121         121         123          126         126          126
Calves                            250             64             59          73          78         81          86           90           90           90
llelfers 9-24 *                   500             37             31          28          35         37          38           41           42          43
Helfer. 24-36 *                  650              38             36          30         27          36          36           37          40           40
hlelfers 36                       700             -              27          26         21          13          13           12           12          12
Steers 9-24                       550             19             31          29         36          37          39          41           42           43
Steers 24-36                     600              -              19          30         20          35          36           38          40           40
Steers 36                        650               5             -           -          13          11          17          24           24           24
TuTAL                                         261             318        342         355         376        393          414          423          423
A.U.                                           197            259        269         217         295        307          324          333          333
1ORTALITY
Adalts                             -               3              4           6           7          5           6            6            7            9
Calves                             -                              1           2           2          4           4            4            4            4
TOTAL                                              4              6           8           9          9          10           10           11           13
PURCHASES
Bull                              800            -                3           1        -             I         -              2            1            1
Cows                              700            -               17        -           -           -           -           _            _            _
HeIf,rs                          650             -               11        -
TOTAL                                                          31           1                      1                        2           1            1
Lbs. Purc3,ssed                                             21,450          800                    600                   1,600          800          800
SALES
Dulls                          1,100               1              2           1        -             I         -              2            1            1
Cows                              700              6             2(          12       23            18         18            18           19           19
lilelfers 9-24 a                  600              1            _     -                - _         _           _           _            _
HIelters 24-36 a                 650               2            -          -           4             4         -           -               2            6
Hlelfers 36 a                     700              -            -            10        4            10         13            13           12          12
Steers 9-24 *                    650              16            -          -           8
Steers 24 a                       750             12              5          19       16            22         28            28          37           40
ToTALv                                          38             21         42        55            55        59            61           71           78
COgFI ICIENJTS
81rth, Rate                                       43             43          SQ       55            60         63            65          65           65
H4lk/Cow/day (Itu)                                 4.8            5.0         5.1      5.3           5.5        5.5           5.6          5.6          5.6
A.u./IIa. Pasture
Total kg. beef sold                        26,600         19,950      30,750   38,700        39,800   42,700          44.900      51,850       56,700
Total Lts. milk sold                       4.7739         56,575    74,460   85.118          96,360  102,382         110,376     110,376      110,376
a Plus additiosal cattle luvantory - 92,100 lbe.
Sources  Central Sauk of l1ondurse
October 1981



4ECt;D LIU(SrOCK  D0iFLOPMPIENT PR FOJECT  (CL-434-tlO)
CO P' CI fT I OPt nr Pfl n T
p(ufLOPrMfNT nf A IYPICAL ATLANIfC ?7ntr! FARni. CASH -tou fr5II4ArS Art!
PRiOJECTIONISf    I IufRfltJT t
6.0.        t S T IH a T E 0    A C T U A                                    P      R    0  J    ET   C    T   E         D
1           2            3            4            5                        7          6i                         1D11                 17
1975        1976         1977         1971f        1979   .     190         19fr1        1SS7         1"1          19A0.      1qq%        IFtkA    01aI
I)  C4SH t'.9LOU
SAl 3
arrr                            3,.77        3,277       5.778        6.33'.       f.015        9,338        10,570       11,8..0     13.6840      13,6n       1 l1,.9.0    11.640 65cF.s(    I/
Milk                            "A 57 3      5,74        6,477,573  5,   6,8.77  f   1         i,            101'3!7 1-! 09     1!0s,naq           15.!   2.L!nR          Ison   1!npl
TOTAL  INfLOWt                  7,950       9,071       12,255       1' ,396     20,202       23,535         25,659      26,529       78,729       70.779    20.729    23.77` 8s0Eq
2) CASH CurtiLnU
Total Inve3trent 2/                        30,589        7,6'.7
Operating Costs                 6.875       an.?nq                  jf 1  70 so   ii 0         157(1O        05f                      1(i  l  *  Pffl  1-ftn    If ;l n     110nn 1 iF'G
TOTAL OuTfLOU                   6,8675     38.989       17887        12,150       181,350      15,200        16,050       16,800      16,800       16.000    16.000    16,000  16000
3)  NET BEftNfFIT (1-2)              1,1675   I (29918)    (5592)          2.2.6       5,852        6B,35         9,609        9,72,.    11,929        11,929    11.929    119.9L  6)7S9
8)  INC..A. N8I  (UEf IT                        (3139')    (7067)             771       4.377        6,860         8,13'.       8,251.    10,.51.       10,8.51     10.858.    10..5'. E: !qk
(eorre rinencting)
5)   fjAUClrj' 
I r; ,Lr.u 
LAn') ter. loan 3/                         2 ,871        61.18
oDEPT r',n)Icr
Prln  toAIl    4                              -             -            .         1.529        ,D059         6, 589       I.,589       8,589        i.,117     6,117
Inter-it (tj%)                              70                        2,753        2,753        ?j  16       ,2       0      9     1,9 7.          I.2.,.2l        .fn
SU8-T0IIAL FrI!A!CING                      22,268          3,365    (2.753)    (8.,282)    (5,675)           (6,929)    (6.516)    (6,i03)    (7,216     (6,.667)
6)  ItnCR. NET   EEfrO IT  (8..5)               (9.078.)       (3,702)   (1,982)            95        1185         1,205        1,738        I,351        3.236      3,787    10,L58  67?g9
'I,,.,.    At ,,-1 h,I , 1 
t/  Pls Inrre,ental herd value - 151,8'0
7/ 6U% first vetr ana 20% second vear
/ 6t)S of tot&I Investment
'4    .pnyv'ont sChedule for yeers 1-10 of a loans  0,0, 0D  5,  10, 15, IS,  15, 20, Pn% reapectIvalv.
Source: Central Bank of lionduras
October, 1981



SFCOND  LPjF5TOC4 DOftUIDO[r' t PROJECT (CR-'.34-t$O)
t'!w,PlFTfi    RrPnRT
OfurLnPI'rNT OF n IYPICAL  SnLuTiil-CFNTIIA  lONE FARM. CASH
FLOW (STIrPAIFS Ano :filtfCtrIuS IN CtJnRrNT  S
tST I I  FA  T f D   -  A C T U A L                                  P  R  a  t  t  C  *  f  D
8.0.          1           2           3           O.          5           6           7          a'l                                          12
1975       19716                   iq'i 17 -A 1j 74        19Fin       19t81       19qe       i*f)         1984       1985      1986       1907
1) CraSh  INFLOW
Br e                        3f,667      3,370       5,635       7.363       9,605       10.083      10,9485    12,755       13,985      13*985    13,985    13,9a5   609981-/
Milk                        5,95t       7,355s  9,F8t  tt q   lf.913                    2n,0?7 t7S  2? tl75  22.()75    7?.075           77/t)75  ?2.7   O?Stl75   2,i
TOAt LJNFLDJ                9,63'.    10,725       15,315      18,854      26,468       30,960      33,023      34,830      36,060      36,060    36,060    36,060   83.07)
2) CS'H r'UtFLrU
lotrl Investment I/          -         ?6,395       6.599
Grer,-ttnq Costs a1f)f0                t9360       I,105       15.I235     17,700        a18.20     19.200      t980        t9 9R0           19,9810    1S9A80   f9.90
101AL OUTFLOW               7,oC0      36,755      18,704      15,235      17,700       *8,420      19,200      19,98;a     1,980       19,980    19,980    19,980    19,980
3) lift lTNfFrIT (1.2)          1,754    (20,010)   (3,389)         3,619       8,768       1Z,5'-0     13,823      14,850     16,080       16,0190    16,080    16,080    63,093
&) 1t1CR. hiEl 6 lEFIT                    (27,784)   (5,143)        1,865       7,014       10,71f6     12.069      13,096      16,326      14,376    14,)26    1'6,326    61,339
(Uefpre finoncing)
51 f FJAt,CING
I iF L CU
toni term loan 1'                      21l,t6       S,27S                                                                                                                                     Ut
Dc'a   SFnvict
Prlnclool k/                             -           -           -          1.320       2,640       3,959       3,959       3,959       5,279      52729
Intprest (9%)                           1,901       2,376       2.6         2,376       7,257       2.019           6      Id307          950        *7S
SUB - TOTAL fihlArIdClio                 19,215      2,903      (2,376)    (3,696)   (6,897)   (5,978)   (5,622)    (5,266)   (6,229)  (5,754)
6'1TCR. T(1 BEt.EFIT (6 * 5)              (8,569)   (2,240)         (511)      3,38a       5,889       6,091       7,474      9,060       8.0S7      8,572    1t.,326   61,339
(Art.r fl'.,.,,1
/ Plus Incremental herd value S 47013
77 80: lrat Veer and 70% second year
*. eor 0o total Investment
I./T1trp.ry nt ecredule for ye3rs 1-10 or a loant 0,0,0,5, 10, 15, 15, 15, 20, 20%, reepectlvaly.
Source: Central Bank of llonduras
October, 1981



SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT pROjECT (CR-434-110)
COMPL.ETION REPORT
ATLANTIC ZONE. REPRESENTATIVE FARM MODEL. FINANCIAL RATE' OF RETURN AND RATE OF RETURN TO E9UITY
OF A FARINER ASSISTTED IN 1976*
(In constanit 1979 dollars)  1/             2/
Y e a r        Net Incr. Oper.        On Farm        Incr. Net Farr       Long Tern    Long Term3/ Net Incr. Cash Flow
B.D.(1975)         Incomne  2/       Investment 2/       Casli Flow          Loans    Debt Service         to Farmers
(1)                 (2)            (I + 2)              (4)           (5)        (1 + 2 + 4 + 5)
1             (1,004)             (38,189)         (39,193)            30,551        (2,750)         (11,392)
2                667                (8,800)         (8,133)              7,040       (3,168)          (4,261)
3                839                                   839                           (2,996)          (2,157)
4              4,377                                 4,377                           (4,282)               95
5              6,860                                 6,860                           (5,255)           1,605
6              8,134                                 8,134                           (5,943)           2,191
7              8,254                                 8,254                           (5,176)           3,078
8             10,454                                10,454                           (4,488)           5,966
9             10,454                                10,454                           (4,914)           5,540
10             10,454                                10,454                           (4,201)           6,253
11             10,454                                10,454                                            10,454
12             62,294  4/                            62,294                                            62,294
1/ All cash flow elements for yearal to 3 (1976-78) converted to 1979 prices using the Consumer Price Index
as the inflator.
2/ Source; Table 16.
3/ From year 5 (1980) on, deflated under the auswuuption of a 8% annual inflatiQn (4yerape rate over the
1973-79 period).
4/ Includes incremental herd value of $. 51,480.
Note; a) Financial rate of return   13%
b) Rate of return to farmer's equity - 20%
Under the assumption used, the real rate of interest is;   3%
*PRC - para 38.
Sourrce   Central Bank of Illonduras
October, 1981



I1ONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVEI.OPlMENT PIROJECT (CR-434-110)
COMPLE.T'ION RIEPORT
SOUTII-CENTRAL ZONE. REPRESENTATIVE FARM.MODEL. FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN AND RATE OF RETURN TO EqUITY
OF A FARMEMR ASSISTED TN 1976*
(In.constant 1979 dollars) 1/
Y e a r        Net Incr. Oper.      On Farn       Incr. Net Farm    Long Term    Long Term -1         Net Incr. Cash Flow
B.D.(1975)         Income 2/      Investaent  2/    C;aslh Flow        Loans      Debt Service-          to Farmers
(1)          ~~~(2)       (I1+2)               (4)            (5)           (I1+2 +4 +5)
1             (1,734)           (32,953)       (34,687)           26,362        (2,373)              (10,698)
2              1,675             (7,594)         (5,919)           6,075        (2,734)               (2,578)
3              2,040                             2,040                          (2,585)                 (545)
4              7,014                              7,014                         (3,696)                3,318
5             10,786                            10,786                          (4,534)                6,252
6             12,069                            12,069                          (5,127)                6,942
7             13,096                            13,096                          (4,465)                8,631
8             14,326                            14,326                          (3,872)               10,454           t
9             14,326                            14,326                          (4,240)               10,086
10             14,326                            14,326                          (3,626)               10,700
11             14,326                             14,326                                               14,326
12             61,339  4/                        61,339                                                61,339
1/ All cash flow elements for years 1 to 3 (1976-78) converted,to constant 1979 prices using the Consumer
Price Index as the inflator.
2/ Source: Table 17.
3/ From year  5 (1980) On, deflated under the assumption of a 8% annual inflation.
4/ Includes incremental herd value of $. 47,013.
Note: a) Financial rate of return - 20%
b) Rate of return to farmer's equity - 34%
Under thle assumption used, the real rate of interest is 3%
*PRC - para 38.
Source: Central Bank of lhonduras
October, 1981



11ONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEV ELOPMENT PROJECT (CR-434-110)
COtMPLETION REPORT
ATLANTIC ZONE. NET INCRDIENTAL CAlI FLOW OF A REPRESENTATIVE FARM MODEL AS1$ITED
IN 1976 AT ECONOIIIC EFFICIENCY PRICES
(Jn constant 1979 dollar>) 11
Incremental Sales              Ijncr. Oper.    Net Jncr.        Qn Farm       Net Incremental
Y e a r             Decf 2I    Milk    Total          Cost, 31   Oper. Inco_e  Investmuent 41         Cash Flow
1     1976         (137)      1,524      1,j87       (2,403)           (1,016)      (38,189)         (39,205)
2       77        3,039       2,191      5,230       (4,287)              943        (8,800)          (7,857)
3       78        3,587       3,753      7,340       (6,175)            1,165                          1,165
4       79        6,037       6,764    12,801         (7,R75)           4,926                          4,926
5       80        6,612       9,574    16,186        (8,725)            7,461                          7,461
6       81        7,912      10,516    18,428         (9,575)           8,853.                         8,853
7       82        8,869      10,516    19,385       (10,325)            9,060                          9,060
8       83       11,289      10,516    21,805       (10,325)           11,480                         11,480
9       84       11,289      10,516    21,805       (10,325)           11,480                         11,480              n
10       85       11,289      10,516    21,805       (10,325)           11,480                         11,480
11       86       11,289      10,516    21,805       (10,325)           11,480                         11,480
12       87 5/   63,129       10,516    73,645       (10,325)           63,320                         63,320
1/ All cash flow elenments from year I to 3 (76-78) converted to 1979 prices using the Consumer Price
Index as the inflator.
2/ Source; Table 16. Beef sales have been increased by 10% to adjust tor efficiency prices. For milk no
correction ha   been made for efficiency prices. i.e. that incremental figures represent those given
in Table 16, converted to constan 1979 prices.
3/ Source; Table 16.
4/ From Table 18.
5/ Includes incremental herd value of S. 51,840.
Note; The rate of return at the prices used in this table would be 14%                N
Source; Central B1nk of 1!onduras
October, 1981



H ONDURJ AS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CR-434-lO)
COMPLETION REPORT
SOUTII-CENTRAL ZONE. NET INCREMENTAL CASII FLOW OF A REPIESENTATIVE FARJ MODEL ASSISTED
IN 1976 AT ECONOMIC EFFICTENCY PRICES
(In constant 1979 dollars)  1/
Incremental Sales               Incr. Oper.        Net Incr.       On Farm       Net Incremental
Y e a r                   lBeef  2/   Mi]k    TotalI       Costs  3/    Oper.-Income    Investment 4/   Cash Flow_
1     1976              (408)        1,733   1,325         (3,096)        (1,771)            (32,953)       (34,724)
2       77             2,491         4,273   6,764         (4,862)        (1,902)             (7,594)        (5,692)
3       78             3,623         6,011   9,634         (8,003)         1,631                             *1,631
4       79             6,532        10,896  17,428         (9,820)          7,608                             7,608
5       80             7,497        14,510  22,007        (10,540)        11,467                             11,467
6       81             8,009        16,108  24,117        (11,320)        12,797                             12,797
7       82             9,997        16,108  26,105        (12,100)        14.,005                            14,005
8       83            11,350        16,108  27,458        (12,100)        15,358                             15,358
9       84            11,350        16,108  27,458        (12,100)        15,358                             15,358 
10       85            11,350        16,108  27,458        (12,100)        15,358                             15,358
11       86            11,350        16,108  27,458        (12,100)        15,358                             15,358
12       87 5/         58,363        16,108  74,471        (.12,100)       62,371                             62,371
1/ All cash flow elements from uear I to 3 (76-78) converted to 1979 prices using the Consumer Price
Index as the inflator.
2/ Source;Table 17. Beef sales have been increased by 10% to adjust for efficiency prices. For milk no
correction lias been made for efficiency prices. i.e. that increigenta1 figures represent those given
in Table 17, converted to constant 1979 prices.
3/ Source: Table 17.
4/ Fromu Table 19
5/ Includes incremental lierd value of US$47,013.00.
Note; The rate of return at the prices uged in this table would be 21%
t'lI
Source:  Central Banik of llonduras                                                                                 n
October, 1981



)Iur'DURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CR-434-Ulo)
COMPLETION REPORT
AGGREGATE INCREIENTAL NET FARM CASII FLOWJ AT ECONOMIC EFFIC ENCY PRICES
(In constant 1979 $'000)
R A N C H    P L A N S        N I T I A T E D   E A C 1H    Y E A R
ATLANTIC   ZONE                    SOUTH-CENTRAL   ZONE
1976        1977         1978       1976        1977         1978           TOTAL 1976-78
Y e a r                        35           35          10           9           9            2                 100
1          1976              (1,372)                                (313)                                     (1,685)
2            77                (275)    (1,372)                      (51)      (313)                          (2,011)
3            78                  41         (275)      (392)          15        (51)       (69)                 (731)
4            79                  172          41        (79)          68         15        (11)                  206
5          1980                 261          172          12         103         68          3                   619
6            81                 310          261         49          115        1O3        15                    853
7            82                 317          310         75          126        115          3                   966
8            83                 402          317         89          138        126         26                 1,098
9            84                 402          402         91          138        138         28                 1,199             I
10            85                 402          402        115          138        138         31                 1,226
11            86                 402          402        115          138        138      . 31                  1,226
12            87               2,216.         402        115          561        138         31                 3,463
13            88                            2,216        115                     561         31                 2,923
14            89                                         633                                125                   758
Source:  Central Bank of llondura ...                                                                                        H
October, 1981
II



SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELO1P1MENrT 1OJECT (CR-434-110)
COMIPLETION RIPORT
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN ESTIMATE
(in constant 1979 $'000)  1/
AGGREGATE ON FARM1              TECIINlCAL          INCREMENTAL           TOTAL NET
Y E A R           NET INCREMENTAL CAII FLOW  2/         SERVICES  3/    ON FARM TAXES  4/  INCR. CASII FLOW
1      1976               (1,685)                         (218)                -                 (1,903)
2        77               (2,011)                         (330)                2                 (2,339)
3        78                 (731)                         (198)                4                   (925)
.4        79                  206                          (243)               8                     (29)
5        80                  619                          (182)               11                    448
6        81                  853                           (73)               12                    792
7        82                  966                           (49)               12                    929
8        83                1,098                           (49)               12                  1,061
9        84                1,199                           (49)               12                  1,162
10        85                1,226                           (24)               12                  1,214
11        86                1,226                           (24)               12                  1,214
12        87                3,463                           (24)               12                  3,451
13        88                2,923                           (24)                7                  2,906
14      1989                  758                           (24)                2                    736
1/ All figures inflated by the Consumer Price Index ( 1979   100)
2/ Source: Table 22,
3/ Source: Project Unit. For the 1976-79 period all expenses of the Project Unit haye been included. For
the 1980-89 period, a percentage of 1979 expensed was used. (75%,30%120%,20%,20%,1O%,10%,1OX,10Z
and 1OX, respectively).
4/ Aggregated.incremental sale tax per farm.
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURlN - 12 %                                                    M
Source: Central Bank of Honduras
October, 1981






- 61 -
HONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - CREDIT 434-HO
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN REGIONAL CRITIQUE
Number of Beneficiaries and Farm and Subloan Size
1.        Number of Beneficiaries.  The Project Report (para 3.06) covers the
subject well, but indicates that only 296 subloans were made, compared to the
610 estimated after the Credit reallocation. In addition to the 296
individual subloans, six subloans were made to cooperatives (Table A). Five
cooperatives had a total of 303 members and the sixth, the Isleta Associate
Enterprise had 1,352 members so that the total number of beneficiaries was
1,941 farmers. In addition, four loans were made for the construction of
municipal abattoirs.
2.        Farm and Subloan Size.  In this project, which was the second of a
series, several measures were taken by IDA and the Government to increase the
proportion of small-scale farmer sub-borrowers. This was accomplished in
spite of the restraining effect of the insistance by private banks that they
receive land titles as collateral. Few smaller scale farmers have title to
their land and even fewer have a house in town to offer as guarantee. The
rigid policy arising from the agrarian reform law made town properties
attractive as collaterals and probably accounted for the considerable
proportion of non-resident sub-borrowers (Table B).
3.        The Project Report (paras 3.11 to 3.15) discusses farm and subloan
size, generally excluding the cooperatives, though the activities and
performance of the cooperative of Isleta deserves separate and specific
analysis, the data on livestock activities carried out by the other
cooperatives should be amended as follows:
(a) Project Report Tables 6A and 6B indicate that average
farm size was 343.5 ha, with the 225 milk producing farms
averaging 228 ha and the average subloan size being
US$20,900. When the 286 beneficiaries of the four cattle
cooperatives are included, the number of cattle-owning
beneficiaries is 572, holding an average of 173 ha and
receiving an average subloan of US$10,361, at 1973
constant prices. The land holdings of the two pig-owning
cooperative sub-borrowers were not recorded (Table A);
and



- 62 -
(b) if Project Report Tables 2 and 6A are re-calculated to
include the cattle cooperatives, theappraisal estimate of
574 beneficiaries owning an average of 164 ha and
borrowing US$9,967 each is unusually close to the actual
situation. The appraisal mission was less accurate in
foreseeing the type of farming systems which would be
employed.
4.        Departure from Patterns of Investment that were Expected at
Appraisal. Small-scale farmers were expected to use Brown Swiss cattle,
allow the calves to suckle, and milk once per day, which in fact is generally
considered as dual-purpose production (Appraisal Report para 4.04).
Medium-sized dairy farms were expected to use Holstein stock bred with some
Zebu cattle and to bucket-rear calves for sale as weaners. The remaining 50%
of sub-borrowers were to be beef fatteners and breeders.
5.        No sub-borrower was classified in the Project Report (para 3.08) as
a small-scale dairy farmer, only seven were considered to be medium-sized
dairy farmers, and 84% were classified as dairy/beef farmers. Since the
description of the general management practices and breeding policy of the
small-scale dairy farmer is applicable to at least 75% of sub-borrowers,
including the 286 cattle-owning members of the four cooperatives, there is
obviously a problem of terminology based on the age at which the male calves
are sold. Farm size is another matter complicated by the problems of title
and guarantee. The mission visited 31 farms, on six of which the male calves
were disposed of at the age of three days, making them true dairy farms. In
each case calves were Holstein, considered unprofitable for beef production
and unsaleable for breeding purposes.
6.        The others used stock that had Brown Swiss blood, rearing all
calves, and selling the surplus at weaning age and onward, depending on farm
size, labor availability and financial needs. The majority of relatively
pure Brown Swiss males were sold as breeding bulls for eight to 10 times
their equivalent beef value. The Appraisal Report, although stating that the
medium-sized type of dairy required better quality management than the
small-scale operation, failed to appreciate the difficulties associated with
the application of these techniques in a tropical environment such as
Honduras. Even where milking is done twice per day, calves are seldom bucket
fed.
7.        Relative price changes in milk and beef and sharp increases in the
cost of fertilizers and concentrates, not foreseen at appraisal, further
complicated farm practices during project execution (Tables C and D). Today
it would be difficult to find a cattle farm not milking some cows, if only
to supply liquid milk and cheese for the employees. Probably, the greatest
single influence has been subloans under a subsequent project (Cr 628-HO) to
establish milk collection centers and processing systems providing a market
for low cost milk. Table E shows the number of IDA project subloans granted
in the La Ceiba area, the number of suppliers, and the annual volume received
by the Leyde milk plant, which was set-up by suppliers to provide a market
for their milk. This is a good example of progressive development. A
similar situation exists at the Guayape plant in Juticalpa, which operates as
a cooperative with Swiss technical assistance. The relative prices of beef
and milk are shown in Table D.



- 63 -
8.        Project Report paragraphs 3.26 through 3.29 and Table 10cover
adequately physical investments and their divergence from appraisal
estimates.
9.        The percentage distribution of on-farm investment follows closely
appraisal estimates. The changes which did occur can be attributed to the
lack of interest in intensified dairying and an unanticipated swing to dual-
purpose production. The lack of borrowing to establish intensive dairy
farms substantially reduced the need for machinery and equipment, which
represented 34% of the investment model in the Appraisal Report compared to
10.6% for the beef models (Table F). The change to dual-purpose milk
production probably accounted for an increased demand for milking sheds and
the increase in the number of breeding heifers financed, particularly after
the fall in beef prices in late 1974 and the opening of a liquid milk market
that encouraged a breed change on many farms.  Investment in buildings was
also inflated by the common tendency to copy, unwisely, Northern Hemisphere,
cold climate systems of stall feeding in tropical and sub-tropical climates.
The increased investment in pastures was the result, principally, of a
greater area on slightly larger farms than envisaged. The 1975 agrarian
reform law with its clause concerning under-utilized land probably also
stimulated this investment.
10.       Pig Units.  The appraisal report envisaged a demand for credit from
30 small-scale pig producers to increase the size of the production units
from about five to 25 breeding sows, at an average investment cost of
US$14,350, totalling US$0.5 million and leading to a 635 m ton increase in
annual pork production. The Project Report does not discuss this component
in any detail.
11.       Demand was limited to four subloans to individual farmers and to
two cooperatives with a total of 147 members, who borrowed some US$42,000,
making the total project investment of US$108,000 for pigs.
12.       One sub-borrower, close to Tegucigalpa, expanded and integrated his
pig operations to include processing and marketing of pork products. Average
pig carcasses at Tegucigalpa municipal abattoir are currently 57 kg. The low
subloan demand can be explained only in part by the fall in farm beef prices
in 1975, which affected pork, and the sharp rise in feed costs and other
inputs (Table C). There is sufficient evidence to demonstrate that
intensive, specialized animal production of any species is attractive to only
a very small percentage of Honduran farmers. Most prefer low risk, simple,
proven technology and low cost production on a mixed farm basis, which was
confirmed once again by the fact that, of the 31 cattle farms visited by the
mission, 30 were deriving a cash income from milk, nine were raising pigs,
and 11 kept poultry as a backyard operation.
The Adoption of New Technologies by Beneficiaries
13.       From farm visits by the mission and the data provided by the
Project Unit, the following appear to be the principal features of the
technology adopted on the dual-purpose farms financed under the project:



- 64 -
(a) improved pastures of introduced grasses were used as the
major source of feed;
(b) African star grass and alicia Cynodon plectostachyus
appears to be the most common grass; others used are
guinea Panicum maximum, para Brachiaria ruziziensis,
pangola Digitaria decumbens, jaragua Hyparrhenia rufa,
and aleman Echinocloa polystachya; naturally the
suitability of the various grasses depends on soil,
climate and other conditions on the individual farm, but
there is very little applied research on this aspect in
Honduras;
(c) most of the farms visited do not use fertilizers on their
pastures and, if this continues, productivity will
decline over time; again, there are no research data
available on responses to fertilizer by local pastures;
(d) grasses are almost invariably sown without legumes and
there are no local research data available on suitable
grass-legume mixtures;
(e) practically all farms visited practiced a system of
rotational grazing of their improved pastures;
(f) some of the farmers grow a small area of a forage crop,
such as sugarcane, as a stand-by feed for the dry season;
(g) few farmers grow a small area of the protein-rich fodder
shrub, such as Leucaena leucocephala, for supplementary
feeding;
(h) all farms visited had herds consisting mainly of
cross-breds between native cattle and Holstein or Brown
Swiss or both;
(i) when questioned about their breeding policies, most
farmers indicated they wished to grade up to European
breeds in order to increase their milk production;
however, this would be inadvisable for, while the pure
European dairy cattle have the genetic potential to
produce higher milk yields than cross-bred cattle, they
are much less well adapted to tropical and sub-tropical
conditions. Thus in these conditions their overall
production will probably be lower, unless they are given
special management and feeding conditions;
(j) the majority of the farms visited rear their male calves,
allowing them to suckle their dams once a day; they are
usually sold as weaners or at one year of age;



- 65 -
(k) on the usual, small- or medium-sized commercial farm,
there is very little mechanization; there are very few
tractors and the control of weeds in pastures is done by
manual labor; and
(1) on most farms, cows are milked by hand and, given the
availability and low cost of labor, this makes sound
economic sense; also it provides a large amount of
employment in rural areas.
14.       A production system along the above lines appears to be well suited
to conditions in Honduras at present, i.e, dual-purpose (dairy/beef)
production, using cross-bred cattle, with feeding based on rotationally
grazed pastures, with some fodder grown as stand-by feed for the dry season
and use of hand labor for milking and weed control. However, some work
carried out by the project's technical assistance unit indicates that, while
most farmers adopt most of the measures recommended to increase productivity,
they often do not achieve the results expected, because they fail to apply
them correctly. This situation is probably not surprising with a large
number of farmers adopting new techniques. However, it indicates a need to
provide continuing technical assistance to most farmers for several years
after they enter the project.
Investment in Abattoirs
15.       The Appraisal Report provided for the construction of three small,
one medium, and one large municipal abattoirs in Tegucigalpa, at a total
estimated cost of US$1.1 million. Under the project, however, subloans were
made for construction of two small and two large abattoirs, totalling US$1.4
million (Table G).
16.       The major part of this extra cost resulted from the inclusion of
two refrigerated panel trucks for meat transport in Tegucigalpa, which
increased the cost by over US$150,000, compared to the cost of equivalent
non-refrigerated trucks. Technically, this was an error, considering that
the 9-km journey between the abattoir and market is too short to have any
effect on meat though it was in contrast to IDA's advise, but finally IDA did
agree to it.
17.       The subloan was approved by the Central Bank on October 1, 1978,
but various delays occurred and facilities could not be used until early
1981, which meant that there was no income with which to meet subloan
repayment and interest payments. Such income was to come from slaughter fees
of US$9 per head of cattle and US$5 per pig, supplemented by the sale of
by-products.
18.       The long delay in starting operations and the channeling of all
domestic slaughter animals through the abattoir left the enterprise with a
backlog of interest and debt service which it is unable to meet without a
rescheduling of obligations. In spite of the fact that present operations



-66-
and management are financially sound, the 1980 income statement showed a loss
of L 563,188 (US$281,594), while 1981 to the end of September showed a profilt
of L 134,751. From the start of operations until the end of November, 34,84[
cattle and 46,292 pigs had been slaughtered. By-products sold were valued alt
L 187,285, (US$93,642), permitting the payment of L 250,000 (US$125,000), in
interest due, with another L 50,000 (US$25,000) payment planned for December
1981.
19.       As is normal with new plants, some modifications were necessary to
improve operations, and this complicated the financial position. For
example, two additional meat delivery trucks were purchased, pig pens were
roofed, and a blast freezer is urgently required to salvage the 10% of pig
carcasses presently condemned for cysticercosis.l/ The conversion of the
boiler system from diesel to bunker fuel will cost L 12,000, (US$6,000) but
it is expected that L 80,000 (US$40,000) will be saved on the annual fuel
bill. Almost three years after subloan approval and 10 months after the
start of operations, the enterprise is financially viable, if the problem of
the debt back-log can be resolved.
20.       Present management is sound and experienced, and the Project Unit
is confident that the financial situation will be solved since gross revenues
for the first 10 months of full operations to November 1981 equal those
projected at appraisal for year 3. In the Appraisal Report it was stated
that the value of hides and by-products generally exceeded the costs of
slaughtering, a comment that is true when it applies to a large volume export
slaughterhouse, such as is found in one of the big meat exporting countries.
Here, however, the daily through-put of cattle is not sufficient to yield
minimum amount of by products making their commercialization virtually
impossible, as there is at present no local demand. In the mission's
opinion, the US$9 per head fee for cattle slaughtered, stored and delivered
is low compared to other countries. Now that the butchers have becbme
accustomed to the service, killing charges could be increased slightly to
help solve the financial problems of the abattoir. Based on daily
slaughterings in November 1981, a 10% increase would produce an additional
US$70,000 annually, or 7.3% of the total capital debt.
21.       The mission verified that the sub-borrower is complying with the
conditions of meat inspection and hygiene established at appraisal, and
subsequently insisted upon by the Bank. The project has thus accomplished
its objectives in that the consumer is being supplied with meat which has
been processed under hygenic conditions, subjected to veterinary inspection,
and delivered to the butcher in good condition.
22.       The majority of butchers use the cooling facilities before taking
delivery and approximately 98% of the meat is delivered in abattoir trucks.
Butchers demand for this service made it necessary to purchase two additionaL
non-refrigerated panel trucks. Working six days per week, the average daily
kill for November 1981, working six-days a week, was 135 cattle averaging
136 kg/lb. and 175 pigs averaging 57 kg/lb. Assuming Tegucigalpa has a
population of 400,000, this would represent a per capita annual consumption
1/ A disease transmissible to humans, if infected carcasses are not stored at
low temperatures for 20 days.



- 67 -
of 14.4 kg of carcass beef; 7.8 kg of pork, plus 1.2 kg from the integrated
pig operation; and an estimated 2.9 kg of edible offals. The projected
national per capita consumption figure for 1981 was 5.5 kg of beef, but in
1971, the rate was 6.0 kg of beef and 3.6 kg pork so it is reasonable to
assume that the municipal abattoir is handling the major part of
Tegucigalpa's consumption requirements, which are likely to be higher than
the national average. Presently, the abattoir has 98 full-time employees,
whereas the old installation engaged only 40 people.
23.       The medium-scale abattoir located near San Pedro Sula is also in
arrears for similar reasons, in addition to the fact that the income
generated goes into the municipal pool. The Project Unit, however, is
confident that the new mayor of the city will correct the situation. The two
small abattoirs in Villanueva and Choloma are reported to be operating
efficiently, without serious financial problems.
The Impact of the Project
24.       Direct Impact of the Project.  The Project Unit's analysis of
project impact in the Project Report (paras 4.01 to 4.06 and Table 13) is
satisfactory. However, the mission revised the interpretation of the basic
survey data used by the Project Unit to compile Table 13, the two farm
models, and their related tables in the Project Report. The "before project"
situations in the models agree with information contained in the sub-borrower
files and appear reasonable for the survey farms when individual case studies
are made. Some farms visited were non-productive or semi-abandoned before
entering the project, which would account, in particular, for the unusually
large increase in calving rates shown in Table 13. The remarkably low
pre-project death rates can be explained only by the farmers' lack of records
before entering the project, combined with wishful thinking. The survey
data, consist, as is usual, of spot information taken on a constantly
changing situation, but this was satisfactory, compared to efforts made in
similar circumstances. Subsequent results will be improved by
simplifications already applied.
25.       The data, collected from a cross-section of farms ranging from
those dealing with principally milk production to those engaged principally
in fattening, indicate sales in excess of net herd increase, including
recorded purchases, which obviously means that some purchases, possibly of
the previous year, were not recorded. This apparently anomalous position was
corrected in the Project Report models to represent a situation of continuing
herd build-up, stabilizing in year 7. In practice, this assumption would be
reasonable, because the farms visited by the mission showed an increasing
stocking rate, tending to stabilize in year 6, but they also indicated
continuing investment. To compensate for this modification of meat sales,
milk sales were increased in the South-Central model to maintain the same
gross income.2/
2/ It should be noted in the models presented in the Project Report that the
figures titled kg of beef, are actually pounds of liveweight, but the
figures were treated correctly.



- 68 -
26.       In mission calculations, an average dressing of 52.4% has been used
in converting liveweight to carcass equivalent when appropriate. Working
from the basic survey data, and correcting some arithmetical and
transcription errors, the mission prepared some modified coefficients
contained in Project Report (PR) Table 13.
Atlantic         South-Central
Zone Farm          Zone Farm
PR                  PR
Mission  Table B   Mission  Table B
Total cattle - Before development           240      240         261      261
- After development           366      425         349      423
Birth rate % - Before development            54       54          43        43
- After development            63       60          64        60
Milk sold per cow calving
- Before development          665      n.a.        751     n.a.
- After development           809      n.a.        776     n.a.
Off-take %   - Before development            14.6    19           15.2      19
After development            18.4    17           18.7     19
27.       Similarly the herd models were recalculated by the mission to
represent herds and income which stabilized in the year of the survey in an
attempt to calculate a financial rate of return from the initial investment,
not influenced by subsequent on-farm improvements.
28.       To permit comparison with Project Report model calculations, a
12-year period has been used instead of the customary 20 years for cattle
projects. It should be noted that in Project Report Tables 18 onwards,
before project incomes were apparently not inflated in 1979 US dollars,
thereby increasing the financial rates of return.
29.       The mission deflators used for 1975 to 1979 are 31.3%, 24.5%,
14.9%, and 9.0%, respectively, based on Table 21 of Bank Report 3606-HO of
August 1981.
30.       For the new cash flow, farmgate prices from Table D have been used
to calculate value of sales, including those before the project, for
consistency. The mission calculates the 12-year financial rates of return to
be 17% for a typical Atlantic zone farm and 14% for the Central-South zone
farm. Figures in the Project Report (Tables 18 and 19) were 13% and 20%,
respectively. No comparable figures are contained in the Appraisal Report.
31.       The incremental production figures estimated by the three groups
are shown in Table H. It is interesting to note that, if the milk sold and
consumed by calves were combined, the mission estimate for the fourth year is
equal to 60% of appraisal estimates for full development (year 12). The
extra milk fed to calves would require a three-year time lag to appear as
beef in a survey, so it is reasonable to assume that, at full development,
incremental beef production would be closer to appraisal estimates. At
present, it is only about 40% (Table H).



- 69 -
32.       Employment.  Appraisal Report paragraph 6.02 estimates that the
project would create an equivalent of 750 additional jobs plus the
incremental manpower requirements for the developing of supporting services.
The Project Report paragraph 4.11 states that no quantitative information was
available and the Project Unit makes a guess at 200 additional permanent
jobs. However, direct farm sampling and review of the Project Unit's
sub-borrowers' files, as well as taking into account the increase in number
of employees in the Project Unit, abattoirs, and livestock cooperatives,
indicate that the appraisal estimate was reached or exceeded.
33.       Indirect Project Impact.  A number of non-participating farmers
have benefitted from improved technology by observation and association, as
well as from genetic improvement in their livestock. In the central region
alone, eight of the nine sub-borrowers visited by the mission were selling
bulls for breeding at weaning or later at eight to 10 times their equivalent
value as meat animals. An important side effect is that the project made
possible, or even necessary, the subsequent financing of three milk
processing plants and their supporting collection services. Under these
conditions, it is impossible to estimate a meaningful without project
situation since none of the farmers or groups contacted by the mission were
unaware of the project. Actually, most could not take part only because they
had no guarantee.
34.       The mission could not estimate the effects of changes in land
prices on intensification and patterns of production because any effect would
be minor compared to the impact of the availability of credit to produce and
a market for dual-purpose milk, limited only by guarantee requirements.
35.       Environmental Impact.  The environmental impact of the project
would be positive. One-quarter of the funds were used for pasture
development, ensuring a better ground cover, which reduced erosion and
poaching. Additionally, 10% of funds were spent on water facilities, which
would lead to a better distribution of grazing pressure; the construction of
95 km of farm roads would also contribute to conserving ground cover.
36.       Updated Rates of Return Based on Appraisal Report Models.  Tables I
and J show the financial rate of return and Table K provides an estimate of
what would have happened had the farmers followed the appraisal mission's
proposals. The net incremental income is increased by 95%, but the unit
production costs are doubled for milk and the rate of return reduced from 25%
to 18% when stabilized at year 4 levels of production. The appraisal beef
breeding and fattening model has also been recalculated, reducing annual milk
production from 1,065 liters to 776 liters, the survey level for the Central-
South zone, but milking all cows calving, i.e., 69 instead of 15. The net
incremental income is increased by 430%, the unit production costs are
reduced, and the rate of return is increased from 21% to 44% when levels of
production are stabilized at year 4. Labor costs have been increased due to
intensified milking expenditures to US$6,661, and steer purchase costs from
US$0.278 to US$0.86 liveweight per kg, increasing operating costs another
US$15,345.



- 70 -
37.       Also if the South-Central zone mission model had not sold milk, but
only beef the financial rate of return would have been negative. Logically,
labor costs would be lower, but not enough to compensate for the income lost.
The Impact of Agrarian Reform on Project Implementation
38.       The Project Report paragraph 3.33 discusses the direct impact of
the Agrarian Reform Law on sublending, which virtually stopped until the
Central Bank passed regulations to safeguard the private banks from any
losses occurring through expropriation. However, there were numerous more
subtle side effects, many of which are still affecting the execution of the
Bank Group projects.
39.       Land reform was first enacted in 1962, but the process was slow
until 1972 when strong pressure from the rural poor forced new legislation
and an aggressive program. Land reform activities were expanded and
strengthened again with the 1975 agrarian reform law, which among other
things, exempted all farms of less than 50 ha from expropriation if they were
fully utilized, and exempted land on which specific crops were grown. As a
result, considerable additional land invasion occurred and several problems
arose, some of which affected the IDA project. For example, intensification
of any crop not specified in the list of exempted crops was effectively
halted. Also, banks insisted on a non-rural guarantee for loans, so that
what loans were made went to people owning a house in town. This of course
led to an increase in average farm size of borrowers because few small-scale
farmers had second houses and a considerable proportion of non-resident
sub-borrowers, as shown in Table B. It is not clear if, on balance, the
incentive to develop land to avoid expropriation was stronger than the
reverse reaction. The mission noted a tendency to minimal rather than
maximum investment and cautious interest in further borrowing on the part of
farmers who had already developed their land. On the other hand, non-project
farmers were anxious to solve their problem of guarantee and enter the
project.
40.       The positive result has been a progressive seeking of land titling,
so that in the southern zone where agrarian reform started, assisted by
USAID, lack of titles is not as prevalent a situation as it is in other
areas. It could be asked why the Bank did not make some provision for land
titling in this or the previous project since it was aware of the problems.
In fact, the Appraisal Report devotes several paragraphs in Annex 2 to the
matter, noting "that although receiving Government appropriation, loans from
international agencies, and donations of both cash and services from a wide
range of sources, finances have been inadequate, leadership erratic, staff
ill-chosen, and operational methods faulty." Finally, it states "agrarian
reform is the single most important issue facing Honduras."
The Participation of Private Banks
41.       The Project Report paragraphs 6.06 and 6.07 discuss the role of
financial intermediaries in project implementation. Almost all the private
banks in Honduras participated in the project, mainly because they



- 71 -
obtained an adequate return with almost no risk. Terms of lending were as
follows:
(a) lending rate, 9% p.a.;
(b) rediscount rate, 5% p.a.; and
(c) rediscount margin, 90% for subloans below US$9,000, and
75% for subloans exceeding US$9,000.
These terms determined the gross return on bank funds that went into
financing project implementation, such returns ranging from 45% for financing
Part A to 21% for financing Part B.3/
42.       The Central Bank applied a 100% rediscounting margin in financing
working capital, thus, increasing both the gross and net return on the funds
of financial intermediaries on two counts: (a) no participating bank funds
were used to finance working capital requirements; thus, the spread of 4% was
applied to funds which were fully provided by the Central Bank; and (b)
almost no incremental administrative costs were involved in checking on
borrowers' working capital requirements or in supervising their use as these
had to be dealt with through the usual analysis and supervision of the
investment plan that was to be carried out by the financial intermediary.
43.       Considering the capital market that prevailed in Honduras during
project implementation, the project's lending terms (i.e., lending rate of
interest, spread, and rediscounting margin) were apparently sufficient to
attract private banks. The table shown in paragraph 6.06 of the Project
Report should be better presented by excluding the value of subloans made
directly by the Central Bank to municipalities. This would indicate that, of
subloans made, using some funds from financial intermediaries, the share of
the National Bank in financing subloans was only 26%, while the remaining 74%
was financed by nine private banks, accounting for the vast majority of the
banking community in Honduras. The private banks' share in project
implementation reflected their interest in project implementation and paved
the way to further participation of the entire private banking sector in
implementing all follow-up projects.
44.       Arrears.  Reporting on arrears (Project Report para 6.09) started
at a late stage in the project life, as participating banks were initially
not asked to report on such matters. The Project Unit itself did not pay
adequate attention to the issue, basing its approach on the erroneous
assumption that, because participating banks were to repay their
rediscounting margin promptly to the Central Bank, regardless of whether or
not the ultimate beneficiary promptly repaid his debt, the arrears situation
was not important.
3/ (a) 9% - (90% x 5%)
-~~iO  - -            = 45%
100% - 90%
(b) 9% - (75% x 5%) = 21%
100% - 75%



- 72 -
45.       Figures, as shown in the table on arrears, paragraph 6.09 of the
Project Report, are incomplete and biased downward as at least one bank
manager informed the mission that, in case of arrears, he "closed" the
overdue subloan and "opened" a new loan with the banks own funds, charging
the client a higher rate of interest. However, quite correctly he did not
record the newly opened loan as a project subloan. This procedure is clearly
a legitimate one though it prevents a real analysis of arrears in project
implementation. The situation was aggravated because the Project Unit did
not understand that Bank's policy on imposing a surcharge exceeding the usual
rate of interest on arrears and objected to participating banks' attempts to
apply the higher rates. It took quite a long time to convince the Project
Unit and the Central Bank to introduce the penalty rate on overdues, but, as
of 1982, the procedure was finally implemented and applied to all arrears
under the four projects that are being managed by the Project Unit, including
subloans originally granted under Loan 434-Ho and subloans made from
recuperated funds of the Loan 434-HO portfolio.
46.       Guarantees.  The ability of a potential beneficiary to offer a land
guarantee was a prime factor in the decision by a private bank to grant a
subloan.  Only the National Bank (BANADESA), which accounted for 26% of the
total value of subloans granted, accepted livestock as a guarantee. This
policy of preferring to deal with borrowers who could offer land mortgage,
particularly urban property (see para 3.33 in the Project Unit's Project
Report), remained in effect during project implementation, and, though it
minimized participating banks' commercial risk, it restricted access of
farmers who did not have land title or urban property. Also the excessive
demand for this line of credit allowed the private banks to screen their
potential borrowers, mainly on the basis of their offering a land guarantee
and not on the merit of their investment plans, agricultural performance, and
such.
47.       Accounting and Auditing.  During project implementation, Bank
missions sought to improve the accounting and auditing of project accounts,
but the Borrower and the independent auditor blame the lack of a guide of
manual of Bank requirments as the reason for their failure to fully meet
expectations. Improvement was gradually achieved, through repeated meetings
of Bank staff with the independent auditor, the Superintendent of Banks, the
Project Unit, with the most important accomplishments being (a) separate
presentation of project accounts of Credit 434-HO, including a balance sheet,
income statements, and statements of sources and applications of funds; (b)
use of uniform classification of project income and expenditures in all the
audited financial statements of the financial intermediaries; and (c)
supplementry financial information on arrears separately presented for
principal and interest, including analysis of arrears age.
48.       The Project Unit has implemented all these improvements in all its
follow-up projects. An annual desk review of the audited project accounts
carried out by a Bank financial analyst became a regular practice four years
ago, followed by an annual meeting with the participation of the



-73 -
Superintendent of Banks in Honduras, the Director of the Project Unit and the
representative of the Bank to discuss actual performance and aiming at
implementing further improvements in future audited project accounts.
Audited financial statements of both the Project Unit and the financial
intermediaries were submitted to the Bank promptly.
49.       Diversion and Substitution of Funds.  The intensive check on
investment plans and close supervision by Project Unit officials ensures that
funds were properly used.
50.       About 74% of the value of subloans granted by private banks went to
sub-borrowers who could offer land or urban property as guarantees because
the main private banks were interested mainly in securing their investments
in case of default; consequently, it is possible that funds could have been
substituted when project funds replaced either borrower equity or other
borrowed funds that could be used for project implementation. However,
considering that no other funds could be obtained in the form of long-term
loans in Honduras during project implementation, it does not seem likely that
a borrower would have invested his own equity or roll over short-term funds
to finance a long-term investment plan, the return on which would be quite
unpredictable, particularly in the light of the agrarian reform's
uncertainties. The 9% rate of interest which was used to finance project
implementation was clearly below the prevailing lending interest rate -- 11%
p.a., and above the rate earned on term deposits. This argues for the
conclusion that if there was any substitution it was of minor magnitude, as
it is very unlikely that potential investors would risk their own equity, or
pay a higher rate of interest, under the conditions that prevailed in
Honduras during project implementation.
The Adequacy of Technical Assistance Provided to Beneficiaries
51.       Over the period of project implementation, 1974-79, the number of
technical personnel employed increased from 14 to 43, including the three
consultants provided by CATIE. Despite the fact that a number of technicians
are new to the project, the level of technical assistance provided appears to
have been quite satisfactory. One serious problem affecting technical
assistance is the lack of applied research data, especially in relation to
suitable pasture species and pasture mixtures; fertilizer requirements and
responses; and the suitability of different breeds of cattle for the various
environments within Honduras.






HONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT CREDIT 434-HO
PROJECT REPORT, LCP REGIONAL, CRITIQUE
Cooperative Groups Financed (excluding Isleta)
Total A.l.'s    Total                  Prevafling                     Average
No. of        Before          Area         Ha!        Type of       Loan Size    Loan!
Name of Cooperative or Group                   Members    Development        (ha)      Member       Activity          (L)         Member (L)
A.  CATTLE FARMS
1.  Coop. Agrop. Guanchias 1/               130            60             210       1.6       cattle/agric.  142,000           1,092
2.  Coop. Experimental Guanchias              90          268             387       4.3       cattle/agric.  150,000           1,667
3.  ANACH. San Jose de Tela                   25            0              71       2.8       cattle/agric.   30,000           1,200
4.  Coop. Agrop. Las Mercedes                 41          165             107       2.6       cattle/agric.   50,760           1 238
Total Cattle Farms                      286           493             775       2.7                        372,76D         1,303
B.  PIG FARMS
1.  Coop. Agrop. Guanchias 1/              (130)           0               -         -        cattle/agric.   62,740              483
2.  Coop. Agrop. Buenos Amiigos               17           0               -         -        cattle/agric.   21,500            1,265
Total Pig Fareis                         17            0               -         -                          84,240           5732/
Total Beneficiaries 3/
1/ Same cooperatives.
2/ 147 members are considered.
3/ 100% residence on farm.
Source: IDA Review Mlission
April 30, 1982



- 76 -
TABLE B
HONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT CREDIT 434-HO
PROJECT REPORT, LCP REGIONAL CRITIQUE
Location of Residence of Beneficiaries (Cattle Farms) by Bank
Bank               On-Farm                      Off-Farm                     Tota:L
ATLANTIDA                  9                             4                       13
BANCAHORRO               30                             13                       43
BANCAHSA                122 l/                          18                      140
OCCIDENTE                 14                            17                       31
FINANCIERA                50 1/                         12                       62
HONDURAS                  18                             5                       23
SOGERIN                  24                             15                       39
FOMENTO                 213 2/                          21                      234
COMERCIO                   1                             1                        2
CONTINENTAL                2                             -                        2
TOTAL                 483                            106                      589
Note: Subloans for abattoirs and bananas are excluded.
1/ Including one cooperative society.
2/ Including four cooperative society.
Source: IDA Review Mission
April 30, 1982



HONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT CREDIT 434-HO
PROJECT REPORT, LCP REGIONAL CRITIQUE
C.O.I. Index, Beef, Meat and Imports Inputs Prices 1966-81
Consumer Index 1/                Farm Gate                   Imports - L/m ton CIF
Beef
L/kg/       Milk       Nitrogen       Machinery and Tools
Year               Total       Food     Meat       Liveweight    L/l
1966                 100        100       100
1973                 121        125       139          -                        186                 3,777
1974                 136        148       166         0.96       0.26            -                  4,111
1975                 147        160       172         0.79       0.27            -                  4,786
1976                 155        167       179         0.94       0.30           299                 5,083
1977                 168        186       205         0.85       0.32           353                 4,790
1978                 177        197       217         1.32       0.32           330                 5,187
1979                 193        213       247         1.71       0.35           381                  n.a.
1980                 229        254       n.a.        1.65       0.40           437                  n.a.
1981                n.a.        n.a.      n.a.        1.49       0.45           n.a.                 n.a.
% diff. 1973/79            73         71        78            78 2/      34 2/       105                     37 3/
1/ Ministry of Economy.
2/  1979 compared with 1974.
3/ 1978 compared with 1973.
Source: IDA Review Mission
April 30, 1982



HONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT CREDIT 434-HO
PROJECT REPORT, LCP REGIONAL CRITIQUE
On-Farm Beef and Milk Prices in Current Terms
1974-81
1974      1975      1976      1977      1978      1979      1980      1981
Beef Price, L/kg Liveweight a/    0.96         0.79      0.94      0.85      1.32      1.71       1.65      1.49             1
Milk Price, L/l b/                   0.26      0.27      0.30      0.32      0.32      0.35      0.40      0.45             m
Ratio Beef/Milk Price                    3.7       2.9       3.1       2.6       4.1       4.9       4.1       3.3
a/ Prices paid by meat packing plants to farmers. Meat packing plants use "Yellow Sheet" cow meat
prices as guideline.
b/ Prices paid by milk processing plants to farmers. Selling prices by milk processing plants to
consumers have been regulated by Government.
Source: IDA Review Mission
April 30, 1982



. 79 -
TABLE E
HONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT CREDIT 434-HO
PROJECT REPORT, LCP REGIONAL CRITIQUE
Milk received at plant (liters)
Average
Number       Daily Volume    Plant Producer
Volume Received        of           per Supplier         Price
Year                     L           Suppliers            1                 L/l
1973                  616.167              34             50                --
1974                2.456.150              58            116               29.5
1975                3.437.647             211             45               29.5
1976                5.442.021             261 L/          57               29.5
1977                7.060.618             187            103             29.5/39.5
JULY
1978                7.879.344             193            112               39.5
1979                7.878.293             224             96               39.5
1980                8.759.337             326             74             39.5/45.5
SEPT.
July/81             5.399.834             326             78               45.5
(213 days)
1/ November 6 and 7, 1976 - Huracan.
Source: IDA Review Mission
April 30, 1982



_ 80 _
TABLE F
HONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT CREDIT 434-HO
PROJECT REPORT, LCP REGIONAL CRITIQUE
Percentage Inputs - Livestock Models
Appraisal Model                Appraisal      Actual
1         2         3          4        Average       Average
Pastures             12.0       8.9       30.0      20.3         18.0         24.0
Fencing              11.0       7.9       16.0      10.2         11.2         12.0
Water                17.5      12.5       19.5      18.7         16.9         10.0
Buildings            6.0        5.4        7.5       4.2          6.7         10.0
Machinery            13.5      33.9       17.0       4.2         16.9          6.0
Breeding Stock      40.0       31.4      10.0       42.4         30.3         38.0
100.0     100.0      100.0     100.0        100.0        100.C
Source: IDA Review Mission
April 30, 1982



- 81 -                        TABLE G
HONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT CREDIT 434-HO
PROJECT REPORT, LCP REGIONAL CRITIQUE
General Information on Abattoirs Financed
Daily Slaughter
Abattoir         Capacity (heads)          Size of
Location         Cattle       Pigs         Subloan             Loan Status
L
San Pedro Sula        190         400         826,074         Arrears as of Nov/81
Interest = L 101,175
Principal = 99,375
L 200,550
Villanueva              9           6          36,564              Satisfactory
Choloma                10          15          32,728              Satisfactory
Tegucigalpa           200         400       1,899,617         Interest  = 269,358
Principal = 237,452
506,810
2,794,983
Source: IDA Review Mission
April 30, 1982



HONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT CREDIT 434-HO
PROJECT REPORT, LCP REGIONAL CRITIQUE
Annual Incremental Production
Review
Appraisal                   Completion Report                  Mission
Atlantic      Central     Total
Marketed Milk  m ton           22,100             6,296          3,508      9,804            4,545
Calf Milk      m ton            3,000                -              -       3,000            9,404                      m
Beef Sold      m ton            3,850             1,125            391      1,516            1,465 1!
Pork Sold      m ton              650                _-                        -               550
1/ Includes 397 m ton net production from 3,971 purchased animals.
Source: IDA Review Mission
April 30, 1982                                                                                              >



HONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT CREDIT 434-HO
PROJECT REPORT, LCP REGIONAL CRITIQUE
Cash Flow - Atlantic Zone Farm in 1979 US$
Before          ---------------------Year---------------------
Project         1           2           3         4-11         12
Cash
Sales volume - Beef (kg)                   5,689        4,787       7,348       8,062      11,029
Milk (1)                  36,580        44,566     49,822      59,422      64,780                                               1
value - Beef (US$)                 4,282         4,294       5,960      10,155      17,995                                               x
Milk (US$)                 4,938         6,015      7,473       9,507      11,336
Total value        (US$)                9,220        10,309      13,433      19,662      29,331
Cash Outflow
Investment                                   -         30,589       7,647
Operating costs                           6,475         8,400      10,200      12,150      14,350
Total                                   6,475        38,989      17,847      12,150      14,350
Net Benefit                                2,745       (28,680)    (4,414)      7,512      14,981                Incl. incremental
herd - US$39,135
Net Inflated Benefit (1979 US$)            3,604       (35,706)    (5,071)      8,188      14,981                Year 12 internal rate
of return = 17%
Net Incremental Benefit (1979 US$)           -         (39,310)    (8,675)      4,584      11,376      50,511
Source: IDA Review Mission
April 30, 1982
9,1



HONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT CREDIT 434-HO
PROJECT REPORT, LCP REGIONAL CRITIQUE
Cash Flow - South Central Zone Farm in 1979 US$
Before        -----------------------Year        -----       ---------
Project          1             2            3          4-11         12
Cash Sales
Volume - Beef (kg)                         6,335         4,751        7,324       9,217      12,148
Milk (1)                        47,739        56,575       74,460      85,118      64,425
Value - Beef (US$)                        4,775         4,262        5,940      11,610     19,821
Milk (US$)                       6,444         8,486       14,913      13,618      11,274
Total Value (US$)                      11,219        12,748       17,853      25,228      31,095
Cash Outflow
Investment                                   -          26,395        4,599        -            -
Operating costs                           7,880         10,360       12,105      15,235     17,700
Total                                   7,880        36,755       23,704      15,235      17,700
Net Benefit                                3,339       (24,007)      (5,851)      9,993     13,395                Incl. incremental
herd - US$20,013
Net Inflated Benefit (1979 US$)            4,384       (29,888)      (6,722)    10,892      13,395                Year 12 internal rate
of return = 14%
Net Incremental Benefit (1979 US$)           -         (34,272)    (11,106)       6,508      9,011      29,024
Without Milk
Net Inc. Benefit                                        (42,758)   (23.019)    (7,110)    (2,263)
Source: IDA Review Mission
April 30, 1982



HONDURAS
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT CREDIT 434-HO
PROJECT REPORT, LCP REGIONAL CRITIQUE
Costs and Income Estimates for Year 4 in 1979 US$
Unit Operating Expenses
Net Incremental                                            Per kg         %7 Year 12
Income Year 4                   Per Cow                      Sold          Financial
US$        %        Per AU    Milked   L Milk/Sold  Liveweight    Rate of Return
Appraisal - Estimated Prices                                                                                                                             m
- Model  (II) (intensive milk)    2,107         544         72           158         0.11         1.00              25
Model (III) (beef)                 1,733      152         75        1,028          0.94         0.38              21
Appraisal - Modified l/
Model  (II)/Atlantic               4,119   1,164          72           158         0.20         1.00              18
Model (III)/Central               11,192   1,550         131           542         0.70         0.80              44
Mission - Actual Prices
Atlantic Zone                       11,376      315         50           121         0.22         0.68              17
South-Central                        9,011      205         60           146         0.27         0.76              14
South-Central 2/                   (2,263)    -52          60           -             -          0.76          NEGATIVE
Completion Report - Actual Prices
Atlantic Zone                        4,377      297          50          121         0.22         0.88              13
South-Central Zone                            7,014      400         60          146          0.17         0.91              20
1/ Appraisal Model II with milk production reduced to Mission estimate of Atlantic level.
Appraisal Model III with milk production reduced to Mission estimate of Central level but with all cows milked
i.e. 61 not 15 producing; 776 not 1,065 L at prices from Table D (on farm beef and milk prices in current terms).
2/ Mission model without milk sales.
Source: IDA Review Mission
April 30, 1982






IBRD-10416(PCR)
80w   7   7r   aa-    37-                                        ab-    ,                                    dS-                                               F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- ~~~~~ n   DEC9A8ER1982~~~~~~~ECMBR 19-
CAl/-A/A  SE 1 SEA N/CE  /ACE/ Ed,          L                                                                                       IS/LA_A IAMA /C .   A
,S,,$                        ~     ~~~~~~~~~C A h7 / 8 IF A N                   -     TI SAI                        ifAhLID,                                                                           |Bi T;AS/AsE
g~~~~~~~~~~~~ R  .A FUANT2EMALAA  SA/                                                                                                                                                        fL/C          OE            CARSA
'  UTIS//C  5NAD'                                                                                                            . _       HON DURAS- 
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E- -.T                                                                                                                                                               -u C's_?  it>\s0
NJ/P  I/P  /C~N///PAA/ R-I                                                                                                                                                                              EL/EL/SDE-N TLE/AA
IN  'S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-JLI.Og      
C U//                                                                  >5//I/A    /.    '                     -^ PA                                                CP /CA  >SC/AN -  -  -';
CG UA              E                                                                   'AL                       ' A                                        [               -D
/,; PA R$X SAN                               s-\ .t ,-      Ca LANT/I/Os- AI                      SAVA
s-N                                                                                                                                                             --~~~~~~~~~~.IP  6  C.  A  G
:AACI  A Z  ,A  //AcA        AC                                                                    \               e R                        /                                      GRAVEL                                1 S E
I    R A                                _  |A SO A   D I LOS
ACUEL~~~~~ DRNORAYO    L    R Q 0                                   SAPUERTC;'.                                         )                                                 MAN   IPOT
E  L  5  A  L V  A  D  0~~~~ R5 G O                         N GRANG ;\E  A        Q   EIOAIJTN   !         o                            .'!DPRM                                                                       ONA  E
MAN           N   C/S  H                                         IL                       I
------^--S~ ~ ~ BAMR                                                                           ANT         SAN TI9ESLNCNLCURTISCO NCPC
YE7
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'  D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                 EE.5'~
S~~A                         LA I BE-0   01  IEL PORVENIR       G~~AYAMAIEIoSIs
DTeA~ ~ ~    ~    ~~~          //A 0',                   CE'S'            ER>/CAAAMER-
CN/O F R A N                                   //.N-           c 
H ONIDU) R AS
AAG LTENCA                 ASECOND  LIVESTOCK  DEVELOPMENT  PRO JECT  K
CSS///       SA I           C5PR JC                                                                                                                                               AREAS
-A/AM/A       -                                                     0    EU/ST/NC  N//WORK OP MEAT PACKING P/ANTS
TEGUCIGSACP                               E       P    R A                                                                       REGoI- /CONAL CC/CE BOUNDARIES
~~~LEIATER                                                                                          BI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ATUM/NOUS SURFACED RCADS
LA  PAZ       5/~~AGI                                                                                                                                GR  S/S,.      l  /.C~  __CAU/LB  EARTH  S'S//ACED ROADS    A
LAUTER16UE  ~ ~    ~      ~      SIC   CPA/U RoUs---   A IL/CADS
ul              DEN.IEN  A                                                                                                            k~~~~~/)/  N   /IUVERS
1_~~~..C--                 SAN ESN'S AA' MAIN  AIRPC/CS
LANI.E ~ ~ ~ ~  ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    /4    MA/N  PORTS
L  S  A  U V  A  0  0   R  'SOS/CO/AN     A L    p   SAC Sd/C  T///C//A//C~~Ll  -,,                                                                                       -- --  'S/PA/SPA/N/AL  BOUNDAR I/S
ALIA  .   I- - -,                           %A N ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I---   / iS/ACT ENTONAL ACUNDARIES
NC-     EL T/A/C //ANC<~~~~ MAC//C,~-  N          CC/CC//CE/OARI                                                                                                                  TH/U MAP ISUBA/SEDE ON/BRD/104, MAE/ /9/.
-N-                                                      /                                                    A         55       S'S        N         /0/                                      D , a,  OUNDARY If,l/M//APR HAS BE/N UPDATED
PA C/F/C         OCEAN                                            CCOFSCA                                                                                             KILO////'  N/METC/S                                             AND BRITISH HONDURAS HAD SBEEA
7'-    -                                                                 ES'                                       BC'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MNEDT   DBbZ



