Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.:    20331
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(LOAN/CREDIT/TRUST FUND P8350; 20807; 20031; 03570; 26520)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 7.1 MILLION (US$ 10.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
ALBANIA
FOR AN IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
April 12, 2000
EnvironmentaRy and Socialy Sustainable Development Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of April 1, 2000)
Currency Unit = ALL
1 ALL = US$ 0.07143
US$ 1 = 140 ALL
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -   December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
EDI           Econornic Development Institute
ERR           Economic rate of return
FRR           Financial rate of return
FWUA(s)       Federation(s) of water user associations
IDA           International Development Association
IFAD          International Fund for Agriculture Development
IsDB          Islamic Development Bank
MoAF          Ministry of Agriculture and Food
M&E           Monitoring and evaluation
PMU           Project Management Unit
WBI           World Bank Institute
WE(s)         Water enterprise(s)
WUA(s)        Water user association (s)
Vice President:   Johannes Linn
Country Manager/Director:    Arntraud Hartnann
Sector Manager/Director:   Joseph Goldberg/Kevin Cleaver
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Toru Konishi



FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
Albania Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
Implemetation Completion Report
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  7
6. Sustainability                                                                      8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                       9
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    11
9. Partner Comments                                                                   12
10. Additional Information                                                            14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  16
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  18
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  20
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  22
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     23
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 24
This document has a restricted distnbution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank autizaton.



I



Project ID P008270                                       Project Name: ALBANIA IRRIGATION
REHABILITATION PROJECT
Team Leader: Toru Konishi                                TL Unit: ECSSD
ICR Type Core ICR                                        Report Date April 12, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: ALBANIA IRRIGATION REHABILITATION                LICNumber: P8350; 20807; 20031;
PROJECT                                                      03570; 26520
Countr Departmen: ALBANIA                                              Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsecto,: AI - Irrigation & Drainage
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  07/16/93                               Effective: 09/30/94           09/30/94
Appraisal:  11/29/93                                 MTR: 12/31/96             12/15/96
Approval: 09/06/94                                Closing: 06/30/2001          02/10/2000
Borrower/Implementing Agenc;: ALBANIA/MIN. OF AGRICULTURE AND FOOD
Other Partners: Government of Netherlands, OPEC Fund, Kuwait Fund, Govermnent of Italy
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:     Johannes Linn                             Wilfiied Thalwitz
Country Manage,:     Arntraud Hartmann                        Kemal Dervis
Sector Manager:      Joseph Goldberg                          Rory O'Sullivan
Team Leader at ICR:   Toru Konishi                            Michael Koch
ICR Primary Author:   Toru Konishi; Ibrahim Hackaj;
Gabriel Ionita; Sarah L.
Hammill; Neal Mountstephens
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S-=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: HS
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: HS
Borrower Performance: HS
OA( (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entrj:                       S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3. OriginG Objective:
The project had the following three objectives: (a) to increase agricultural production by raising farm
productivity through the rapid rehabilitation of existing irrigation and drainage infrastructure; (b) to
alleviate poverty by increasing the incomes of small private farmers and creating employment opportunities
for dependent farm labor in rural areas; and (c) to ensure the long-term sustainability of irrigation and
drainage investments through farmer participation in operation and maintenance, efficient system
management, and adequate cost recovery.
3.2 Revise, Objective:
No revisions were made.
3. Origina Components:
The project comprised the following four components.
Component 1. System rehabilitation. This component aimed to rehabilitate 21 irrigation schemes and 18
drainage schemes, covering a command area of 73,486 hectares for irrigation and 99,304 hectares for
drainage in seven coastal districts, including a demonstration scheme for canal control covering 1,000
hectares of irrigation command area.
Component 2. Institutional development and capacity building. This component aimed to facilitate the
development and strengthening of water user associations (WUAs) and state-owned water enterprises
(WEs). In particular, the component financed equipment such as excavators and dredgers, which are
critical for the maintenance of large irrigation and drainage canals, as well as technical assistance and
training for WUAs, and a demonstration program for improved on-farm water management.
Component 3. Policy support. This component aimed to assist the Government in (a) developing a
regulatory framework for irrigation and drainage, (b) transferring small irrigation systems to WUAs, and
(c) consolidating small village-based WJUAs into large hydraulic-based WUAs.
Component 4. Project implementation support. This component aimed to support the project management
unit (PMU) in managing and administering project implementation by providing critical technical
assistance on project administration, and financing incremental operating costs, equipment, and vehicles.
3.4 Revise, Components:
No major revisions were made. However, the technical assistance program under Components 2 and 3
above was revised in response to the rapid development and evolution of WlUAs (see Section 4.5
Institutional Development). The planned studies on water charges were replaced by continued technical
assistance for WUAs as the Govermnent decided to transfer all irrigation management to WUAs and their
federations (FWUAs), including the determination of water tariffs. Planned technical assistance for private
pumping development was canceled, as this assistance was considered to be premature.
3.' Quality at Entry:
Overall, project design was satisfactory, based on a realistic assessment of the capacity of the Albanian
counterpart. The project originally envisaged the modest goals of rehabilitating deteriorated irrigation and
drainage schemes and assisting farmers in organizing water user associations at the tertiary level. A
supporting legal framework was duly prepared during the preparation period. Sufficient budget was
appropriated for the technical assistance (US$3.1 million, about 7 percent of the total cost) to ensure
smooth project implementation, particularly at the start-up when Albania did not have any experience in
- 2 -



donor-assisted projects.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall achievement of project objectives is judged to be highly satisfactory. The project substantially
met the original objectives of (a) increasing farming productivity, (b) increasing farming incomes and
reducing rural poverty, and (c) increasing the sustainability of irrigation and drainage management.
Detailed observations for each of these objectives are summarized below.
Increase in Farming Productivity. The project is returning some 91,000 hectares of land to irrigation and
100,000 to drainage, thereby increasing potential crop yields. A 1998 socio-economic survey on project
impact (based on a sample of about 700 farms) indicated the following impact on yields through a
comparison of project areas (with rehabilitation) and non-project areas (without rehabilitation):
Crop                 yield outside the project  yield in the project area
area (t/ha)                (tlha)
Alfalfa                                 30.6                    44.3
Maize                                    3.6                     4.8
Beans                                    1.1                     1.4
Vegetables                              18.5                    24.3
Watermelon                              28.0                    31.3
Wheat                                    3.1                     3.4
Increase in Farming Incomes. The study also indicated a potential increase in farm income of around
US$350 per hectare, which exceeds per-hectare rehabilitation costs for irrigation and drainage (US$242 in
total) by almost 50 percent and confirms a strong positive economic impact. While changes in the pattems
of crops grown after rehabilitation are unremarkable, except for watermelon, which has increased
dramatically, yields in rehabilitated areas show a strong positive increase. In addition, the project had the
additional impact of increasing irrigation intensity. The survey also indicated a doubling of the proportion
of land that farmers consider to be 'well irrigated', from 20 to 44 percent in rehabilitated areas (see Annex
3).
Sustainability of Irrigation Management.  The project made substantial achievements in meeting this
objective. At the time of appraisal, the irrigation sector was suffering from a downward spiral starting with
low cost recovery from irrigation farmers, financial hardship of public sector institutions managing
irrigation facilities, deferred or neglected maintenance, physical deterioration, and unreliable services. The
project aimed to take a first step toward restoring the sustainability of the sector by introducing
participatory management through water user associations (WUAs).
The project originally envisaged establishing village-based WUAs for managing tertiary canals and
restoring the capacity of state-owned irrigation and drainage water enterprises for managing primary and
secondary irrigation facilities. The project did help farmers organize into village-based WUAs in 1994,
and gradually increased their role and mandate in response to unexpected events such as the collapse of the
financial pyramid schemes, the subsequent civil crisis, political instability, and the failure of irrigation and
drainage water enterprises. At completion, the project had facilitated the establishment of 208 WUAs
covering more than 81,000 hectares, that are financially autonomous and responsible for operation and
- 3 -



maintenance of tertiary and secondary irrigation canals. They are in charge of all tasks related to irrigation
ranging from operating and maintaining secondary and tertiary canals, to preparing the O&M budget,
determining fees for irrigation services, coordinating water allocation, and billing and collecting fees from
members. In addition, following the collapse of the state-owned irrigation and drainage water enterprises,
these WUAs started to form their own federations (FWUAs) for operating and maintaining primary
irrigation facilities, including main canals, reservoirs, and/or headworks. At the completion of the project,
12 FWUAs had been established, completely taking over operational responsibilities for irrigation schemes
covering some 70,000 hectares. (see Section 4.5 Institutional Development for details on WUAs and
FWUAs, and Section 8 Lessons Learned).
While the WUAs in general still require substantial technical assistance to strengthen their technical,
financial, and administrative capacity, the general trend is positive. A survey was carried out to assess the
overall capacity of WUAs using the following criteria: (a) association management (membership coverage,
attendance at general meetings), (b) irrigation management (irrigation intensity, average number of
irrigations), and (c) financial sustainability (cost recovery, collection rate). The survey found that most
(85%) WUAs have successfully managed their four principle tasks: administration of their associations,
distribution of irrigation water, maintenance and operation of irrigation canals, and collection of water fees.
Cost recovery improved significantly as WUAs took on more and more responsibilities and gained farmers'
confidence by providing better services than the water enterprises and by increasing accountability. Cost
recovery for irrigation services was almost zero in 1993 when the project started. In 1999, the total
collection from irrigation farmers amounted to lek 29 million (US$220,000 equivalent). In addition, WUAs
are successfully mobilizing volunteer labor from concemed members to maintain tertiary canals. In 1998
and 1999, only the irrigation schemes managed by WUAs paid for electricity services. The Government
has completely phased out subsidies to irrigation.
During the 1999 irrigation season, about 15 percent of the WUAs collected nearly all of their budgeted
operation costs, and another 40 percent collected about half of their costs. These facts have two
implications: WUAs are either deferring maintenance of rehabilitated irrigation facilities, or over-budgeted
the cost of maintenance and operation. The PMU continues to supervise the budgeting process and monitor
the actual maintenance of rehabilitated canals.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Component l---Physical rehabilitation. Rehabilitation was completed by the end of 1999, one and a half
years ahead of schedule. This component was implemented in six phases, and comprised 242 civil works
contracts totaling US$27.66 million (US$23.51 million for irrigation and US$4.15 million for drainage).
Under this component, the project rehabilitated an irrigation service area of 100,149 hectares at an average
cost of US$207 per hectare, and a drainage area of 109,868 hectares at US$35 per hectare. An area of
38,764 hectares was restored to irrigation, and improvements were made on a further 61,385 hectares; the
figures for drainage are 19,805 hectares and 90,063 hectares respectively. These figures significantly
exceeded the expectations of the staff appraisal report (SAR)--the rehabilitated irrigation service area is 37
percent larger, with a savings of 32 percent in unit costs, and for drainage the area is 11 percent larger,
with a savings of 57 percent in unit costs. In addition, the project also inspected 26 irrigation reservoirs,
and carried out repair works at 3 of these.
Component 2---Institutional Development. This component financed technical assistance (a WUA expert
and a gender specialist), training, workshops, and study tours to facilitate the establishment of water user
associations (WUAs). The imnplementation of this component is highly satisfactory, and was instrumental
in bringing about the results on WUAs described in Section 4.1 above.
- 4 -



Component 3---Policy Support. The implementation of this component is considered to be satisfactory, as
the project was instrumental in developing the enabling regulatory framework and revising it periodically in
response to a rapidly changing environment. During preparation of the project between 1992 and 1994, a
new Irrigation Code and Regulations for Water Users' Associations were developed and adopted. At the
request of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food (MoAF), the PMU prepared draft amendments to the
Irrigation Code and the WUA Regulations to stipulate the formulation of WUAs on a hydraulic basis and
to enable the transfer of operational responsibility for secondary irrigation canals to WUAs. The
amendment was passed by Parliament in March 1996.
In 1998, after experimenting the pilot FWUA program in Kavaje, a study was carried out under this
component to assess the capacity of water enterprises, and to explore optimal institutional arrangements for
irrigation and drainage management. Consequently, a consensus was reached on transferring all irrigation
management to users (FWUAs), and restructuring the existing water enterprises as drainage boards that
would take over responsibility for drainage and flood management from the WEs. The project further
supported preparation of a draft new Law on Irrigation and Drainage, No. 8515, to establish a
comprehensive legal framework for the establishment and operation of WUAs, FWUAs and drainage
boards. The law was adopted by the Parliament on July 30, 1999.
Component 4---Project Implementation Support. This component financed incremental operating costs,
salaries of PMU staff, technical assistance for project administration (financial management, procurement,
and engineering), and essential equipment. The implementation of this component is considered highly
satisfactory. The project duly managed a large number of small civil works contracts (more than 270
contracts with an average cost of US$100,000) on time, on budget, and with good quality. These contracts
were procured in full compliance with the Bank guidelines under National Competitive Bidding procedures.
The financial management of the PMU is also considered satisfactory. Project audits from 1994 to 1998
revealed no major issues.
4. i Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The primary project benefits are increased agricultural production and a corresponding increase in the
incomes of farming families through the restoration and improvement of irrigation services. The increase in
agricultural production occurred through either an increase in yields or conversion to higher value crops.
At appraisal, the ERR was estimated to be approximately 17 percent.
As a part of the completion exercise, an economic analysis was updated using actual data on costs and
updated project benefit estimates based on the surveys. During the 1999 irrigation season, after just 2-3
years of rehabilitation, the project had already made a distinct economic impact. While conversion to
higher crops had not yet occurred, perhaps because farmers are generally conservative and hesitant to do
so, the irrigation area increased substantially (full irrigation was 44.3 percent within the rehabilitated area
compared to 20.9 percent in non-rehabilitated areas). The updated ERR is estimated to be 38 percent (see
Annex 3 for details). The net present value discounted at 12 percent is US$86.1 million.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
The project benefited about 75,000 small family farms that typically have 0.5 to 1.0 hectares of irrigated
farmland. A conventional FRR would not apply to this project. Instead, a farm model was updated for a
typical farm using the survey data from the 1998 and 1999 irrigation seasons. The project is estimated to
have increased annual farming incomes for typical farming families owning 1.0 hectare of land by
approximately US$345, an increase of about 85 percent. The net return per day of farm labor has also
increased by nearly 50 percent, from about US$6.37 to US$9.36.
- 5 -



However, it is also evident that even with the project, the current average farm size is too small to provide
an average family with full time employment or adequate support for a four- to five-person household.
Even with the project, it is necessary for family members to seek off-farm employment to supplement their
farming income. These results can be improved by further intensifying irrigated agriculture over the
coming years, developing higher standards of quality for produce, and improving market access.
Nevertheless, for the time being irrigated agriculture is probably the most efficient domestic generator of
employment and income.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project's institutional development impact is exceptional. The project originally set a modest target of
developing small, village-based WUAs to manage tertiary canals; however, during implementation, the
concept of WUAs developed considerably in response to farmers' reactions and unexpected events such as
the collapse of the pyramid schemes and civil turmoil. The WUAs were first established on a village basis
in 1994 and 1995 as planned in the SAR, but within one year all of these WUAs expressed a strong
preference to consolidate into larger, hydraulic-based WUAs, as farmers were not convinced of the
improved efficiency and economies of scale. Furthermore, farmers demanded financial autonomy and more
responsibility, as they did not want to depend on the unreliable services of water enterprises. Following
large study tours to Turkey and Italy in 1996 (150 WUA representatives), the village-based WUAs were
transformed into larger, hydraulic-based WUAs, and started taking over responsibility for secondary
canals. The Irrigation and Drainage Law was amended to support this consolidation with the assistance of
an IDA supervision mission.
The collapse of the pyramid schemes and subsequent outburst of civil unrest in 1997 made it clear that
water enterprises could not perform their remaining task of managing primary irrigation facilities. All
seven water enterprises in the project area were looted and destroyed, and ceased active management of
primary irrigation facilities. It was apparent that the water enterprises were becoming a serious threat to
the sustainability of the irrigation sector.
In response to this unforeseen event the project piloted the development of federations of WUAs (FWUAs)
for managing primary systems. During the 1998 irrigation season a federation of WUAs was established in
Kavaje (10 WUAs, 7,280 hectares), which operated its primary system in that season, and three others
were established later in the year. The pilot met with universal acclaim from the WUAs and their members,
and in response to requests from other WUAs, an additional eight federations were established before the
1999 irrigation season. At this date there are now 15 functioning federations, including eight outside the
seven districts of the first project It is now government policy to transfer all irrigation management to
WUAs and federations, and to reduce the WEs' role to drainage management.
Agriculture is still for subsistence, and is still too fragile to provide full-time employment opportunities. In
the project area, mainly located in the coastal plain, a large number of absentee owners has been a major
issue in the sustainability of WUAs. In addition, mass urbanization since the collapse of the socialist
regime has engulfed large tracts of farmland around Tirana and Durres, and converted them into
commercial and residential areas. As a result, about 40 WUAs were no longer operating as of November
30, 1999.
Still, the development of WUAs and FWUAs has made a positive social impact in rural communities. The
WUAs and FWUAs operate democratically to manage irrigation facilities that are typically shared by 500
families on the secondary canal level, and often more than 10,000 families at the primary canal level.
Typically a WUA is established on a hydrological basis and comprises 10-15 villages. The WUA
- 6 -



administrative council appoints a chairman, a financial controller, and a general secretary.  The
administrative council has the authority to recall (replace) their appointed chairman, financial controller,
and general secretary by majority vote. FWUAs are established in a similar way---each WUA appoints
three representatives as members of the FWUA administrative council, which in turn appoints the
federation's chairman, financial controller, and general secretary. Typically, a WUA covers 300 to 1,000
hectares (average 500 hectares), comprising some 500 to 1,500 member families. A typical FWUA covers
3,000 to 10,000 hectares, comprising 5 to 15 WUAs. Membership in WUAs is open to all irrigation users,
and each user has equal voting rights in the election of management and in decision making (e.g., water
allocation). Therefore WUAs are benefiting small farmers by providing opportunities to democratically
achieve equity and transparency in water allocation and member contributions.
Experience from the project indicates that a large majority of irrigation farmers saw improvements in water
allocation by WUAs and that they often use WUAs as non-partisan forums for discussing other social
issues of common interest. These WUAs and FWUAs are maintaining political neutrality and sustaining
the confidence of their members. Since 1997, the PMU has been monitoring WUA elections in order to
shield them from political intervention.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
(a) Rise of the Financial Pyramid Schemes. The emergence of the pyramid schemes in 1996-1997 caused some
delays in civil works implementation, and discouraged farmers from continuing agriculture. Several contractors
reportedly deposited their mobilization payments in pyramid schemes instead of buying the necessary construction
materials and recruiting labor. Eventually these contractors failed to implement contracts in accordance with the
agreed schedule, and the PMU had to use sanctions. The PMU termninated 29 contracts during 1995-1997, mainly
due to this problem. In 1995 and 1996, a number of farmers in areas such as Durres abandoned irrigated
agriculture because of their expected or actual earnings in the pyramids, and the project was not able to encourage
them to resume irrigation farming and participating in irrigation management .
(b) Collapse of Pyramid Schemes and Subsequent Civil Turmoil. The collapse of the pyramid schemes in early
1997 and the subsequent civil turmoil affected project performance considerably. For security reasons, WUAs were
not able to have their meetings during the irrigation season. All of the seven state-owned water enterprises were
heavily looted, and the Lushnje Water Enterprise was completely destroyed by arson. Consequently, they failed to
perform their duties in managing primary irrigation canals and reservoirs, and few areas were irrigated in 1997.
The collection of payments from farmers also fell, as they experienced cash shortages due to their losses in the
pyramid schemes and the lost irrigation season.
On the positive side, the collapse of the pyramid scheme changed the views of farmers and government officials on
the irrigation sector. Farmers were more determined to take the initiative in irrigation management, as they fully
understood that irrigation is important to their livelihoods, and that the Government would never again be able to
provide sufficient services. It should also be noted that there was virtually no damage to the rehabilitated irrigation
canals during the civil unrest, due to the sense of community ownership, although there were numerous cases of
looting and vandalism of government or public buildings, including schools and city halls. Having witnessed this,
key government officials also understood the importance of participatory irrigation management, and asked the
project to carry out a pilot project in Kavaja where WUAs established a federation to manage primary irrigation
canals.
In the aftermath of the civil unrest contractors were forced to focus on the construction business. Fortunately, the
destruction of property occurred mostly in the cities and not in the countryside, so most of the project's contractors,
and design and supervision teams were able to continue working. The PMU was one of the first government
offices in the country to restart its operations so it could keep up the momentum of the rehabilitation program.
-7 -



5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
One of the primary factors contributing to the successful implementation of the project was the political
commitment to developing WUAs. Despite the frequent changes in Government, the project was given strong
support, particularly by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food (MoAF). The development of WUAs by definition
implies divestiture of the state-owned water enterprises, and there were a number of cases where these enterprises
tried to interfere with implementation of the project. The MoAF was quite active in advocating the importance of
WUA development, and worked hard to pass an amendment to the irrigation and drainage law in 1996 and a new
law on irrigation and drainage in 1999. Two Ministers of Agriculture and Food also participated in the
International Seminar on Participatory Irrigation Management, organized by EDI (WBI), to present the country's
strategy on WUAs. In addition, the MoAF has been able to isolate the PMU from political pressure, and has kept
continuity in key PMU staff, particularly its director.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Lastly, but most importantly, the strong commitment and sincere efforts of the PMU were among the most
important factors in the successful implementation of the project. The PMU satisfactorily managed a large number
of small civil works contracts with careful monitoring of all phases of work, including control of designs, attention
to securing adequate and fair competition in the tendering process, and supervision and quality control during
construction. In addition, the PMU was the catalyst for the 180 degree change in the country's irrigation policy,
and secured support for transferring the entire operational responsibility for irrigation schemes from the state to
farmers through WUAs and FWUAs. The PMU also properly exercised sanctions against non-performing
contractors (e.g., for delays and poor quality), which provided lessons to the emerging private sector and
encouraged good practices. Only six civil works contracts have been terminated since 1998 compared to 29
between 1995 and 1997.
Furthermore, the PMU provided extensive support for WUAs and FWUAs, and played the role of interlocutor
between FWUAs/WUAs and water enterprises. The PMU also successfully convinced water enterprises to rent out
excavators to WUAs and FWUAs, and facilitated the transfer of irrigation canals to WUAs.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The total project cost was originally estimated at US$44.1 million, US$10 million of which would be financed by
IDA. The final cost was US$45.62 million (see Annex 2 for detailed costs by component). The slight increase in
costs is mainly due to the increase in the scope of rehabilitation, as stated in Section 3.1. The project was
cofinanced by the following bi-lateral partners: the Government of the Netherlands (NLG 12.2 million (about
US$7 million)); the OPEC Fund (US$6 million for civil works in Lac); the Kuwait Fund (US$10 million
equivalent for civil works in Kruja, Tirana and Durres); Government of Italy (Lira 3.4 billion (US$2.13 million)
for civil works in Kavaja).
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
It is likely that the achievements generated by the project will be maintained.
As stated in Sections 3.1 and 4.5 one of the primary objectives of this project was to achieve sustainable irrigation
management. To do this, the project aimed to develop community-based irrigation management through water
user associations (WUAs). While the original target for WUAs was to manage tertiary irrigation canals, the
WUAs developed and expanded their roles and autonomy substantially during the five years of implementation,
and as of November 30, 1999, tertiary and secondary canals in 21 irrigation schemes covering approximately
72,000 hectares (80 percent of the total rehabilitated area, or about 18 percent of the total national irrigation area)
were transferred to 208 WUAs. In addition, the process of establishing FWUAs is ongoing. As of November 30,
1999, 12 FWUAs were established in the project area to manage primary canals, completing the transfer of
irrigation management from the Government to farmers. As civil works are completed, the remaining
rehabilitated schemes (about 19,000 hectares) will be transferred to WUAs and FWUAs.
- 8 -



The establishment of WUAs and FWUAs and the transfer of irrigation management have substantially increased
the sustainability of Albania's irrigation sector. Farmers have lost confidence in the water enterprises because of
their poor performance and attitudes towards farmers, and farmers are eager to take over irrigation management.
While no ownership has been transferred, farmers consider irrigation facilities 'community goods,' and damage to
irrigation canals due to theft or vandalism has decreased significantly, and was low even during the 1997 civil
unrest. About 50 percent of WUAs and FWUAs have started to collect reserves from members for minor
rehabilitation. As stated in Section 3.1, cost recovery has improved significantly. The Government has clearly
stated its policy to transfer all irrigation management to WUAs and FWUAs, which was endorsed by the new
Irrigation and Drainage Law enacted in July 1999. The project clearly made an excellent start on re-establishing
the sustainability of the irrigation sector.
Despite their achievements, WUAs and FWUAs have yet to prove their sustainability. Simply establishing WUAs
and FWUAs is not a goal in and of itself, but the start of a long joumey towards establishing sustainability. As
WUAs and FWUAs are fully in charge of irrigation management, it is up to them to maintain and develop
irrigation in Albania. As stated in Section 5.1, about 40 WUAs are no longer in operation due mainly to their
members' lack of interest in agriculture. While the majority of functioning WUAs are performing their duties
satisfactorily, there are many challenges ahead, such as increasing cost recovery for carrying out proper
maintenance, improving water allocation among water users, particularly for FWUAs, increasing transparency in
financial management, and eradicating internal politicking. This is why sustainability is rated 'likely' instead of'
highly likely'.
In order to continue strengthening WUAs, technical assistance will be provided under the Second Irrigation and
Drainage Rehabilitation Project on a wider range of issues, such as public administration, design of irrigation
schemes, irrigation management, on-farm management, and advanced production techniques. In addition, as a
means of introducing performance incentives, the project will annually finance small improvements (up to
US$5,000) for well-performing FWUAs and WUAs, determined by their needs and demands. These items will
include minor equipment and construction materials for small works (e.g., tertiary canal improvements, small
portable irrigation pumps, and office rehabilitation).
Drainage management is also a major issue, as water enterprises fail to perform their duties. The project simply
assumed that the water enterprises would retrench their redundant staff and increase their efficiency. While a
reduction in subsidies certainly forced these enterprises to reduce their staff (total number of staff went from 1,500
in 1993 to 290 in 1999), the remaining staff were forced to look for alternative income opportunities in private
businesses rather than increase efficiency. Maintenance of drainage canals has been neglected, and as a result,
flooding in the coastal plain is becoming more and more a serious problem. The second project aims to assist the
Government's initiatives to transform the water entetprises into new public drainage institutions with beneficiary
participation.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
To address the above-mentioned issues and achieve a sustainable irrigation and drainage sector, a follow-up
project, the Second Irrigation and Drainage Rehabilitation Project, was approved by the Board in June 1999. The
main activities under the second project are: (a) strengthening the existing WUAs and FWUAs (b) initiating the
restructuring of water enterprises into public drainage institutions (drainage boards) with stakeholder participation,
and (c) continuing the momentum of developing WUAs and FWUAs throughout the country using demand-driven
rehabilitation. The project became effective in November 1999, and implementation has just begun.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
IDA substantially assisted the Borrower in project design by obtaining grant funding for preparing the proper
enabling legal framework, including a draft Irrigation Code and a draft statute on WUAs. IDA also convinced the
Government to terninate the use of state irrigation construction companies and rely exclusively on private
-9-



contractors. The Government also agreed to focus on the rehabilitation of gravity-based irrigation schemes and
exclude schemes with more than 50 meters in pumping height.
7.2 Supervision:
Through intensive supervision (16 missions in 4 years) by the IDA task team, the project received timely advice on
project implementation in light of Albania's very dynamic environment. The missions provided critical policy
advice that led to the amendment of the Irrigation and Drainage Law in 1996, and the adoption of a new Irrigation
and Drainage Law in 1999. The team also assisted the PMU in developing a monitoring and evaluation system
from scratch, as the Ministry of Agriculture and Food did not have any reliable statistics, including crop data. The
M&E system was based on a survey of 700 households both inside and outside the project area, and has produced
reliable information since 1998 for monitoring the project's impact. IDA also assisted the PMU in developing a
monitoring system for WUAs, which will be carried out under the second project to supervise the technical and
financial performance of the WUAs/FWUAs.
In retrospect, supervision missions would have benefited from more social and financial expertise.  However,
under the limited budget, it was simply impossible.
7.: Overall Bankperformance:
Highly satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
in response to the policy advice from IDA, the Government duly completed its agreed tasks. All of the agreed legal
statutes were approved by the Government and then ratified by the Parliament without delay, and a project
management unit (PMU) was established as an autonomous entity directly under the Minister.
7. ' Government implementation performance:
Borrower performance was satisfactory. The MoAF consistently provided support to the project and to the
development of WUAs throughout the project. In addition, the Government considered the project as the number
one priority of the agriculture sector, and promptly provided the increase in funds requested by the PMU that was
necessary for the accelerated implementation. Following the civil turmoil in 1997, the Government made a tough
but realistic decision to transfer all irrigation responsibility to farmers and to consolidate the role of water
enterprises.
In contrast, despite the serious support given the project by the central government, the project did not get full
support from the state-owned irrigation and drainage water enterprises. Particularly during the first half of project
implementation, some WEs were uncooperative, perhaps due to their fear of losing power, or more likely, of losing
their own jobs. Although WEs were originally involved in the supervision of civil works, they later caused delays
in order to obstrmct project implementation, usually by simply not signing off on the work of contractors. They also
boycotted meetings with WUAs on coordinating the water allocation in order to undermine the WUAs. However,
the WEs' obstruction tactics resulted in more determination by the WUAs, who reacted by agreeing to take more
responsibility for irrigation management. Finally, after the civil turmoil in 1997, the managers of water enterprises
realized that they could no longer perform their duties in irrigation. Now the WEs are fully cooperating with
implementation of the second project, which is transferring the WEs' remaining responsibilities for irrigation
management to FWUAs, and restructuring WEs into drainage boards.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the PMU was highly satisfactory. The PMU gave its utmost to achieving the original project
objectives in a very dynamic environment. It was always the PMU that took a proactive approach and proposed
innovative solutions when implementation encountered serious problems. As a result, the project was able to use
each crisis as an opportunity to take further steps towards the full transfer of irrigation management to farmers.
First, the crisis of the village-based WUAs led to the change to hydraulic-based WUAs. The PMU then organized
massive study tours to Turkey and Italy (120 WUA representatives and 30 Government and WE staff), and created
a critical mass of farmer leaders, WE staff, and policy makers to enable the transfer of operational responsibilities
- 10-



for secondary canals to WUAs so as to provide them with real tasks and autonomy. Then, the PMU kept up the
momentum of rehabilitation and WUA development even during the civil turmoil in 1997. The PMU was the first
to resume full operation and restart the tendering process. The PMU also observed the collapse of WEs, and
quickly prepared a pilot program for FWUAs. It should be noted that the PMU also instructed the WEs to evacuate
excavators during the civil turmoil; as a result, no excavators were damaged despite the heavy looting of WE
offices.
The PMU also carried out procurement and management of a large number of civil works contracts in full
compliance with Bank guidelines, and decisively sanctioned slipshod or fraudulent contractors while encouraging
competent and faithful ones. The PMU quickly gained the confidence of all stakeholders, including farmers,
government officials, and contractors, not least because of its honesty. This is truly exceptional in an environment
like that of Albania.
7., Overall Borrower performance:
Highly Satisfactory.
E Lessons Learned
The project provided various lessons which are applicable to similar irrigation projects in the region and other
infrastructure projects in Albania.
Ideal Timing. The development of WUAs began in a crisis situation. Cooperative and state farms had totally
collapsed and were replaced by a large number of small, unorganized, private farmers, leaving a vacuum in
irrigation management. Irrigation systems were defunct, and water enterprises were barely functional with their
obsolete equipment. Irrigation and production yields were decreasing dramatically. Ironically, it was the best time
to promote the concept of WUAs, as there was a consensus among farmers and policymakers that they needed to
begin participatory irrigation management. The project was able to play an instrumental role in motivating
farmers to organize themselves and participate in irrigation management. The project also assisted policymakers
in developing an enabling legal framework.
Community Initiative. The project also proved that community initiative is essential to the successful development
of WVUAs, and the project should continue to support their efforts. It should be noted that the evolution of
participatory irrigation management from small village-based WUAs to FWUAs over the last five years has been
largely driven by communities. In Albania, irrigation is critical for consistent agricultural output, and farmers see
the clear benefits of having reliable irrigation services. Again the project played an important role in getting
communities to take responsibility for irrigation management by providing technical assistance, and by helping
policymakers revise the supporting legislation.
Status of WUAs. The project introduced WUAs and FWUAs as private voluntary associations. While in developed
countries, generally, these institutions have public status and participation is mandatory, the voluntary status of
WUAs/FWUAs in Albania is considered most suitable. In light of farmers' distrust of the public sector and past
vandalism of public goods in 1991 and 1997, it is considered premature to require farmers to organize and join
public institutions. Indeed, it was fundamental to the design of the project that WUAs and FWUAs be private and
voluntary in order to nurture the community's de facto ownership of irrigation, to isolate WUAs from political
pressure, and to promote self-sustaining irrigation management. Voluntary membership has also provided elected
representatives of WJUAs/FWUAs with an incentive to increase transparency in their administrations so as to retain
the confidence of members. Results so far are promising. During the 1998 irrigation season, nearly all irrigation
farmers reportedly joined WUAs. As a first step toward a transition to WUAs with public status and mandatory
membership, a new Irrigation and Drainage Law has been enacted to limit the primary tasks of WUAs to irrigation
and drainage management, and to stipulate the supervisory role of Government.
Limited Support to WUAs and FWUAs. The project in principle did not provide major financial support to WUAs
with the exception of intensive technical assistance and rehabilitation of irrigation and drainage facilities. The
clear message to WUAs has always been that the project will not finance major equipment such as excavators, that
- 11 -



they should not have any false expectations, and that WUAs should develop themselves from scratch. Communes
and water enterprises sometimes provided small rooms as offices, but WUAs and FWUAs had to rely on collections
from members to recruit professional services such as water masters, irrigation engineers, labor for maintenance,
and accountants. All elected WVUA officials such as the president and members of the executive council are serving
their members on a voluntary basis. (This arrangement has proven to be critical to establishing WUAs solely on a
foundation of interest in improving irrigation services.) WUAs are also considered to be effective in segregating
technical services, daily management, and governance, and reducing personnel costs to minimum levels that can
be recovered from members. Under the second project, as a next step in strengthening WUAs and FWUAs, critical
equipment such as computers and motorbikes will be provided to well-performing WUAs.
Legal Framework. A sufficient legal framework for enabling WUAs is considered critical to the success of WUAs,
as this indicates the clear commitment of the Government. In addition, the law is critical for convincing all
stakeholders, including government officials, farmers, and staff at the water enterprises, that there is no other
alternative but to establish WUAs. During implementation, WUAs experienced serious interference from water
enterprises, as staff at the water enterprises were afraid of losing jobs. These staff were often politically powerful,
and development of WUAs might have been hampered under political pressures during project implementation
without the proper legal framework.
No Involvement of Water Enterprises. The project aimed to develop WUAs directly under the PMU without any
support from water enterprises. This arrangement was critical to protecting WUAs from interference from water
enterprises, to maintaining farmers' confidence in project activities, and to maintaining the momentum of
developing WUAs.
Project Implementation. The success of the implementation of the project is also attributable to the use of a
specialized and autonomous PMU to manage the project, and to reliance on the private sector to implement civil
works. The PMU's autonomy also made it possible for them to attract motivated staff and to implement the project
without any bureaucratic delays. The PMU was then audited annually by the state financial inspector and an
independent international auditor. This arrangement has proven that the project can be implemented not only in a
timely and cost efficient manner, but also in a transparent one. Strong competition among contractors kept the
prices down, and close supervision guaranteed a satisfactory implementation in terms of quality and time. The
tender procedures applied assured full transparency of selection and awarding of contracts.
9 Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The following comments have been made by the Minister of Agriculture and Food.
The Government of Albania is extremely satisfied with the performance of the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project.
Because of our climate, irrigation and drainage is critical to agriculture in Albania. About 460,000 ha have been
provided with irrigation facilities, and 320,000 ha, with drainage.  About 60% of our arable land is irrigated,
emphasising the importance attached to irrigation in the past. Unfortunately towards the end of the communist era
maintenance of these systems declined. So that in 1994, when the project commenced, most of Albania's irrigation
systems hardly functioned. Now, under a democratic and open government irrigation is even more important:
without good irrigation and drainage systems Albania's farmers cannot meet our food requirements nor can we
hope to export to our neighbours and to Europe. For this reason, one of the first, and largest, projects undertaken
after the fall of communism was the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project.
Under the Project some 91,000 ha of irrigation and 108,000 ha drainage systems have been rehabilitated, restoring
over 25% of the best agricultural land in Albania to productivity. In addition the Project has led institutional
development in the sector with its Water User Association and irrigation managemnent transfer program, and has
shown us the future shape and organisation of the sector.
Through our Project Management Unit we have implemented the project's program of rehabilitation about 1,5
years ahead of schedule and with such economy and efficiency that we have exceeded the target area by more than
- 12 -



20%. We are very proud of the performance of our PMU staff. Their difficult task was further complicated by the
upheavals in 1997; through it all, and despite the dangers, our staff kept working and the project kept ahead of
schedule.
All the civil works, the surveys and designs, the construction and the supervision of about 250 construction
contracts, have been undertaken by Albanian engineers. Except for the first year designs, which were done by the
Design Institute, all the above, the surveys, designs, construction and construction supervision, were executed by
the private sector. At the start of the project, five years ago, the private engineering sector in Albania was weak
and inexperienced, but they quickly learnt and the successful completion of this project is a testament to their
ability. We are very proud of our engineers, and proud of their achievement.
We acknowledge, with some reluctance, that the public sector involved in irrigation management has failed to meet
our government's initial expectations.   We, and the World Bank, expected that the seven district Water
Enterprises in the project area would continue to make an important contribution to irrigation management during
the project and into the future beyond. However, the water enterprises were unable to meet the challenge of
recovering the costs of irrigation from farmers in the form of an irrigation service charge.
With the support of the World Bank we expanded our institutional reforms, firstly transferring secondary irrigation
systems and the smaller complete schemes to Water Users Associations, then transferring management of primary
systems and headworks, reservoirs, pump stations and diversions, to federations of WUAs. On completion of the
project we have established 208 WUAs, and have transferred 81,000 ha to them, and additionally 12 federations
with management of 71,000 ha primary systems. The reforms introduced under the project were successful, and
full irrigation management transfer is now the policy for the sector across Albania. The seminars, study tours and
conferences organised by the World Bank through the project, which were attended by our senior policy-makers,
greatly assisted in development of this policy.
The Irrigation Rehabilitation Project has exceeded our expectations, but still much work remains in the sector:
there are three main challenges to be met in the immediate future.
e   The first challenge is to extend rehabilitation across Albania. Clearly there is still a huge extent of irrigation
and drainage systems still to be rehabilitated. However, resources are limited and rehabilitation must now be
provided where they will be most effective, and the farmers are most ready to use and benefit from the restored
irrigation and drainage systems. We now propose to rehabilitate only where the demand is strongest from
farmers, and where they demonstrate this commitment through formation of WUAs, accepting system transfer
and making a contribution to the cost of rehabilitation. In future our rehabilitation will be demand driven.
l   The second challenge is to ensure sustainability through successful irrigation management transfer.
Government policy is to transfer all irrigation management across the country to WUAs and to federations.
But the WUA movement is still young and fragile, and needs further support. Some WUAs are clearly now
self-sufficient and able to completely manage all aspects of their irrigation systems, others have not developed
well and need additional training and supervision.  Additionally, whilst the numerous new WT 4s -o be
formed in the future outside the project area will have the earlier examples to follow, they will -z-ill require
training and guidance before they too are capable and self-sufficient.  Of particular importance are the
federations with responsibility for the major irrigation infrastructure. If these do not manage their systems
well the service received by the member WUAs will deteriorate, and endanger their success.
*   The third challenge is to restructure the water enterprises in a such away that they successfully perform their
one remaining task of management of the major drainage infrastructure. The Government approach is to
remodel the water enterprises on the lines of European drainage boards, leading to management by
representatives of the beneficiaries, and providing accountability, transparency and sustainability.
In mid-1 999 the Government enacted a new Irrigation and Drainage Law, which strengthens the WUA movement
and lays the foundations for institutional reform of the old water enterprises, signaling our commitment to
irrigation and drainage and to continuing institutional development in the sector. We anticipate and welcome the
- 13-



continuing support of the World Bank through the proposed Second Irrigation and Drainage Rehabilitation Project
where we will meet these challenges.
(b) Cofinanciers:
A draft ICR was provided to all cofinancers for this project, namely Government of Italy, Government of
Netherlands, Kuwait Fund, and OPEC Fund. No cormments have been provided.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
None.
1( Additional Information
None.
- 14 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
Farmers benefiting from the project  56,800                                110,300
Incremental annual agriculture production ($ 304-410                       354 (on average)
per hectare)
Average crop yields within the project area   Wheat 3.2, maize 4.1, tomatoes 16.8,  Wheat 3.4, maize 4.8, tomatoes 30.0,
(ton I hectare)                      potatoes 7.7                          potatoes 18.0
Cost Recovery Rate                   100 percent                           Govemment subsidies have been completely
phased out Actual cost recovery from
farmers is estimated to be 35-100 percent
depending on WUAs (on average, 60
percent)
Output Indicators:
Area Retumed to and/or improved inigation  73,476                          100,149
(hectares)
Area retumed to and/or improved drainage   99,304                          109,868
(hectares)
Total coverage of WUAs (hectares and  81,369 hectares, and 40,000 families  90,063 hectares, and 55,658 families
number of famibes)
Average size of WUAs (number of families)  100 families                    275 families
Number of WUAs and FWUAs             40010                                 208/15
End of project
- 15-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Mi                                      2 >  Appraisal~  Actual/Lates   Perce
~~~~~ ~~~~Estimate~   Estimt. oAprsa
Project Cost By Componen            1"~      US$ million <n~   S mii4 
1. System Rehabilitation                                 31.50           35.84          114
2. Institutional Development                              4.30            3.87           90
3. Policy Support                                         0.30            0.25           83
4. Implementation Support                                 2.00            5.66          288
Total Baseline Cost                                      38.10           45.62
Physical Contingencies                                   3.10            0.00
Price Contingencies                                      2.90            0.00
Total Project Costs                44.10           45.62
Total Financing Required                 44.10           45.62
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent
1. Works                      1.90          4.00          0.00         20.80         26.70
(1.50)        (3.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (4.50)
2. Goods                      2.50          0.00          1.00          9.10          12.60
(2.50)        (0.00)       (1.00)        (0.00)        (3.50)
3. Services                   0.00          0.00          2.00          1.40          3.40
(0.00)        (0.00)       (2.00)        (0.00)        (2.00)
4. Incremental Operating      0.00          0.00          0.00          1.40          1.40
Cost
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                      4.40           4.00         3.00          32.70         44.10
(4.00)        (3.00)       (3.00)        (0.00)        (10.00)
Notes
1. Figures in parentheses are amounts financed by IDA; NBF stands for not IDA-financed.
2. Other methods of procurement (total of US$3 million) includes: (a) international shopping (US$0.9 million)
and local shopping (US$ 100,000) of machinery, vehicles and equipment, and (b) consultancies (US$2.0) million
procured according to the standard IDA guidelines.
Project Costs by Procuremen Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
i   ~~~~~~~~~~~~SN'm.  ti                        1NW          l
Expenditure category~~      Procuremen Methoc.",  ~       aI~   4
a   ICB ~~~~~  NCB~~~      2        N.B.F., Efi  TotalCoSt
NCIWjpqc gOtheL,
1. Works                      0.00          15.20         0.00         14.72         29.92
(0.00)        (8.29)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (8.29)
2. Goods                      5.60          0.00          2.70          0.00          8.30
(1.50)        (0.00)       (0.50)        (0.00)        (2.00)
3. Services                   0.00          0.00          0.10          5.10          5.20
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
-16-



4. Incremental Operating         0.00            0.00           0.00          2.10            2.10
Cost
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
Total                         5.60           15.20           2.80          21.92           45.52
____otes____________        (1.50)         (8.29)         (0.50)         (0.00)         (10.29)
Notes
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by th, Bank Loar. All costs include contingencies
' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(a) managing the project, and (b) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equi alent)
l                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Percentage of Appraisal
Component              A praisal Estimate            Actual/Latest Estimate
Bank      Govt.      CoF.      Bank      Govt.      CoF.    Bank   Govt. f CoF.
1. System Rehabilitation  8.00      7.30      21.40      10.19     7.16      18.49    127.4  98.1   86.4
2. Institutional          2.00      0.00       2.30      0.10       0.00      3.87     5.0    0.0   168.3
Development
3. Policy Support         0.00      0.00       0.30      0.00       0.00      0.25     0.0    0.0    83.3
4. Implementation Support   0.00    0.00       2.60      0.00       0.00      5.66     0.0    0.0   217.7
Note: all figures include physical and price contingencies.
- 17 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
An economic analysis was updated using the actual data on the project costs and updated projections on the project
benefit. The project's economic benefits would mainly accrue through (a) increase in yield, and (b) conversion to
higher crops. Even after two years since the operation of WUAs, the project has made a distinct impact. While
farmers have yet to convert to higher value crops, agricultural production has increased substantially due to the
yield increase resulting from the resumption of irrigation services.
The benefit of the project has been updated using information on 536 farms, of which 384 farms are located within
the project, and 152 outside the project. The following table indicates the cropping patterns during the 1998
irrigation season with and without project. The table shows that there is in general only modest conversion in
cropping patterns between with and without project areas, except for an increase in watermelons and overall
cropping intensity.  The fallow  has been reduced with reliable irrigation services, and perhaps due to
recommitment of farmers after the collapse of the pyramid schemes. Table 1, however, indicates a strong increase
in yield in all crops, particularly alfalfa, maize, and vegetable and beans.
Table 1. Cropping Pattem and Yields
Case No 1            Case No 2            D|fference
Not Rehabilitated    Area Rehabilitated  |   Rehab/not rehab
Status of Irrigation
Adequately Irrigate4  20.9%                 44.3%              111.9%
Partly Irrigated      24.0%                 14.0%              -41.7%
Not Irrigated         55.1%                 41.7%               -24.3%
Cropping Pattem and Average Yields (tons/h
Case No 1            Case No 2             Difference
Not Rehabilitated    Area Rehabilitated    Rehab/not rehab
Cropping     Yield   Cropping     Yield   Cropping     Yield
Pattem               Pattem               Pattem
Affala                32.2%       30.6      31.8%      44.3     -1.1%      44.6%
Maize                 11.0%        3.6       9.9%      4.8    -10.4%       35.5%
Beans                  5.8%        1.1       4.9%       1.4    -16.1%      25.7%
Vegetables             5.5%       18.5       5.6%     24.3       1.7%      31.1%
Water melon            3.0%       28.0       6.4%      31.3    115A%       11.8%
Wheat                 24.6%        3.1      26.3%       3.4      7.0%       9.1%
Othercrops            13.2%     NA          13.3%    NA          0.8%     NA
Falow                  4.8%                  1.9%              -59.8%
Based on the cropping pattern and crop budget (available on the project file), a farm model showing the project
impact on 1 hectares of land have been developed, and the incremental agricultural income was estimated. Table 2
indicates that US$345 per hectare of incremental agricultural income due to the project, which mainly
rehabilitated deteriorated irrigation and drainage facilities within the project area.
- 18 -



Table 2. Average Project Impact on 1 Hectare of Irrigated Land
Outside the Project Area               Project Area
Gross      Gross                  Gross       Gross
Cropping      Income      Income  Cropping       Income      Income
Crops              Pattem         per crop    per ha   Pattem       per crop     per ha
Wheat                     24.6%      2,513        618       26.3%      13,751       3,617
Maize /1                 11.0%      (85,434)    (9,398)      9.9%     (90,925)     (9,002)
Maize-cash                                                                           473
AlfalFa /I                32.2%    (100,875)   (32,482)     31.8%    (106.298)    (33,803)
Alfaffa-cash                                                                       10,905
Beans                     5.8%      91,293       5,295       4.9%     138,080       6,766
Vegetables                5.5%     214,340      11,789       5.6%     365,246      20,454
Water Melon                3.0%     150,101      4,503       6.4%     182,644      11,689
Others /2                 13.2%                    -        13.3%
Fallow                    4.8%                               1.9%
Gross income (sales and Imputed) from milk production
Daily produc. Lact. Period  Income
(litres)    (No of days)
7.30        280      76.645       9.00        280       94.155
Average net income per hectare (lek) /3         56,971                            105,254
Dollar Value /3                                   407                                752
hncremental Annual Income (in US$)                                       85%         345
Notes:
1. Major part of maize and alfalfa produced are used for raising cattle. As the detailed data is not available for
the percentage used for milk and meat production, the economic benefit was estimated by converting alfalfa and
maize for milk production. The figures in parenthesis means negative values as they represents the input to milk
production.
2.   As no detailed data was available for this particular crops, the benefit was not included in estimating
economic impacts of the project so as to estimate them conservatively.
3. This does not represent the sum of above-gross revenues, but reflects all input costs.
In addition, the following assumptions were made to estimate the ERR and net present value (NPV).
*   Civil works for drainage and irrigation works have been included, as the economic impacts estimated above
are due to the improved irrigation and drainage.
*   The cost includes technical assistance and equipment.
*   The estimated actual benefit area was used from 1994 to 1999 as follows; 0 hectares (1994 and 1995), 10,000
hectares (1996), 30,000 hectares (1997), 45,000 hectares (1998), 80,000 hectares (1999), and 91,000 hectares
(2000 and onwards). The low irrigation of 1996 and 1997 were due to the delay in the procurement of
irrigation pumps and civil turmoil respectively.
*   The benefit was estimated without assuming the conversion to higher crops in the future.
*   Economic operation and maintenance cost is estimated to be US$50 per hectare.
19-



The estimated ERR is 37.7 percent, and the NPV at 12 percent is about US$86 million.
-20 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:          .             N._  . _____s_and_Specialty
Nos of ersos and SeiatyPerformance Ratifng
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    lmplrxnation        Developinent
Month/Year    Couiat       Specialty                        Progess            Objective
Identification/Preparation               2 WUA specialists, 1 irrigation
October 1992                        specialist, 1 agronomist, 1
economist
August 1993                         2 economists, 3 irrigation
engineers, 1 agronomist
Appraisal/Negotiation
September 1993                      1 economist, 1 irrigation
engineer, 1 procurement
specialist, 2 agronomists, 1
project officer
Supervision
September 1994                     1 economist, 2 irrigation             S                  S
engineers, 1 WUA specialist
December 1994                      2 economists, 2 irrigation            S                  S
engineers
March, May, July 1995,             1 economist, 1 irrigation             S                  S
February 1996                      engineer, 1 WUA specialist, I
project officer
August, December 1996              1 economist, 2 irrigation            HS                 HS
engineers, I WUA specialist
October 1997                       1 economist, 1 irrigation            HS                 HS
engineer, 1 project officer
April, July, October 1998          1 economist, 1 irrigation            HS                  S
engineer, 1 project officer
May 1999                           1 economist, 1 irrigation            HS                  S
engineer, 1 project officer, 1
FMO
July 1999                          1 economist, 1 irrigation            HS                  S
engineer, 1 project officer, I
FMO, 1 project assistant
September 1999                     1 economist, 2 irrigation            HS                  S
engineers, 1 FMO, 1 project
officer
December 1999                       1 economist, 2 irrigation           HS                  S
engineers, 1 project officer
-21 -



(b) Staff
Identification/Preparation                    61                         198.1
Appraisal/Negotiation                         19                          65.9
Supervision                                  187                         663.0
ICR                                            6                          15.6
Total                                       273                          942.6
Note: the figures include Bank Budget, Trust Funds and FAO/CP budget.
-22 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Z Sector Policies                         *H  OSUOM  ON  O NA
? Physical                                * H  OSUOM  ON  O NA
Z Financial                               O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
F Institutional Development               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
FEnvironmental                            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
S   Poverty Reduction              O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
I Gender                           O H OSUOM ON O NA
El Other (Please specify)
F Private sector development              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
 Public sector management                0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
3I] Other (Please specify)
- 23 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                 Rating
Z Lending                                           OHS*S  OU  OHU
Z Supervision                                       OHS Os   Ou  OHU
Z Overall                                           * HS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
2I Preparation                                      OHS OS  O  U  O HU
Z Government implementation performance             O HS OS  0  U  0 HU
Z Implementation agency performance                 * HS O S  0  U  0 HU
Z Overall                                           OHS OS O U O HU
-24 -



Annex I List of Supporting Documents
A Detailed economic analysis (a series of EXCEL tables)
- 25 -



Ia



