Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 12609-ALB
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ALBANIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
JULY 20, 1994
Agriculture and Water Supply Operations Division
Central Europe Department
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit = Lek
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
(Leks per US$)
Years Jan.-  Sep.-  Jan.-  June-  Jan.-  Jan-
1987- Aug.  Dec.  May   Dec.  Dec.  June
1990   1991   1991   1992   1992   1993   1994
US$ 1.00       Leks   8       10     25      50      90     100    100
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ALBANIA: FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
ASAC      Agriculture Sector Adjustment Credit                O&M       Operation and Maintenance
CE        State-owned Construction Enterprise                 OED        Operations Evaluation Department
CIP       Critical Imports Project                            PMU        Project Management Unit
FAO       Food and Agriculture Organization                   PPF       Project Preparation Facility
FY        Fiscal Year                                         RPAPP   Rural Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project
IDA       International Development Association               Si         Soil Institute
IFAD      International Fund for Agricultural Development     UNDP    United Nations Development Program
ISDWW    Institute for Study and Design of Water Works        WE         State-owned Water Enterprise
LWRD    Land, Water and Rural Development Department          WUA       Water User Association
MoAF    Ministry of Agriculture and Food
This report was prepared based on missions carried out in the fall and winter of 1993 comprising Michael Koch
(Task Manager, EC2AW), Dawn Vermilya (EC2AW), Vilma Horinkova (EMTWU), Volker Branscheid
(FAO/CP), Jean-Pierre Villaret, Pierre Rousset (Consultants, French Trust Fund). Franz-Ernst Schulze and Ahyan
Oncuil (Consultants) took part in prior missions. Kathryn Funk helped with data processing. Parvin Baharmast,
Richard Huber and Aleathea Thomas assembled the report. EC2AW is the responsible World Bank Division (Rory
C. O'Sullivan, Chief) in the Central Europe Department (Kemal Dervis, Director). Hyko Laeyendecker (ECIAG)
acted as Peer Reviewer.



ALBANIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page
Credit and Project Summary .......................................  i - iii
Chapter I. THE IRRIGATION SECTOR    ..
A. Introduction .1
B. Irrigated Agriculture.                                                   2
C. Irrigation and Drainage Infrastructure.                                  3
D. Organization of the Sector.                                              4
E. Technical Options.                                                       5
F. Institutional Issues.                                                    7
G. Financial Issues.                                                        9
H. Legal Issues .10
I. Environmental Issues .10
Chapter II. BANK INVOLVEMENT AND STRATEGY   .                           .11
A. Bankwide Lending to the Sector .11
B. Lending to Agriculture in Albania .12
C. Sector Strategy and Bank Support .13
Chapter III. THE PROJECT                 ..19
A. Project Rationale and Area .19
B. Project Objectives and Components .21
C. Detailed Features .21
D. Project Cost and Financing .26
E. Procurement .27
F. Disbursements .30
Chapter IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION    ..31
A. Implementation Schedule .31
B. Organization and Management .32
C. Supervision, Reporting and Monitoring .33
D. Accounts and Audit .34
Chapter V. PROJECT IMPACT    ..34
A. Agricultural Production .34
B. Farm Income and Poverty Reduction .35
C. Irrigation Management and Cost Recovery .36
D. Environmental Impact .39
E. Economic Analysis .40
F. Project Risks .40
Chapter VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .41



TABLES
Table 1. 1  Yield Response to Irrigation . .................................. 2
Table 1.2   Ranking of Investment Alternatives .........                     ..................... 7
Table 2.1   Strategy Framework for Irrigation and Drainage ........  .                   .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .    .  16
Table 3.1    Project Area for Rehabilitation Works ...........  ..  .                  ..  ..  ..  .  ..  ..  .    . 20
Table 3.2   Summary of Project Costs  ...................  .....  ....  ....  .                               .  26
Table 3.3   Sources of Project Financing .................  ....  ...  ....  ...  .                           .  27
Table 3.4   Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements  .......  .                       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . 29
Table 3.5   Disbursement Categories  .......................  .....  .....  .                                  .  31
Table 5. 1   Yields in the Project Area  ...................  ....  ....  ....  ..                            .  35
Table 5.2   Summary Farm  Budgets   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
Table 5.3 Cost Recovery in the Project Area .38
Table 5.4 Economic Rates of Return .40
ANNEXES
Detailed List of Annexes                    ..43
Annex 1    Irrigated Agriculture .....................................                                         .  45
Annex 2    Irrigation and Drainage Infrastructure  ...........  .                  ..  ..  ..  ..  .  ..  ..  .    . 51
Annex 3    Irrigation Component under the Critical Imports Project ...... .                   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . 55
Annex 4    Detailed Project Cost Tables .................  ....  ...  ....  ...  .                            .  57
Annex 5    Technical Assistance Program  ................  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...                             .  71
Annex 6    Procurement, Disbursements, Supervision   .........  .                    .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .  .  ..  .    . 95
Annex 7    Project Implementation Plan  .................  ....  ...  ....  ....                               .  99
Annex 8    Financial and Economic Analysis  ............  ...  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ...                       .  107
Annex 9    Selected Documents and Data in the Project File   .......  .                  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  127
Annex 10 Charts .129
IMPLEMENTATION VOLUME
Working Paper no. 1    Irrigation Subsector Review
Working Paper no. 2    Project Preparation Report (including Report on Cost Estimates)
Working Paper no. 3    On-farm  Irrigation Management
Working Paper no. 4    Off-farm  Irrigation Management
Working Paper no. 5    Canal Operation and Flow  Control
Working Paper no. 6    Water Policy and Legislation
Working Paper no. 7    Water User Associations Legislation
Maps No:  IBRD  25357, 25358 and 25359



ALBANIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         Government of Albania
Executing         Ministry of Agriculture and Food, selected Water Enterprises,
Agencies:         Soil Institute, Institute for Study and Design of Water Works
Beneficiaries:    About 56,800 farm families in seven districts along the coastal plains who will
benefit from increased and more reliable supply of irrigation water and improved
drainage. Local private contractors and construction material suppliers.
Credit Amount:   SDR7. 1 million (US$10.0 million equivalent)
Terms:            Forty years maturity with a ten year grace period. Credit proceeds will be lent to
the Government at the standard IDA service charge.
Project           (a) to increase agricultural production by raising farm productivity through rapid
Objectives:       rehabilitation of the existing irrigation and drainage infrastructure;
(b) to alleviate poverty by increasing income of small private farmers and creating
employment opportunities for dependent farm labor in rural areas;
(c) to ensure the long-term sustainability of irrigation and drainage investments
through farmer participation in operation and maintenance, efficient system
management and adequate cost recovery.
Project           (a) System Rehabilitation: The project would rehabilitate 21 irrigation schemes
Description:      serving a command area of 73,500 ha, at a per-ha cost of US$470 equivalent, and
18 drainage schemes covering 99,300 ha at a unit cost of US$190 per ha.
Rehabilitation works would include earthworks and canal cleaning, canal lining,
replacement of pumping equipment, repair of control structures and gates, and
installation of flow measuring devices. A demonstration scheme for canal flow
control, covering a command area of 1,000 ha, would be built for training of
Albanian irrigation system designers and operators.
(b) Institutional Development: Technical assistance, comprehensive training
programs and related office, laboratory and maintenance equipment would help
improve system operation and maintenance, enhance the local engineering design
capacity, establish Water User Associations in the project area, and implement an
On-Farm Water Management program
(c) Policy Support: Studies would be undertaken to finalize the regulatory
framework for irrigation and drainage, to prepare the turnover of small systems
to water users, to consolidate initially small Water User Associations into larger
water user boards, to develop a financial model for determining cost-covering
water charges, and to promote private surface pumping and groundwater
development.



- 11 -
(d) Implementation Support: Technical assistance, training and office equipment
would be provided for a Project Management Unit in the Ministry of Agriculture
and Food.
Environmental    The project has been placed in environmental screening category "B" consistent
Aspects:          with provisions of Operational Directive 4.01, 'Environmental Assessment'. The
project would have a positive environmental impact through a reduction of surface
water and soil contamination stemming from agricultural runoff by reducing water
losses through improved system conveyance and flow control. Pesticide runoff
would be further reduced through dissemination of information to farmers on the
safe use of pesticides, following Bank regulations on techniques for integrated pest
management. Rehabilitation of major drainage systems along coastal areas would
improve flood control and reduce salinity-related problems caused by water-
logging. Schemes included for rehabilitation under the project have undergone an
environmental screening during project preparation; an additional comprehensive
environmental evaluation would be required for each scheme prior to inviting bids
for civil works contracts.
Benefits:         The project would cause an increase in crop yields and a shift in cropping patterns
towards high-value cash crops, resulting in a significant increase of physical
production and output value, mainly for wheat, maize, vegetables, milk, fodder,
tobacco and cotton. Most incremental production would initially be for self-
consumption until a rise in domestic purchasing power and improved export
prospects would enhance prospects for marketing of surplus produce. Annual net
cash income of benefitting farmers, after on-farm consumption, would exceed
US$500 by year five of the project, compared to US$200 without the project. The
project would provide the basis for a sound water pricing policy aiming, over a
five-year period, at the full recovery of operation and maintenance costs borne by
Water Enterprises, and the recovery of all investment and replacement costs
currently borne by Government, through cost-covering water charges payable by
water users. Strengthening the role of women in irrigation management through
their active involvement in Water User Associations would be a focus of training
activities under the project.
Risks:            The main project risks stem from the limited implementation capacity of the
various Government institutions involved, potentially causing delays in design,
procurement and construction of rehabilitation works.  The comprehensive
technical assistance and training program under the project would help reduce
these risks. There are also risks of delays in securing all required cofinancing.
However, given the fully modular design of the project, with independent
rehabilitation works to be carried out in seven different districts, such delays
would have no negative impact on the economic rate of return, since all required
institutional development and implementation support would be financed by IDA.
The potential lack of funds to cover local costs of 37 percent of total project costs
is a further risk but would be limited since 80 percent of local costs would be
financed through participation of IDA and other cofinanciers. During the mid-
term review, a broad assessment of project implementation and financing would
be undertaken with the view of addressing and resolving any remaining risks.



Estimated Project Cost:
Proiect Component              ---- US$million equivalent ----
Local    Foreign    Total    Percent
Investment Costs
System Rehabilitation           11.9      19.6      31.5        83
Institutional Development        0.7       3.6       4.3        11
Policy Support                   0.1       0.2       0.3         1
Implementation Support           0.1       0.6       0.7         2
Sub-total                  12.8      24.0      36.8        97
Recurrent Costs                  1.0       0.3       1.3         3
Total Base Costs                13.8      24.3      38.1       100
Physical Contingencies      1.3       1.8       3.1         8
Price Contingencies         1.1       1.8       2.9         8
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS             16.2      27.9      44.1       116
Financing Plan:
Source                         ---- US$million equivalent ----
Local    Foreign    Total    Percent
Government a/                    2.2       5.1       7.3        17
Private Farmers b/               1.6       0.7       2.3         5
IDA                              3.2       6.8      10.0        23
Other Donors c/                  9.2      15.3      24.5        55
TOTAL FINANCING                 16.2      27.9      44.1       100
a/  US$1.3 million equivalent for incremental recurrent project costs, US$0.9
million for engineering fees, and US$5.1 million for imported equipment
b/ on-farm system repairs
c/  tentative sources and amounts include: Italian aid (US$2.1 million);
Kuwait aid (US$7.4 million); OPEC  aid (US$5 million); Islamic
Development Bank cofinancing (US$10 million)
Estimated IDA                                                    IDA Fiscal Year
Disbursements:                                     95     96     97    98      99    2000    2001
Annual            1.5    2.0    2.0   2.0    1.0    1.0        0.5
Cumulative        1.5    3.5    5.5   7.5    8.5    9.5    10.0
Economic Rate
of Return:                      17 percent
Poverty Category                Program of Targeted Interventions. The project would address
poverty reduction by increasing household income of poor farmers in
rural areas of the country.
Map:                            IBRD  No. 25357, 25358, and 25359






ALBANIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHAPTER I. THE IRRIGATION SECTOR
A. Introduction
1.1   Need for Irrigation. Albania is commonly divided into three agro-ecological zones based on
climate, soils and vegetation -- the fertile coastal plains, the intermediate hilly region, and the non-arable
mountain zones. Coastal areas are characterized by a Mediterranean climate with dry, hot summers and
mild rainy winters. Annual rainfall varies from 800-2,000 mm in coastal areas, to about 1,600-2,000 mm
in the hilly region, and up to 3,000 mm in the mountains. Less than 20 percent of annual rainfall occurs
in the six-month period April-September. Crop water deficits between June and August range between 400
and 500 mm which cannot be supplied from soil moisture, making irrigation necessary for adequate crop
growth, especially in the coastal areas. Alluvial soils in the coastal plains are predominantly planted with
cereals, forage, vegetables, and industrial crops. Agriculture in the hills is more diverse, including
deciduous fruits, grapes and vineyards, olives and citrus to the south, potatoes and industrial crops, and
sugar beet in the eastern upland plateau. Albania has a total land area of about 2.9 ha million, of which
702,000 ha are arable land, 409,000 ha million are pastures, and 1.05 ha million are forests. Some
417,000 ha are under the command of irrigation systems, covering about 60 percent of the national arable
area and accounting for some 80 percent of agricultural production value. More than half of the irrigation
command area, or 226,000 ha, is located in the coastal plains.
1.2   Historic Developments. Irrigation has been practiced in Albania since the beginning of this
century. In 1938, the irrigated area covered 29,000 ha or 10 percent of arable land. Massive investments
under the communist regime, most of them carried out between 1950 and 1975, increased the area under
irrigation command to the present area. The development of irrigation was accompanied by flood
protection works for 130,000 ha and drainage systems for 300,000 ha. Furthermore, extensive reclamation
has been carried out since the mid-1930s to reclaim 280,000 ha of marshlands and saline areas along the
coast now forming two thirds of the irrigation command area.
1.3   Present Status.  Social upheavals following the demise of communism in 1991 resulted in
substantial damage to the irrigation and drainage systems, mainly affecting pumping stations, transformer
stations, high-tension lines, hydraulic structures and concrete lining of irrigation canals. Most of the
damage occurred on structures serving former agricultural cooperatives, accounting for 74 percent of the
irrigation command area, while systems on former state farms remained generally unharmed. At the same
time, regular system maintenance has been reduced considerably and new construction work has been
stopped due to central budget constraints. As a result of these developments, irrigation systems on 114,000
ha are currently inoperative, and drainage systems on some 153,000 ha are severely damaged. In addition,
the process of dismantling cooperatives, liquidating state farms and privatizing all arable land created the
major challenge of delivering water to a multitude of small farmers and collecting water charges from
them, a task for which the existing institutions are not prepared. Thus, only some 80,000 ha were actually
irrigated in 1993 (130,000 ha in 1992), accounting for a mere 19 percent of the irrigation command area
(31 percent in 1992), or 11 percent of arable land (18 percent in 1992). This is a dramatic development
in light of the urgent need for a rise in farm productivity in order to ensure the viability of the new
smallholder agriculture in the country.



- 2 -
B. Irrigated Agriculture
1.4    The Agriculture Sector.  Albania is predominantly an agricultural country.  At present, the
agriculture sector generates about half of GDP and is the main source of employment for 50 percent of the
labor force (705,000 persons in primary production and an additional 100,000 in related sectors). Two-
thirds of the national population live in rural areas. When compared with its ex-socialist neighbors,
Albania has achieved extraordinary progress towards reforming the agriculture sector along market
economy lines since the end of communism in 1991. About 90 percent of the land previously controlled
by state-run cooperatives and state farms has been fully privatized, major reforms in price and trade
liberalization have been achieved, and further reforms aiming at the privatization of agricultural enterprises,
the reform of the agricultural credit system, and the legal framework for land leasing are under way. After
a 40 percent aggregate decline in production during 1990 and 1991, the sector achieved a 17 percent
growth in production during 1992. Growth for 1993 is estimated at 12 percent, with a further expected
rise of 10 percent in 1994. After the emergence of some 400,000 family farms with an average size of
about 1.4 ha, cropping patterns have seen a shift away from wheat towards maize (as animal feed for the
increasing livestock herd) and high-value cash crops such as fruit and vegetables. Cropping intensities and
yields in the private farm sector are likely to rise during the coming years as the present subsistence
agriculture will become less important while the share of marketed agricultural produce will increase.
Rehabilitation of the irrigation and drainage infrastructure is a prerequisite for such a development.
1.5    Yield Response to Irrigation. Due to plentiful rainfall during autumn and winter, winter crops
grown in lowland plains such as wheat and fodder require only supplemental irrigation to compensate for
irregular spring rainfall. However, systematic water deficits in the lowland plains between April and
September prevent cultivation of summer crops such as alfalfa, maize, fruits and vegetables, and industrial
crops (i.e. cotton) unless full irrigation is provided.
Average yield response to irrigation in Albania is
shown in table 1. 1.  Background information on        TABLE 1.1: Yield Response to Irrigation
cropping patterns, irrigation requirements, crop yields
and yield response to irrigation for the major 25     CROP                 Average Yield 1985-1990
crops in the country is provided in Annex 1.                               RAINFED    IRRIGATED
----------- t/ha-----------
1.6    Yield Response to Drainage.  Drainage is           WHEAT               3.0          4.0
needed mainly on heavier alluvial soils in the coastal    ALFALFA             7.0         40.0
lowlands of Albania to evacuate excess water during   TOMATOES                n.appl.     35.0
the rainy season.  Stagnant surface water delays    DRY BEANS                 1.4          2.0
seeding of winter crops in autumn. Drainage in the    POTATOES               10.0         25.0
low-lying former marshes and saline areas is required  SUGAR BEET            20.0         35.0
to keep the water table constantly at a level whereby  SUNFLOWER              1.2          3.0
the crop root zone is sufficiently aerated. Maize and  GRAPES                 4.2         10.0
wheat can be seriously affected by water logging in    DECIDUOUS FRUITS       2.0         14.0
the early stage of growth with associated yield
reductions of about 10 percent. In addition, poor
drainage often results in a reduction of the cropped
area.
1.7    Water Resources. Albania is a water-rich country with an annual average of 3,080 m3 per capita,
the highest value in Central and Eastern Europe. Total run-off equals on average 25.7 billion m3 per year,
of which only 2 percent or 558 million m3 can be stored in irrigation reservoirs. This water, together with



- 3 -
450 million m3 diverted from rivers and lakes, constitutes the present volume of 1.0 billion m3 available
for irrigation from surface water. To augment water supply further, 14 reservoirs are under construction
(discontinued due to lack of funds), and 9 reservoirs have been designed for future implementation.
Groundwater resources have played no significant role in irrigation.
C. Irrigation and Drainage Infrastructure
1.8    System Size and Fragmentation. Irrigation systems are highly fragmented since 55 percent of
the irrigation command area is supplied by small systems covering less than 5,000 ha. Some 653 dams
and reservoirs supply water to about 184,000 ha, and 639 pumping stations with some 1,250 electrical
pumps and an installed power of about 200,000 kW provide lift irrigation from rivers and lakes for about
78,000 ha. Run-of-river schemes account for water on some 160,000 ha, with groundwater supplying the
remaining 1,000 ha of land under irrigation command. Reservoirs and run-of-river schemes are generally
in working order while more than half of installed irrigation pumps need replacement. Very small systems
in the hills and mountains, serving less than 200 ha of land and involving high pumping of more than 50m,
are common and mostly non-viable from  an economic point of view.' Lift irrigation in coastal areas
implies generally less than 20m of lift. Annex 2.1 provides detailed information on the existing irrigation
and drainage infrastructure in each district.
1.9    System  Layout.  Irrigation schemes have been designed to deliver water to rather large areas
belonging to former agricultural cooperatives and state farms. Thus, the existing irrigation grid provides
for hydraulic units of about 100 ha served by secondary canals and sub-units of 10 ha served by tertiary
canals (see Annex 2.2). In most instances, this system layout allowed for a smooth conversion to private
irrigated plots of about I ha (200mx5Om), served by quaternary field ditches departing perpendicular from
tertiary canals, without loss of irrigation efficiency. Complete loss of access to irrigation water following
land distribution could generally be avoided.
1.10   Delivery Capacities. Irrigation is supplemental to rainfall and varies between 900 and 7,000 m3/ha
at the water source depending upon location and crop. Schemes constructed after 1985 are designed to
supply the full crop water deficits. However, this applies to only 8 percent or 35,000 ha of the national
command area. All other schemes have design capacities of 2,800 m3/ha (plains) and 2,500 m3/ha (hills)
at the crop.  Losses were added at 30 percent to design the conveyance system  capacity of 0.5
liter/second/ha. However, given actual losses of 70 percent, only an inadequate average amount of about
1,200 m3/ha actually reaches the plant, far below full crop water requirements at peak demand periods,
thus reducing yields and irrigation intensities. High losses are mainly due to missing or looted canal lining
and the low efficiency of irrigation methods (para 1.11). Simple measures to rehabilitate these schemes
and improve conveyance systems would reduce losses and result in an average increase of available water
by 33 percent or 400 m3/ha to reach a total of 1,600 m3/ha supplied to the crop.
1.11   Irrigation Methods. Except for sprinkler systems on large plots owned by joint-ventures with
foreign partners, surface irrigation methods dominate. Furrow-type and strip-type systems account for
about 95 percent of the methods used. Grading of furrows is generally inadequate, and water use
/f    Out of 639 pumping stations, only 10 have capacities above 1,000 1/s serving a total of some 22,800 ha of irrigated land.
The remaining 629 stations provide water to an area of 55,200 ha, equivalent to an average of a mere 88 ha per station and
irrigation system. Equally, out of 653 reservoirs, the 14 largest ones account for one third of the total live storage capacity
of all reservoirs, with the remaining 639 smaller reservoirs serving an average irrigated area of only 200 ha per reservoir and
system.



- 4 -
efficiencies do not exceed 60 percent and are even lower for strip irrigation. Fish-bone systems irrigate
5 percent of land under surface irrigation and prove to be more efficient and well suited to the needs of
smallholder farmers.
1.12   Drainage Systems. Drainage covers only areas that are also irrigated during the dry season. Of
the 276,000 ha artificially drained, about 206,000 ha are drained by gravity and 70,000 ha by electrical
pumping stations. About 200,000 have open drains throughout and 76,000 ha are partly drained by
subsurface tile drains. Total drainage canal length is 15,700 km. Existing drainage systems cover virtually
all land needing drainage. The 25 electrical pumping stations with an installed power of 22,700 kW were
a primary target of looting and destruction following the dismantling of agricultural cooperatives in 1991,
leaving only some 123,000 ha with functioning drains.
D. Organization of the Sector
1.13   Ministry of Agriculture and Food. Overall supervision of the irrigation sector is the responsibility
of the Land, Water and Rural Development Department (LWRD) in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food
(MoAF). LWRD consists of a director and ten employees which are dealing with all aspects of land
registration and cadastre, soil protection and improvement, irrigation and drainage, land reclamation, and
rural development. The three employees in the irrigation division are overseeing: (i) activities of 39,
generally district-based public Water Enterprises (WEs) responsible for system operation and maintenance;
(ii) all works carried out by the 21 public Construction Enterprises (CEs) specialized in irrigation, drainage
and flood control;2  (iii) engineering services provided by the Institute for Studies and Design of Water
Works (ISDWW); and (iv) studies and research on soil improvement conducted by the Soil Institute (SI).
MoAF is currently reorganizing the ministry's organizational structure, involving the creation of a new
Directorate of Services for Natural Water Resources. The Directorate will include four separate divisions
for water (including irrigation), land, fisheries and environment. Such action will certainly strengthen the
administrative capacity of MoAF in dealing with the irrigation sub-sector.
1.14   Water Enterprises. Prior to the dissolution of agricultural cooperatives and state farms, WEs were
in charge of: (i) distributing irrigation water up to the tertiary level; (ii) maintaining all primary and
secondary canals, including structures in tertiary canals; (iii) operating and maintaining most irrigation and
drainage pumping stations, reservoirs, roads, flood and riverbank protection works; (iv) collecting water
charges, and coordinating water requests and water distribution; and (v) entering into contracts with public
CEs for system rehabilitation and expansion. Water distribution and canal maintenance at the tertiary and
quaternary level were handled by cooperatives and state farms. Today, WEs face the major challenge of
delivering water to the multitude of individual farmers and collecting water charges from them, and the
responsibility for operation and maintenance of systems below the secondary level remains unclear. While
WEs have lost cooperatives and state farms as their contracting partner and major source of revenue,
financial support to WEs from the central budget has been reduced from US$18 per ha in 1990 to about
US$9 per ha in 1992 and is expected to equal US$5 per ha in 1993.3 Starting in 1992, most WEs have
responded by requiring private farmers to elect village representatives who ensure collection and payment
of water charges prior to water delivery through the WE.  Farmer participation in this system  is
2/     In addition to these 21 CEs, eight of the 39 WEs were combined WEs-CEs to carry out irrigation construction works in their
respective districts, resulting in a total of 29 CEs. Works in the remaining seven districts were covered through CEs in
neighboring districts.
3/     Until 1990, WEs recovered about 75 percent of their operating expenses through water charges paid by agricultural
cooperatives and state farms, the balance was covered through direct subsidies from the MoAF budget.



- 5 -
encouraging. Nevertheless, insufficient funding and lack of maintenance has resulted in a reduction of WE
staff and the depletion of most equipment and buildings.4
1.15   Construction Enterprises.  These enterprises had a monopoly for all works in irrigation and
drainage. Works were financed by WEs through MoAF contributions, and any losses were covered
through direct subsidies from MoAF. Since January of 1993, CE are considered "financially autonomous"
and receive no more budgetary support from MoAF. At the same time, CEs remain public enterprises
without management autonomy and, therefore, cannot compete with emerging private contractors which,
in turn, are free to engage in various construction activities, pay competitive salaries and invest in new
machinery. Since all on-going irrigation construction works funded by MoAF have been halted, CEs are
left with no source of income and practically stopped operating. Staff has mostly been laid off, equipment
and buildings are beyond their useful life.5
1.16   Legal and Regulatory Framework. Distribution of water for irrigation is still being carried out
based on laws regulating the relation between the state as the owner of water resources, WEs as distributors
and system operators, and cooperatives and state farms as water users.6 With the dissolution of the latter
water users, this legal framework has become obsolete, leaving a vacuum with respect to the legal basis
for sale of water by WEs and the settlement of disputes between private irrigators and WEs. Furthermore,
supervision of WE operations through MoAF is being carried out without sufficient staff and financial
resources and under no clear regulatory framework. This creates a non-sustainable situation where WEs
are forced to charge for irrigation water at below-cost levels, set centrally by MoAF, while not receiving
sufficient financial support from MoAF to cover operating losses.
E. Technical Options
1.17   Investment Alternatives. Capital investments into Albania's physical infrastructure for irrigation
and drainage require a choice among one or several of the following technical options:
(a) System Rehabilitation. Lack of maintenance and substantial damages to the infrastructure during
1991 have rendered inoperative irrigation systems covering 114,000 ha of the national command
area and drainage systems covering 153,000 ha of previously drained land (para 1.3).
Reestablishment of as-designed conditions through rehabilitation works would consist primarily in
replacing irrigation and drainage pumps and in repairing hydraulic structures such as measuring
devices, gates, lined canals, aqueducts, drainage service roads, and dams and reservoirs. This
would ensure water supply to now underirrigated and non-irrigated crops and would provide better
evacuation of drainage water and lower water tables.
4/      Currently, WEs employ a total of 5,500 employees, equivalent to an average of 1.3 workers per 100 ha of command area.
This is in line with international standards of staff requirements (between I and 2 workers per 100 ha) for operation and
maintenance of small irrigation systems with an average size of less than 300 ha per system.
5!      The total number of staff in CEs sank from 9,900 at end-1990 to 3,000 at end-1992 and less than 1,000 during the third
quarter of 1993.
6/      The legal basis for the activities of WEs are: (i) Decree No. 4311 of September 8, 1967, and (ii) Decision of the Council
of Ministers No. 130 of April 28, 1988, both dealing with "Construction and Administration of Irrigation and Drainage
Systems".



- 6 -
(b) Improvement of Conveyance Systens. Except for critical reaches, irrigation canals are unlined.
New lining of additional irrigation canals with concrete may save up to 80 percent of water lost
during its conveyance in unlined canals to farm gates. Canal lining would also increase carrying
capacities and allow additional water to be delivered provided water would be available at the
source, requiring additional investments for enlargement of reservoirs, expansion of run-of-river
inlet structures, and increasing pumping station capacities.
(c) Modernization of On-farm Distribution Systems.  The high proportion of irrigation with low
distribution efficiency under furrow-type and stripe-type systems presents an opportunity for
considerable upgrading of on-farm distribution systems (para 1.  11). Options include improvements
of furrow systems involving only modest investments into land grading to a constant slope and
head-end pipe-works. Investments into sprinkler, drip and spray types of distribution systems
would be capital-intensive, imply substantial energy cost and would not necessarily distribute water
much more efficiently than well operated surface systems in flat terrain such as in Albania's coastal
plains.
(d) Private Surface Pumping Development.  Numerous streams and lakes provide opportunities to
private farmers to irrigate presently non-irrigated lands in the vicinity of such water resources.
Small diesel powered pumps involving moderate capital investment and maintenance cost would be
able to irrigate up to 10 ha. Such equipment could also pump from drains within existing irrigation
systems, thus augmenting water supply for surface irrigation, provided drainage water supply is
dependable.
(e) Private Groundwater Development. Irrigation development with medium sized tubewells (3 to 5
I/s) has been ignored in the past due to the large size of cooperative and state farms. These
tubewells could be economic for farmers located on non-irrigated lands and land needing drainage
at present. However, small tubewell development (less than 1 l/s) suited for smallholder would
increase capital investments considerably with miniaturizing of technology.
(f) Completion of Unfinished Schemes. On-going works on some 34 major irrigation schemes and two
drainage schemes, benefitting a combined area of 100,000 ha of arable land, have been halted since
1991 due to lack of funds. On average, at 1991 prices, 40 percent of the initially projected total
cost has been invested into these projects. After comprehensive technical appraisal and economic
revaluation, some of these schemes might become attractive candidates for completion.
(g) Construction of New Schemes. Any expansion of the existing irrigation and drainage infrastructure
through new pumping schemes, run-of-river schemes or additional dams and reservoirs would
involve very high capital investments. Construction of new schemes for water augmentation, i.e.
through upgrading of system capacity in pumping stations and reservoirs, would require less capital
but would need to be combined with investments into improved conveyance.
1.18   Ranking of Options. As shown in table 1.2, estimated benefit/cost ratios for different farm models
indicate that general system rehabilitation through re-establishment of as-designed conditions is by far the
economically most attractive option for investments in the irrigation and drainage sector. Improvement of
conveyance systems and development of low-lift private surface pumping are the next-best investment
alternatives. Modernization of on-farm distribution systems through sprinklers could be considered in hilly
terrains with high concentration of citrus plantation. Groundwater development through deep tubewells



- 7 -
and construction of new schemes result in the lowest benefit/cost ratios and are not justified before other
investment alternatives have been implemented.
TABLE 1.2: Ranking of Investment Alternatives
------ AVERAGE COST -------  --------- BENEFIT/COST RATIOS ---------
Capital    Operation &       Farm         Farm          Farm
TYPE OF INVESTMENT             Investment    Maintenance    Model I       Model 2      Model 3
(US$/ha)   (US$/ha/year)     Forage     Cash Crops      Citrus
A. SYSTEM REHABILITATION                    100-200       75           3.5          5.8           8.1
B. IMPROVEMENT OF CONVEYANCE                    350       10           2.2          3.5           3.4
C. ON-FARM DISTRIBUTION SYSTEMS
1. Furrow and Border Strip                   600       30           1.3          2.1           2.1
2. Sprinkler (semi-mobile)                  1,600      50           1.8           2.9          3.6
3. Drip or Spray                           2,400       95           1.1           1.7          2.2
D. PRIVATE SURFACE PUMPING
1. Low Lift (15m, 10 I/s)                    200       50           2.7          4.5           5.7
2. High Lift (40m, 5 I/s)                    500       55           1.6           2.7          3.3
E. GROUNDWATER DEVELOPMENT
1. Shallow Tubewells (15m, 5 IUs)          1,200       70           1.8          2.6           3.3
2. Deep Tubewells (25m, 3 I/s)             2.400       75           0.9           1.5          1.6
F. COMPLETION OF UNFINISHED SCHEMES       500-4,000                     (varies between specific schemes)
G. NEW SCHEMES
1. Pumping Schemes                         4,500       90           0.8           1.3          1.6
2. Run-of-river Schemes                    3,000       55           1.2           1.9          2.4
3. Dams and Reservoirs                     5,000       70           0.6           1.1          1.3
F. Institutional Issues
1.19   Organization of Water Users. Delivery of irrigation water to some 400,000 private farmers with
average holdings of 1.4 ha per farm is impossible without active farmer participation in water scheduling,
collection of water charges, and system operation and maintenance. A first and promising step towards
the formation of user groups is the recent emergence of elected village representatives who consolidate
water requests from individual farmers, collect water fees and enter into water contracts with WEs.
Commune-based irrigation technicians, employed by WEs and responsible for hydraulic units of up to
1,000 ha, deliver water to the tertiary canal level from where village representatives supervise the use of
water by individual farmers. Although unauthorized taking of water does not appear to be a major
problem, the mechanisms for control of water distribution and use are nevertheless clearly inadequate, often
resulting in a non-equitable distribution of water.  Furthermore, cleaning and repair of tertiary and
quaternary irrigation and drainage canals remains without organization. The establishment of Water User
Associations (WUAs) is, therefore, a pre-requisite to allow for orderly water distribution and to guarantee
system maintenance and safeguarding below the secondary level.
1.20   Basis for WUAs.  WUAs should ideally be based on hydraulic units, that is, areas between
secondary canals comprising irrigated land served by a single source, thus allowing for precise and direct



- 8 -
control of water amounts delivered to each WUA. Albania's irrigation system, however, has been designed
to accommodate former cooperatives and state farms, irrespective of long-established village boundaries,
and the command area between secondary canals generally concerns various villages. Establishment of
WUAs based on hydraulic units would, therefore, require farmers of different villages to cooperate in the
same user group. Since villages are currently the only well functioning local social unit, with sometimes
significant rivalry and conflicts between farmers living in different villages, it would be unrealistic to
initiate the process of forming WUAs on generally non-village-based units.  In addition, the recent
distribution of land has left some farmers with up to three fragmented plots, often scattered over a number
of independent hydraulic sub-systems. Farmers would thus be forced to become member in more than one
user group if WUAs were to be based on hydraulic units. This further supports the case for initially
village-based WUAs. After several years of successful operation, WUAs should eventually be grouped
together into larger organizations such as to comprise irrigated areas that are more closely based on
hydraulic units. These organizations would then take over operation and maintenance of secondary canals
within their command area.
1.21   Transfer of Small Systems. Albania's irrigation infrastructure is characterized by a very large
number of small individual systems, served by isolated low-capacity pumping stations or small reservoirs,
and covering a total of about 78,000 ha.  Operation and maintenance of these systems, previously
undertaken by former agricultural cooperatives, involves high per-ha costs, and many of the systems are
economically not justifiable. Decentralization of system management could reduce related costs through
more efficient local, private management and would allow to internalize costs at the user level. The
ownership and management responsibility for these small systems should, therefore, be transferred entirely
to local WUAs which would be required to cover all future costs of system operation and maintenance.
Farmers would then have a strong incentive to change their cropping patterns such as to either generate
sufficient cash income from higher-value crops in order to pay for system maintenance, or to switch to
crops requiring no irrigation and to abandon non-viable irrigation systems.'
1.22   Regulation and Consolidation of WEs. The 39 state-owned WEs need to be placed under a
regulatory framework based on the principles of management autonomy and public accountability.
Management autonomy involves the right of WEs to propose and revise water charges, subject to approval
by Government, based on each WE's actual operating cost, thereby enabling WEs to recover recurrent and
capital expenditures and become largely independent from budgetary transfers by MoAF. Granting of such
authority to WEs must go along with an active supervision of their activities through MoAF and a stronger
accountability towards water users and the general public. This includes annual independent audits of WE
accounts and their subsequent publication as a basis for justifying adjustments of water charges. Although
WEs would remain public sector enterprises, to improve their accountability further, the supervision of
their operations should, in the medium term, be transferred to private farmers at the district level through
representation of WUAs on the Board of Supervisors of WEs. In the long term, after WUAs have been
established and have taken over operation and maintenance of most canals, the present district-based
structure of WEs should be revised through consolidation of WEs into broader basin enterprises which
would be responsible for managing water use and water distribution in the six major river basins of the
country.
7/     As an interim measure and first step in this direction, a Presidential Decree (No. 576 of June 28, 1993) provides for the
turnover of management and ownership of small and independent irrigation systems, serving no more than one commune or
village, to the local commune administration. This concerns in particular areas where system management was carried out
by former agricultural cooperatives and state farms. The provisions of this Decree will need to be incorporated into a new
Irrigation Code.



- 9 -
1.23   Privatization of CEs and Promotion of Private Contractors. The 21 state-owned CEs are non-
operational and their assets are mostly depleted. Government intends to auction off CEs or to liquidate
them if no positive price can be achieved during the auction. In September 1993, MoAF handed over all
CEs to the National Agency for Privatization, and completion of privatization is expected by the summer
of 1994. Once privatized, these enterprises can bid for irrigation rehabilitation works on an equal footing
with the about 70 local private contractors and joint-ventures with foreign contractors that have emerged
in Albania since 1991. Small private contractors will have a major cost advantage over joint-ventures and
remaining privatized CEs due to lower overheads and greater adaptability of their enterprises. They should
be able to compete successfully for dispersed irrigation construction and repair works if contracts are kept
simple enough and are packaged at a scale suitable for small enterprises. As has happened during the past
two years, private contractors would absorb some of the labor released by privatized or liquidated former
CEs.
G. Financial Issues
1.24   System of Water Charges.  At present, water charges are centrally set by MoAF and are
differentiated according to potential land productivity. Current charge levels are Lek 1.8/mi3 in the plains,
Lek 1. 1/m3 in the hills, and Lek 0.5/m3 in mountain areas. However, in lack of measuring equipment on
most canals, WE convert the volume-based water charge into a surface-based fee, assuming a fixed average
discharge per irrigation application of generally 1,000 m3. This results in an equivalent charge of about
US$18 per ha and application in the plains. Farmers are charged separately and in advance for each
delivery. Albania must, therefore, be credited for having established a simple and effective charge system
with high collection rates that provides efficient water pricing on a per unit basis.
1.25   District-based Charges and Cost Recovery. While the principle of volume-based water charges
promotes efficient water use, the current charge levels are inadequate to ensure sufficient funding for
system operation and maintenance and for required investments into system rehabilitation. Furthermore,
water charges in hill and mountain areas are set at lower levels than in the plains while, in turn, operating
costs are higher in hills and mountains due to high pumping and extensive use of reservoirs for relatively
small irrigated areas. Finally, the extent of water lift and artificial drainage varies substantially between
schemes and regions, causing major cost differentials between districts; centrally-determined water fees,
however, do not allow for a regional differentiation of water charges based on actual costs. For these
reasons, the current level of water charges must be revised and differentiated on a regional basis, with the
aim of full recovery of recurrent and investment costs, by reflecting actual district-based expenditures
incurred by individual WEs.
1.26   Principles for Setting Water Charges. Upon proposal by each WE, district-based water charges
should be set by Government such as (i) to cover all justified costs of operation and maintenance of WEs,
based on independent external audits of their activities, and (ii) to recover the cost of investments
(rehabilitation and replacements) by Government into the infrastructure at the primary and secondary canal
level. Water charges would be payable on a volumetric basis by WUAs who would collect water charges
from their members. A portion of water charges would be payable prior to water delivery (e.g. 30
percent), the balance would be paid after the end of the cropping season. Except for the portion of charges
related to the recovery of investment costs, which would be transferred to the central Government budget,
revenues from water charges must be retained by WEs in order to preserve the direct financial link between
cost recovery and the actual use of funds for operating and maintaining systems at the primary and
secondary canal level. To cover costs of operation and maintenance of systems below the secondary level,
WUAs would set and collect membership fees.



- 10 -
H. Legal Issues
1.27  Legal Framework for Irrigation and Drainage. With the emergence of private farmers, previous
laws, regulating the allocation of irrigation water by WEs to agricultural cooperatives and state farms, have
become obsolete (para 1.16). A comprehensive Irrigation Code is required and has been drafted by
MoAF. On the basis of this Code, WUA Regulations (prepared by a consultant financed under the IDA
Critical Imports Project, CIP FY92) would be enacted as a decision by the Minister of Agriculture and
Food. Furthermore, a national Water Code has been drafted, under financing by the CIP, setting the
principles for allocation of water resources by all users including agriculture, industry, and energy. Once
the Water Code will have been discussed by the various ministries involved, the Irrigation Code would
come under the provisions of the Water Code. However, given the complexity and far-reaching
implications of the Water Code for the various water users, finalization of the Water Code is expected to
take considerable time. The Irrigation Code should, therefore, be enacted prior to the Water Code such
as to provide the urgently needed legal framework for irrigation and drainage.
1.28  Elements of the Irrigation Code.  IDA has reviewed the draft Irrigation Code.  After its
finalization, the key elements of the Irrigation Code are:
(a) Role of Water Enterprises. State-owned WEs will deliver water to the tertiary level where WUAs
or other large agricultural water users (e.g. joint-ventures) will take delivery of the water. WEs
will be responsible for operation and maintenance of primary and secondary canals for irrigation
and drainage and related structures;
(b) Role of WUAs. WUAs will be responsible for collection of water requests and water charges from
farmers and payment to WEs. WUAs will be in charge of system operation and maintenance, and
of infrastructure investments, below the secondary canal level;
(c) Mode of establishmnent of WUAs. Establishment of WUAs will be a precondition for the allocation
of irrigation water by WEs which will not deliver water to individual smallholders. WUAs will
be created through vote of all concerned farmers in the respective area. Membership in WUAs will
be compulsory for all farmers in an area if the majority of farmers votes in favor of the creation
of a WUA. The area coverage for individual WUAs would be determined by farmers;
(d) Role of Government. Water and all irrigation and drainage infrastructures are the property of the
State which can turn over user rights or ownership to water users. MoAF will initially supervise
and regulate the activities of WEs, and will set water charges in accordance with principles
described above (para 1.26). In the medium term, WUAs of each respective district will take over
this supervisory role;
(e) Other provisions, including principles for small-system transfer to water users (incorporating the
provisions of the June 1993 Presidential Decree on this matter), and right-of-way and other
easement issues.
I. Environmental Issues
1.29  Water and Soil Contamination.  Surface water quality is generally good, but industrial and
domestic waste-water, along with liquid discharges and solid and hazardous wastes from mining and energy



- 11 -
operations, are causing pollution of some rivers and lakes which supply water for irrigation.8 Control of
surface water quality is the responsibility of the Institute of Hydrometeorology within the Academy of
Science, but only few control points have been established and the laboratory equipment for analysis is
inadequate. Groundwater and its potential contamination through misapplication of fertilizers, pesticides
and other agricultural chemicals is of subordinated importance for irrigation. However, contamination of
soils and of surface water resulting from agricultural runoff following inadequate use of fertilizer and agro-
chemicals is an issue for irrigated agriculture.9 A Law on Plant Protection dealing with pest management
has been passed by Parliament in early 1993,10 and detailed guidelines for the safe use of pesticides by
private farmers, acceptable to IDA, have been developed under financing under the CIP. A further
potential source of soil contamination in the coastal areas is water logging and soil salinisation resulting
from water losses in the irrigation distribution system and during field application, causing saline
groundwater to rise into the root zone of the crops. This is of special concern in areas where existing
drainage systems are inoperative. Research and control of soil contamination and soil salinity is carried
out by the Soil Institute under MoAF which lacks the technical equipment and budgetary funds to fulfill
this role adequately.
CHAPTER II. BANK INVOLVEMENT AND STRATEGY
A. Bankwide Lending to the Sector
2.1    Overall Experience. Irrigation and drainage projects account for about six percent of total Bank
lending and one-third of lending to agriculture. OED's 1992 Annual Review of Evaluation Results and
the 1993 OED Review of World Bank Irrigation Experience provide evidence on performance and
recurrent issues of some 200 Bank irrigation projects. Overall operational performance has been above
agricultural projects - while being below all Bank lending - but has in general been poorer than anticipated
at project appraisal. Critical factors for project success include: quality and adequacy of system design,
especially in wet-zone surface systems; quality of construction works; achieved levels of cost recovery;
quality of operation and maintenance; and unexpected shifts in output prices and macroeconomic
distortions. Borrowers often disengage too early from projects, particularly under program or time-slice
approaches, leaving irrigation and drainage systems incomplete and land development unfinished. For
many projects, complementary services (such as extension, research and marketing) associated with the
productivity of irrigation development have been inadequate or seriously delayed. Other issues leading to
poor performance are related to: underestimated costs frequently due to lack of sufficiently advanced
engineering design at appraisal; cost overruns due to delays in completing engineering designs, preparing
tender documents, and evaluating bids; slower-than-estimated civil works construction and equipment
delivery times; and lower-than-estimated water use efficiencies due to deterioration of the infrastructure.
2.2    Cost Recovery, Maintenance Quality and Farmer Participation. The record of cost recovery
in Bank-financed irrigation projects has been unsatisfactory. In most cases, no capital costs were recovered
8/     Polluted rivers include the Shkumbin river below Elbasan for 30 km (effluent from iron and mineral industry), the Seman river
below Gjanica for 10 km (oil industry waste), Goanica (oil industry waste), the Mat river after joining of Fani river (copper
industry waste), and the Kiri river below Shkoder for 8 km (various industrial wastes).
9/     See Report No. 11784-ALB: Albania - Environmental Strategy Study.
10/    Law No. 7662 of January 19, 1993.



- 12 -
and in two-thirds of reviewed projects the covenant requiring that cost recovery fully satisfy funding for
system operation and maintenance had not been met,"1 with the proportion of respective costs recovered
generally reaching only a range of 15 to 45 percent. Inadequate operation and maintenance is generally
attributed to such poor cost recovery. However, the 1993 OED Review suggests that improved cost
recovery will only result in better system performance if revenues from water charges are clearly
earmarked for operation and maintenance (financial link) and if service-providing irrigation agencies are
directly accountable to water users (incentives link). Furthermore, entities collecting water fees must be
able to use them directly to oversee operation and maintenance (financial autonomy). The latter often
implies financial decentralization of irrigation agencies from the central government budget, and partial or
total transfer of responsibility for fee collection and system operation and maintenance to water user groups
at the farmer level. These experiences have been taken into explicit consideration in the design of the
proposed project.
B. Lending to Agriculture in Albania
2.3    Irrigation Component under the Critical Imports Project. The first IDA operation in Albania
was the Critical Imports Project (CIP, FY92, total cost US$55 million) which includes an Irrigation
Component of US$6.8 million financing equipment, spare parts and materials for selected repairs of the
infrastructure and providing consultant services to set up WUAs on a pilot basis and to draft a Water Code
and regulations for WUAs (see Annex 3). An irrigation command area of 18,455 ha has benefitted from
resulting rehabilitation works by end-1993, a further 43,000 ha is planned to be affected by rehabilitation
works by mid-1994. An important lesson learned from this operation is the importance to ensure that
sufficient budgetary provisions are available for WEs to cover the cost of locally procured items such as
cement for construction works and fuel for vehicle operation.12 Experience from establishing the first
WUAs in the coastal districts of the country shows that farmers are generally keen to join into water user
groups if this guarantees more reliable water supply by WEs and better maintenance of systems below the
secondary level. Local agronomists of the extension service network under MoAF maintain a good contact
with private farmers and appear to be well suited to promote WUAs. WEs are equally interested in the
creation of WUAs in order to wholesale irrigation water to them and to collect water fees from them,
rather than having to deal with individual farmers. Villages are the only widely accepted basis for WUAs,
and farmers see an opportunity to develop WUAs in parallel with recently emerging, largely village-based
Private Farmers Associations which are aiming at common supply of inputs and joint marketing of produce
(see survey results in Annex 5.5).13
2.4     Agricultural Credit. The two other agricultural IDA projects in Albania deal, inter alia, with the
reform of the agricultural credit system to adapt it to the financial needs of the private farm sector. Under
the Rural Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project (RPAPP, FY93, total cost US$4.8 million), a bottom-up
approach is being followed by creating a network of village-based credit funds in selected districts.
11/    The three main reasons for non-compliance have been: unreliable water supply due to poor operation and maintenance; the
often heavy burden of direct and indirect taxes already imposed by governments on the farming sector; and lack of
government commitment to recover costs. See World Bank Lending Conditionality: A Review of Cost Recovery in Irrigation
Projects, OED, OPS No. 6283, 1986
12/    As of end-1993, WEs have spent Lek 5.2 million in local costs for the purchase of cement (888 tons), and Lek 23.7 million
for the purchase of fuel (812 tons), in order to carry out rehabilitation works under the CIP.
13/    As of July 31, 1993, a total of 90 Private Farmers Associations have been established, covering up to 300 ha per association,
with an average holding of 40 ha. The large majority of these associations is located along the coastal lowland areas.



- 13 -
Decisions concerning the allocation of small loans to farmers and other village members are taken strictly
at the local level, and loan demand has been strong since the start of project implementation in April 1993.
The proposed follow-up Rural Development Project (FY95) will expand the village credit concept to the
national level. Under the Agriculture Sector Adjustment Credit (ASAC, FY93, total cost US$52 million),
in implementation since September 1993, the establishment of a new Rural Commercial Bank is being
supported through key technical assistance (US$3 million) and a line of credit to the Government for on-
lending to private farmers through the new bank (US$5 million). These IDA operations lay the ground
for providing farmers with seasonal and investment loans to purchase necessary farm inputs and to finance
on-farm investments into the irrigation infrastructure in order to maximize yields and output resulting from
improved irrigation.
2.5    Agricultural Extension.  Until end-1991, MoAF employed some 15,000 extension service
specialists in various agricultural disciplines which assisted agricultural cooperatives and state farms in the
management of their operations. In early 1992, Government issued a directive that these specialists will
form commune-based advisory groups (one group for three to four villages) to assist the emerging private
farmers. The future role and scope of agricultural extension in Albania requires further analysis to ensure
high responsiveness of advisory services to the needs of smallholder farmers.  For that purpose, a
comprehensive Extension Master Plan is currently in preparation through financing under ASAC.
2.6    Marketing and Distribution. Most private farmers are still engaged in subsistence agriculture with
very limited marketable surplus production. With an increase in productivity, following improved
irrigation, the current obstacles to marketing and distribution will become apparent, including the lack of
access to export markets, low domestic purchasing power, a general lack of market price information, and
inadequate transport and wholesale facilities. The proposed Dairy Marketing Project (FY95) would address
some of these issues and promote cooperative structures of milk collection and processing. The on-going
privatization of domestic agro-industries is expected to raise demand for local agricultural output and to
create new marketing opportunities for farmers. Joint marketing of farmers' surplus production will be
promoted further through the increasing number of Private Farmers Associations.
2.7    Land Consolidation. Given the small size of individual farms and the fragmentation into several
isolated small plots, land consolidation is an important issue for more efficient land use and, thus, to
achieve higher yields under improved irrigation. Under ASAC, Government will enact legislation, by mid-
1994, to allow for long-term leasing and sub-leasing of former cooperative land by the now private owners.
2.8    Feeder Roads. A total of 870km of non-paved roads under the administration by the Ministry of
Transport are located in the seven districts forming the project area under the proposed Irrigation
Rehabilitation Project.'4 An additional estimated 1,000km of dirt roads are under administration by local
authorities. These roads would be repaired, as necessary, under a proposed Feeder Roads Project (FY95)
which will focus on the rehabilitation of non-paved communal, village and feeder roads, primarily in
irrigated areas in the coastal plains.
C. Sector Strategy and Bank Support
2.9    Government's Objectives. IDA supports Government's overall objectives in the agriculture sector:
sustained growth through improvements in yields and productivity, conversion from subsistence agriculture
14/    Total length of non-paved roads per district is as follows: Laci 61km, Kruje 91km, Tirana 208km, Durres 97km, Kavaje
57km, Lushnje 64km, Fier 289km.



- 14 -
towards marketing of surplus on domestic and export markets, reduction of rural poverty and prevention
of rural-urban migration through creation of employment opportunities in rural areas, and food security.
Government is fully aware that irrigated and drained agriculture will be a cornerstone to achieve these
objectives since 80 percent of agricultural production stems from areas under irrigation command.
Therefore, Government aims at restoring system delivery capacities quickly; ensuring the sustainability of
infrastructure investments; promoting the involvement of private farmers in modernizing and maintaining
on-farm structures; and, eventually, expanding irrigation to not covered high-potential areas.
2.10   Sector Strategy.  To achieve these objectives, Government has developed a sectoral strategy
framework for irrigation and drainage with a focus on the following seven central issues and objectives,
as set out in table 2. 1: (a) rehabilitation and modernization of the physical infrastructure, under active
private sector involvement for on-farm investments; (b) ensuring farmer participation in system operation
and maintenance through creation of WUAs and eventual transfer of small systems to water users; (c)
strengthening and regulating state-owned WEs while terminating CEs' monopoly on irrigation construction
works; (d) introducing cost-covering water charges for water users and ensuring the financial autonomy
of WEs; (e) monitoring and protecting surface water and soil quality; (f) ensuring the availability of
agricultural support services and of required rural infrastructure; and (g) strengthening the engineering
design and project implementation capacity at the MoAF and WE level. Required actions to implement
this strategy would be supported by various bilateral and multilateral donors, with IDA taking a leading
role in coordinating this external assistance provided to the sector.  The project closely reflects the
development priorities formulated in the Country Assistance Strategy for Albania, as discussed by the
Board of Directors of IDA on September 14, 1993: rehabilitation of the basic infrastructure, involving
rehabilitation of existing equipment, new investments, and adequate cost recovery; and support for the
development of private agriculture through improvements in the infrastructure and creation of proper
pricing incentives.
2.11   First IDA  Operation in Irrigation.  IDA's strategy is to support Government in its above-
mentioned sectoral strategy and objectives through a phased lending program of consecutive operations.
Following the Irrigation Component under the Critical Imports Project (para 2.3), the proposed Irrigation
Rehabilitation Project would be the first major IDA operation in Albania's irrigation and drainage sector. 5
Under this operation, IDA would finance technically straightforward and economically high-yielding
rehabilitation works in selected high-potential areas and systems. A modern demonstration scheme for
canal flow control and demonstrations of efficient techniques for on-farm water management would also
be financed. In addition, IDA would provide assistance to initiate key institutional reforms, including a
program for the promotion and establishment of Water User Associations in selected districts to broaden
and institutionalize farmer participation in irrigation management. Technical and managerial assistance
would be made available for state-owned Water Enterprises to improve their operating efficiency.
Finalization of the new legal and regulatory framework for irrigation management would be supported
through technical assistance. Furthermore, IDA would support the formulation of fundamental policy
reforms, most importantly the adoption of cost-covering water charges aiming at full recovery of recurrent
and investment costs, thus reducing the fiscal burden of operating, maintaining and investing into the
infrastructure. Decentralization and private sector involvement in irrigation management would be fostered
under the proposed project through formulation of a program and timetable to transfer small systems to
private irrigators. The domestic construction industry would benefit from the proposed IDA operation
through bidding for rehabilitation works contracts suitable to small private contractors.
15/    Rehabilitation of small irrigation systems are also eligible for financing under the infrastructure and rural works component
of the IDA-financed Rural Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project (FY93).



- 15 -
2.12  Donor Coordination. The proposed project would be closely coordinated with other donors
supporting the irrigation sector in Albania. Under the IFAD Mountain Areas Irrigated Agriculture
Development Project (total cost US$18 million), irrigation systems would be rehabilitated in three low-
income mountain districts (Bulqize, Diber and Mirdite). The objective of rural development under the
IFAD project complements the proposed IDA operation which would not include the three districts covered
by IFAD. The Integrated Agricultural Development Project financed by the Dutch Government in the Fier
district aims at rehabilitating the irrigation system in one selected commune (2,500 ha total command area)
and this area would be excluded from repair works under the proposed IDA operation. A project proposal
financed by the French Government for a pilot irrigation program in the Korce district envisages
modernization of on-farm distribution systems on 1,000 ha under irrigation command. This proposal would
not be supported under the IDA project since cost estimates for rehabilitation works are very high (up to
US$10,000 per ha) and are, therefore, incompatible with the approach followed under the IDA project.
2.13  Future IDA Involvement. After implementation of the first project, IDA-financed follow-up
operations in the sector would broaden the scope of infrastructure investments by extending system
rehabilitation and possibly completion works for unfinished schemes to economically viable systems in all
areas of the country. WUAs would be established on all irrigated areas and be consolidated into larger
groups to represent more closely hydraulic units. WEs would gradually be brought under the direct
supervision and control of water users. Irrigation management would be integrated into a larger framework
of water resources management at the basin level. IDA would continue to focus heavily on institutional
development and policy reforms to ensure cost recovery and to guarantee the financial sustainability of
investments. Future IDA projects would reflect key lessons on cost recovery and farmer participation
learned during the first operation. Continued IDA support in a phased manner will be necessary given the
comprehensive institutional and policy adjustments required and the role IDA can play in coordinating
external donor support for the irrigation sector.



TABLE 2.1: ALBANIA - Strategy Framework for Irrigation and Drainage
ISSUES                           OBJECTIVES                RECENT ACTloNs TAKEN               SHORT-TERM  ACTIONS               MEDltlMILoNG-TERM  ACTIONS
A. PHYSICAL INFRASTRUCIVRE
1. SYSTEM REHABILrTATION           Ensure irrigation and drainage on   IDA-financed CIP provides      Rehabilitation of mavor systems in  Rehabilitation of all viable systems at
existing command area (417,000 ha)   emergency construction       selected coastal districts; other   national level
through reestablishment of as-      material, spare parts and     donor assistance for selected pilot
designed delivery capacities        rehabilitation equipment      schemes
2. SYSTEM MODERNIZATION            Reduce water losses and increase     None                          Improvement of conveyance in high-   General improvement of conveyance at
water delivery capacities for main                                return cases; creation of a canal   national level, including enlargement of
canals and structures                                             flow control demonstration scheme   reservoirs, upgrading of pumps, etc.
3. PRIVATE SECTOR INVOLVEMENT    Reduce on-farmn water losses and       Purchase of some surface      Pilot-program for on-farm water     Large-scale modemization program for
IN MODERNIZATION OF ON-FARM    increase water distribution efficiency   pumps by individual farmers    management; study on the enabling    on-farm water distribution at national
IRRGATION INFRASTRUCTURE        below the tertiary level                                           environrnent for farmers' access to    level; increased credit financing of private
irrigation water from both private  sector investments into surface and
surface and groundwater pumping     groundwater pumping
4. COMPLEnIoN OF SCHEMES           Make best use of past investments    Works halted in 1992 due to    Technical and economic appraisal of   Completion of all viable schemes,
into unfinished schemes             lack of funds                 all 36 unfinished schemes           abandonment of non-viable schemes
5. CONSTRUCnON OF NEW              Provide imgation and drainage for    Feasibility studies by MoAF   None (objective of low priority)    Further studies (after rehabilitation)
SCHEMES                          non-covered high-return areas
B. FARMER PARTICIPATION
1. ORGANIzATION OF WATER           Ensure farmer participation in       Election of village irrigation  Establishment of WUAs on all      Establishment of WUAs at national level
USERS                            system operation and maintenance    representatives; under CIP,    schemes in selected coastal districts;   in conjunction with nation-wide system
pilot program for WUA         enactment of WUA Regulations        rehabilitation program
establishment and drafting of   following passage of new Irrigation
WUA Regulations               Code by Parliament
2. WUA CONSOUDATION                 Enlarge farmer participation through   None                       WUAs to be set up on village basis;   Consolidation of WUAs based on
consolidation of WUAs based on                                    preparation of program and          hydraulic units through grouping of
hydraulic units                                                  timetable for WUA consolidation      village-based WUAs
3. TRANSFER OF SMALL SYSTEMS        Reduce and intemalize operating     Presidential Decree of June   Preparation of program and          Decentralization of irrigation management
cost of small systems through local,   1993 allowing small system  timetable for transfer of small    through implementation of small system
private irrigation management      transfer to communes           systems to water users              transfer program
Note: Underlined short-term actions are supported by the proposed project.



ISSUES                           OBJECTIVES                 RECENT ACTIONS TAKEN               SHORT-TERM  ACTIONS                MEDIUM/LONG-TERM  ACTIONS
C. STATE ENTERPRISES
1. INSrTITUTONAL STRENGTHENING    Improve operational efficiency of      Provision of emergency        Provision of equipment, TA and       Strengthening of WEs in all districts
OF WATER ENTERPRISES (WES)    WEs, ensure high service quality        equipment under CIP            training to WEs in selected districts
2. REGULATORY FRAMEWORK             Establish legal basis for and ensure    Irrigation Code drafted by  Revise and finalize Irrigation Code  Transfer of supervision and management
FOR WEs                          accountability of WE operations      MoAF                          as regulatory framework for WEs      control over WEs to local water users
3. WE CONSOLIDATION                 Control use and distribution of      Draft Water Code prepared     Finalization and enactment of Water   Preparation of long-tern program for WE
AND WATER RESOURCE               water resources at the basin level   under CIP                      Code; development of National       consolidation based on river basins
MANAGEMENT                                                                                           Water Strategy (IDA/ UNDP-
funded)
4. TERMINATING CONSTRUCTION         Develop competitive private          Central budget transfers to    Packaging of irrigation works       Use of competitive bids on all major
ENTERPRISES' (CES) MONOPOLY    domestic construction industry         CEs stopped in 1993, CEs       contracts suitable to small private  public works contracts in irrigation and
handed over to NPA            contractors  pfivatization of CEs    drainage
D. WATER CHARGES
1. COsT RECOVERY                    Ensure sufficient funds are available   WEs require advance        Raise water charges to cover full    Sustained full coverage of costs for system   -
for operation and maintenance, and    payment of water charges     cost of operation and maintenance,    operation and maintenance; recovery of
for recovery of investnents costs, at   since 1993                 based on WE audits; start recovery   capital cost for public investments under
the primary and secondary canal                                    of rehabilitation investment costs   granting of long repayment maturities to
level                                                              through water charges                water users
2. FINANCIAL AUTONOMY OF WEs    Eliminate budgetary subsidies            Water charges centrally set    Set water charges based on actual   Determination of water charges by water
through fiancial link between costs   by MoAF, subsidies for WEs   district averages of operation and   users through transfer of management
and revenues at the WE level        reduced in real terms          maintenance costs bome by WEs        control over WEs to WUAs
E. NATURAL ENVlRONAENT
WATER AND SOIL QUALrrY              Reduce pesticide runoff from         Law on Plant Protection        Dissemination of information on     Further development and dissemination of
irrigated and drained lands         passed in January 1993;        pesticide management through         integrated pest management practices
training and manual on safe   agricultural extension service (to be    through extension service
use of pesticides under CIP   reformed under ASAC)
Reduce potential for waterlogging   None                           Pilot-program for on-farm water      Modemization of on-farm water
and soil salinisation, caused by                                   management: rehabilitation of        distribution systems and rehabilitation of
water losses and lacking drainage                                  drainage systems in coastal areas    drainage systems at national level
Improve monitoring of soil and      None                           Provision of TA and laboratory       Further strengthening of the Soil Institute
surface water quality             l                                equipment to the Soil Institute      and the Hyrdometeorology Institute
Note: Underlined short-term actions are supported by the proposed project.



ISSUES                          OBJECTIVES                RECENT ACTIONS TAKEN              SHORT-TERM  ACTIONS               MEDIUM/LONG-TERM  ACTIONS
F. SUPPORTING SERVICES
AND INFRASTRUCTURE
1. AGRICULTURAL CREDIT             Ensure availability of seasonal and  Reformation of rural credit    IDA-financed Rural Development   Development of cooperative agricultural
investment loans for farm inputs;  system under IDA-financed     Project (FY95) to provide short-   banks emerging from Village Credit
ensure access to long-term credit for   RPAPP and ASAC (FY93);    term credit to farmers; long-term  Funds and Private Farmer Associations;
on-farm irrigation investments by  agricultural credit programs  sub-loans under ASAC through       follow-up credit lines for on-farm
individual farmers and WUAs        by other donors               Rural Commercial Bank (RCB)        investments through RCB
2. REsEARCH AND EXTENSION          Make research and extension         Extension service workers    Reformation of extension service    Involvement of private sector in selected
responsive to needs of smallholder    grouped into commune-based   through development of Extension  agricultural services, i.e. veterinary
farmers                            advisory units in 1992        Master Plan under ASAC             services
3. MARKEnNG AND DISTRIBUTION       Ensure access to national and export   Formation of 90 Private   MoAF to promote actively the        IDA-financed Dairy Marketing Project
markets; provide market            Farmer Associations on        creation of farmer associations at  (FY95); possible integration of WUAs
information to private farmers     village basis promoting joint    national level, and to introduce  into Private Farmer Associations
marketing and distribution   market price information service
4. LAND CONSOLIDATION              Improve efficiency of land use      Land leasing law in          Legalization of long-term leasing of   Development of land market, legalization
through economies of scale         preparation under ASAC        agricultural land                   of farm land sale                          _
00
5. RuRAL ROADS                     Ensure access to individual plots   None                         AddressinR of rijht-of-way issues   Construction of new rural roads to ensure
under new IrriRation Code:         access to all plots after land consolidation
rehabilitation of rural roads under
Bank-financed Feeder Roads Project
l______________________________                                   (FY 95)
G. CEATRAL SERVICES
1. DESIGN CAPAcrrY                 Strengthen Institute for Study and  Provision of emergency       Provision of office equipment, TA   Promotion of competition through
Design of Water Works (ISDWW)      equipment to ISDWW under    and training to ISDWW                 development of private engineering and
CIP                                                              design services
2. IMPLEMENTATION CAPACITY         Strengthen Land, Water and Rural    Provision of emergency       Provision of office equipment . TA  Further strengthening of irrigation
Development Department in MoAF    equipment to LWRD under        and training to PMU; PMU to be      departnment in MoAF to improve project
(LWRD); set up Project             CIP; PMU created through      integrated into new irrigation     design, planning and implementation
Management Unit (PMU) in MoAF    PPF financing; creation of      department within MoAF              capacity
irrigation deparment
Provide infrastructure for         Training of extension         Creation of specialized WUA units    Establishment of WUA units at national
establishment of WUAs              workers and WE staff in      in WEs in selected districts to create  level; continued support to existing WUAs
WUA creation under CIP       and provide advice to WUAs          beyond first year of operation
Note: Underlined short-term actions are supported by the proposed project.



- 19 -
CHAPTER III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Rationale and Area
3.1    Background. In the spring of 1992, the Government of Albania expressed interest in World Bank
Group assistance to rehabilitate and restructure the irrigation and drainage sector. A first mission, carried
out by the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme, resulted in a comprehensive Irrigation Subsector
Review in the summer of 1992. A second FAO mission identified the project and delivered a Project
Preparation Report in spring 1993. IDA missions in the fall and winter of 1993 followed to finalize the
preparation of the project.
3.2    Project Rationale.  The technical, organizational and policy challenges towards adapting the
irrigation sector to the new structure of smallholder agriculture are substantial. At the same time, available
budgetary resources are scarce and the capacity to implement required institutional changes is limited.
Thus, rehabilitation and expansion of all systems to achieve optimal flow capacities is not a realistic short-
term objective, and a choice needs to be made as to which type of infrastructure investments would be
included under the proposed project. To maximize economic benefits, Government and IDA agree that
this first project in Albania's irrigation sector will concentrate on the rehabilitation of the existing irrigation
and drainage infrastructure to restore as-designed capacities quickly. Improvements in the conveyance
system will be undertaken only in selected cases where the net benefit of expanding delivery capacities is
very high. Private surface pumping and private groundwater development are options for individual
farmers who can seek credit financing from rural financial institutions supported under two IDA operations
(para 2.4) and, therefore, would not be financed by the proposed project. An extensive modernization of
systems aiming at correcting insufficient water supply and improving flow control would be left to a further
stage of development when economically justified by an increase in cropping intensities, by a clear shift
towards cash crops, and after the establishment and functioning of WUAs. In addition to infrastructure
investments, the project will support institution building and key policy reforms through investments,
technical assistance and training.
3.3    Project Area. A further choice relates to the question whether rehabilitation works would be
concentrated on several districts and schemes or be scattered over the entire country. Since it is the
objective of Government to maximize the project impact on agricultural production and farm income,
rehabilitation works will be carried out exclusively in areas with high agro-potential located in the fertile
coastal plains. A further selection criterion for the project area are demonstrated good prospects for farmer
participation in establishing WUAs. The experience under the Irrigation Component of the Critical Imports
Project (para 2.3) provides evidence of strong interest in setting up WUAs among those farmers that are
located along the coastal districts where financial returns from irrigation are high. Based on theses criteria,
selected irrigation and drainage systems in a total of seven adjacent districts along the coastal plains will
form the project area for rehabilitation works. As set out in table 3.1, an incremental area of 28,467 ha
will return to irrigation while 45,019 ha with currently partly operational systems will receive improved
irrigation under the project. The incremental area for drainage is equal to 17,935 ha, with an additional
area of 81,369 ha benefitting from improved drainage. The project area represents 51 percent of the
irrigation command area and 58 percent of the drainage command area in the seven districts.
3.4    Selection of Schemes. Schemes to be rehabilitated under the project have been selected following
a least cost-per-ha approach within each district (see Annexes 4.2 and 4.3). The project would focus on
the rehabilitation of large irrigation and drainage schemes to maximize the economic impact of works.
Small irrigation schemes of less than 100 ha, mostly located in hill areas and involving high pump lift of



- 20 -
more than 50m, would be excluded from works under the project. Only drainage schemes associated with
a selected irrigation scheme would be rehabilitated under the project. Some 58 percent of the irrigation
and 56 percent of drainage schemes included under the project cover more than 1,000 ha per scheme,
accounting for 94 percent and 96 percent of the project rehabilitation area for irrigation and drainage,
respectively (see Annexes 2.3 and 2.4).
TABLE 3.1: Project Area for Rehabilitation Works (in ha)
DISTRICTS                   LACI    KRUJE   TIRANA   DURRES   KAVAJE  LUSHNJE    FIER             TOTAL
ARAs3LELAND                10,300    15,200    30,100    26,400    25,200    51,100    57,000     215,300
IRRIGATION
(a) Command Area            8,910    9,765    17,863    16,715    14,230    39,081    36,938      143,502
(b) Project Area            8,000    6,835     6,696     9,580     9,990    17,570    14,815       73,486
- incremental area      2,000     2,186     1,991     7,330    3,560     5,800     5,600        28,467
improved area          6,000     4,649     4,705    2,250     6,430    11,770     9,215        45,019
(c) Project/Command Area    90%       70%       37%       57%       70%      45%       40%           51%
(d) Benefit Area            3,800     3,581    3,403     8,005     5,489     9,331     8,365       41,973
DRAINAGE
(a) Command Area            8,910    9,095     6,415    15,620    11,460    81,930    36,690      170,120
(b) Project Area            8,250    4,190     2,000     3,970     1,540    48,300    31,054       99,304
- incremental area      1,650       535       700       770      330     9,400     4,550        17,935
- improved area         6,600     3,655     1,300     3,200    1,210    38,900    26,504        81,369
(c) Project/Command Area    92%       46%       31%       25%       13%      59%       85%           58%
(d) Benefit Area            3,630     1,632    1,090     1,730      693    21,070    12,501        42,346
Note:  Incremental areas are command zones which are currently not irrigated/drained, and which will return to full
irrigation/drainage under the project. Improved areas are currently partly irrigated/drained and will become fully
operational under the project. Benefit areas represent 100% of incremental areas plus 30% of improved areas.
3.5    International Waterways. One of the 21 irrigation schemes to be rehabilitated under the project,
in the southern district of Fier, is located along the Vjoses River which is an international waterway, within
the meaning of OD 7.50, entering Albania from its south-eastern neighbor Greece, and leaving Albania
into the Adriatic Sea. Two-thirds of the catchment area of this river lie within Albania, the rest lies in
Greece. The irrigation scheme in question, the so-called Vjoses-Levan-Fier (VFL) scheme, covers an
irrigated area of 28,000 ha, of which 9,500 ha would benefit from rehabilitation works under the project
(see Map No. IBRD 25359, scheme code FRU1). The scheme takes about 50 percent of the available
water in the Vjoses River. In accordance with OD 7.50, a notification of Greece for the activities under
the project is not required for the following two reasons: (a) the project will finance only rehabilitation
and upgrading of existing systems. As the VFL scheme is located downstream from the other riparian,
it will not have any adverse affect on the quantity of water flows to others, nor will water quality be
affected as a result of the rehabilitation works. In addition, the project will not involve any increase in
water extraction; and (b) a review of international agreements and arrangements that exist between Albania
and Greece on the sharing of international waters that might be affected by the project has shown that none
of these agreements would require notification for the activities to be carried out under the project.



- 21 -
B. Project Objectives and Components
3.6   The proposed project would have the following three main objectives:
(a) to increase agricultural production by raising farm productivity through rapid rehabilitation of
the existing irrigation and drainage infrastructure;
(b) to alleviate poverty by increasing income of small private farmers and creating employment
opportunities for dependent farm labor in rural areas;
(c) to ensure the long-term sustainability of irrigation and drainage investments through farmer
participation in operation and maintenance, efficient system management and adequate cost
recovery.
3.7   To support the above objectives, the project, to be implemented over a period of seven years
(January 1, 1994, initiated under the PPF, to December 31, 2000), would consist of the following four
components:
(a) system rehabilitation of 21 irrigation schemes and 18 drainage schemes, covering a command area
of 73,486 ha for irrigation and 99,304 ha for drainage in seven coastal districts, and including a
demonstration scheme for canal control covering 1,000 ha of irrigation command area;
(b) institutional development and capacity building, involving equipment, technical assistance and
training for improved system operation and maintenance, enhancement of the domestic design
capacity, establishment of WUAs, and for an on-farm water management program;
(c) policy support, through studies and programs, including the regulatory framework for irrigation,
small system transfer, WUA consolidation, setting of water charges, and the enabling environment
for private investments into surface and groundwater pumping; and
(d) project implementation support through provision of office equipment, technical assistance and
training.
C. Detailed Features
Component 1: System Rehabilitation (Base Cost US$31.5 million)
3.8    Area Coverage. The project would rehabilitate: (a) 21 irrigation schemes on a total irrigated area
of 73,486 ha, with an average coverage of 3,500 ha per system, at a total base cost of US$19.9 million;
and (b) 18 drainage schemes on a total command area of 99,304 ha, with an average coverage of 5,500
ha per system, at a total base cost of US$8.1 million. Under the project, 28,467 ha of currently non-
irrigated land, and 17,935 ha of non-drained land, would return to irrigation and drainage, while 45,019
ha and 81,369 ha would benefit from improved irrigation and drainage, respectively. The average cost
of rehabilitation works, net of engineering costs, would be US$470 per ha for irrigation and US$190 per



- 22 -
ha for drainage (see Annexes 4.2 and 4.3). 16 All schemes to be rehabilitated under the project have been
identified and technically appraised during project preparation. Within the scope of Annual Work Plans
for all rehabilitation works (see para 4.3 below), irrigation schemes covering more than 5,000 ha
(accounting for 24 percent of the number of schemes, covering 54 of the project area) would be reevaluated
on a yearly basis, following a periodic update of cost estimates, before procurement of civil works would
be initiated.
3.9    Cost of Civil Works and Pumping Equipment. Rehabilitation works financed under the proposed
project would be of a straightforward technical nature. They would include: earthworks for drainage (base
cost of US$1.4 million); canal cleaning (US$6.9 million); repair or reconstruction of canal linings (US$4.7
million); replacement and installation of structures and gates (US$2.0 million, excluding the demonstration
scheme for canal flow control); rehabilitation of culverts and access roads (US$4.1 million); and the
replacement of electrical and mechanical equipment for pumping irrigation and drainage water (cost of
US$8.9 million). To prepare for a future upgrading of the infrastructure, modern technology of flow
control in primary and large canals would be introduced on a pilot basis on one selected system (see para
3. 11 below) while improvements in flow control and conveyance on minor canals would be implemented
wherever feasible under minimal incremental cost. Any rehabilitation works below the secondary canal
level would require the prior establishment of WUAs on the respective benefit areas in order to ensure
safeguarding of investments and to guarantee adequate system operation and maintenance.
3.10   Design and Supervision of Works.   Major works would be designed and supervised by the
Tirana-based Institute for Study and Design of Water Works (ISDWW) while district-based Water
Enterprises (WEs) would be responsible for engineering and supervision of minor works. Some US$20.2
million worth of rehabilitation works would require design and supervision which would be shared between
ISDWW (US$10.4 million of major works) and WEs (US$9.8 million of minor works). At an upper fee
limit of 4 percent calculated on the base cost of rehabilitation works, the total base cost for design and
supervision would equal US$810,000, which would be split between ISDWW and the seven WEs in the
project area (see Annex 5.4 for a detailed cost breakdown).'7
3.11   Demonstration Scheme for Canal Control. At a total base cost of US$0.6 million, the project
would support the construction of a demonstration scheme for a selected sector covering a command area
of 1,000 ha within an existing irrigation scheme included in system rehabilitation works under the project.
Canal design would be modified as required to allow for installation of state-of-the-art canal control
technology for water level and flow control. The incremental cost for investments into control structures
and gates would be US$400 per ha, or US$0.4 million for the complete demonstration scheme. This pilot
scheme would be used for training of Albanian irrigation system designers and operators. Design,
procurement and construction works for the demonstration scheme would be carried out over a three-year
period. The project would also finance 8 m/months of technical assistance and related training at a cost
of US$0.2 million (see Annex 5).
16/    Per-ha costs are related to the estimated benefit area which has been calculated as the sum of incremental command areas
returning to irrigation and drainage, plus 30 percent of command areas receiving improved irrigation and drainage under the
project.
17/    If private engineering firms were engaged, the commercial fee rate for design and supervision of works would be equal to an
international average of about 7 percent. Given the budgetary support for ISDWW and WEs through provision of vehicles
and engineering equipment under the project, a reduced fee of 4 percent for engineering and supervision has been estimated
:i9 .112  t',O) ' j'l''  zl?P ,..' .  ,  '.] ,U,   j(' 1SD .9/ 0rid 'F  w%L,ld h,e h,. c1 w- * I S'W i; ,d lw  ,   *
:' ri'll   c 'osls and assme(1  cdd co-t:



- 23 -
3.12   On-Farm Repairs. Farmers would be expected to undertake repairs at the tertiary and quaternary
canal level to rehabilitate small structures and canals on their farms. It is estimated that incremental on-
farm investments under the project would equal US$50 equivalent per ha of benefit area over the
implementation period of the project, resulting in a total base cost of US$2.1 million.
Component 2: Institutional Development (Base Cost US$5.5 million)
3.13   System Operation and Maintenance (US$3.6 million). WEs received emergency equipment for
limited repairs and maintenance of systems under the CIP (para 2.3). In order to improve WEs'
operational efficiency and to enhance the quality of their services to farmers, Government would broaden
this support for seven WEs located in the project area through an equity contribution at a total investment
cost of US$2.4 million. This support would include basic rehabilitation works for workshops and
buildings, and the provision of selected canal maintenance machinery (excavators, cement mixers and
workshop equipment), vehicles, and office and communication equipment, at a combined cost of US$1.8
million. Furthermore, 26 m/months of technical assistance and a comprehensive training program for WE
staff would be supported in the areas of water distribution, subsurface drainage, maintenance of pumping
equipment, and cost accounting, at a combined cost of US$0.6 million (see Annex 5). It is estimated that
incremental recurrent cost for system operation and maintenance in the project area would equal
US$600,000 per year over the implementation period of the project.'8 Since the full recovery of recurrent
cost borne by WEs would be achieved through an annual increase of water charges to cost-covering levels
by year five of the project, an average of 50 percent of incremental recurrent cost resulting from the
project, equivalent to US$300,000 per year over a four-year period or a total cost of US$1.2 million
equivalent, would require financing under the project through transfers from the Government budget (see
paras 5.8 through 5. 10 below). Arrears in energy charges that have been billed to the seven WEs in the
project area by KESH, the Albanian power utility, have been cleared prior to the presentation of the project
to the Board of Directors of IDA.
3.14 Design Capacity (US$0.4 million). Both ISDWW and WEs have been supported under the CIP
through provision of vehicles, office and engineering equipment.  To enable them  to fulfill their
responsibilities of works design and supervision under the project, their engineering capacity would be
strengthened additionally through an equity contribution by Government, financed under the project,
through provision of required technical equipment and vehicles (US$200,000, of which US$105,000 would
be allocated to WEs), and of 3 m/months of technical assistance in conjunction with a comprehensive
training program (US$200,000) (see Annex 5). Financing of this component has been initiated under the
Project Preparation Facility (PPF), approved in September 1993.
3.15   Establishment of WUAs (US$1.2 million). Farmer participation in the operation and maintenance
of irrigation systems has been successfully initiated through the election of village irrigation representatives
and the creation of WUAs in coastal districts on a pilot basis under the CIP (paras 1.14 and 2.3). The
proposed project would expand these activities through a five-year program for the establishment of WUAs
on all irrigation schemes to be rehabilitated under the project. WUAs would initially be established on a
village basis, covering between 50 and 400 ha, with an average membership after full establishment of
about 200 farmers and a minimum initial size of 15 members. The seven districts in the project area
18/    These costs are broken down into US$ 400,000 for incremental salaries (3 engineers, 6 technicians and 100 workers per WE)
and US$ 200,000 for incremental vehicle operating cost, including maintenance of construction machinery. Incremental energy
costs, resulting from repair and replacement of pumping equipment, would be fully recovered from collected water charges.



- 24 -
comprise a total of 536 villages'9 in 94 communes, and up to 100,000 farmers would be included under
the program. WUAs would be established based on WUA Regulation, developed under the CIP and to
be enacted under the project as a decision by the Minister of Agriculture and Food (see para 3.17 below).
To establish WUAs, decentralized WUA Units would be created in each WE located in the project area.
These Units would be staffed with qualified local WUA promoters who would include local agronomists
of the extension service network under the District Department of Agriculture to disseminate information
on water user groups, to assist farmers in the organization and legal creation of WUAs, and to provide
continuous long-term counseling to WUAs. WUA Units would be reduced in size after the first three
project years and be consolidated to one central unit by the end of the project. Over a six-year period, the
project would finance vehicles and office equipment for WUA Units (US$130,000), about 4,300 m/months
of local WUA promoters in WUA Units (US$430,000), and 36 m/months of technical assistance and
training by expatriate experts (US$610,000), using the extensive experience gained in various other
countries with respect to sustainable farmer participation in local irrigation management (see Annex 5).
Financing of this component has been initiated under the PPF.
3.16 On-Farm Water Management (US$0.3 million). To reduce on-farm water losses during irrigation
and to increase water distribution efficiency below the tertiary level, the project would include a pilot
program for water management at the farm level. The program would consist in on-farm and off-farm
demonstrations of simple techniques for land levelling and inexpensive methods for lining of quaternary
canals. Further components would include instruction in modern smallholder irrigation techniques and
adequate irrigation scheduling. Applied research required for this pilot program would be conducted by
the Soil Institute on two existing experimental stations in Lushnje and Tirana. Field demonstrations would
be carried out by staff of the agricultural extension service on selected pilot farms in the seven districts of
the rehabilitation area covered under the project. These demonstrations would be combined with instruction
on the safe handling and application of fertilizers and pesticides, in accordance with IDA guidelines on
integrated pest management, using manuals and training material developed under the Critical Imports
Project.  The project would provide financing for the required scientific, demonstration, office and
transport equipment (US$130,000) as well as for 6 m/months of technical assistance with related training
by local and expatriate trainers (US$180,000) (see Annex 5).
Component 3: Policy Support (Base Cost US$0.3 million)
3.17  Regulatory Framework for Irrigation. Finalization of the draft Irrigation Code as the required
legal basis and regulatory framework of irrigation management is of high priority and will be supported
under the project through provision of 3 m/months of expert advice from an experienced expatriate
specialist (US$60,000, see Annex 5. 1). Financing of this policy support component has already been
initiated under the PPF. The Irrigation Code would define the role of WEs, WUAs and of Government
and would include additional provisions related, inter alia, to small-system transfer and right-of-way issues
(see para 1.28). The Irrigation Code has been passed by the Albanian Parliament prior to presentation of
the project to the Board of Directors of IDA. Following the passage of the Irrigation Code, WUA
Regulations would be enacted through an implementing decision by the Minister of Agriculture and Food.
Enactment of the WUA Regulations would be a condition of effectiveness of the IDA Credit.
3.18  Small System  Transfer.  Albania's irrigation system  is highly fragmented; operation and
maintenance through WEs of pumping stations and reservoirs serving the smallest independent schemes
19/   The number of villages per district is as follows: Laci 20, Kruje 35, Tirana 150, Durres 52, Kavaje 62. Lushnje 107, Fier
109.



- 25 -
is costly on a per-ha basis, and the economic viability of many micro-systems is questionable (para 1.21).
Decentralizing irrigation management through complete turnover of small systems to private farmers would
reduce related costs through more efficient local management and would allow for an internalization of
costs at the user level. The June 1993 Presidential Decree on this matter is a first step in this direction
(see footnote 7). The project would provide funding for 3 mi/months of technical assistance for a study
(US$60,000, see Annex 5. 1) to develop a program and timetable for the transfer of ownership and
management responsibility for small systems to WUAs within the project area for rehabilitation works.
The study would take into consideration the range of different models of transfer and local management
of irrigation systems applied in various other countries. It would lay out the expected effects of ownership
and management transfer on farmers' productivity and profitability, implications on WEs' budgets, and the
prospects of financial and economic viability and sustainability of small systems. The study would also
deal with aspects of equity, rural development and the overall social impact of system transfer. Given the
variety of major institutional reforms to be addressed under the proposed project, implementation of the
program of small system transfer would be kept for a follow-up project.
3.19  WUA Consolidation. After their initial establishment on the basis of village boundaries, WUAs
would be grouped into larger organizations, such as water user boards or WUA unions, in order to more
closely represent hydraulic units that are served by a one single source of water. These organizations
would take over additional operation and maintenance responsibilities for secondary canals and for related
flow control structures, thus providing for an even stronger, decentralized farmer participation in irrigation
management. The project would finance 3 m/months of technical assistance for a study (US$60,000, see
Annex 5.1) to prepare a detailed program with timetable to promote the consolidation of WUAs in the
project area for rehabilitation works. As in the case of small system transfer, implementation of the
program for WUA consolidation would be kept for follow-up operations after village-based WUAs will
have been created and have operated successfully for some time.
3.20  Water Charges. Although irrigation water is being priced efficiently on a volumetric basis, current
water charges are set at below cost levels. Present charges levels require an initial increase and periodic
subsequent adjustments to achieve the recovery (a) of actual district-based recurrent costs of system
operation and maintenance borne by WEs, and (b) of investment costs into system rehabilitation borne by
the central Government budget (see para 5.8 below). Under the project, 5 m/months of technical assistance
for a respective study would be financed (US$100,000, see Annex 5.1) to establish a comprehensive
database with subsequent design and implementation of a financial model for determining cost-covering
levels of water charges, and to explore alternative models for water tariff differentiation by district and
scheme and by cost components for investment and recurrent costs.
3.21   Private Pumping Development. Private surface pumping and groundwater development through
shallow tubewells are attractive investment options for smallholder farmers and are eligible for financing
through rural financial institutions supported under two IDA operations (para 2.4). To promote private
investments in this area, the project would finance 2 man/months of technical assistance for such a study
(US$40,000, see Annex 5.1) addressing potential legal and institutional constraints in the enabling
environment that presently limit farmers' access to irrigation water stemming from both private surface and
groundwater pumping.
Component 4: Project Implementation Support (Base Cost US$0.8 million)
3.22    Project Management Capacity. The proposed project would have a major focus on upgrading
the institutional capacity of MoAF for preparing, implementing, monitoring and assessing of projects in



- 26 -
irrigation and drainage. For that purpose, a special Project Management Unit (PMU) was established in
December 1993, under the direct supervision of the Minister of Agriculture and Food. PMU would be
strengthened under the project through: (i) provision of office equipment and vehicles at a cost of
US$1 10,000; (ii) a total of 25 m/months of technical assistance and training in the areas of technical
designs and tender documents for civil works, procurement, disbursements and financial controlling, review
of Annual Works Plans, and project impact assessment, including annual external audits of project
accounts, at cost of US$610,000; and (iii) through financing of incremental salaries and vehicle operating
costs of US$80,000 (see Annexes 4.6 and 5.1). Financing of this component has been initiated under the
PPF and through support from a Japanese Grant.
D. Project Cost and Financing
3.23   Total Project Costs.  Table 3.2 provides a summary for the total project costs, including
contingencies, of US$44.1 million equivalent, broken down by project components. Civil works and
pumping equipment account for a combined cost of US$31.5 million or 83 percent of total base costs.
Technical assistance, training and studies in all project components (total of 128 m/months of expatriate
experts and 4,300 mlmonths of local experts) account for US$3.1 million and represent 8 percent of total
base costs. Cost data include applicable duties and local taxes, and assurances have been obtained from
Government during negotiations that any duties and local taxes be covered through the Government budget.
3.24   Cost Estimates. Costs for construction works under the project were estimated based on surveys
carried out by Water Enterprises in each concerned district among local private contractors. Detailed unit
costs for all works, materials and equipment have been estimated on a district basis (see Annex 4.4). Cost
estimates are expressed in US$ equivalent terms in order to reduce the danger of distortions resulting from
inflation and exchange rate fluctuations. Local costs are expressed in US$ at the exchange rate prevailing
at the end of October 1993 (US$1.00 = Lek 100). Physical contingencies for construction works have
been set at 10 percent over the estimated base costs, while the remaining project components, including
recurrent costs, have been allocated a 5 percent cost allowance for physical increase. Price contingencies
have been set assuming an annual international rate of dollar inflation of 2.5 percent.
TABLE 3.2: Summary of Project Costs
----------US$million equivalent ---------
PROJECT COMPONENT                  Local           Foreign           Total           Percent
Investment Costs
System Rehabilitation               11.9             19.6             31.5              83
Institutional Development            0.7              3.6             4.3               11
Policy Support                       0.1             0.2              0.3                1
Implementation Support              0.1              0.6              0.7                2
Sub-total                    12.8             24.0            36.8               97
Recurrent Costs                      1.0             0.3               1.3               3
Total Base Costs                    13.8             24.3            38.1              100
Physical Contingencies        1.3              1.8             3.1                8
Price Contingencies           1.1              1.8             2.9                8
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                 16.2             27.9            44.1              116



- 27 -
TABLE 3.3: Sources of Project Financing
--      US$million equivalent -----------
SOURCES OF FINANCING                      Local           Foreign          Total            Percent
Govemment a/                                2.2             5.1              7.3              17
Private Fanners b/                          1.6             0.7              2.3               5
IDA                                         3.2             6.8             10.0              23
Other Donors c/                             9.2            15.3             24.5              55
TOTAL (including contingencies)           16.2             27.9             44.1             100
Notes: a/  US$1.3 million for incremental recurrent project costs, US$ 0.9 million for engineering fees, and US$5.1
million for imported equipment
b/ on-farm system repairs
c/  tentative sources and amounts include: Italian aid (US$2.1 million); Kuwait aid (US$7.4 million); OPEC aid
(US$5 million); Islamic Development Bank cofinancing (US$10 million)
3.25   IDA Credit and Cofinancing. Table 3.3 presents the financing plan for the proposed project.
Government, private farmers and IDA would cover 45 percent of total project cost, the balance would be
covered by cofinancing. Proceeds from the IDA credit would be used for the rehabilitation of five gravity-
based irrigation schemes (total benefit area of 12,451 ha) and three drainage schemes (total benefit area
of 17,868 ha) in the three districts of Kavaja, Lushnje and Fier20. IDA would also finance all maintenance
machinery, vehicles, laboratory and office equipment, and selected key technical assistance for institutional
development (see Annex 7.2). Strong interest for cofinancing has been expressed by a number of
cofinanciers, tentative amounts are indicated in Table 3.3. During negotiations, assurances have been
obtained that the Government would provide funding to cover any financing gap in the event that sufficient
cofinancing could not be secured by October 31, 1995. IDA would retain the right to suspend the project,
or any parts of it, after that date in the event that neither sufficient cofinancing nor additional budgetary
funds to close the cofinancing gap would be available.
E. Procurement
3.26 Packaging of Civil Works Contracts. To promote economy and efficiency of procurement,
rehabilitation works would be grouped and packaged in 211 civil works contracts. Of these, 12 contracts
are estimated to cost the equivalent of US$250,000 or more each, although, depending on cofinancing
arrangements, it is expected that IDA-financed works contracts would not exceed this threshold. The bulk
of contracts would not exceed US$100,000 equivalent each.  The average contract size would be
US$98,000 for irrigation-related works and US$64,000 for works related to drainage rehabilitation. Out
of a total cost for civil works of US$26.7 million (including contingencies), IDA would finance an
aggregate contract volume of US$4.5 million, of which US$3.0 million would be for canal cleaning and
lining, and US$1.5 million for control structures and gates. Annexes 6.1 and 6.2 give an indicative
breakdown of procurement packages for rehabilitation works under the project. The procurement of civil
works would be carried out in the following manner:
20/    IDA-financed schemes include the following irrigation systems: Peqin-Kavaja Canal (Kavaja, code KJU-lg); Okshtun
Reservoir (Kajava, code KJU-2); Thanes Reservoir (Lushnje, code LUU-lg); Vjoses-Levan-Fier Canal (Fier, code FRU-lg);
and Libofsha Field (Fier, code FRU-2g). Drainage schemes financed by IDA include: Kavaja Plain (Kavaja, code KJK-2g);
Emissary Myzeqese (Lushnje, code LUK-1g); and Sheqit Plain (Fier, code FRK-3g).



- 28 -
3.27  Procurement of Civil Works Contracts. Works contracts up to US$250,000 would be procured
through Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) in accordance with procedures and documentation agreed with
IDA. LCB documents developed by IDA for the FY94 Housing Project would be adapted for this purpose.
The expected aggregate IDA-financed contract volume in this category equals US$3 million for canal
cleaning and lining, for a total of about 20 contracts. During negotiations assurances have been obtained
from Government that the PMU would use the document - Invitation to Quote and Contract Conditions for
Procurement under Local Competitive Bidding - for award of contracts up to US$250,000 equivalent each.
If required, government would finance very small works contracts that are scattered or located in remote
areas of the project through force account.
3.28  Local Civil Works Contractors. These contractors, whose number in the spring of 1994 exceeded
100 for the Tirana region alone and is growing constantly, would be able to provide sufficient competition
for the above-mentioned civil works contracts. During the past years, private local contractors have
demonstrated annual average construction capacities of about US$0.5 million. Joint-ventures with foreign
contractors have an annual capacity of about US$1.0 million; privatized, former State-owned Construction
Enterprises show annual construction capacities of up to US$5.0 million.
3.29  Steel Gates. While it would preferable if contractors were to procure and supply steel gates on
their own, there are serious concerns that such procedures would make it difficult to ensure proper quality
of the steel gates used: (i) local small producers of these gates would likely use scrap metal resulting in
much reduced gate life; and (ii) precise gate dimensions that are required to guarantee optimal fit and to
enable accurate flow control would not be consistently achievable if small unexperienced producers were
to supply these gates. Therefore, to ensure standardization of steel gates for compatibility with existing
equipment; to make use of economies of scale; and to ensure consistently high quality of raw materials
used and gates produced, steel gates would be procured through bulk procurement by the PMU from
selected qualified suppliers, and subsequently be sold to contractors at cost-covering prices. Under ICB
procedures, IDA would finance an aggregate contract volume of US$1.5 million for about three contracts.
3.30  Pumping Equipment. Procurement of pumping equipment would generally involve large contracts.
These would be supply and erect contracts which would include the proper installation of imported pumping
equipment by the supplier. IDA would finance two contract packages at a combined value of US$1.0
million equivalent, to be procured through ICB, using standard bank bidding documents. The remaining
cost of pumping equipment of US$9.1 million would be financed by other donors.
3.31  Other Equipment. All other equipment (total cost of US$2.5 million for maintenance machinery,
laboratory equipment, vehicles, and office equipment) would be financed by IDA. Small equipment
contracts not exceeding an individual volume of US$25,000 (expected total volume of US$0.1 million)
would be procured under Local Shopping procedures based on comparison of price quotations obtained
from at least three local suppliers. Equipment contracts above US$25,000 but not exceeding US$250,000
(expected total volume: US$0.9 million) would be procured through International Shopping based on
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three eligible suppliers from three different countries.
Equipment contracts above US$250,000 (expected number of contracts: three, expected total volume:
US$1.5 million) would be procured through ICB, using IDA standard bidding documents.
3.32  Technical Assistance. Annex 5. 1 provides detailed information on the technical assistance program
to be financed under the project (total cost of US$3.4 million). IDA would finance US$2.0 million of
technical assistance and training, which would cover consultancies for institutional development (system
O&M: US$0.6 million; design capacity: US$0.2 million, WUA establishment: US$0.5 million; on-farm



- 29 -
water management: US$ 0.2 million) and for implementation support (US$0.5 million). Draft terms of
reference for these assignments have been prepared. Procurement of technical assistance contracts would
follow standard IDA Guidelines for procurement of consultant services. All IDA-financed contracts would
be procured on the basis of short-lists of firms.
TABLE 3.4: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$million equivalent)
IDA-FINANCED AMOUNTS
ITEMS TO BE PROCURED                                                                      N.I.F        TOTAL
ICB         LCB         Other                        COST
1. Civil Works
1I.1 Earthworks                                              -            -            1.7           1.7
(0.0)
1.2 Canal Cleaning                              -           1.5           -            6.6           8.1
(1.5)
1.3 Canal Lining                                -           1.5           -            4.0           5.5
(1.5)
1.4 Control Structures and Gates                1.5          -            -            1.4           2.9
(1.5)
1.5 Culverts and Roads                           -           -            -            4.9           4.9
(0.0)
1.6 Buildings; On-Farm Repairs                               -            -            2.7           2.7
(0.0)
1.7 Design & Supervision                        -            -            -            0.9           0.9
(0.0)
2. Goods
2.1  Pumping Equipment                          1.0          -            -            9.1           10.1
(1.0)
2.2 Maintenance Machinery                      0.4           -           0.3            -            0.7
(0.7)
2.3 Vehicles                                   0.3           -           0.3                         0.6
(0.6)
2.4 Laboratory and Office Equipment            0.8           -           0.4            -            1.2
_____________________________________                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~(1.2)
3. Consultancies
3.1 Technical Assistance                         -           -           2.0           0.7           2.7
(2.0)
3.2 Training                                     -           -            -            0.4           0.4
(0.0)
3.3 Studies                                      -           -                         0.3           0.3
(0.0)
4. Miscellaneous
4.1  Incremental Recurrent Costs                 -            -           -            1.4            1.4
(0.0)
TOTAL                                           4.0         3.0          3.0           34.1          44.1
(10.0)
Notes (a) Figures in parentheses are amounts ftnanced by IDA; N.I.F. stands for not IDA-ftnanced.
(b) Other methods of procurement (total of US$3 million) include:
(i) International Shopping US$0.9 million and Local Shopping US$100,000 of machinery, vehicles and equipment;
(ii) Consultancies US$2.0 million procured according to standard IDA guidelines for procurement of consultant services.
(c) Not IDA-financed contracts would be procured in accordance with procurement guidelines of respective financiers.



- 30 -
3.33   Contract Review and Local Preference. Knowledge of IDA procurement procedures in Albania
is limited. The staff of the PMU would be trained in these procedures (see para below). Meanwhile, in
order to ensure compliance with IDA's Procurement Guidelines, procurement documentation (i.e.,
advertisement, bidding documents, evaluation reports, etc.) for all ICB contracts would be subject to prior
review by IDA. Five civil works contracts to be awarded through LCB, up to US$250,000 equivalent per
contract, would also be subject to IDA's prior review. Similarly, terms of reference for all consultant
assignments, plus other procurement documentation in the case of consultant assignments above US$50,000
contract value, would be subject to prior review by IDA. A detailed list of IDA-financed civil works
contracts has been agreed on during negotiations. Local suppliers competing for contracts under ICB
procedures would receive a preference in bid evaluation of 15 percent of the CIF price, or the prevailing
customs duties, whichever is less, provided it can be proven that the value added to the product in the
country exceeds 20 percent of the ex-factory bid price.
3.34   Procurement Implementation.  All procurement-related activities will be carried out by two
trained local staff of PMU  within MoAF.2' PMU  will receive a total of 18 man/months of technical
assistance and training through an expatriate procurement expert, initially on a full-time basis for twelve
months, then on a part-time basis for the second year of project implementation. This assistance has been
initiated under the PPF. Two training sessions abroad for local staff on procurement of civil works and
equipment would also be financed under the project (see Annex 5. 1). The implementation plan for the
project, including a detailed procurement schedule, is provided in Annex 7.
F. Disbursements
3.35   Disbursement Schedule.  The proposed IDA Credit of US$10.0 million equivalent would be
disbursed over seven fiscal years (see the disbursement schedule in Annex 6.3). The disbursement period
is slightly shorter than the standard disbursement profile for all IDA-financed irrigation and drainage
projects because works under the proposed project would be of a straightforward technical nature, would
mostly deal with simple rehabilitation of existing systems, and would be carried out simultaneously in
various districts and regions by a variety of independent small private local contractors.  IDA
disbursements would be based on full documentation of expenditures only for individual contracts equal
or greater than US$100,000 equivalent. For all other contracts of lesser value, disbursements would be
made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) with the supporting documentation to be retained
by the PMU and made available for review by IDA supervision missions and the auditors. IDA will
reimburse a constant 80 percent share of the expenditures made by PMU against eligible civil works
contracts according to the Lek/US$ parity prevailing at the time such expenditures were made by PMU.22
Proposed disbursement categories for the IDA Credit are shown in table 3.5. The proposed closing date
of the IDA Credit would be June 30, 2001. Donor-provided funds would be disbursed in conformity with
the policies of the donor institutions.
3.36   Special Account. To expedite the execution of the project, a Special Account would be established
in US dollars at a bank acceptable to IDA. The authorized allocation to the Special Account would be
21/    Two PMU staff members have received such training in October 1993 by attending courses on (a) procurement of equipment
(four weeks in Turin, Italy, organized by ILO), and (b) procurement of scattered, low-value civil works (one week in Tirana,
organized by IDA).
22/    Since identifying the tax element in individual invoices is not feasible, the 80 percent share of expenditures has been set at
a level that excludes any customs duties or taxes levied on goods, works or services, which are not eligible expenditures, in
accordance Aith tle provisions of OD 12.00 para. 20 a.



- 31 -
US$750,000 (7.5 percent of the IDA Credit) which represents the estimated maximum requirement for a
four-month period. The Special Account would be used to make both foreign and local currency payments;
amounts withdrawn would be converted to the currency of the expenditure at the exchange rate in effect
on the date of payment. The Special Account would be replenished on a monthly basis upon submission
of withdrawal applications supported through appropriate documentation as outlined in para 3.35. In
addition, reconciled bank statements of the Special Account should accompany each replenishment request.
The minimum application size for payments directly from the Credit Account or for issuance of special
commitments is US$70,000.
TABLE 3.5: Disbursement Categories
CATEGORY                         AmOUNT OF CREDIT        |PERCENTAGE OF EXPENDITURES TO BE
_  ALLOCATED (US$MILLION)   |              FINANCED
Civil Works                              4.0                            80%
100% of foreign expenditures
100% of local expenditures
Equipment, Vehicles                      3.5               (ex-factory cost), and 85% of local
expenditures for other items procured
locally
Technical Assistance                     1.0                            100%
Project Preparation Advance              0.5                         Amount due
Unallocated                              1.0
Total                                   10.0
CHAPTER IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Implementation Schedule
4.1   Status of Project Preparation. Comprehensive system inventories and detailed, itemized cost
estimates for all works and required pumping equipment in the project districts have been finalized.
Technical designs, including bills of quantities, and bidding documents for rehabilitation works and
pumping equipment are currently being drafted under financing of the Project Preparation Facility.
Technical designs and tender documents for contracts to be awarded during the first year of project
implementation have been presented during negotiations.
4.2   Phasing of Project Components. Annex 10.1 provides an overview of the planned phasing of all
project components. Under funding from Government, from private farmers and from proceeds of the IDA
Credit, system rehabilitation works in the first year of project implementation would start in the three
districts of Kavaja, Lushnje and Fier. These three start-up areas have been selected in light of the
advanced stage of preparation for WUA establishment in these districts. Priority would be given to the
rehabilitation of gravity irrigation and drainage schemes in these districts since these would yield the
highest immediate economic rates of returns. Rehabilitation of the remaining pumping schemes in these
three districts and of all project schemes in the other four project districts would begin by year two (mid-
Q';i      1 vdi c-fillanc:iuliwi K ave been secured. The demonstrationi scheimie for canal flow control



- 32 -
would be designed starting in the first project year, and be built over a 15-month period starting in late
1995 after required irrigation rehabilitation works on the selected scheme and concerned sub-sectors would
have been carried out. Institutional development support would be provided between 1994 and 1996 to
improve system operation and maintenance by WEs. Strengthening of the local design capacity would
focus on the first two years of project implementation, beginning in early 1994 through financing under
the PPF. Support for WUA establishment would be a six-year long-term program, starting in early 1994
through financing under the PPF. The On-Farm Water Management program would be implemented over
a four-year period 1994 to 1997. Studies for policy support would be carried out in 1994 and 1995.
Support for project preparation and implementation would be concentrated on aie first two years, starting
in early 1994 with financing under the PPF.
4.3    Annual Work Plans and Mid-term Review. During negotiations, assurances have been obtained
from Government that detailed Annual Work Plans (AWPs) for all rehabilitation works would be elaborated
and sent to IDA for prior approval, by November 15 of the preceding year, starting with the work program
for calendar year 1995 to be submitted by November 15, 1994. AWPs would be based on the indicative
work program and procurement packages developed during appraisal. AWPs would be prepared by the
PMU, in collaboration with ISDWW and WEs. A joint panel of senior local arid qualified expatriate
experts would be responsible for reviewing AWPs before their transmission to IDA.  Furthermore,
assurances have been obtained from Governinent duriiig negotiations that a comnprehlenisive Mid-Term
Review would be held, by December 31, 1996, to review works completed during the first two project
years and to assess the indicative work program for subsequent project years.
B. Organization and Management
4.4    Project Management. Under the supervision of the Minister of Agriculture and Food, the PMU
within MoAF would be responsible for (i) supervising the preparation of technical designs and tender
documents by ISDWW and WEs for all civil works contracts; (ii) preparation of technical specifications
and bidding documents for equipment and services financed under the project; (iii) procuring all civil
works, goods and services; (iv) coordinating and supervising the iniplemenitation of the project by private
contractors, ISDWW, WEs, WUA Units, the Extension Service, the Soil Institute, and expatriate advisors;
(v) keeping all financial accounts and records; (vi) monitoring and evaluating of project progress and
impact; (vii) developing Annual Work Plans (para 4.3); and (viii) coordinating and communicating with
IDA and other donors. PMU would be staffed by a Director, nominated by the Minister of Agriculture
and Food, and other local staff, including an irrigation engineer, a technical assistance coordinator, two
specialists responsible for procurement, disbursements and accounting, and two staff assistants. PMU staff
would be assisted by expatriate experts in the areas of technical designs and tender documents for civil
works, procurement, disbursements, financial controlling, review of Annual Works Plans, and project
impact assessment. After completion of the project, the PMU would be integrated into a new irrigation
department within MoAF.
4.5   System Rehabilitation Works. Annex 10.2 provides an overview of the process for design,
procurement, construction and supervision of rehabilitation works under the project. ISDWW and WEs
would split the responsibility for designs, development of draft bidding documents, and for supervision of
civil works which would be carried out by private contractors.  To ensure consistency in designs;
standardization of norms; and correctness of technical data, all designs and draft bidding documents
developed by WEs would be routed through ISDWW for review, prior to submission to the PMU which
would assemble the final tender documents. Technical designs and records for all schemes and contracts
would be centrally filed within ISDWW (see organizational chart of ISDWW in Annex 10.3). All contracts



- 33 -
for civil works, equipment and consultant services will be procured, negotiated and signed for by the PMU.
In order to enable small local contractors to finance required construction equipment, PMU will make
initial advance payments to contractors which will be limited to 10 percent of the contract volume if no bid
bonds or performance guarantees can be provided. Subsequent progress payments will be subject to a
corresponding retention clause reflecting the amount of the advance payment.  Contractors that are
considered disqualified due to non-contractual behavior will not be eligible to participate in bidding for
works under the project for at least one subsequent year. The demonstration scheme for canal flow control
would be designed by ISDWW and be built by local contractors, under the supervision by the PMU and
with assistance for design, implementation and training from an expatriate expert.
4.6   Institutional Development Program. To implement the institutional development program under
the project, WEs would be responsible for (i) improving system operation and maintenance in the project
area, including improved cost accounting and financial controlling, after provision of maintenance
machinery, technical assistance and training under the project; and (ii) establishing WUA Units, to be
staffed jointly with staff of the Extension Service, in order to promote the creation of WUAs in the project
area (see organizational chart of WEs in Annex 10.4). ISDWW would be responsible for establishing a
Water Management Unit to coordinate the On-Farm Water Management Program under the project, and
to monitor WE performance in off-farm water management. The Soil Institute would be responsible, under
the On-Farm Water Management Program, for scientific research on its two field stations in Tirana and
Lushnje, and for measuring water and soil salinity in all districts of the project area. The Extension Service
under the District Departments of Agriculture would be responsible for (i) staffing, jointly with WEs,
district-based WUA Units for WUA promotion; and (ii) under the On-Farm Water Management Program,
organizing field demonstrations on improved irrigation practices and on the safe application of pesticides.
C. Supervision, Reporting and Monitoring
4.7   Supervision. The supervision plan in Annex 6.4 provides details on the planned supervision inputs
for the project. After a project launching mission in September 1994, supervision missions during FY95
would ensure that procurement of works, equipment and services be carried out in a timely manner.
Subsequently, two IDA supervision missions would be performed in March and September of each
following calendar year. The March mission would evaluate the status of civil works completed during
the past calendar year and would ensure the successful launching of works for the current year, while the
September mission would discuss and evaluate the AWP for the next fiscal year.
4.8    Reporting and Monitoring. PMU would prepare semi-annual progress reports, copies would be
sent to IDA for review. Reports would include (see key indicators in Annex 7): (i) comprehensive
information on rehabilitation works (timetable of civil works planned, works and pumping equipment
procured, completion rate of ongoing works, works quality, payments made to contractors); (ii) progress
reports on the institutional development and policy support components (equipment and consultant services
procured, copies of consultant reports and studies, summary information on the activities of WEs, WUA
Units, ISDWW, the Soil Institute, all expatriate experts, and on the progress of training programs). PMU
would also prepare and forward to IDA quarterly statements on all financial and procurement records (see
para 4.10 below).
4.9   Impact Assessment. Under assistance from expatriate experts, PMU would prepare semi-annual
project impact assessments, to be included in the progress reports, for review by IDA. Reports would
include: (i) physical indicators, such as number and area coverage of schemes rehabilitated, and the number
and area coverage of WUAs established with number of participating farmers; (ii) development indicators,



- 34 -
such as incremental crop yields and agricultural output in the project area, and incremental farm income;
and (iii) financial indicators related to water pricing, cost recovery achieved, and aggregate budgetary
impact (see Annex 7.3 for project monitoring indicators).
D. Accounts and Audit
4.10   Accounts. PMU would keep all financial accounts and records for the project, comprising (i) a
record of withdrawals on the IDA credit with copies of all disbursement requests and underlying
documentation; and (ii) a record of transactions on the Special Account and copies of the bank statements
of this Account. These records would be updated weekly, and quarterly statements of transactions and
balances, together with updated procurement contract information, would be forwarded to IDA.
4.11   Audit. As a basis for setting water charges, assurances have been obtained from Government
during negotiations that the operations and financial accounts of WEs located in the project area will be
audited on an annual basis by independent, external auditors, with terms of reference acceptable to IDA.
Audits would include the verification of specific performance monitoring indicators for WEs, to be
developed by MoAF, including, inter alia: detailed breakdown of WE costs for system operation and
maintenance (salaries, energy costs, machinery operating costs, depreciation, other costs), operating cost
per ha of command area, staff employed per ha of command area, water charges billed and collected,
percentage deviation of these indicators from the average for all WEs in the project area. Audit results
would subsequently be published locally to ensure the full accountability of WEs towards water users in
each project district. Furthermore, assurances have been obtained from Government at negotiations that
independent audits of project accounts, including audits of SOEs and the Special Account, to be performed
by auditors and under terms of reference acceptable IDA, would be submitted to IDA within 6 months of
the close of each Government fiscal year.
CHAPTER V. PROJECT IMPACT
A. Agricultural Production
5.1    Yields and Cropping Intensities. The project would increase the amount of irrigation water
available at the crop by an average of 400 m3/ha, in order to reach a total of 1,600 m3/ha, for an aggregate
command area of 45,019 ha of at present under-irrigated land. In addition, 28,467 ha of currently rainfed
areas would return to irrigation at 1,600 m3/ha following rehabilitation works under the project. The
project would also improve drainage on a total area of 99,304 ha. Improved irrigation and drainage would
result in higher crop yields, as shown in Annex 1.4. However, due to the poor current cash position of
farmers, use of fertilizer and pesticides will remain limited over a number of years. Therefore, crop yields
are expected to remain below maximum achievable levels, as shown in table 5.1 for major crops in the
project area, until all required farm inputs would be used in appropriate quantities by the fifth year of
project implementation.23  Furthermore, improved irrigation would also allow  for higher cropping
intensities through introduction of double cropping, causing an expected increase of present average
cropping intensities of 90 percent in the project area to about 150 percent.
23/   It is assumed that fertilizer and pesticide use would equal 20 percent of full requirements in year 1, increasing to 100
percent by year 5.



- 35 -
5.2    Cropping Patterns. The seven districts in the project area can be divided into two agro-climatic
zones (see Annex 1.3): zone 1, the Central Coastal Plains, including the districts of Durres, Kavaja,
Lushnje and Fier, with altitudes ranging from sea level up to 180m and a mediterranean climate with dry
warm summers in which all summer crops need irrigation; and zone 2, the Northern Coastal Area, with
the districts of Laci, Kruje and Tirana where altitudes exceed 1,000m and rainfall increases towards the
north, providing for better rainfed conditions for winter wheat, sunflowers and beans, but with a summer
cropping pattern that is similar to zone 1. In both zones, cropping patterns are expected to change due to
improved irrigation and drainage in order to include
more cash crops and other crops requiring irrigation
such as maize, alfalfa, summer forage and irrigated      TABLE 5.1: Yields in the Project Area
wheat. By year five of the project, tomatoes, potatoes
and other high-value vegetables are expected to account    Selected     Expected Yields (under im-
for about 30 percent of farm production value, up from  Crops           proved irrigation & drainage)
10 percent today (see Annex 8. 1, figures 2 through 4).                   Year I       Year 5
--------- t/ha -------------
5.3   Incremental  Production.    Without  any    WHEAT                     2.4          3.5
marketing constraints, the project would result in an    MAIZE              3.3          4.3
estimated incremental agricultural production, expressed    POTATOES       7.2           8.6
as output per year over a twenty year period, as    VEGETABLES             13.5         18.4
follows:  12,000 tons of wheat, equivalent to a 18    COTrON                1.3          1.7
percent rise in production when compared to a base case
without the project. 24,000 tons of maize (113 percent
rise); 450 tons of fodder (70 percent rise); 9,200 tons of
tomatoes (173 percent rise); 2,400 tons of potatoes (117 percent rise); 19,700 tons of other vegetables (51
percent rise); 23.5 million liters of milk (27 percent rise); and 3,200 tons of cotton (128 percent rise).
However, marketing of produce is at present significantly constrained due to consumers' low domestic
purchasing power, lacking marketing and distribution infrastructure, and limited access to export markets.
Therefore, in the financial and economic analysis of the project, assumptions have been made such as to
reduce the amount of produced and marketed output during the first three years of project implementation
(see Annex 8). Predictions for a potential shift in cropping patterns due to restricted marketing options
can only be made with high uncertainty and have been excluded from the analysis.
B. Farm Income and Poverty Reduction
5.4    Farm Models. For each of the two agro-climatic zones covering the project area (para 5.2), two
farm production models have been developed, reflecting a shift from either rainfed or under-irrigated
conditions to an improved irrigation level of 1,600 m3/ha. Most incremental production would initially be
for self-consumption, with the assumed share of marketed surplus production rising from 25 percent in year
one of the project to 100 percent by year four. Current local price levels of farm inputs and outputs are
assumed to reach world market levels over a five-year period (see Annex 8, Attachment 2). Farmers are
expected to use mostly family labor to cultivate and harvest crops, but they would continue to hire outside
mechanization services for plowing and tilling. It is assumed that credit for seasonal inputs and on-farm
system repairs would be available from either the Rural Commercial Bank, Village Credit Funds, or from
relatives, neighbors and friends to finance 25 percent of operating costs and on-farm investments.
5.5   Impact on Rural Poverty. Table 5.2 provides a summary of the four farm budgets used in the
financial analysis of the project (see Annex 8, Attachment 1). Under the above assumptions on yields,
fertilizer usage and cropping patterns, farmers are expected to have negative net cash-flows, after on-farm



- 36 -
consumption, during the first two years of the project, caused by the assumed initial constraints for
marketing of surplus production. Farmers' average annual net cash income would rise above US$100
equivalent (Lek 10,000) by year three, would exceed US$500 equivalent by year five and would reach
about US$600 at full development of the project. This compares favorably to farm incomes without the
project of about US$200 by year five and no more than US$300 at full development. Due to the phasing
of works, only some 2,300 farm families in the project area would be expected to start benefitting from
investments under the project in the second year of implementation, rising to some 56,800 families at the
end of project implementation, or 45 percent of the total of 126,000 families in the project area.
Additional beneficiaries of the project would include providers of farm services and any incremental hired
farm labor. The project would achieve a significant reduction in overall poverty in the districts concerned
since all beneficiaries would be located within rural areas where the average per-capita income is expected
to remain below income levels of urban areas.
TABLE 5.2: Summary Farm Budgets
NET FARM CASH-FLOW          ZONE 1: Durres, Kavaja, Lushnje, Fier     ZONE 2: Laci, Kruje, Tirana
(after on-farm consumption and  Model 1:           Model 2:           Model 1:          Model 2:
financing charges, before water Rainfed > 1,600 mn/ha 1,200 > 1,600 m-/ha Rainf'ed > 1,600 m3/ha 1,200 > 1,600 m3/ha
charges)
(Lek '000 at end-1993)               (Lek '000 at end-1993)
Present Situation                -8.1               -19.2              -4.3              -10.8
By Year 3:
Without Project               4.4                -4.4               6.9                3.6
With Project                  11.8               5.8                13.3              13.3
By Year 5:
Without Project               20.7               14.5               22.4              18.8
With Project                  60.0               52.0               51.5              51.5
At Full Development:
Without Project               26.7               18.2               28.2              22.7
With Project                  67.2               59.2               58.6              58.6
5.6    Role of Women. Women play a prominent part in Albania's irrigated agriculture and are primarily
involved in seeding, harvesting and marketing of crops. The project would, in a limited manner, support
a more active participation of women in irrigation management through women involvement in WUA
activities. WUA training for farmers would focus on upgrading the skills of women as well. The
evaluation of training and workshops under the project would include information on the number of
participants, disaggregated by gender. Similarly, data collection and analysis for impact assessment would
separate between women and men with respect to formal education, wage levels and other income. A
socio-economic study is required to further investigate the present role of women in irrigated agriculture
and to assess their potential role. The study could formulate ways and means to promote a more active
and effective participation of women in all aspects of irrigation management within WUAs. During project
irnplementation, Government should explore sources of grant funding for such a study.
C. Irrigation Management and Cost Recovery
5.7    Cost of Irrigation and Drainage. The true cost of operating, maintaining, and investing into
Albania's irrigation and drainage infrastructure is difficult to assess given the complete lack of any reliable
accounting data at the WE level. In view of the significant share of labor required for operating non-



- 37 -
automated gates and for maintaining a highly depreciated infrastructure, the current annual cost for
operation and maintenance of primary and secondary canals is estimated to range between US$24 and 43
per ha of irrigated and drained command area, depending on the amount of pumping involved and
electricity required in each district, with an average cost of US$32 per ha (see Annex 8.2). Over the
implementation period of the project, these costs are estimated to rise to an average of US$51 per ha by
year 6 of the project, reflecting mainly the expected increase in labor costs and energy prices.24 The total
cost of investments under the project, including design and engineering fees and required subsequent
replacement investmeints, translate into a per-ha charge of about US$15 per year, assuming that farmers
in the project area would be granted a five-year grace period with subsequent repayments over 35 years,
reflecting the conditionis of the IDA Credit. Thlerefore, under full cost recovery, required annual revenues
from water charges, payable by farmers to WEs in the project area, would need to average US$32 per ha
during 1994, rising to about US$66 per ha by 1999 (or about 10 to 15 percent of net farm cash-flow at full
development of the project). The cost of operation and maintenance of systems below the secondary level
by farmers is estimated to equal no more than US$10 per year and ha and would be recovered through
WUA fees. Any on-farn investments into the infrastructure below the secondary canal level would also
be financed by individual farmers or WUAs.
5.8    Cost Recovery Policy. Net caslh-flows for private smallholders in the project area, after on-farm
consumption of outputs, would only become positive by year three of the project (para 5.5). Assuming
a required annual minimilumii cash income of US$100 equivalent per farmer, farmers would only be able to
pay fully cost-covering water charges, and additional WUA fees, after year four of the project. Therefore,
a cost recovery policy would be adopted providing for the gradual increase of water charges to cost-
covering levels over a five-year period. Given the currently irrigated area, and assuming a collection rate
of 60 percent of billed water charges, the present charge level of Lek 1.8/m3 translates into an annual
average revenue of US$13 equivalent per ha (see table 5.3). This represents a coverage level of 41 percent
of the current estimated costs for system operation and maintenance of US$32 equivalent per ha. Under
the project, this percentage would be increased by 15 percent per year, through annual revisions of water
charges, to achieve the full coverage of operation and maintenance costs borne by WEs in the project area
by year five of the project, i.e, by 1998. In addition, starting in 1999, water charges would be increased
further to reflect the full recovery of Government-financed project investments and required replacement
costs. Under the Mid-Term Review, the experience on cost recovery would be reviewed to determine
whether it would be appropriate to extend this cost recovery policy to non-project areas.
5.9    Water Charges. The Irrigation Code would provide the regulatory framework for WE operations,
including principles for water pricing based on actual district-based costs of system operation and
maintenance borne by WEs, as verified by independent external audits (para 4.11). Under the above
assumptions for per-ha costs borne by WEs and investment costs, and assuming a gradual rise in the
collection rate for water charges to 80 percent by year five of the project, cost-covering water charges
would need to rise from their present level of Lek 1 .8/m3 to an average of Lek 4.8/m3 by 1999. This takes
into account the conservative assumption made under the project of a comparatively low consumption rate
after system rehabilitation (1,600 m3/ha/year, see table 5.3). Assuming that a higher average consumption
rate (2,500 m3/ha/year) would be achievable, water charges would need to rise to no more than Lek 3.1/nm3
to be fully cost-covering. An increase in the collection rate for water charges would further reduce the
required rise in the price of irrigation water, to an average charge level of Lek 2.3/m3 by 1999 under an
assumed collection rate of 100 percent (see Annex 8.2). During negotiations, assurances have been
obtained from Government that water charges will be reviewed and adjusted annually, by March 31 of the
24/    Electricity prices are assumed to rise to ahout US$ 0.05/kWh to reach cost-covering levels.



- 38 -
following year, to achieve the full coverage of actual operating costs of WEs in the project area by 1998,
and to recover the full cost of investments under the project and of associated replacements starting in
1999. Water charges would be assessed in March of each year on the basis of the anticipated O&M costs
for the coming irrigation season, final adjustments would be made at the end of October of each year to
reflect actual O&M costs incurred by WEs.
TABLE 5.3: Cost Recovery in the Project Area
1994         1995         1996          1997         1998          1999
REVENUE GENERATING AREA (ha)
Systems under the project          45,019       46,158       52,705        60,676        67,793       73,486
Non-Project systems                42,010       45,510       45,510        49,011        49,011       56,013
Total                              87,029       91,668       98,215        109,687      116,804       129,499
AVERAGE WATER PRICE (Lek/m3)
Low consumption level                1.8           2.9          3.4           4.0          4.4           4.8
High consumption level                             1.8          2.2           2.6           2.8          3.1
AVERAGE REVENUE FROM
WATER CHARGES (US$/ha)
Operation & maintenance               13            23           30            40           50            51
Investments                            0             0            0             0            0            15
Total                                 13            23           30            40           50            66
AVG. COST RECOVERY (US$/ha)
WE costs                              32            41           43            47           50            51
WE revenues                           13            23           30            40           50            51
Resulting subsidy for WEs             19            18           13             7            0             0
Level of cost recovery              41%           55%          70%           85%          100%         100%
BUDGETARY IMPACr (US$mill.)
Subsidies for WEs                  - 1.63       - 1.68        -1.27        - 0.77        - 0.01            0
Investment costs recovered             0            0             0             0            0        + 1.94
Net impact                         - 1.63       - 1.68        -1.27        - 0.77        - 0.01       + 1.94
Note:   A low water consumption level equals 1,600 m3/ha/yr, a high consumption level equals 2,500 m31ha/yr. Average revenues
from water charges are based on the assumption that collection rates for charges would increase from 60 percent in 1994 by
annual increments of 5 percent, to reach 80 percent in 1998 and subsequent years.
5.10    Budgetary Impact.  As set out in table 5.3, budgetary subsidies to WEs in the project area are
estimated to equal about US$1.6 and 1.7 million equivalent in 1994 and 1995, and would fall to US$1.3
and 0.8 million in 1996 and 1997, respectively, in order to be phased out by 1998.25 Assurances have been
obtained from Government during negotiations that annual budget provisions for WEs, over the
implementation period of the project, will include sufficient funds to cover the portion of recurrent costs
for system operation and maintenance not recovered through water charges.
5.11    Organizing Water Delivery and Payments. Water requests and charges would be collected from
farmers by WUA officials who would forward consolidated water requests and payments to WEs. Water
would be delivered by WE technicians in the field to the tertiary canal level, where WUAs would take over
responsibility for subsequent water scheduling and distribution among WUA members (see Annex 10.5).
25/     These subsidy figures compare to current subsidies of US$ 2.2 million equivalent in 1993 for all WEs in the country.
Estimated subsidies for 1994 through 1997 include an aggregate amount of US$ 1.2 million to account for incremental
recurrent costs incurred by WEs in the project area due to improved and additional system operation and maintenance under
the project (para 3.13).



- 39 -
D. Environmental Impact
5.12   Agricultural Runoff and Soil Salinity.  The overall impact of the rehabilitation works and
institutional and policy reforms on the natural environment would be positive. The project would reduce
surface water and soil contamination stemming from agricultural runoff through a reduction in irrigation
water losses by improving system conveyance and flow control. Pesticide run-off would be further reduced
through dissemination of information to farmers on the safe use of pesticides, following IDA regulations
on techniques for integrated pest management, in conjunction with the On-farm Water Management
Program supported under the project. Improvements in system conveyance and on-farm irrigation water
distribution would also diminish the potential for soil salinity built up through water-logging caused by
water losses, mainly in coastal zones. Rehabilitation of major drainage systems along the coastal districts
would further improve flood control and reduce salinity-related problems without threatening valuable
natural wetlands or habitats since all areas were drained previously.
5.13   Environmental Evaluation. The project would improve the country's capacity of monitoring soil
and surface water quality through provision of equipment and technical assistance to the Soil Institute in
Tirana. However, given the potentially serious water quality problems in the country, additional assurances
have been obtained from Government at negotiations that an environmental evaluation would be prepared,
and be submitted for review by IDA, for each irrigation and drainage scheme prior to inviting the first
works contract bid for each respective scheme.26  This evaluation would address, inter alia, (i)
contamination of irrigation water upstream caused by domestic and industrial wastes; (ii) pollution
downstream caused by drainage water discharge; and (iii) proposed measures to mitigate any such
environmental impacts. The evaluation would be part of sub-project design and would be carried out by
ISDWW. The Soil Institute would be consulted for comments on each evaluation before submission for
review by IDA. In addition, the overall environmental impact of the project would be assessed during the
Mid-Term Review.
5.14   Other Environmental Impacts.  Institutional and policy reforms under the project would result
in improved cost recovery, allowing for adequate maintenance of reservoirs and irrigation and drainage
systems, thus ensuring flood control measures, perennial river runoff, and the safeguarding of fish and
aquatic life forms. Rehabilitation of the irrigation infrastructure would also reduce the need for off-farm
grazing in the hills and mountains which would reduce erosion and facilitate rejuvenation of forest lands.
Through creation of additional employment and income opportunities in rural areas, the project would
reduce incentives for migrating to urban areas and would contribute to the long-term objective of sustained
land use. The project has been reviewed and placed in environmental category 'B' consistent with the
provisions of OD 4.01.
5.15   Water Resources Management. While Albania has not yet developed a comprehensive water
resources development and management plan, preparatory steps have been taken by Government to develop
such a plan, and IDA staff is currently involved in mobilizing support for this effort. The proposed project
would fit well into a new water resources management plan since this plan would include substantial
investments for rehabilitating water development works. Furthermore, there are currently no water
allocation issues between economic sectors since water resources exceed by far current water requirements
(para 1.7), and seasonal variations can be balanced through the existing reservoir storage capacity. In
addition, IDA and other donors are involved in several water supply and sanitation projects which would
26/    A first environmental screening has been undertaken by ISDWW and WEs during project preparation in order to exclude
schemes with any serious water quality issues from rehabilitation under the proposed project.



- 40 -
initiate a systematic municipal sanitation program within the framework of an overall water resources
development and management plan.
E. Economic Analysis
5.16   Assumptions. Over a twenty year period, both incremental recurrent and replacement costs have
been added to investment costs under the project to reflect the full economic costs of the project. Import
and export parity prices have been calculated for tradeable inputs and outputs, non-traded goods have been
priced at domestic financial prices. Unskilled labor has been valued at a low opportunity cost while skilled
labor for construction works has been valued at prevailing financial prices. In accordance with the project
implementation schedule, phasing of construction works has been assumed such that 4 percent of the works
would be completed in 1995, followed by cumulative completion rates of 27, 55, 80 and 100 percent for
years 1996-1999. Incremental farm production was estimated assuming that each farm in the project area
would achieve maximum projected yields and incremental outputs with a five-year time-lag after completion
of rehabilitation works in order to allow for a temporarily limited use of fertilizer and pesticides. Current
marketing constraints for agricultural produce have been taken into consideration by reducing the economic
value of farm production by 75, 50, and 25 percent during the first three years of project implementation
since farmers are expected to decrease production of
non-marketable surplus output, after satisfying their
on-farm consumption needs, if a change in cropping    TABLE 5.4: Econocic Rates of Rehtur
patterns would not resolve the marketing constraint
(see Annex 8.3).                                                       ERR    Net Present
Value (US$ mill.)
5.17   ERR and Sensitivity Analysis. The weighted    DISTRICTS
average economic rate of return for the project,       Laci            14%        0.6
taking into account all project components, equals 17  Kruje           24%        2.3
percent, with a net present value of US$12.6 million   Tirana          28%        2.7
ERRS for individual project districts are shown in     Durres          13%        0.2
table 5.4, assuming an allocation of project costs that  Kavaja        19%        5.5
table                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Lushnje19     .
are not linked to specific districts in proportion to  Fier            13%        0.4
district-based system rehabilitation costs. Switching
values have been calculated assuming a benchmark    PROJECT            17%       12.6
discount rate of 12 percent (see Annex 8.3, figure 7).
The results reveal that project costs would have to
rise by 35 percent, or project benefits drop by 25
percent compared to appraisal values to make project investments non-viable. An increase in construction
costs of more than 35 percent is highly unlikely given the advanced stage of project design. A reduction
of benefits by more than 25 percent is equally unlikely in light of the already conservative assumptions
made about farmers' ability to market incremental surplus production. The project would also remain
economically viable under the assumption of a two-year time-lag for expected benefits to materialize.
F. Project Risks
5.18   Delays in Implementation. The principal project risks stem from the limited implementation
capacity of the various Government and private-sector institutions involved in the implementation of the
project, potentially causing delays in design, procurement and delivery of rehabilitation works. The
comprehensive technical assistance and training program for all public-sector institutions involved in the
project would help reduce these risks. Delays caused by a potential lack of qualified local contractors to



- 41 -
carry out works under the project would be addressed by inviting experienced contractors from neighboring
countries to participate in the local competitive bidding process. Furthermore, as demonstrated by the
sensitivity analysis, the project would remain economically viable even if rehabilitation works and resulting
project benefits were delayed by up to two years. The risk of delays in implementing the institutional
development sub-components are limited given the advanced stage of implementation preparation through
provision of technical assistance and training to the Project Management Unit, financed under the PPF.
A delay in the formation of WUAs is unlikely given the strong incentives for their creation introduced
under the project, i.e. WUA establishment will be a precondition for any repair works at the tertiary level,
and Water Enterprises will only deliver water to established WUAs, not to individual farmers.
5.19   Mobilization of Cofinancing. Despite the strong interest shown by a number of cofinanciers in
the project and corresponding preliminary commitments obtained (see para 3.25), there is a risk that not
all required funding from donors would be secured in time. However, given the fully modular structure
of the project with rehabilitation works to be carried independently from each other in seven districts, the
project would still remain economic in the event that selected schemes in one or several districts could not
be rehabilitated as scheduled due to lack of cofinancing. Even in the hypothetical case that only IDA-
financed rehabilitation works in the three districts of Kavaje, Lushnje and Fier would be carried out, the
average economic rate of return would equal at least 17 percent since IDA-financed schemes are for the
most part high-return gravity schemes, and since financing of all required institutional development and
project implementation support would be secured by IDA.
5.20   Other Risks. The potential lack of funds to cover local costs of 37 percent of total project costs
is a further project risk but would be limited since 80 percent of local costs would be financed through
participation of IDA and other cofinanciers. Nevertheless, the risk remains that a deterioration of the
Government's overall fiscal balance could threaten the provision of sufficient budgetary funds to WEs
during the transitional period until the full recovery of recurrent and investment costs through water
charges would be achieved. During the mid-term review, a broad assessment of project implementation
and financing would be undertaken with the view of addressing and resolving these financial risks. In
addition, the project's monitoring mechanisms are expected to reduce risks in general by identifying
potential problems at an early stage, including those associated with institutional development and
financing. Also, during project supervision, particular emphasis will be given to ensure close coordination
between the various donors towards the consistent application of cost recovery policies agreed to under the
proposed project. A continued lack of marketing opportunities for farmers of their surplus production is
a further risk. This has been taken into consideration in the financial and economic analysis by making
highly conservative assumptions regarding the potential sale of incremental production by project farmers.
Even with these assumptions, the sensitivity analysis reveals that a reduction in farm benefits of up to 25
percent could be sustained without making the project non-viable.
CHAPTER VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1    During negotiations, assurances have been obtained that the Government would:
(a) submit detailed Annual Work Plans (AWP) for all rehabilitation works, by November 15 of the
preceding year, starting with the work program for calendar year 1995 (para 4.3);
(b) hold a comprehensive Mid-Term Review by December 31, 1996 (para 4.3);



- 42 -
(c) cover all applicable duties and local taxes under the project (para 3.23);
(d) provide funding to cover any financing gap in the event that sufficient cofinancing could not
be secured by October 31, 1995 (para 3.25);
(e) ensure that the guidelines for comparative price quotations in the award of civil works contracts
of lesser value than US$250,000, as set out in para 3.27, would be followed;
(f) undertake annual independent audits of Water Enterprises in the project area for rehabilitation
works, with terms of reference acceptable to IDA (para 4. 11);
(g) review and adjust water charges annually, by March 31 of the following year, to achieve full
coverage of actual operating costs of WEs in the project area by 1998, and to recover the full
cost of investments under the project and of associated replacements starting in 1999 (para 5.9);
(h) ensure that annual budget provisions for WEs, over the implementation period of the project,
include sufficient funds to cover the portion of recurrent costs for system operation and
maintenance not recovered through water charges (para 5.10);
(i) ensure that an environmental evaluation would be prepared, and be submitted for review by
IDA, for each irrigation and drainage scheme prior to inviting the first works contract bid for
each respective scheme (para 5.13);
(j) submit to IDA independent audits of project accounts, including audits of SOEs and the Special
Account, to be performed by auditors and under terms of reference acceptable to IDA, within
6 months of the close of each Government fiscal year (para 4. 11).
6.2    The following conditions of Board presentation have been fulfilled:
(a) the Irrigation Code has been passed by Parliament (para 3.17);
(b) arrears in energy charges that have been billed to the seven WEs in the project area by KESH,
the Albanian power utility, have been cleared (para 3.13).
6.3    Enactment of WUA Regulations through a decision by the Minister of Agriculture and Food would
be a condition of effectiveness of the IDA Credit (para 3.17).
6.4    With the above agreements and conditions, the proposed Project would be suitable for a Credit of
SDR7.1 million (US$10 million equivalent) at standard terms with 40 years maturity.



- 43 -
LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex 1    Irrigated Agriculture              ....................                  ........................  45
Annex 1. 1  Crop Calendar  .........................................  45
Annex 1.2   Monthly Irrigation Water Deficits  .............................  46
Annex 1.3   Annual Crop Water Deficits   ................................ 47
Annex 1.4   Crop Yields Under Different Water and Fertilizer Regimes  ............. 48
Annex 1.5   Crop Yield Response to Irrigation Water  ........................  49
Annex 2    Irrigation and Drainage Infrastructure ....... ........                                ..................  51
Annex 2.1   Irrigation and Drainage Infrastructure ........................... 51
Annex 2.2   Irrigation and Drainage System  Layout .......................... 52
Annex 2.3   Irrigation Schemes Selected for Rehabilitation   ..................... 53
Annex 2.4   Drainage Schemes Selected for Rehabilitation ...................... 54
Annex 3    Irrigation Component under the Critical Imports Project .....................  55
Annex 3.1   Summary of Items Imported   ................................ 55
Annex 3.2   Distribution of Items by Districts  .............................  56
Annex 4    Detailed Project Cost Tables                  ..................                .....................  57
Annex 4.1   Summary Cost Tables  ....................................  57
Annex 4.2   Cost of Irrigation Rehabilitation (by District and Sub-Project)  ....                      ....... 65
Annex 4.3   Cost of Drainage Rehabilitation (by District and Sub-Project) ....                        ........ 66
Annex 4.4   Unit Costs for Rehabilitation Works   ........................... 67
Annex 4.5   Cost of Equipment for Institutional Development  ................... 69
Annex 4.6   Cost of Equipment for Implementation Support  .................... 70
Annex 5    Technical Assistance Program                    .................                .....................  71
Annex 5.1   Summary of Technical Assistance Program   .......................  71
Annex 5.2   Canal Flow  Control ......................................  77
Annex 5.3   Improvement of System  Operation and Maintenance   ................. 80
Annex 5.4   Design and Supervision of Works  .............................  82
Annex 5.5   Establishment of Water User Associations ........................  86
Annex 5.6   On-Farm  Water Management Program   .......................... 92
Annex 6    Procurement, Disbursements, Supervision ...... ........                                  ................. 95
Annex 6.1   Indicative Procurement Packages for Drainage Works   ................ 95
Annex 6.2   Indicative Procurement Packages for Irrigation Works  ................ 96
Annex 6.3   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements ........................... 97
Annex 6.4   Supervision Plan ........................................  98
Annex 7    Project Implementation Plan                   ..................                .....................  99
Annex 7.1   Implementation Schedule   ..................................  99
Annex 7.2   Procurement Schedule  ...................................   102
Annex 7.3   Monitoring Indicators   ...................................   104
Annex 8    Financial and Economic Analysis   .............. ..                                ...................  107
Annex 8.1   Financial Analysis ......................................  107
Annex 8.2   Cost Recovery  ........................................   111
Annex 8.3   Economic Analysis  .....................................  113
Annex 9    Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File ......                        ..        ...........  127
Annex 10 Charts    ..129
Annex 10.1 Project Phasing .129
Annex 10.2 Rehabilitation of an Irrigation/Drainage System .133
Annex 10.3 Organizational Chart of ISDWW .134
Annex 10.4 Organizational Chart of Water Enterprises .135
Annex 10.5 Flow-chart for Water Request, Delivery and Payment .136



- 44 -



- 45 -                                           Annex I
Page 1 of 5
ALBANIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Irrigated Agriculture
ANNEX 1.1: Crop Calendar
CROP                       Jan  Feb  Mar Apr May  Jun  July Aug  Sep  Oct Nov Dec
Wheat plains early                                                                        -
Wheat plains main                                                                         -
Wheat hills                                                                               -
Maize (grain)
Sunflowers 1
Sunflowers 2                                                      .-    .    - 
Potatoes early
Potatoes main
Tobacco plains
Tobacco hills
Beans 1 plains
Beans 2 plains
Beans hills
Tomatoes plains
Vegetables (gardens)
Sugarbeet
Alfalfa
Forage maize                                                 -     . :n - 
Summer forage                                                  -      _
Winter fodder
Citrus
Fruit orchards -
Grapes
Olives
Cotton



Anne" 1
Page 2 of 5
ANNEX 1.2: Monthly Irrigation Water Deficits
(By Agro-Climatic Zone)
Norliern Coastl Zone                                 Norn Hi Zone
(e.g, Shkoder 1.01 ha lnigatd)                    (e.g., tfltBure: 0.4 ha Igtd)
.I                                                 .
KA~~~'
_                   J                        I~~~~L
Cenul Coaal Zone                                    Kaon. Ara Zon
(e.g, Luamnde 1.21 ha  iga4pta                     (eg, Boa  11 ha  igpte)
( Lh rpe)(gB1 a                               UW
Ib                     ~ ~~~~~~WA -7AOA .
. I0* -        gr--n                             F      *        l' -3
(Pootarnote: 0.3 e rrZigatizoesd)  xlandi  (t.g. Fotoeato  1ab0e haI3. at



- 47 -
Annex I
Page 3 of 5
Annex 1.3: Annual Crop Water Deficits
(By Agro-Climatic Zone)
PLAINS                            HILLS & UPLAND PLATEAU
norh     CbMil  Cenmral Coastal    SOdfRCrA Crzasal  Average Deficit  Nonhserri  Korce Area    --Saudbtzn Hifts  Average D)eficit
for Plains mlII.                           for Hills
[    mm    mm          n          M'tha       mm         mm         mm        M'/ha
CROP   P.                                                     I_,_
WHEAT (PLAINS-EARLY)        59         174        216         1496        --
WHEAT (PlAINS-MAIN)         65         65         225         1182         ---      140       -           1404
WIilAr (HILLS)              ___        ___         --          ___-       169       190        2321       1970
MAI7i                      49&         429        490         4698        302       316       . 3,96      3380
SUNFLOWERS (PLAINS)        254        3730        431         3526        254       278        218        2701
POTATOF (EARLY)           257         360        417         3446
POTATOES (MAIN)                        335         --         3353        335       371                   3592
TOBACCO (V) (PLAINS)       302         432        460         3980
TOBACCO (0) (HILLS)                    --_ ___                  3_5                  ---       412        3584
BEANS I (PLAINS)           216         307        357         2934         _        220          :        2196
BIANS 2 (PLAINS)          132         242        253         2093         --        184        --        1837
BEANS (HILLS)                             __ -__ .--251                             270        331        2859
TOMATOES (PLAINS)          31 1        437        487         4117         _:
VEGETABLES                 257         471        509         4122    - 05          356        441-       3673
SUGAR BEET (KORCE)          - N                                                     364       -           3637
ALFALFA                    381         644        677         5668         :-       490                   4900
FORAGE MAIZE               109         258        248         2051        144        191       245        1931
SUMMEFR FORAGE             268         380        434         3609        267       279        349.:    2980
WINTER FODDER               _    
CITR US                    389         389        389         3894                             :-
DECID'S FRUIT (PLAINS)     377         602   - 656            5449         ---      462                   4617
DECID'S FRUIT (HILLS)  .               . -..___-:421-    460                                   5S-        4878
GRAPIS                      9          220        397         3383        216        --- 36:              2713
OLIVES                     279         139        279         2319     -133          ---       217        1752
COTTON                       -         549        5g7         5676
SOURCE:        Drawn from seasonal totals for each crop set out in the irrigation requirement sheets for each of the six
agro-climatic zones.
Agro-climatic zones include the following districts (districts in italics are located in the project area):
1. Central Coastal:  Durres, Kavaja, Lushnje, Fier, Mallakaster
2. Northern Coastal: Tirana, Kruje, Laci, Lezhe, Shkoder, Malesia
3. Northern Hills:   Tropoje, Puke, Hasi, Kukes, Mirdite, Peshkopi, Mat, Bulquize, Librazhd, Elbasan, Pequin
4. Korce Area:      Pogradec, Korce, Devoll, Kolonje
5. Southem Hills:   Gramsh, Kucova, Berat, Skrapar, Permet, Tepelene, Gjirokaster
6. Southern Coastal: Vlore, Sarande, Delvine



Annex 1                                                     - 48 -
Page 4 of 5
Annex 1.4: Crop Yields Under Different Water and Fertilizer Regimes
Yields (t/ha)
.......................................................................................................................................................
IRRIGATED
RAINFED          LEVEL i b        LEVEL 2a c          LEVEL 2b
CROP
WHEAT (PLAINS-EARLY)                    2.8              3.10               3.25                 3.40
WHEAT (PLAINS-MAIN)                     3.0              3.30               3.45                 3.60
WHEAT (HILLS)                           2.6              3.00               3.15                 3.30
MAIZE                                   2.8              4.00               4.24                4.48
SUNFLOWERS                              0.9              1.00               1.08                 1.16
POTATOES (EARLY)                        6.0              7.00               7.90                8.80
POTATOES (MAIN)                         7.0             10.0               11.30                12.60
TOBACCO (V) (PLAINS)                  ---                0.90               1.00                 110
TOBACCO (0) (HILLS)                     0.6              0.80               0.90                 1.00
BEANS I (PLAINS)                        0.9              1.20               1.30                 1.40
BEANS 2 (PLAINS)                       ---               1.00               1.10                 1.20
BEANS (HILLS)                           0.7              0.90               1.00                 1.10
ToMATOES (PLAINS)                     ---               18.00              20.20                22.40
VEGETABLES                             ---              15.00              17.00                19.00
SUGAR BEET (KORCE)                     20.0             27.00              28.50               30.00
ALFALFA                                ---              25.00              26.50               28.00
FORAGE MAIZE                          ---               20.00              21.40               22.80
SUMMER FORAGE                          ---              16.00              17.40                18.80
WINTER FODDER                          18.0             18.00              18.00                18.00
CITRUS                                 ---               8.00               8.70                9.40
DECID'S FRUIT (PLAINS)                 ---               8.00               8.70                9.40
DECID'S FRUIT (HILLS)                   4.0              9.50              10.20                10.90
GRAPES                                  3.5              4.00               4.60                5.20
OLIVES                                  2.0              3.30               3.65                4.00
COTTON                                 ---               1.50               1.60                 1.70
a/      Rainfed perfornance applies to permanent rOf land and temporary non-irrigated land.
b/      Level I is irrigation (WoP) at 30%  of full crop water needs.
c/      Level 2a is irrigation (WiP) at 40%  of full crop water needs, but limited fertilizer.
d/      Level 2b is irrigation (WiP) at 40%  of full crop water needs, but adequate fertilizer.



- 49 -                                                       Annex 1
Page 5 of 5
Annex 1.5: Crop Yield Response to Irrigation Water
Irrigation Water Supply as % of
Crop Water Deficit
Average Crop   Supply WoP =   Supply WiP =   Crop Response to
Water Deficit         1,200              1,600        Incremental Water   Yield Increment
Crop                 (m3/ha/year) I/   m3/ha/year b/    m3/ha/year c/    (Kg/m3/year) d/   (Kg/ha/year) e/ f/
Wheat (plains-early)                   1496                80                107                    0.85              340
Wheat (plains-main)                    1238                97                129                    0.90              360
Wheat (hills)                          1970               61                  81                    0.80              320
Maize                                 4039                 30                 40                    1.20              480
Sunflowers (plains)                   3114                 39                 51                    0.40               160
Potatoes (early)                       3446                35                 46                    5.00             2000
Potatoes (main)                        3532                34                 45                    6.50             2600
Tobacco (V) (plains)                   3980                30                 40                    0.50              200
Tobacco (0) (hills)                    3584                33                 45                    0.45               180
Beans 1 (plains)                       2749                44                 58                    0.45               180
Beans 2 (plains)                       2029                59                 70                    0.43               172
Beans (hills)                          2859                42                 56                    0.40               160
Tomatoes (plains)                     4117                 29                 39                   11.00             4400
Vegetables                             3897                31                 41                   10.00             4000
Sugar Beet (Korce)                     3637                33                 44                    7.50             3000
Alfalfa                               5476                 22                 29                    7.70             3080
Forage Maize                           1991                60                 80                    7.00             2800
Summer Forage                          3295                36                 49                    7.00             2800
Winter Fodder                           n/a               n/a                n/a                  n/a                   ---
Citrus                                 3894                31                 41                    3.50             1400
Decid's Fruit (plains)                5241                 23                 31                    3.50             1400
Decid's Fruit (hills)                 4878                 25                 33                    3.50             1400
Grapes                                3115                 39                 51                    3.00             1200
Olives                                2092                 57                 76                    1.75              700
Cotton                                5676                 21                 28                    0.50              200
a.      Drawn from irrigation requirement sheets for six agro-climatic zones.
b.      Percentage of full crop needs, assuming even distribution of the existing available WoP 1200 cubic meters/ha per season.
c.      Percentage of full crop needs, assuming even distribution of the improved future WiP 1600 cubic meters/ha per season.
d.      From FAO I & D Bulletin 33, Crop response to incremental water, in kg/cubic meter.
e.      Incremental crop yield resulting from additional 400 cubic meters, evenly distributed.
f.      The calculated incremental yield will only be obtained if all other inputs, including fertilizer, are applied in sufficient quantity.



I



- 51 -                                           Annex 2
Page 1 of 4
ALBANIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
ANNEX 2.1: Irrigation and Drainage Infrastructure
District         Cultivable    Total Irrigation    Areas with    Reservoir    Drainage
Land      Command Area        Lift       Storage       Area
Irrigation  Capacity
------- -------ha- ----------             Mm3           ha
Berat                     35,506          14,532         7,470         19.0       5,060
Kucove                     5,503           4,490         1,058          2.5       3,100
Diber                     19,365          15,825         1,210         13.4       2,000
Bulqize                    8,091           2,200          320           0.3       1,200
Durres                    26,409          16,715         5,537         52.4      15,620
Kavaje                    25,154          14,230         4,550         14.6      11,460
Elbasan                   39,221          21,286         5,597         27.6       9,000
Peqin                      8,504           4,182         1,500          2.0       2,540
Fier                      57,041          36,938        13,645         26.4      36,690
Mallakaster               14,134           5,369          700          17.0       1,640
Gramnsh                   10,360           5,132         1,743          4.1         00
Gjirokaster               17,693          13,195         2,585         29.5       9,300
Kolonje                   11,252           5,929         1,300          7.5       1,070
Korce                     49,000          23,303         4,386         22.1      20,820
Devoll                    15,976          11,946         3,253         76.6      10,000
Kruje                     15,163           9,765         2,165         18.3       9,095
Laci                      10,296           8,910          660           2.1       8,910
Kukes                     11,411           6,319         1,029          1.4       1,600
Has                        6,492           2,383          850           9.6        500
Lezhe                     10,543          17,585         4,500          3.1      17,420
Librazhd                  15,519           5,697          900           1.9        730
Lushnje                   51,136          39,081         6,448         78.0      81,930
Mat                       14,123           5,750         1,200          6.8       1,050
Mirdite                    6,238           4,160          821           4.2        100
Permet                    14,723           5,055         2,624          6.1       2,400
Pogradec                  17,506           6,485         2,020          7.8       1,700
Puke                       5,165           3,545          120           2.7          0
Sarande                   15,593           9,870         1,520         23.1       7,150
Delvine                   10,232           8,713          264           2.0       4,000
Skrapar                   12,134           3,210         2,200          2.7          0
Shkoder                   30,243          23,710         6,561          0.5      22,800
Malsi e Madhe             15,255          10,100         3,000         13.1       7,801
Tepelene                  13,055           3,648         2,200          8.2       1,500
Tirana                    30,103          17,863         5,092         47.9       6,415
Tropoje                    7,390           6,653          720           4.1       1,320
Vlore                     37,812          23,203        11,950         17.4      13,620
Total                    702,381         417,015       112,118        582.0    304,560



ANNEX 2.2: Irrigation and Drainage System Layout
200m ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~,0   256M
- X 4W X  lt                                                -X X: C  X ------ -
W --S-.-      -  -L- --L-- ----.  -    ---------- t -
.,*                I      *              ,               .                                                I              *             I
- - - - - -  - - - - - -  - - - - -  - - - - - -  -- - - - -  - - - - -  - - - --- -- -  - -
*  __  --a - -a    ---                                                                 --       ---         ---
LEGEND:               D      Main Canal (irrigation)                    Secondary Canal (irrigaion)        ~Tertiary Canal (irrigation)l           ~            Field Ditches (irrigation)
_ Main Canal (drainage)                               Secondary Canal (drainage)            - - - - Tertiary Canal (drainage       -      - -ied Ditches (drainage)



- 53 -                                         Annex 2
Page 3 of 4
ANNEX 2.3: Irrigation Schemes Selected for Rehabilitation
Irrigable Area per Scheme in Hectare (After Rehabilitation)
Less    100 to   200 to    500 to    1000 to    More than      Total
than 100   200 ha   500 ha    1000 ha    5000 ha   5000 ha
ha
DURRES
No. of schemes         -        -        -          1          -           1           2
aggregate area (ha)   -        -         -       700          -       8,800        9,580
FIER
No. of schemes         -        -         -         -          -           2           2
aggregate area (ha        -         -         -               -      14,815      14,815
KAVAJA
No. of schemes         -        -         -         1          -           1           2
aggregate area (ha)   -         -        -      1,000         -       8,990        9,990
KRUJE
No. of schemes         -        -        1          2          3           -           6
aggregate area (ha)   -         -     320       1,275     5,240                    6,835
LACI
No. of schemes         -        -        -          -          -           1           1
aggregate area (ha)   -        -         -          -                 8,000        8,000
LUSHNJE
No. of schemes         -        -        -          -          1           1           2
aggregate area (ha)   -        -         -         -      1,670      15,900       17,570
TIRANA
No. of schemes         -        3        -          1          2           -           6
aggregate area (ha)   -      390         -       770      5,536           -        6,696
TOTAL
No. of schemes         -        3        1          5          6           6          21
%                    -        14        5        24         29          29          100
aggregate area (ha)    -      390      320      3,745     12,446      56,585      73,486
%                    -         1        0         5         17          77          100



Annex 2                                -54-
Page 4 of 4
ANNEX 2.4: Drainage Schemes Selected for Rehabilitation
Drained Area per Scheme in Hectare (After Rehabilitation)
Less     100 to    200 to    500 to     1000 to    More than      Total
than 100   200 ha    500 ha    1000 ha    5000 ha    5000 ha
ha
DURRES
No. of schemes          -         -        -           -          2                        2
aggregate area (ha)          -         -               -      3,970            -       3,970
FIER
No. of schemes          -         -        I           -          -           3            4
aggregate area (ha    -         -       300          -           -      30,754       31,054
KAVAJA
No. of schemes          -         -        1          2           -            -           3
aggregate area (ha)    -         -      460       1,080          -            -        1,540
KRUJE
No. of schemes          -         -        1          2           2            -           5
aggregate area (ha)    -         -      380       1,400      2,410            -        4,190
LACI
No. of schemes          -         -        -           -          -           1             1
aggregate area (ha)    -         -         -          -          -       8,250         8,250
LUSHNJE
No. of schemes          -         -        -           -          -                         I
aggregate area (ha)    -         -         -          -          -      48,300       48,300
TIRANA
No. of schemes          -         -        -          1           1           -            2
aggregate area (ha)    -         -         -       800       1,200            -        2,000
TOTAL
No. of schemes          -         -        3          5           5           5           18
%                     -         -        17         28         28           28          100
aggregate area (ha)     -         -    1,140      3,280       7,580      87,304       99,304
%                     -         -         1          3          8           88          100



- 55 -                                                 Annex 3
Page 1 of 2
ALBANIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
IRRIGATION COMPONENT
UNDER THE CRICICAL IMPORTS PROJECT
Annex 3.1: Summary of Items Imported
Item                                    Unit       Amount            Contract Ref. No.        Contract
Value (US$)
Irrigation Pumps                       piece           100                 MOA 28              191,537
Spare Parts for Pumps              lump sum                    MOA 6,7,66,121,128,179        1,363,055
Pipes for Irrigation                     ton           200                 MOA 29              132,335
Steel Profiles                           ton            19                 MOA 27                7,572
Metallic Products                 lump sum                               MOA 120C              65,700
Electric Wires                           ton             8                 MOA 33              23,240
Electric Transformers                  piece           148              MOA 31A,B             543,731
Electrodes, Carbide                lump sum                          MOA 96C, IIIB             64,000
Mobile Workshops                       piece             7              MOA 43A,B             380,720
Motorcycles                            piece            78                 MOA 44              168,353
4WDs and Cars                          piece             6      MOA 51, 122C, 149A,B           126,810
Pick-up Vans                           piece            39                 MOA 45             995,810
Trucks (9 tons)                        piece            20                 MOA 46             972,028
Backhoe Excavators                     piece            15                MOA 130            1,310,000
Cleaning Machine                       piece             1                MOA 185              166,218
Battery Chargers                       piece            33                MOA 169              40,280
Water Law TA                         months              4                MOA 84A               49,750
WUA Legal Advisor TA                 months              3                MOA 59A               37,500
WUA Trainer TA                       months              5                 MOA 63              63,600
Irrigation Rehab. TA, Training     lump sum                         MOA 143,165,171            67,220
TOTAL IMPORTS, TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING                                                                     6,769,439



Annex 3.2:  Distribution of Items by Districts                                                                            |
Motorcycles IVans / Pick-    Cars   I  Trucks         Mobile  IMotorpumpsl Transformers Excavators   Steel Pipes I Profile Steel
No.       District                      ups                                Workshops                   I                                      I
-               -------number -                                                           tons -----
Berate                  3                                      1             I            5            10            -            30             3
2   Bulqize                1            1                        1                          -             1                          -             -
3   Delvinee               I            -           -            -            -             -             1            -             -             -
4   Devoll                2             1           -            I             -            4             6            1             -
5   Diber                 3             1                                                   -             1            -
6   Durres                3             1            -           1             -            5             3            1             -             -
7   Elbasan               5             2            -           1             1            10           14            -             13            1
8   Fier                  5             1                        I             1            7             7            1            39             3
9   Gramsh                 1            I                                     -             -             -            -             -             -
10   Gjirokaster           2            1            -           I             -            5             5
11   Has                   I                         1            -I                         -            3             -
12   Kavaje                3            1                        I             1            5             5             1             -             -
13   Kolonje               I            1                                      -             -            I             -            19             1
14   Korce                 3            1                        1             -            7             3             1             -             -
15   Kruje                 2            1            -           -             -            4             2             -
16   Kucove                2            1                        I             1            4             4             -
17   Kukes                 1            1                                      -             -            -             -
18   Laci                  2            1            -           1             -            4             1             -             -             -
19   Lezhe                 3            1                        I                          5             6             1             -             -O
20   Librazhd              I             I                                                   -            3             -            36             4
21   Lushnje               5            2            -            1            1             7            9             2            16             3
22   Malsi e Madhe         2             1                        I            -             4            4             -             -             -
23   Mallakaster           I             I                                                   -            2             -
24   Mat                   2             1           -            -            -             -            4             -
25   Mirdite               I             I                                                   -            3             -
26   Peqin                 I                                      -            -             3             1            -
27   Permet                1             1                                                   -            4             -
28   Pogradec              2            1                         I                          2             1            -             -
29   Puke                  1             1                                                   -             -            1
30   Sarande               2            1            -           1             -             4            4             -
31   Skrapar               I            I                                      -             -            2             1             -
32   Shkoder               4            2                        I             1             5            6             -             4             4
33   Tepelene              I            I            -           -             -             -            2             -             -             -
34   Tirana                4            1            -                         1             5            9             -            43             -
35   Tropoje               I            I            -           -             -             -            2             -             -
36   Vlore                 4            2            -           1             1             5            12            -
MoAF & ISDWW                 -             1           6            -            -             -             -            -             -             -
TOTAL                78           39            6          20            7!'          100          148!'         15            200            19
' Distribution of 2 workshops, 7 transformers, and 5 excavators to be determined.



ALBANIA
Irffation Rehablltatlon Project
Table 1: Expenditure Accounts
by Components (Base Costs)                                                                                   Physical
(USS)                                 Systern      Instutional    Policy    Implementation                 Contingencies
Rehabilitaton   Development   Support      Support         Total        %      Arnount
I. Investmnt Costs
A. Civil Works
Earthwoxks                          1,421,320            0           0              0       1,421,320    10.0     142,132
Canal Cleaning                      6,854,960            0           0              0       6,854,960    10.0    685,496               I
Canal Lining                        4,664,800            0           0              0       4,664,800    10.0    466,480
Structures & Gates                  2,436,910            0           0              0       2,436,910    10.0    243,691                >
Culverts8Roads                      4,129,620            0           0              0       4,129,620    10.0    412,962
Buildings                                  0        140,000          0              0        140,000    10.0      14,000                0
Design & Supervision                 809,920             0           0              0        809.920    10.0      80,992      ,, ,w
On-Farm Repairs                     2,098,650            0           0              0       2,098,650    10.0    209,865
Subtotal Civil Works                 22,416,180       140,000          0              0      22,556,180    10.0   2,255,618
B. Equipment                                                                                                                       ,.'
Pumping Equipment                   8,861,850            0           0              0       8,861,850    5.0     443,093        42.
Maintenance Machinery                      0       630,000           0              0        630,000     5.0      31,500         a
Laboratory Equipmnent                      0        71,000           0              0         71,000     5.0       3,550      -
Vehick1    0                                        496,000          0         75,000        571,000     5.0      28,550
Office EquIprnent                          0       955,800           0         36,000        991,800     5.0      49,590      (I .f 
Subtotal Equipffent                   8,861,850     2,152,800          0         111,000     11,125,650    5.0     556,283      0        -3
C. TA, Training & Studies C
Technical Assistarnce                 160,000     1,740,400          0        606,000       2,506,400    5.0      125,320     13 g
Training                               42,000       279,000          0          8,000        329,000     5.0      16,450
Studies                                    0             0     320,000              0        320,000     5.0      16,000
Subtotal TA, Training & Studies         202,000     2,019,400    320,000        614,000       3,155,400    5.0     157,770
Total lnvestnent Costs                 31,480,030     4,312,200    320,000        725,000      36,837,230    8.1   2,969,671
11. Recurrent Costs
Incremental Salaries                         0       800,000           0         60,000        860,000     5.0      43,000
Incr. Vehicle Operating Cost                 0       400,000          0          25,000        425,000     5.0      21,250
Total Recurrent Costs                          0      1,200,000         0          85,000       1,285,000    5.0      64,250
Total BASELINE COSTS                    31,480,030    5,512,200     320,000        810,000     38,122,230    8.0   3,033,921
Physical Contingencies                2,694,811      282,610      16,000         40,500       3,033,921      -          0
Price Contingencies                   2,661,132      227,996      10,047         22,102       2,921,277    7.6     221,544
Total PROJECT COSTS                     36,835,972    6,022,806     346,047        872,602     44,077,428    7.4   3,255,465
Taxes                                        0             0           0             0              0        -          0
Foreign Exchange                     22,765,061     4,136,240    276,838        659,713      27,837,851    6.7   1,870,177                            12
Ri.



o Q
ALBANIA
Irrigaon Rehabiliton Project
Table 2: Expenditure Accounts                                                                                          %     %Totl
Project Cost Suvnary                               (Lek)                                      (USS)                  Foreign   Base
Local         Foreign          Total         Local       Foreign       Total    Exchange Costs
L Invesnnt Costs
A. Civil Works
EarTworics                      85,279,200      56,852,800     142,132,000     852,792     568,528     1,421,320     40       4
Canal Cleaning                 205,648,800     479,847,200     685,496,000   2,056,488    4,798,472    6,854,960     70       18
Canal Uning                    279,888,000     186,592,000     466,480,000   2,798,880    1,865,920    4,664,800     40       12
Structures& Gates              146,214,600      97,476,400     243,691,000   1,462,146     974,764    2,436,910      40       6
Culverts& Roads                247,777,200     165,184,800     412,962,000   2,477,772    1,651,848    4,129,620     40      11
Buildings                        9,800,000       4,200,000      14,000,000      98,000      42,000      140,000      30        -
Design & Supervision            72,892,800       8,099,200      80,992,000     728,928      80,992      809,920      10       2
On-Farm Repairs                146,905,500      62,959,500     209,865,000   1,469,055     629,595     2,098,650     30       6
SubtotalCivil Works             1,194,406,100    1,061,211,900    2,255,618,000    11,944,061    10,612,119    22,556,180  47  59
B. Equipment
Pumping Equipment                       0      886,185,000     886,185,000          0     8,861,850    8,861,850     100     23
Maintenance Machinery                   0       63,000,000      63,000,000          0      630,000      630,000      100       2             so
Laboratory Equipment                    0        7,100,000      7,100,000           0       71,000       71,000      100       -
Vehicles                                0       57,100,000      57,100,000          0       571,000     571,000      100       1
Ofce Equipment                          0       99,180,000      99,180,000          0       991,800     991,800      100       3
SubtotalEquipment                         0    1,112,565,000    1,112,565,000         0    11,125,650    11,125,650   100       29
C. TA, Training & Studies
Technical Assistance            70,936,000     179,704,000     250,640,000     709,360    1,797,040    2,506,400      72       7
Training                         6,580,000      26,320,000      32,900,000      65,800      263,200     329,000      80        1
Studies                          6,400,000      25,600,000      32,000,000      64,000      256,000     320,000      80        1
Subtotal TA, Training & Studies   83,916,000     231,624,000     315,540,000     839,160    2,316,240    3,155,400     73        8
Total Investment Costs            1,278,322,100    2,405,400,900    3,683,723,000    12,783,221    24,054,009    36,837,230  65  97
II. Recurrent Costs
Incremental Salaries              86,000,000             0       86,000,000      860,000          0       860,000        -      2
Incr. Vehicle Operating Cost      21,250,000      21,250,000     42,500,000      212,500     212,500      425,000      50        1
Total Recurrent Costs              107,250,000      21,250,000     128,500,000   1,072,500     212,500     1,285,000     17       3
Total BASELINE COSTS              1,385,572,100    2,426,650,900    3,812,223,000    13,855,721    24,266,509    38,122,230  64  100
Physical Contingencies           128,998,910     174,393,140     303,392,050   1,289,989    1,743,931    3,033,921     57       8
Price Contingencies              663,580,440    1,111,291,081  1,774,871,520   1,093,866    1,827,411    2,921,277     63       8
Total PROJECT COSTS               2,178,151,450    3,712,335,121  5,890,486,570    16,239,576    27,837,851    44,077,428  63    116



ALBANIA
Irigation RWabMattion Project
Table 3: Components                                                                                                   %      % Total
Project Cost Sunnary                               (Lek)                                     (USS)                  Foreign   Base
Local         Foreign          Total         Local       Foreign       Total    Exchange  Costs
System Rehabilitation          1,188,646,100    1,959,356,900    3,148,003,000    11.886,461    19,593,569    31,480,030  62   83
institutional Development        170,996,000    380,224,000     551,220,000   1,709,960    3,802,240    5,512,200      69      14
Policy Support                    6,400,000      25,600,000     32,000,000       64,000      256,000     320,000       80       1
Implemnentation Support           19,530,000     61,470,000     81,000,000      195,300      614,700     810,000       76       2
Total BASEUNE COSTS               1,385,572,100    2,426,650,900    3,812,223,000    13,855,721    24,266,509    38,122,230  64  100
Physical Contingencies           128,998,910    174,393,140     303,392,050   1,289,989    1,743,931    3,033,921      57       8
Price Contingencies             663,580,440    1,111,291,081  1,774,871,520   1,093,866    1,827,411    2,921,277      63       8              '
Total PROJECT COSTS               2,178.151,450    3,712,335,121    5,890,486,570    16,239,576    27,837,851    44,077,428  63  116
riQ
CD
0
P-*   C
Ix



a .
o v~
ALBANIA
Irrigation Rehabilitatbn Protet
Table 4: System RehabliOtation
Detailed Costs                                                         Base Cost (US$)
1994        1996        1996        1997        1998        1999        Total
1. Investbent Costs
A. LACI District
1. Irrigation
Canal Cleaning                     33,150     198,898     198,898      198,898     132,598     66,299       828,740
Canal Lining                        9,649      57,893      57,893      57,893      38,595       19,298      241,220
Structures & Gates                 26,392     158,352     158,352     158,352      105,568     52,784       659,800
Culverts& Roads                    16,676     100,058     100,058     100,058      66,706       33,353      416,910
Pumping Equipment                   8,607      51,641      51,641      51,641      34,427       17,214      215,170
Subtotal Irrigation                  94,474     566,842     566,842     566,842      377,894     188,947    2,361,840
2. Drainage
Earthworks                             0           0           0            0           0           0            0
Structures & Gates                     0       12,440      54,425      54,425      34,210           0       155,500
Culverts& Roads                        0       41,170     180,117     180,117      113,216          0       514,620
Pumping Equipment                      0      178,390     780,458     780,458     490,574           0     2,229,880
Subtotal Drainage                        0      232,000    1,015,000    1,015,000   638,000           0     2,900,000
3. Design & Supervision              50,688      50,688      25,344           0           0           0       126,720
Subtotal LACI District                145,162     849,530    1,607,186    1,581,842    1,015,894  188,947     5,388,560                 o
B. KRUJE District
1. Irrigation
Canal Cleaning                     13,398      80,386      80,386      80,386      53,590      26,795       334,940
Canal Lining                       14,295      85,769      85,769      85,769      57,179      28,590       357,370
Structures & Gates                  8,816      52,896      52,896      52,896      35,264       17,632      220,400
Culverts& Roads                    19,068     114,406     114,406     114,406      76,270      38,135       476,690
Pumping Equipment                  17,501     105,005     105,005     105,005      70,003      35,002       437,520
Subtotal Irrigation                  73,077     438,461     438,461     438,461     292,307     146,154     1,826,920
2. Drainage
Earthworks                             0       38,789     169,701     169,701     106,669           0       484,860
Structures & Gates                     0         587        2,569       2,569       1,615           0         7,340
Culverts& Roads                        0        4,424      19,355      19,355      12,166           0        55,300
Pumping Equipment                      0           0           0            0           0           0            0
Subtotal Drainage                        0       43,800     191,625     191,625     120,450           0       547,500
3. Design & Supervision              39,600      39,600          0            0           0           0        79,200
Subtotal KRUJE District               112,677     521,861     630,086     630,086     412,757      146,154    2,453,620
C. TIRANA District
1. Irrigation
Canal Cleaning                     12,366      74,194      74,194      74,194      49,462      24,731       309,140
Canal Lining                       36,538     219,230     219,230     219,230     146,154      73,077       913,460
Structures & Gates                  7,795      46,771      46,771      46,771      31,181      15,590       194,880
Culverts & Roads                   12,180      73,080      73,080      73,080      48,720      24,360       304,500
Pumping Equipment                   4,298      25,786      25,786      25,786      17,190       8,595       107,440
Subtotal Irrigation                  73,177     439,061     439,061     439,061     292,707      146,354    1,829,420



ALBANIA
Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
Table 4: System Rehabilitation
Detailed Costs (continued)                                             Base Cost (US$)
1994        1995        1996        1997        1998        1999         Total
2. Drainage
Earthworks                             0       13,560      59,325      59,325      37,290           0       169,500
Structures& Gates                      0           0           0            0           0           0            0
Culverts & Roads                       0        2,440      10,675      10,675       6,710           0        30,500
Pumping Equipment                      0           0           0            0           0           0            0
Subtotal Drainage                        0       16,000      70,000      70,000      44,000           0       200,000
3. Design & Supervision              38,180      38,180          0            0           0           0        76,360
Subtotal TIRANA District              111,357     493,241     509,061     509,061     336,707      146,354    2,105,780
D. DURRES District
1. Irrigation
Canal Cleaning                     20,909     125,455     125,455     125,455      83,637      41,818       522,730
Canal Lining                       40,632     243,794     243,794     243,794     162,530      81,265     1,015,810
Structures & Gates                  2,636      15,816      15,816      15,816      10,544       5,272        65,900
Culverts & Roads                   35,593     213,557     213,557     213,557     142,371      71,186       889,820
Pumping Equipment                  15,101      90,607      90,607      90,607      60,405      30,202       377,530
Subtotal Irrigation                 114,872     689,230     689,230     689,230     459,486     229,743     2,871,790
2. Drainage
Earthworks                             0        9,740      42,613      42,613      26,785           0       121,750
Structures & Gates                     0          10          46           46          29           0          130
Culverts & Roads                       0       13,270      58,058      58,058      36,494           0       165,880
Pumping Equipment                      0       64,979     284,284     284,284     178,693           0      812,240
Subtotal Drainage                        0       88,000     385,000     385,000     242,000           0     1100,000
3. Design& Supervision               46,848      46,848      23,424          0            0           0       117,120
Subtotal DURRES District              161,720     824,078    1,097,654    1,074,230   701,486     229,743     4,088,910
E. KAVAJA District
1. Irrigation
Canal Cleaning                     42,672     256,032     256,032     256,032     170,688      85,344     1,066,800
Canal Uning                        29,973     179,839     179,839     179,839     119,893      59,946       749,330
Structures& Gates                   2,705      16,231      16,231      16,231      10,821       5,410        67,630
Culverts & Roads                   25,502     153,010     153,010     153,010     102,006      51,003       637,540
Pumping Equipment                  23,723     142,337     142,337     142,337      94,891      47,446      593,070
Subtotal Irrigation                 124,575     747,449     747,449     747,449     498,299     249,150     3,114,370
2. Drainage
Earthworks                             0       26,328     115,185     115,185      72,402           0      329,100
Structures & Gates                     0         378        1,656       1,656       1,041           0        4,730
Culverts & Roads                      .0       14,194      62,101      62,101      39,035           0       177,430
Pumping Equipment                      0           0           0           0            0           0            0
Subtotal Drainage                        0       40,901     178,941     178,941     112,477           0      511,260
3. Design & Supervision              49,344      49,344      24,672           0           0           0       123,360              (IQ
Subtotal KAVAJA District              173,919     837,694     951,062     926,390     610,776     249,150     3,748,990
O X



ALBANIA                                                                                                                              0
Irriaion Rehabilitation Projet 
Table 4: System Rehabilitation
Detiled Costs (continued)                                            Base Cost (US$)
1994       1996        1996        1997        1998       19fl         Total
F. LUSHNJE District
1.Irriation
Canal Cleaning                    71,240     427,438    427,438     427,438     284,958     142.479    1,780,990
Canal Uning                       43,544     261,266     261,266     261,266    174,178      87,089    1.088,610
Structures & Gates                 3,289      19,733      19,733      19,733     13,155       6,578       82,220
Culverts& Roads                    5,017      30,101     30,101      30,101      20,067      10,034      125,420
Pumping Equipment                 15,084      90,506     90,506      90,506      60,338      30,169      377,110
Subtotal rrigatIon                 138,174     829,044    829,044     829,044     552,696     276,348    3,454,350
2. Drainage
Earthworks                            0       17,685     77,371      77,371      48,633          0       221,060
Structures & Gates                    0       11,070      48,433     48,433      30,444          0       138,380
Culverts a Roads                      0        2,640      11,550      11,550      7,260          0        33,000
Pumping Equipment                     0       80,605    352,646     352,646     221,663          0     1.007,560
Subtotal Drainage                       0      112,000    490,000     490,000     308,000          0     1,400,000
3. Design & Supervislon             58,512      58,512     29,256           0          0           0       146,280
Subtotal LUSHNJE District            196,686    999,556    1,348,300    1,319,044   860,696     276,348    5,000,630
G. FIER District
1. Irrigation
Canal Cleaning                    80,465     482,789    482,789     482,789     321,859     160,930    2,011,620
Canal Uning                       11,960      71,760     71,760      71,760      47,840      23,920      299,000
Structures & Gates                17,600     105,600     105,600     105,600     70,400      35,200      440,000
Culverts & Roads                   1,640       9,840      9,840       9,840       6,560       3,280       41.000
Pumping Equipment                 66,069     396,413    396,413     396,413     264,275     132,138    1,651,720
Subtotal Irrigation                177,734    1,066,402    1,066,402    1,066,402  710,934    355,467    4,443,340
2. Drainage
Earthworks                            0        7,604     33,268      33,268      20,911          0        95,050
Structures& Gates                     0           0           0           0          0           0            0
Culverts & Roads                      0       20,881     91,354      91,354      57,422          0       261,010
Pumping Equipment                     0       84,209    368,414     368,414     231,574          0     1,052,610
Subtotal Drainage                       0      112,694    493,035     493,035     309,907          0     1,408,670
3. Design & Supervision             56,352      56,352     28,176          0           0           0       140,880
Subtotal FIER Distrct                234,086    1,235,447    1,587,612    1,559,436    1,020,842  355,467    5,992,890
H. Canal Control Pilot Scheme
Structures and Gates                    0      140,000    260,000          0           0           0       400,000
Technical Assistance                16,000      48,000     48,000      48,000          0           0       160,000
Training                                0           0      21,000      21,000          0           0        42,000
Subtotal Canal Control Pilot Schemne  16,000     188,000    329,000      69,000          0           0       602,000
I. Farmner Investrents
On-Farm Repairs                         0      419,730    419,730     419,730     419,730     419,730    2,098,650
Total Cost System Rehabilitation      1,151,605    6,369,136    8,479,690    8,088,818    5,378,889    2,011,892    31,480,030



ALBANIA
Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
Table 5: Institutional Development
Detailed Costs                                                          Base Cost (US$)
1994       1995         1996       1997         1998       1999       Total
1. Investment Costs
A. System O&M
1. Buildings                          56,000      84,000          0           0           0          0      140,000
2. Maintenance Machinery             252,000     378,000          0            0          0           0     630,000
3. Vehides                           126,000     189,000          0           0           0          0      315,000
4. Office Equipment                  299,600     449,400          0            0          0           0     749,000
5. Technical Assistance              208,000     208,000     104,000          0           0          0      520,000
6. Training                           26,000      39,000          0            0          0           0      65,000
Subtotal System O&M                    967,600    1,347,400    104,000          0           0          0    2,419,000
B. Design Capacity
1. Vehicles for ISDWW                 34,500      34,500          0           0           0          0       69,000
2. Office Equipment (ISDWW)           12,900      12,900          0            0           0          0      25,800
3. Offie Equipment (WEs)              52,500      52,500          0            0           0          0     105,000
4. Technical Assistance               30,000      30,000           0           0           0          0      60,000
5. Training (ISDWW & WEs)             67,500      67,500          0            0           0          0     135,000
Subtotal Design Capacity               197,400     197,400          0           0           0          0      394,800
C. WUA Establishmnent
1. Vehicles                           28,175      24,150      16,100       4,025       4,025      4,025      80,500
2. Office Equipment                   17,150      14,700       9,800       2,450       2,450      2,450      49,000
3. Technical Assistance              364,140     260,100     156,060     104,040     104,040     52,020    1,040,400
4. Training                            7,000       7,000       6,000           0           0          0      20,000
Subtotal WUA Establishment             416,465     305,950     187,960     110,515     110,515     58,495    1,189,900
D. On-Farm Water Managemwnt
1. Laboratory Equipment               17,750      17,750      17,750      17,750          0          0       71,000
2. Vehicles                            7,875       7,875       7,875       7,875          0           0      31,500
3. Office Equipment                    6,750       6,750       6,750       6,750           0          0      27,000
4. Technical Assistance               30,000      30,00.0     30,000      30,000          0           0     120,000
5. TraIning                           14,750      14,750      14,750      14,750          0           0      59,000
Subtotal On-Farm Water Managenent       T                       7125  77;125  T7,125  77,125  0        0      308,500
Totl Investnent Costs                   1,658,590    1,927,875   369,085     187,640     110,515     58,495    4,312,200
II. Recurent Costs
A. lncrementa Salaries                 200,000     200,000     200,000     200,000          0          0      800,000
B. lncr. Vehile Operatng Cost          100,000     100,000     100,000     100,000          0          0      400000
Tobl Recurrent Costs                     W000        300,000     300,000     300,000          0          0    1,200 000
Tota Cost InstIona DevlDopmert          1,958,590    2,227,875    669,085     487,640     110,515     58,495    5,512,200



00 
o *>~
I- 
ALBANIA
Irrgatlon Rehablitation Project
Table 6: Policy Support
Detailed Costs                                                    Base Cost (USS)
1994        1995       1996        1997       1998       1999       Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Irrigation Code                  60,000          0           0          0          0          0      60,000
B. Small System Tumover                 0       60,000          0          0          0          0      60,000
C. WUA Consolidation                    0       60,000          0          0          0          0      60,000
D. Water Charges                        0      100,000         0           0          0          0      100,000
E. Private Pumping Development      40,000          0          0           0          0          0      40,000
Total Cost Policy Support            100,000     220,000          0          0          0          0      320,000
ON
ALBANIA
Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
Table 7: Implementation Support
Detailed Costs                                                    Base Cost (USS)
1994        1995        1996       1997       1998       1999       Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Vehicles                         75,000          0           0          0          0          0      75,000
B. Office Equipment                 28,800       3,600      3,600          0          0          0      36,000
C. Technical Assistance            363,600     242,400         0           0          0          0     606,000
D. Training                         4,000        4,000         0           0          0          0       8,000
Total Investment Costs               471,400     250,000      3,600          0          0          0     725,000
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Incremental Salaries             12,000      12,000     12,000     12,000     12,000          0      60,000
B. Incr. Vehicle Operating Cost     5,000        5,000      5,000      5,000      5,000          0      25,000
Total Recurrent Costs                 17,000      17,000     17,000     17,000     17,000          0      85,000
Total Cost Implementation Support    488,400     267,000      20,600     17,000     17,000         0      810,000



- 65 -                                                    Annex 4
Page 9 of 14
Annex 4.2: Cost of Irrigation Rehabilitation (by District and Sub-Project)
Cost in (U5s)                             Project Area (in ha)
District, Sub-                                                                                           Cost per ha
Project &    Civil Works     Pmping        Total Cost   Improved   Incremen-   Total Area   Benefit          Area
Code                  | Eqdpent          of irrigation   Area      tad Area                  Area       (USSM
Rehabilitation
Durres
DRU-2            2,118,850         377,430      2,496,280       1,950      6,930         8,880    7,515          330
DRU-5             375,410                         375,410        300         400          700       490          770
Total       2,494,260          377,430      2,871,690      2,250       7,330        9,580    8,005           360
87               13           100
Fier
FRU-1            2,005,300         668,850      2,674,150       6,015       3,500        9,515    5,305          500
FRU-2             786,320          982,870      1,769,190       3,200      2,100         5,300    3,060          580
Total       2,791,620         1,651,720     4,443,340      9,215       5,600        14,815    8,365          530
%                 63                37           100
Kavaja
KJU-1            2,064,670         551,490      2,616,160       6,030      2,960         8,990    4,769           550
KJU-2             456,630           41,580        498,210        400         600         1,000      720           690
Total       2,521,300          593,070      3,114,370      6,430       3,560         9,990    5,489          570
%                 81           ,   19            100
Kruje
KRU-1             276,590           35,570        312,160       1,028        357         1,385      665           470
KRU-2              198,200                        198,200        718          42          760       257           770
KRU-3              65,380  *                       65,380        243          77          320       150           440
KRU-4             123,990           155,370       279,360        392         633         1,025      751          370
KRU-6             635,840          215,820        851,660       1,860        970         2,830    1,528
KRU-7              89,400           30,760        120,160        408         107          515       229           520
Total        1,389,400         437,520      1,826,920      4,649       2,186         6,835    3,581          510
%                 76                24           100
Laci
LAU-I            2,146,670         215,170      2,361,840       6,000      2.000         8,000    3,800           620
%                 91
Lushnje
LUU-1            2,839,220         240,780      3,080,000      10,800       5,100       15,900    8,340           370
LUU-3             238,020           136,330       374,350        970         700         1,670      991          380
Total       3,077,240          377,110      3,454,350      11,770      5,800        17,570    9,331           370
S%                89                11           100
Tirana
TRU-1             621,010                         621,014       2,250        750         3,000    1,425           440
TRU-6             653,700           48,970        702,666       1,830        706         2,536    1,255           560
TRU-20            287,730           27,860        315,590        515         255          770       409           770
TRU-39             54,630                          54,630         110         60           170       93
TRU-47             66,130                          66,131          0         120           120      120          -550
TRU-48             38,780           30,710         69,486          0         100           100      100           690
Total        1,721,980         107,540      1,829,516       4,705       1,991        6,696    3,402           540
94                6           100
Grad Total      16,142,470        3,759,560    19,902,030      45,019      28,467       73,486   41,973           470
Grand                  81               19            100
o bte: Benefit area=30% improved area + 100% incremental area



Annex 4                                                         - 66 -
Page 10 of 14
Annex 4.3: Cost of Drainage Rehabilitation (by District and Sub-Project)
Cost in (USS)                I             Project Area (in ha)
District, Sub- ______               _______I________________                                                 Cost per ha
Project &    Civil Works  P_ uping           Total Cost   Improved  Incremen-   Total Area   Benefit  Benerit Area
Code                       Equipment       of Drainage      Area      tal Area                  Area        (U$)
Rehabilltation
Durres
DRK-1               145,410          304,590        450,000       1,200         370         1,570      730            620
DRK4                142,350          507,650        650,000       2,000         400         2,400      1000           650
Total           287,760          812,240       1,100,000      3,200       3,970         3,970     1,730           640
%                   26                74            100
Fier
FRK-1                96340           303,060        399,400       8,372       1,500         9,872     4,012           100
FRK-2               87,520           162,460        249,980       6,200        1000         7,200     2,860            90
FRK-3               77,150           328,850        406,000      11,682        2000        13,682     5,505            70
FRK4                95,050           258,240        353,290        250           50           300       125         2,830
Total           356.060         1,052,600      1,408,670     26,504       4,550        31,054    12,501           110
%                   25                75            100
Kavaja
KJK-1               112,100                          112,100       410           50           460       173           650
KJK-2               180,000                          180,000       450          130           580      265            680
KJK-3              219,160                          219,160        350          150           500      255            860
Total           511,260                0         511,260      1,210         330         1,540       693           750
%                  100                              100
Kruje
KRK-1              197,180                           197,180      1,100         285         1,385      615            320
KRK-2               92,810                           92,810        900                        900      270            340
KRK-3               82,200                           82,200        330           50           380       149           550
KRK-4               87,400                           87,400        825          200         1,025      448            200
KRK-5               87,910                           87,910        500                        500      150            590
Total           547,500                          547,500      3,655         535         4,190     1,632           340
%                  100                 0            100
Laci
LAK-1              670,120         2,229,880       2,900,000      6,600       1,650         8,250     3,630           800
%                   23                77            100
Lushnje
LUK-1/5            392,440          1,007,560      1,400,000     38,900       9,400        48,300    21,070            70
%                   28                72            100
Tirana
TRK-1               100,000                          100,000       500          300           800      450            220
TRK-6               100,000                          100,000       800          400         1,200      640            160
Total           200,000                0         200,000      1,300         700         2,000     1,090           180
%                  100                 0            100
Grand Total       2,965,140        5,1OZ,290       8,067,430    81,369       17,935        99,304    42,346           190
%                   37                63            100
N( te: Benefit area=30 % improved area + 100 % incremental area



- 67 -                                                   Annex 4
Page 11 of 14
Annex 4.4: Unit Costs of Rehabilitation Works
TEM                  |  Unit       Tirana          Laci          Kruje        Durres
Cost (lek)    Cost (lek)    Cost (lek)    Cost (lek)
Mass concrete  al                        m3         4,900         5,526          5,625         7,910
Reinforced concrete                      m3        14,600         15,705        15,581        17,610
(100 kg steel/m') "
Cement h/                               ton         4,800         4,500          4,350         4,800
Sand at site                             m3         1,910         2,320         2,520          4,136
Gravel at site                           m3         1,550         1,902          2,080         3,516
Reinforcement steel (< 10 mm) h'l'      ton        98,648        98,648         98,648        98,648
Excavation, soft ground 0-3 m
l  by hand                               m3          481            481          481            481
l  by machine                            m3            56            56           56              56
Excavation, soft ground 3-6 m
l  by hand                               m3           655           655          655             655
l  by machine                            m3           105           105           105           105
Excavation, rock, 0-3 m, hand            m3          962            962          962            962
Excavation, rock, 3-6 m, hand            m3         1,311         1,311          1,311         1,311
Construction timber t/                   m3        14,744         14,744        14,744        14,744
High quality timber h'                   m3        20,775         20,775        20,775        20,775
Fabricated steel gates, with slides,
spindle and key: b/
. 0.5 m x 0.6 m                         item        7,104        7,104          7,104         7,104
.0.6 m x 0.8 m                         item        8,042        8,042          8,042         8,042
.0.8 m  x 1.25 m                        item       14,073        14,073        14,073        14,073
| 1.25 m x 1.5 m                        item       37,395       37,395         37,395        37,395
Fabricated steel pipes: hl,l
| below 200 mm                          ton       138,900       140,907       139,597        138,107
| above 200 mm                          ton       124,500       126,552       125,152        123,752
Fabricated steel, miscellaneous at      ton       105,900      105,081        105,081        105,089
Double skin brick work (25 cm)
Ist class bricks, mortar rendered       m2           527           527           527           527
Labor
unskilled                             hour           40           40             40            55
l  skilled                              hour          70           70             70            90
Transport                              ton/km          28           28            28            28
Av. distance ofrice to site             km             20           30            20            20
Av. distance borrow area to site        km             20           35            40            65



Annex 4                                                    - 68 -
Page 12 of 14
Annex 4.4: Unit Costs of Rehabilitation Works (continued)
ITEM                     Unit       Kavaje        Lusbnue          Fier          Average
|         | Cost (lek)     Cost (lek)     Cost (lek)      Cost (lek)
Mass concrete '                            m3         6,572         6,468          6,639           6,234
Reinforced concrete                        m3        16,272         15,968         16,150         15,983
(100 kg steel/m3) !'
Cement bg                                 ton         5,100         8,100          8.240           5,699
Sand at site                               m3         3,145         3,162          3,242           2,919
Gravel at site                            mr3         2,636         2.650          2.722           2,437
Reinforcement steel (< 10 mm) t'Y'        ton        98,648         99,896        100,406         99,077
Excavation, soft ground 0-3 m
. by hand                                  m3          481            481            481            481
. by machine                               m3           56             56             56              56
Excavation, soft ground 3-6 m
. by hand                                  m'          655            655            655            655
. by machine                               m3           105           105            105             105
Excavation, rock, 0-3 m, hand              m3          962            962            962             962
Excavation, rock, 3-6 m, hand              m 3        1,311          1,311          1,311          1,311
Construction timber h'                     m3         14,744        14,900         15,000          14,802
High quality timber h'                     m 3       20,775         21,000         21,100         20,853
Fabricated steel gates, with slides,
spindle and key: h'
. 0.5 m x 0.6 m                           item        7,104         7,104          7,104           7,104
. 0.6 m x 0.8 m                           item        8,042         8,042          8,042           8,042
. 0.8 m x 1.25 m                          item       14,073         14.073         14,073         14,073
. 1.25 m x 1.5 m                          item       37,395         37,395        37,395          37,395
Fabricated steel pipes: t's'
. below 200 mm                            ton        138,107       134,900        135,600        138,004
. above 200 mm                            ton        123,752       120,900        121,500        123,730
Fabricated steel, miscellaneous b'        ton        105,089       102,700        103,300        104,606
Double skin brick work (25 cm)
1st class bricks, mortar rendered          m2           527           515           515             524
Labor
. unskilled                               hour           35            40            40              41
. skilled                                 hour           60            70             70              71
Transport                                ton/km          28           - 28            28              28
Av. distance office to site               km             20            35             30
Av. distance borrow area to site          km             45            56             58
' Concrete 1590 kg/cm2. For RCC add 10 kg steel per m3.
h/ Delivered to district WE store.
CIF to Durres port plus transport.



- 69 -                                                 Annex 4
Page 13 of 14
Annex 4.5: Cost of Equipment for Institutional Development
Institutional Development   Unit           ISDWW               Water                soil          Total Cost
Sub-Component and Item      Cost                                Enterprises          Institute
(US$)    No.   Cost (US$)   No.   Cost (US$)   No.   Cost (US$)         (US$)
SYSTEM OPERATION &
MAINTENANCE
Buildings (lump sum)         20,000                        7        140,000                           140,000
Maintenance Machinery
Excavators (0.5 cub.m.)   100,000                      4        400,000                           400,000
Excavators (0.3 cub.m.)    30,000                      3         90,000                            90,000
Cement Mixers            10,000                        7         70,000                            70,000
Workshop Equipment       10,000                        7         70,000                            70,000
Vehicles
Vans (1-2 ton)           20,000                        7        140,000                           140,000
4WD Cars                 25,000                        7        175,000                           175,000
Office Equipment
Data Processing           7,000                        7         49,000                            49,000
Radio Communication     100,000                        7        700,000                           700,000
SUB-TOTAL                                                          1,834,000                         1,834,000
DESIGN CAPACITY
Vehicles
Sedan Cars               11,500    6         69,000                                                69,000
Office Equipment
Survey Equipment         25,800   l.s.       25,800                                                25,800
Data Processing           7,000                        7         49,000                            49,000
Materials & Supplies      8,000                        7         56,000                            56,000
SUB-TOTAL                                        94,800             105,000                           199,800
WUA ESTABLISHMENT
Vehicles (for WUA Units)
Sedan Cars               11,500                        7         80,500                            80,500
Office Equipment
Data Processing           7,000                        7         49,000                            49,000
SUB-TOTAL                                                           129,500                           129,500
ON-FARM WATER
MANAGEMENT
Laboratory Equipment
Scientific Equipment              l.s.        1,000                        l.s.       50,000       51,000
Irrigation Equipment                                                       l.s.       20,000       20,000
Vehicles
Van                      20,000                                             1         20,000       20,000
Sedan Car                11,500                                             1          11,500      11,500
Office Equipment
Data Processing           7,000    1          7,000                         2          14,000      21,000
Materials & Supplies              l.s.        1,000                        l.s.         5,000       6,000
SUB-TOTAL                                         9,000                                   120,500      129,500
TOTAL COST (CIF)                                103,800           2,068,500               120,500    2,292,800



Annex 4                                       - 70 -
Page 14 of 14
Annex 4.6: Cost of Equipment for Implementation Support
Item               Unit Cost  No. Total Cost
(US$)         (US$)
PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT
Vehicles
4WD Cars                      25,000    3        75,000
Office Equipment
Data Processing               7,000     3        21,000
Miscellaneous (copier, fax,  lump sum            15,000
etc.)
TOTAL                                           111,000



ALBANIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
ANNEX 5.1: Summary of Technical Assistance Program
PROJECr                                     DESI)    rIIoN OF TECHNICAL AssLsTANCE,                                      Time-frame,          Total
COMPONENT /                                              TRANNG AND STUDIES                                              Duration & Unit         Cost
SUB-COMPONENT                                                                                                                    Cost             (US$)
(I)  SYSTEM
REHABIflrATioN
Canal Flow Control  (a) Technical Assistance: Flow Control                                                             July 1994 - Dec. 1996    160,000
Demonstration           Assist in design, construction and operation of a pilot flow control scheme by:                8 m/m @ US$ 20,000
Scheme                  - defining the proposed control method and selecting the demonstration project area;
- making recommendations for relevant civil works, preparing designs and technical specifications of
control equipment, and reviewing bid evaluation report;
- supervising system instaliation;
- assisting in operation start-up including preparing operation manual, conducting training program for                             -
canal operators;
- implementing periodic evaluation of system performance over one year.
(b) Training: Flow Control                                                                        July 1996 - June 1997   42,000
- I training session with expatriate trainer for local specialists                              US$ 7,000/session
- one study tour abroad, 3 weeks duration (e.g., to Morocco, Turkey, France), 10 participants  US$ 3,500/participant
SUB-TOTAL                SYSTEM REHABILITATioN                                                                                                      202,000
- rn



o LA
PROJECT                                     DESCRIPmION OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE,                                        Time-frame,           Total
COMPONENT I                                              TRAINNG AND S imES                                              Duration & Unit         Cost
SU11B-COMPONENT                                                                                                                  Cost             (USS)
(11)  INsTrvriroNAL
DEVELOPMENT
I    Improvement of      (a) Technical Assistance: Water Distribution                                                      July 1994 - Dec. 1995    120,000
System Operation        Improve operational procedures for water delivery and water charges billing and collection through:  6 m/m @ US$ 20,000
&  Maintenance         - evaluation of current operation procedures in the project districts;
- proposals for improved operating procedures;
(Beneficiary:          - design of forms and manuals for two selected districts and provision of hand-on assistance at start-up;
Water Enterprises)     - periodic monitoring of performance.
(b) Training: Water Distribution                                                                   March - June 1995       7,000
- I training session with expatriate trainer                                                     USS 7,000/session
(c) Technical Assistance: Subsurface Drainage                                                     Oct. 1994-March 1995    40,000
Improve maintenance of sub-surface drains through:                                             2 m/m @ US$20,000
- identification of adequate equipment and related operational procedures;
- preparation of technical specifications of selected equipment;
- monitoring and evaluation of improved drain maintenance activities.
(d) Technical Assistance: Maintenance of Pumping EquiDmenr                                        Oct. 1994 - Dec. 1996    180,000
Introduce computer-assisted methods for maintenance of pumping equipment through:              9 rn/m @ US$20,000
- preparation of detailed inventory of existing equipment in the seven districts;
- installation of a computerized system in two selected districts, including start-up assistance;
- periodic performance evaluation.
(e) Training: Maintenance of Pumpiny Equipment                                                       Jan. - July 1995      37,000
- 1 training session with expatriate trainer                                                     US$ 7,000/session
- one study tour abroad, 15 participants                                                       US$ 2,000/participant
(f) Technical Assistance: Cost Accounting                                                         July 1994 - June 1995    180,000
Assist in improving cost accounting techniques used by Water Enterprises in the project area for O&M  9 m/m @ US$ 20,000
activities, and establish consolidated accounting statements by assisting MoAF, through:
- review of the accounting system developed in Albania for public and private enterprises and proposal
for required adjustments in the case of Water Enterprises;
- design of detailed cost accounting forms and guidelines and provision of appropriate software;
- provision of start-up assistance to prepare opening financial statements;
- preparation of annual external, independent audits of accounting statements of Water Enterprises.



PROJECT                                    DESCRPTON OF TECHNIcAL ASSISTANCE,                                          Time-frame,          Total
COMPONENT /                                             TRAINING AND STUDIES                                            Duration & Unit        Cost
SUB-COMPONENT                                                                                                                  Cost             (US$)
1.  Improvement of       (g) Training: Cost Accounting                                                                       Jan. - July 1995     21,000
System Operation       - 3 training sessions with expatriate trainer                                                   US$ 7,000/session
& Maintenance
(continued)         Sub-total System Operation & Maintenance                                                                                 585000
2.   Design Capacity    (a) Technical Assistance: Design and Supervision of Civil Works                                   July - December 1994    60,000
Improve the design and civil work supervisory capacity of ISDWW and Water Enterprises through:  3 m/m @ US$ 20,000
(Beneficiary:          - introduction of improved techniques for quality control of civil works and related laboratories;
ISDWW and Water        - introduction of computer-assisted methods for construction works scheduling and monitoring.
Enterprises)
(b) Training: Design and Supervision of Civil Works                                              Jan. 1994 - Dec. 1995    135,000
- 5 training sessions with expatriate trainer                                                  US$ 7,000/session
- 3 study tours abroad, 15 participants/each                                                  US$ 2,000/participant
- educational material for training sessions in Albania                                         L.S. US$ 10,000
Sub-total Desizn Capacity                                                                                                195,000
3.   WUA                 (a) Technical Assistance: ExDatriate WUA Trainers                                                Jan. 1994 - Dec. 1998    612,000
Establishment          (18 m/m during 1994, 9 m/m during 1995, and 3 m/m per year between 1996 and 1998)             36 m/m @ US$17,000
(Beneficiary:       (b) Technical Assistance: Local WUA Promoters                                                    Jan. 1994 - Dec. 1999    428,400
WUA Units within       (1994 to 1996: on average 12 full-time promoters in each of the seven WUA Units, equal to 3,024 m/m   4,284 rn/m @ US$100
Water Enterprises)     over the first three years; 1997 to 1999: 5 full-time promoters per WUA Unit, equal to 1,260 m/m
over years four to six.)
(c) Training: WUA Establishment                                                                    L.S. US$ 20,000       20,000
- educational material for promotion and training sessions in Albania
Sub-total WUA Establishment                                                                                             1,060,400
'I.



OQbt
CD
A X
0                               U~~~~~~
PROJECT                                    DEScRIPONoF TECHNCAL AsmsACE                                                Time-frame,          Total
COMPONENT I                                             TRAINIG AND VSTuEs:                                             Duration & UtLit       cost
SUB-COMPONEN                                                                                                                   cost             (US$)
4.   On-Farm Water       (a) Technical Assistance: On-Farm Water Management                                               July 1994 - Dec. 1997    120,000
Management             Assist in design, start-up and implementation of the on-farm water management program through:  6 m/m a@ US$20,000
- review of soil water-logging and salinity issues in the irrigated areas (by Soil Institute)
(Beneficiary:          - recommendation of an apprporiate system for real-time estimation of crop water requirements (by Soil
Soil Institute and       Insitute)
Extension Services)    - review of content and monitoring of performance of a demonstration program of improved irrigation
methods on experimental plots (by Soil Institute) and selected farms in the project area (by Extension
Service)
- review of content and performance of the support services to farmers to improve water management
efficiency and to apply agro-chemicals in a safe manner (by Extension Service)
(b) Training: On-Farm Water Management                                                           July 1994 - Dec. 1997    59,000
- 2 training sessions (for local trainers) with expatriate trainer                             USS 7,000/session
- 15 training sessions (for farmers) with local trainers                                       USS 1,000/session
- I study tour abroad, 15 participants                                                        USS 2,000/participant
Sub-total On-Farm Water ManaKement                                                                                       179,000
SuB-ToTAL                INsrurMONAL DEVELOPMENT                                                                                                 2,019,400



PROJECT                                     DESCRIPTON OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE,                                         Time-frame,           Total
COMPONENT /                                             TRANG AND STUDIES                                                Duration & Unit         Cost
SUB[ROMPONENT                                                                                                                    Cost             (USS)
(111) POLICY SUPPORT
1.   Regulatory              Study: Regulatory Framework for Irrization                                                       Jan. - June 1994      60,000
Framework for           Assist the Ministry of Agriculture and Food in the finalization of the Irrigation Code as the required  3 rn/m @ US$20,000
Irrigation             legal basis for irrigation management. The Irrigation Code will define the role of Water Enterprises,
WUAs and Government and would include additional provisions related, inter alia, to small-system
turnover and right-of-way issues. Assist in finalizing the draft WUA Legislation, to be enacted by the
Ministry of Agriculture and Food as a decree based on the new Irrigation Code.
2.   Small System            Study: Small-System Turnover Program & Timetable                                                 Jan. - June 1995      60,000
Turnover                On the basis of the June 1993 Presidential Decree, develop program and timetable for the transfer of  3 m/m @ US$20,000
ownership and management responsibility for small systems to WUAs within the project area for
rehabilitation works. Take into consideration international experience, and lay out expected effects of
small-system turnover on farmers' productivity and profitability, implications on Water Enterprises'
budgets (if any), and the prospects of financial and economic viability and sustainability of small                             l 
irrigation systems. Address aspects of equity, rural development and the overall social impact of
system turnover.
3.   Water User              Study: Water User Association Consolidation                                                      July - Dec. 1995      60,000
Association (WUA)       Design program and timetable for the consolidation of initially village-based WUAs in the project area    3 m/m @ US$ 20,000
Consolidation          into larger organizations, such as water user boards or WUA unions, in order to more closely reflect
hydraulic units that are served by a single source of water. These new organizations would take over
O&M responsibilities for secondary canals and related flow structures.
4.  Water Charges            Study: Water Charges                                                                             Jan. - June 1995      100,000
Establish a comprehensive data base, and design and assist in implementation of an adequate financial    5 m/m @ US$ 20,000
model for determining cost-covering levels of water charges, based on external audits of the 1994
financial accounts of Water Enterprises in the project area. Explore alternative models for water tariff
differentiation by district and scheme and by cost components for investment and recurrent costs.
Closely collaborate with the foreign expert providing TA on cost accounting to Water Enterprises.
5.   Private Pumping         Study: Private Surface and Groundwater Pumping Development                                       July - Dec. 1995      40,000
Development             Identify legal, institutional and financial constraints in the enabling environment that limit farmers'  2 m/m @ US$ 20,000
access to irrigation water stemming from both private surface and groundwater pumping.
SUB-TOTAL                POLICY SUPPORT                                                                                                             320,000
n>
0 



a'0 >
PROJECT                                     DESCRIPTloN OF TECHNICAL ASsISTANCE,                                       Time-frame,          Total
|    COMPONENT /                                        TRAINING AND STUDIEES                                           Duration & Unit        Cost
|  SUB-cOMPONENT                                                                                                               Cost             (US$)
(IV) IMPLEMENTATION
SUPPORT
Project Management  (a) Technical Assistance: Technical Designs & Tender Documents for Civil Works                      Jan. - Dec. 1994      60,000
Unit (PMU)              Assist and train in the drafting of technical specifications and bidding documents for civil works  3 m/n @ US$ 20,000
contracts to be awarded during the first year of project implementation (3 months have been financed
under a Japanese Grant, project to finance additional 3 months on part-time basis).
(b) Technical Assistance: Procurement Management                                                 Jan. 1994 - Dec. 1995    204,000
Carry out all procurement activities during the first year of project implementation (6 months full-time  12 m/m @D 17,000
financed under the project, additional 6 months have been financed under Japanese Grant), and assist
and train PMU staff during the second year of project implementation (6 months part-time).
(c) Technical Assistance: Disbursements and Financial Controlling                                  Jan. - Dec. 1994      80,000
Carry out all disbursement and financial controlling-related activities during the first 3 months of project    4 n/m @ 20,000
implementation (3 months full-time), and assist and train local PMU staff in disbursement activities
during the following 3 months of project implementation (I month part-time).
(d) Technical Assistance: Vetting of Annual Work Plans                                           Oct. 1994 - Oct. 1998   60,000
Join local experts in vetting Annual Work Plans for rehabilitation works, developed by the Project  3 m/rn @ 20,000
Management Unit, before their transmission to the Bank by November 15 of each year (0.5 months, to
be delivered duing the month of October of each year, 1994-1998)
(e) Technical Assistance: Impact Assessment                                                        Jan. - June 1995      50,000
Assist local PMU staff in preparing the analytical framework for periodic financial and economic impact   2.5 m/m @ 20,000
assessments, to be carried out on an annual basis.
(f) Training: Procurement of Civil Works and Equipment                                             Jan. - Dec. 1994      10,000
- 2 training sessions abroad, 1 participant each                                               US$ 5,000/session
(g) Annual External Audits of Proiect Accounts (6 audits to be financed under the project)           1994 - 1999         150,000
l______________________ _________________________________________________________________________________________    US$ 25,000/audit00_audit
SUB-TOTAL                IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT                                                                                                   614,000
TOTAL                     TA, TRAINING, STUDIES                                                                                                [3,155,400



-77-                                            Annex 5
Page 7 of 23
ANNEX 5.2: Canal Flow Control
1.     Background.  Water distribution in large irrigation schemes is generally constrained by the
rigidity inherent to any large canal system in adjusting water supply to changing demand. Unless carefully
implemented following a long process of trial and error, the operation of large canal systems often results
in sequences of water over-spill and/or shortages until an equilibrium is found. The difficulty increases
with the length and complexity of the canal system. There are four basic prerequisites for a canal system
to overcome these operational constraints and to adequately meet farmers' demand for water: (a) a well
structured canal grid with a clear and logical hierarchy of primary, secondary and tertiary canals; (b) a
consistent flow control system, allowing to rapidly adjust water levels in each canal in response to
variations in water demand and supply, and to measure the quantities of water discharged at each in-take;
(c) adequate operating procedures that serve in establishing a close link between system operators and water
users; and (d) sufficient system maintenance to ensure the reliability of water deliveries.
2.      Current Operating Conditions in Albania. The first of the above-mentioned prerequisites -- an
adequately structured canal system -- is substantially met in all large irrigation systems in Albania, with
a clear and rational network of water supply and drainage canals serving irrigation blocks of about 12 ha
within a geometrical grid pattern. However, in the current situation, the three remaining prerequisites for
efficient canal operation are far from being met in Albania. Although being designed adequately for
manual upstream control, the flow control system is not in good working order following destruction or
deterioration of most canal structures. Furthermore, water distribution by Water Enterprises is inadequate
due to the lack of communication, transport and measuring equipment, insufficiently trained staff and poor
maintenance of the infrastructure.
3.      Proposed Approach. Modern technology can provide for efficient control of water movement
and accurate measurement of water abstraction at all levels of well designed canal systems in Albania.
However, introduction of modern technology would require substantial redesign of canal profiles and
control systems over entire schemes, major modifications of the infrastructure, installation of expensive
control hardware, and in-depth training of operators in the use of technologically sophisticated procedures.
In line with the general project approach, which is quick rehabilitation of infrastructure for the largest
possible area, any preconstruction design activities and capital cost for rehabilitation should be kept at a
reasonable minimum. In the particular case of canal control, this translates into simple technology, focus
on improved operating procedures, and acceptance of below-optimal hydraulic performance. In terms of
efficiency, the project objective is to achieve an overall irrigation efficiency of about 40 percent for both
water distribution and on-farm application. However, to prepare for a more in-depth upgrading of canal
control, to be introduced at a later stage, the project would provide financing for a canal control
demonstration scheme on about 1,000 ha, serving as a training tool for system designers and operators and
as a national experimentation center.
4.      Flow Control Demonstration Scheme. This scheme would cover about 1,000 ha, served by
canals that have previously been rehabilitated under the project. Selected canals would form a single unit,
and the scheme would include a portion of a primary canal. Suitable sites have been identified in the
Lushnje district (main canal of LUU1 scheme, for a length of 10 to 15 km, including the irrigated area
upstream of the canal and on the left bank). The project would finance an automatic upstream control
system, including "duckbill" weirs and baffle distributors on primary and secondary canals. The total
incremental cost of infrastructure investments under the scheme is estimated at US$ 400 per ha, or a total
base cost of US$ 400,000. This amount would cover the reconstruction of all cross-regulators and water
in-takes. The scheme would be designed, under assistance from an expatriate expert, starting in the first



Annex 5                                          - 78 -
Page 8 of 23
project year, and be built over a 15-month period starting in late 1995 after completion of rehabilitation
works on the selected scheme. A total of 8 man/months of technical assistance and related training abroad
would be financed under the project (total base cost of US$ 200,000, see Annex 5.1).
5.      Canal and Flow Control in Rehabilitated Schemes. In addition to the demonstration scheme,
the project would address canal and flow control through system rehabilitation works, and through
provision of equipment and technical assistance for improved system operation and maintenance (see Annex
5.3). With respect to rehabilitation works, the project would aim at increasing the efficiency of water
distribution by reducing water spill-over or discharge to drains, while ensuring flexibility, reliability and
equity in the delivery of water quantities requested by farmers. Specifically, works under the project would
target canal control and flow control in the following manner:
(a) Canal Control. There are four widely used methods to control water movement in canal systems
under variable conditions of upstream demand: upstream control, downstream control, constant
volume control, and controlled volume control. The latter two methods require sophisticated flow
measurement and data transmission techniques and cannot be considered at this stage of irrigation
development in Albania. The downstream control method might be particularly cost-effective on
primary canals and provide for much greater flexibility in supply/demand adjustment. Nevertheless,
it would require expensive heightening of canal banks, in addition to installing costly automatic
cross-regulators, and can, therefore, only be considered for the future. Therefore, the upstream
control method appears as most appropriate for the current conditions in Albania as this method fits
well into the original system design and, if systems are properly rehabilitated, could significantly
increase irrigation efficiency.
Four types of cross-regulators are usually considered for upstream control, namely: manual gates
(initially installed in the Albanian schemes), longitudinal or "duckbill" weirs, automatic float gates,
and automatic motorized gates. The latter would be part of a more sophisticated canal control
approach, including level detectors and electronic controllers, and would not be included under the
project. Longitudinal weirs and automatic float gates are simple and robust options but would
require an expensive and time-consuming remodelling of all existing cross-regulators. Therefore,
using existing manual regulators, after rehabilitation, will be the least expensive option, guaranteeing
the largest area coverage of rehabilitation works under the project. However, given the relatively
low efficiency of manual regulators, upgrading of operational procedures for the staff of Water
Enterprises would be required for the hydraulic efficiency to reach the intended level (see related
technical assistance described in Annex 5.3).
(b) Flow Control. A flow control system must be available at each in-take with a view to accurately
estimate the volume of water transported and finally delivered to water users. Under the project,
this would be achieved through: (a) on primary canals, substitution of the current use of theoretical
and largely inaccurate gate rating curves through periodic gauged rating curves, provided that
adequate gauging equipment and trained technicians are available to Water Enterprises; (b) on
secondary canals, rehabilitation of existing gauging systems, including gates and measuring devices,
which would be more cost effective than the installation of baffle distributors, although the latter
would be technologically more efficient; (c) on tertiary canals, rehabilitation of farm-based flow
control gates, where flow can be easily measured by rectangular weirs or Parshall flumes.



- 79 -                                       Annex 5
Page 9 of 23
6.   Estimated System Efficiency. This proposed canal and flow control system would not allow for
rapid and efficient adjustments to frequently changing water supply and demand. However, the conditions
in Albania suggest that system capacity would need adjusting only during three periods: (a) the peak period
between the end of May and end-August where water demand is at a stable maximum due to the absence
of rain, and due to high evapo-transpiration and limited canal capacity; and (b) rather short periods before
May and after August when flow needs to be adjusted to a reduced demand in spring and late summer.
Under these conditions, the operational efficiency of the system is estimated to reach about 85 percent (95
percent each for primary, secondary and tertiary canals). Under a conveyance efficiency estimated at 80
percent (assuming that water leaks in the system would not exceed 20 percent after rehabilitation under the
project), and given an assumed on-farm water application efficiency of about 60 percent, the overall system
efficiency would average about 40 percent, a reasonable and acceptable performance in the present context.



Annex 5                                       - 80 -
Page 10 of 23
ANNEX 5.3: Improvement of System Operation and Maintenance
1.    Background. Operation and Maintenance (O&M) activities are placed under the responsibility of
district-based state-owned Water Enterprises (WEs).  In the new  smallholder environment, basic
responsibilities of WEs for system O&M cover distribution of irrigation water to the tertiary level, and
drainage of excess water from the farm gate to the sea by a network of canals, pipes and pumping stations.
Small reservoirs exclusively assigned to irrigation are placed under WE responsibility while large
multipurpose dams are operated by hydro-energy producing state utilities. O&M of tertiary irrigation
canals and buried drains is the responsibility of farmers. WEs are also responsible for billing and
collecting water charges from farmers.
2.    Although O&M duties have not changed under the new smallholder regime, the context in which
they are performed has been profoundly modified by the combined effect of (i) the emergence of a
multitude of small individual farmers in place of a limited number of large state and cooperative farms;
(ii) the phasing out of Government subsidies for O&M activities carried out by WEs; (iii) the general
obsolescence of WEs' equipment; and (iv) the massive deterioration of the irrigation and drainage
infrastructure.  As a result, WEs find themselves in a non-sustainable situation where poor water
distribution services by WEs discourage farmers from to pay for water deliveries, thus reducing WEs'
financial resources which, in turn, makes proper O&M impossible.
3.    Rationale for Improving O&M. Improving O&M is of a crucial importance for several reasons:
(i) the public irrigation infrastructure requires adequate and permanent maintenance, in particular following
the rehabilitation effort supported by the project; (ii) the efficiency of water distribution to farmers
requires improvement to offset insufficient system capacities imposed by the initial design; and (iii)
incentives need to be created for farmers to pay for increased and cost-covering water charges.
4.    Project Approach. The project would support WEs as autonomous public enterprises which are
responsible for providing adequate water delivery to farmers and are maintaining the public infrastructure.
WEs would be strengthened by Government through provision of additional O&M equipment and setting
up of appropriate O&M techniques and procedures. Some support from the Government budget for WEs
would be required initially until the full recovery of actual O&M costs through water charges will be
achieved.
5.    Project Approach. The project would provide each WE in the project area with a minimum set
of O&M equipment and materials including an excavator, a cement mixer, workshop equipment, works
and material for the rehabilitation of buildings and workshops, vehicles, office equipment and radio
communication technology. The equipment would complement machinery provided under the FY92
Critical Imports Project. The set of O&M equipment provided under the proposed project represents the
minimum required to initiate O&M improvement, and additional equipment would be required in the future
to strengthen WEs' ability to carry out adequate O&M activities. Such additional equipment would be
financed out of WEs' budgets, and the investment cost would be recovered through water charges.
6.    Provision of O&M Technical Assistance and Training. The project would support, through
technical assistance and staff training, the following selected priority areas with the objective of improving
O&M techniques and procedures:



- 81 -                                         Annex 5
Page I I of 23
(a) Water distribution and canal flow control. In view of the operational rigidity inhei er] to any
large canal system, appropriate control equipment and operational procedures should be intr oduced
to ensure efficiency, flexibility and equity in water deliveries to farmers. Simple and cost-effective
improvements would be introduced in designing the rehabilitation works supported by the project.
In addition, a demonstration scheme of 1000 ha would be constructed using sophisticated modern
control systems. The project would also support technical assistance and training to iiiipiove
operational procedures for water delivery and for water charges billing and collection trIough (i)
evaluation of the current operational procedures, (ii) elaboration of proposals to imipr-ove
operational procedures, (iii) design of forms and manuals for two selected districts and provision
of hands-on assistance at start-up; and (iv) periodic monitoring of WE performance iri water
deliveries.
(b) Maintenance of subsurface drains. In some low-lying coastal areas, the sustainability of irrigated
agriculture is dependent upon the control of waterlogging and soil salinity. Heavy investments
have been made in the past in well structured drainage systems, including sub-surface tile dialis
in the most salinity-prone areas. However, maintenance of sub-surface drains has been inadequate
and their operating efficiency is seriously reduced. Appropriate maintenance techniques, equipment
and procedures should be identified, acquired and adopted to maintain subsurface drailns, and a
performance monitoring mechanism should subsequently be set up. The project would support
related technical assistance.
(c) Maintenance of pumping equipment. Within the project area, there is a large variety of pumping
stations using different types of equipment at various levels of amortization, some of which will
be replaced under the project. Proper maintenance of pumping equipment is of critical itmiportance
for the sustainability of these investments.  Appropriate methods to organize and perform
maintenance of pumps, electric motors and transformers need to be established to iiiiniitor
equipment performance, schedule preventive maintenance activities, maintain stocks of spare parts,
prepare annual maintenance budgets and plan for replacements.  Under the project, mlodern
computer-assisted methods for maintenance organization of pumping equipment would be developed
in two districts (Tirana and Lushnje) with the expectation that these concepts and proceduires wvould
be further disseminated into other districts. Related technical assistance and training would be
financed.
(d) Cost accounting. WEs require an analytical financial cost accounting system to determine and
control actual district-based O&M costs, including depreciation of investments into ma( hinery and
equipment, as a basis for charging cost-covering water fees to water users. Furthermore, detailed
and accurate financial statements will be the basis to carry out a comparative analysis of WEs'
performance and efficiency, and will enable annual external, independent audits to take place. The
project would support related technical assistance and training for all WEs in the project area.
7.    Implementation Arrangements. The responsibility for improving O&M  techniques vwould be
borne by WEs in the project area which will receive the above-mentioned equipment, technical assistance
and training. In addition, a Water Management Unit would be established within the Tirana-based Institute
for Study and Design of Water Works (ISDWW) to monitor WE performance in off-lalm  water
management. The Water Management Unit would also be coordinating the On-Farm Water Management
Program supported under the project. MoAF will monitor the financial performance of WEs through its
Economic Directorate, following annual external audits of WEs' accounts.



Annex 5                                        - 82 -
Page 12 of 23
ANNEX 5.4: Design and Supervision of Works
1.    The responsibility for design and supervision of engineering works would be divided between the
Institute for Study and Design of Water Works (ISDWW) and the Water Enterprises (WEs). The ISDWW
would be concerned with major works while the WEs would be responsible for minor works. The total
base cost of engineering works amounts to US$27.9 million, of which about US$8.8 million account for
pumping and other equipment. Of the total base cost, works equivalent to US$20.2 million require
engineering design and supervision of works execution. Major works would cost US$10.5 million
(ISDWW) and minor works US$9.8 million (WEs), as shown in table 1. Table 2 provides a breakdown
of works to be designed and supervised by districts.
Table 1: Base Cost of Works to be Designed and Supervised
Total Base                  Responsibility
Type of Work          Cost            ISDWW                     WE
US$000       %        US$'000        %        US$'000
Irrigation
Canal cleaning              6,855        0              -       100        6,855
Canal lining                4,665        100        4,665        0             -
Structures                  1,621        70         1,135        30          486
Steel gates                   109        30            33       70            76
Other works                 2,892        70         2,024        30          868
Sub-total           16,142                   7,857                  8,285
Drainage
Earthworks                  1,421        10          142        90         1,279
Structures                    301        70          211        30            90
Steel gates                     5        0              -       100            5
Other works                 1,238        90         1,114        10          124
Sub-total            2,965                   1,467                  1,498
Equipment
Irrigation                  3,760        10          376         0             -
Drainage                    5,102        15          765         0             -
Sub-total            8,862                   1,141
Total                      27,969                  10,465                  9,783
2.    The estimated cost of design and supervision would be about 7 % of total construction cost if private
engineering firms would be engaged. However, Government would be providing financial support to both
ISDWW and WEs under the proposed project through vehicles and engineering equipment. Consequently,
a reduced fee of 4% for engineering would apply. Total fees for engineering would, therefore, equal
US$810,000, divided into US$418,600 for ISDWW and US$391,400 for WEs.



- 83 -                                           Annex 5
Page 13 of 23
Table 2: Base Cost of Works to be Designed and Supervised by Districts
Responsibility
District                     ISDWW             I            WEs
.......... US$'000 ..........
Durres                                   1,987                          941
Fier                                     1,230                         2,292
Kavaja                                   1,481                         1,603
Kruje                                     988                           992
Laci                                     1,936                         1,232
Lushnje                                  1,551                         2,106
Tirana                                   1,292                          617
Total                                    10,465                        9,783
Implementation Capacity
3.     ISDWW.  As of October 1993, the type and number of staff of this Institute was as shown in
table 3.
Table 3: Type and Number of Staff of ISDWW
Type of Staff                |Number
Engineer                                                           21
Construction technician                                            17
Cost estimates specialist                                          3
Draftsman                                                          8
Topographic technician                                             10
Economist                                                          2
Administrative staff                                               10
Mechanic                                                           3
Driver                                                             4
Total                                                              78
4.     The present staff of ISDWW is able to design annually about US$4 million worth of works and thus
would be engaged for more than 2h years. To reduce this time, additional staff would need to be
engaged. For supervision of the dispersed works, at least one engineer would be needed for each district.
As design and execution of works would be done simultaneously, one additional staff would be needed for
each district for design works. These additional staff members would be employed on a contract basis
and financed from engineering fees obtained by ISDWW under the project.



Annex 5                                            - 84 -
Page 14 ot 23
5.     Ovaic.- Enterprises.  The staff of a typical WE is about 200 persons, of which about 15 are
engigjw,    l dible to design minor works.  In the case of the Durres WE, for example, a total of
lJS$41V     Of rehabilitation works would require design and supervision (table 2), of which US$633,000
or 6W     tidl cost would consist of canal cleaning and earth works. Construction of culverts, roads etc.
would .i(iimti For another US$284,000 or 30%.  No extra staff would be needed within the WE to
engit,w,-c il, s tINpe of works within the project period of 5 years.
Spi)ipoi- fow Engineerin2
6.     i'   ISD,l)WW  and WEs would be supported with equipment and training in order to be able to
fultill  ii'., vgiileelilg responsibilities under the project.
7       lldiilniient. ISDWW  is being equipped for the engineering task under the Critical Imports Project
(Cll'i,i  h a total allocation of US$91,000 equivalent.  This assistance would be complemented at
projr, siinpcmenitation through vehicles and engineering equipment at a total base cost of US$ 94,800, as
shovA IxI  I.i,1   4.
1;.lv 4: Engineering Inventory and Cost of Additional Equipment for ISDWW
Existing                   Incremental Needs
Itemii          No.   Age (years)  Condition |   CIP          No.     Cost (US$)
-provided
V..> 1l2                            15         bad
JYc                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
2          6        69,000
'V.,,  : 1 1              1         8          good         5
2         20          fair        1           1        400
'ii.,  ,,    .                                             2
A,v,    U !. igi         4         25          fair        3           7        8,400
!11lv iiti               2         25          fair        3           2         7,000
Paper    Various L.S.10,000
etc.
I A.I _ U~c t (P~t                                                              94,800
8.       I,.-. ohtain equipment for O&M  activities under the CIP as shown in table 5. Motorcycles
and vatis \l'ould be used for engineering support. Additional items needed for design and supervision
of wor-ks wotuld consist of one PC (including software, printer and supplies) for each of the seven
WEs, at a combined base of cost of US$ 49,000, and office material (level instruments, survey rods,
measurilng lapes, drafting equipment, pocket calculator, paper, etc.) at a combined base cost of
US$56.00()Oo F The total base cost of design support for WEs would equal US$105,000 equivalent.



- 85 -                                           Annex 5
Page 15 of 23
Table 5: Type and Number CIP-provided Equipment to WEs
WE-       Motor-   Vans   Trucks      Mobile      Trans-   Pumps   Exca-
District    cycles                    Workshop   formers              vator i
Durres         3        1        1          1          3        5         1
Fier           4        1        1          1          7        7         2
Kavaja         3        1        1          1          5        5         1
Kruje          2        1        1                     2        4         1
Laci           2        1        1                     1        4         1
Lushnje        4        1        1          1          9        7         2
Tirana         4        1        1          1          9        5
Total         22        7       7           5          36       37        8
!' Five additional excavators to be allotted (throughout the country).
9.     Training Cost. Apart form technical assistance provided through the Project Management Unit
for tendering of construction works and for construction supervision, including quality and cost control and
use of computers for calculations and design, training of the staff of ISDWW and WEs would be necessary
in the form of (a) an expatriate expert advisor on design and supervision of civil works (3 m/m, total cost
of US$ 60,000), (b) five training courses in Albania by short-term expatriate experts (about 10 participants
each), and (c) three short-term visits of about one week duration by Albanian engineers to other European
countries (15 participants each). The total base cost for training amounts to US$135,000 equivalent, as
shown in table 6. Training would be carried out over the first two years of project implementation.
Table 6: Cost of Engineering-related Staff Training
ISDWW       WEs         Total      Cost/Course T   Total Cost
Type of Course    |  Staff      Staff       Staff            ....... .US$.
5 Training courses      20          30         50           7,000           35,000
3 Visits abroad         25          20          45          30,000          90,000
Sub-total                                                                  125,000
Educational material                                          L.S.          10,000
Total                                                                      135,000



Annex 5                                       - 86 -
Page 16 of 23
ANNEX 5.5: Establishment of Water User Associations
Introduction
1.      Prior to the 1991 democratic revolution, the agrarian structure in Albania had an entirely
collective character. Land was farmed by about 500 agricultural cooperatives (ACs) on some 534,000 ha
and by about 150 state farms (SFs) on 151,000 ha. Irrigation is being practiced since early this century,
and land under irrigation was steadily increased until the end of 1990 when it extended to about 424,000
ha. SFs had a higher percentage of their land under irrigation command, and were engaged in more
advanced irrigation practices, than ACs. The dissolution of ACs in 1991 and the following privatization
of SF land resulted in the emergence of some 400,000 small farm holdings between 0.5 and 3.0 ha, with
an average size of 1.4 ha. Also in 1991, communes were established as administrative bodies comprising
on average three to four villages each.
Past Situation
2.    Irrigation and Drainage Management. Some 81 percent of irrigation and drainage systems were
centrally administered by the Land, Water and Rural Development Department (LWRD) of the Ministry
of Agriculture and Food (MoAF) through public Water Enterprises (WEs) at the district level. Irrigation
and drainage systems up to the tertiary canal level were operated and managed by WEs, the construction
of irrigation works was carried out by state-owned Construction Enterprises (CEs). The remaining 19
percent of irrigation and drainage systems on an area of about 78,000 ha was managed by ACs without
involvement of WEs. These systems generally utilized a single, independent source of water such as a
small reservoir or a well. WEs' responsibility for irrigation water delivery and distribution among SFs
and ACs, and for operation and maintenance (O&M) of irrigation and drainage canals, ended at the
secondary outlets (tertiary canals). WEs supplied the water under contractual agreements to ACs and SFs.
Subsequent on-farm distribution of water and maintenance of tertiary and quaternary canals were the
responsibility of each AC or SF, under the supervision by WEs. Under these conditions, individual
farmers were not involved at all irrigation management.
3.    Regulatory Framework. The relationship between ACs as water users and WEs as water suppliers
was codified in several pieces of legislation, primarily: (i) a 1967 Decree and a 1988 Decision of the
Council of Ministers on the construction and administration of irrigation and drainage systems, (ii) the Civil
Code of 1982, and (iii) 1989 Regulations of the Minister of Agriculture and Food on the maintenance and
exploitation of agricultural water works. These regulations addressed the responsibilities of both WEs and
ACs. After the disappearance of ACs, this regulatory framework became obsolete.
Present Situation
4.     Institutional Vacuum. The privatization of agricultural land created the need for institutional
changes in the management and operation of irrigation and drainage systems with respect to water delivery,
water distribution, and system O&M below the secondary canal level. While WEs remained responsible
for water supply, an organizational vacuum was created on the water user side since mechanisms for
coordinating irrigation water scheduling, collecting water charges from individual farmers, and for system
operation and maintenance beyond the secondary outlets were not available. At the same time, CEs were
being set up for privatization, to be completed by March 1994.



- 87 -                                         Annex 5
Page 17 of 23
5.    Need for Water Users Associations (WUAs). At the central level, MoAF remains responsible,
through LWRD, for the overall organization of irrigation and drainage in the country. At the district level,
state-owned WEs are delivering water to individual farmers, rather than ACs and SFs. Since WEs are
unable to communicate and to enter into contracts with the multitude of smallholder farmers, WEs started,
in 1992, requiring farmers to elect village representatives who would collect water requests and payments
of water charges and forward them to WEs. It is envisaged that WUAs will be formed to take over and
expand the role of village representatives, thus ensuring the full and decentralized participation of farmers
in irrigation and drainage management.
6.     Legal Basis for WUAs Establishment.  Under the Bank-financed Critical Imports Project,
Legislation for Water Users Associations has been drafted, including a Model Instrument for the legal
establishment and registration of individual WUAs and related Model Statutes for WUAs. This Legislation
is expected to be enacted through a decision by the Minister of Agriculture and Food, following the passage
of a new Irrigation Code by Parliament. In the interim, a Presidential Decree (No. 576 of June 28, 1993)
has been enacted to provide a legal basis for the turnover of management and ownership of irrigation and
drainage systems -- managed in the past by ACs and serving no more than one commune -- to the local
commune level. Under the Decree, communes are responsible for organizing water distribution by setting
up WUAs, for irrigation infrastructure investments within the system, and for setting water charges through
decision by the commune Council.
7.    Farmer Survey. To assess the prospects for WUA establishment, a survey among 60 farmers has
been conducted in all districts forming the area of rehabilitation works under the proposed project. The
results of the survey (see Attachments 1 and 2) indicate that farmers are clearly willing to join into a
"group-organized" water management as they expect to benefit from a better level of service through more
reliable water supply. Interviewed farmers also expressed the readiness to perform maintenance on tertiary
and quaternary canals themselves. Furthermore, the survey demonstrated farmers general willingness to
pay for irrigation water and WUA membership fees if water is delivered in a reliable manner. Many
farmers appear ready to change their cropping pattern, if required, in order to increase the value of their
marketed production such as to be able to pay for water charges. Farmers expressed the hope that WUAs
could eventually provide additional services related, e.g., to the marketing and distribution of their
production.
8.    First WUAs Created. At present, farmers appear not have specific knowledge about the purpose
and organizational set-up of WUAs. However, in three districts (Lushnje, Fier and Kavaje) farmers
voluntarily formed several WUAs on a village basis. In the case of one WUA established in the Lushnje
district, farmers became familiar with the principles of WUAs through distribution of a copy of the
proposed WUA Legislation. Upon the initiative of the village chief the participation of all farmers in the
respective village (280 farm families, 432 ha of irrigable land) was achieved and a five-member WUA
Council with a chairman was elected. This experience provides evidence that farmers are capable of taking
initiative and making decisions to organize themselves into water user groups.
9.    Required Support for WUA Establishment. The process of establishing WUAs in Albania
requires solid support at the district level from WEs in conjunction with the staff of the Extension Service
under the district Department of Agriculture. WE have a strong interest in farmers organizing themselves
into WUAs in order to facilitate water distribution and collection of charges. Important catalysts for WUA
creation are also the communes where agronomists of the Extension Service are stationed. At the local
level, elected village chiefs who are acting as village representatives for dealing with WEs can favorably



Annex 5                                        - 88 -
Page 18 of 23
influence the progress of WUAs development. Village chiefs can lead the process of institutional
transformation by bringing about a change in farmers' thinking and their understanding of the potential
benefits of WUA  establishment.  The recent emergence of Private Farmers Associations (PFAs)
demonstrates that farmers are interested in mutually beneficial collaborative arrangements, despite their
forced collectivization under the former political regime. Existing PFAs can, therefore, serve as promoting
agents for the establishment of WUAs.
WUA Establishment Under the Critical Imports Project
10.   Selection of WUA Promoters. Under the Irrigation Component of the FY92 Critical Imports
Project, WUA establishment on a pilot basis is under way in the districts forming the area for rehabilitation
works under the proposed project. An expatriate WUA trainer developed an Action Plan which is seeking
the participation of entities at the central, district and local levels. A centralized training and information
seminar in Tirana was held in September 1993 involving directors of WEs and heads of the district
Departments of Agriculture. The aim of the seminar was to foster a joint effort in support of developing
WUAs, as well as to resolve potential differences between WEs and Departmnent of Agriculture staff with
respect to the objective and the proposed approach for WUA creation. In each district, eight WE staff and
extension workers were nominated for subsequent training in order to become future WUA promoters for
WUA establishment, to be based in district-based WUA Units. WUA promoters were selected based on
their general technical competency in irrigation and drainage, familiarity with local agricultural practices,
and good interpersonal and organizational skills.
11.   Training for WUA Promoters. Two training sessions for WUA promoters, of one week duration
for 25 participants each, will be held by end-1993. The training will start with an introduction into aspects
of rural development within the Albanian setting. The importance of WUAs will be highlighted as suitable
vehicles not only for improvements in irrigation water delivery and system O&M, but also for better use
of agricultural inputs, development of best farming techniques, and for marketing and distribution of
outputs. Training sessions will be divided in two parts: (i) an institutional part, including an explanation
of the proposed WUA Legislation, a description of suggested Model statutes and internal regulations for
WUAs, and aspects of financial management and accounting for WUAs; and (ii) a promotional part dealing
with mechanisms for motivating and assisting farmers to establish and register WUAs.
Promotion of WUAs under the Proposed Project
12.   WUAs as Precondition for Rehabilitation and Water Delivery. Over the implementation period
of the project, WUAs will be established in all areas where project rehabilitation works are to be carried
out. In particular, WUA establishment will be a precondition for any rehabilitation works below the
secondary canal level. Furthermore, the new Irrigation Code will require the establishment of WUAs as
a condition for delivery of water to agricultural users. Subsequently, the creation of WUAs would also
include areas not affected by rehabilitation works under the project, such as command areas where former
AC s used to manage irrigation and drainage independently from WEs. Depending on the experience gained
from establishing WUAs in the project area, information on WUAs would be disseminated to all districts
in the country in order to create the required institutional awareness for further rehabilitation works on a
national basis under a potential follow-up project.
13.    Principles for WUA Establishment. WUA would be established based on democratic principles,
through the majority of vote of all concerned farmers. Although hydrological units would be the preferred



- 89 -                                       Annex 5
Page 19 of 23
physical basis for WUA establishment, WUA boundaries would respect strong, long-established ties among
and between farm families and within villages. The area coverage of individual WUAs would range
between 50 and 400 ha, with an average membership of about 200 farmers, a minimum initial membership
of 15 farmers, and a maximum number of 2,000 members per WUA. To ensure the long-term
sustainability of WUAs, mechanisms for sanctions against members in case of non-compliance with
membership duties, and provisions for conflict resolution, would be established, as set out the in draft
WUA Legislation prepared under the Critical Imports Project.
14.   Preparatory Phase.  Establishment of WUAs under the project would involve local WUA
promoters within district-based WUA Units, assisted by an expatriate expert. During a four-months
preparatory phase (January to April 1994), financed under a Project Preparation Facility, district-based
WUA Units would be set up and start working on establishing WUAs in the project area. Assisted by
expatriate experts, WUA promoters in the Units will motivate farmers to join into WUAs. The Project
Management Unit (PMU) would monitor the progress during the preparatory and the following phases of
WUAs establishment, and the expatriate WUA expert and the leaders of district-based WUA Units would
report to PMU staff. At the end of the preparatory phase (May 1994), the expatriate WUA trainer, the
PMU Director and Bank staff would review the results.
15.   Project Implementation. Following the preparatory phase, the work of the WUA Units would
concentrate on: resolving initial problems related to the legal and organizational creation of WUAs; long-
term counseling for, and conflict resolution between WUA members; and, starting in 1996, promoting the
gradual consolidation and grouping of village-based WUA into larger water users groups that are more
closely representing hydrological units. Two expatriate experts would provide continuous assistance to
WUA Units in the project area until end-1994 (total of 18 man/months in 1994). Assistance from
expatriate experts would be reduced to 9 man/months during 1995 and 3 man/mans per year between 1996
and 1998. Between 1994 and 1996, an average of 12 local full-time WUA promoters would be required
in each WUA Unit, reduced to 5 promoters per Unit in subsequent years. The number of WUA Units
would be gradually decreased, starting in the fourth year of project implementation, to half of the initial
number by the end of the project implementation period.
16.   Risks for Successful WIA Establishment. Lack of farmer motivation, caused by a general
reservation to any form of collective organization, would be a potential project risk. Strict adherence to
democratic principles in the formation of WUAs, with maximum farmer participation in the design of the
structure and in the determination of the rules and functions of WUAs, would minimize this risk.
Additional incentives through the limitation of rehabilitation works to areas where WUAs have been
successfully established, and through the allocation of irrigation water to members of WUAs only, in
accordance with the new Irrigation Code, would further promote farmer interest in WUAs.



Annex 5                                           - 90 -
Page 20 of 23
Attachment 1
Summary Information by Districts
DuxRES    KAVAJ         FER        LUSHNJE       LA_        KRUJE      TtANA,
Irrigation Command area (ha)    16,700   14,200      36,900      39,100       8,900      9,800       17,900
Last season irrigated area (ha)    3,000  10,000     29,000      20,000       4,500     3,400+       10,000
Number of Farmers             18,500      15,000     35,000      24,000       7,000      8,500       18,000
Number of villages: total in  53/52      62/62      115/109      120/107      30/20      35/35      150/150
the district/ in WE area                                         ._l
% of water charge paid        50%         60%        40%          5%          12%       60% +        50%
WE permanent staff             200        135         270          230         167         120        200
WE total staff                            235         400                                  170        300
Primary canals (km)            122      not avail.    320          140         117        109       pr + sec
Secondary canals (km)        sec+tert                 510          340         111        300        = 420
Tertiary canals (km)          = 800                   1,361        1,727       407      not avail.  not avail.
Perceived WE interest in     average      high      very high    average     average      high     very high
WUA creation
Perceived interest by Dept. of  high      high        high        high         high       high        high
Agriculture in WUA creation                                                                                   l
Relationship between           fair       fair        good        good         fair       good       good
Extension Service and WE
Overall prospects for WUA     good        good     very good      good         fair       good     very good
establishment



- 91 -                                               Annex 5
Page 21 of 23
Attachment 2
Farmer Survey Results
Total Number of Farmers Interviewed:                                      60
Answers
Selected Questions                                                       Yes          No        Undecided
1.    Do you know what a WUA is?                                                10           43           7
2.    Would you join a WUA if it was created in your area? (Question asked      57            -            3
after explanation of the WUA concept)
3.    Do you believe that WUA sizes exceeding those of individual villages      22           25           13
should be considered?
4.    Should WUAs have responsibilities for water distribution and for system   52           2             6
O&M within the WUA area?
5.    Would you be prepared to change your cropping pattern in order to         40           7            13
generate sufficient cash income to pay increased water charges?                       .
6.    Do you or someone you know have problems accessing their farm?            7            47            6
7.    Would you be ready and interested to meet regularly with WE staff to      39           18            3
order to discuss problems related to irrigation water supply?
8.    Do you think the idea of sharing costs and equipment for irrigation system  37         5            18
O&M between farmers is a good one?
9.    Is it easier to farm alone?                                               8            39           13
10.   Would it be easier to farm in a larger group of farmers?                  38           16           6
11.   Do you own or share farm equipment with a neighboring family?             10           50
12.   Do you hire agricultural machinery or services?                           56           4
13.   Do you think that canals are better maintained after the land has been    18           34            8
transferred into your ownership?
14.   Do you have difficulty in obtaining structural repairs for the irrigation  44          14           2
system?
15.   Do you know whether there are Private Farmer Associations within your     26           33            1
district?
16.   Do some farmers take more than their share of water?                      43           10            7
17.   Are you satisfied with the present services of your WE?                   37           16            6
18.  Is the water delivered when needed?                                        30           25            5
19.   Would you be willing to pay WUA membership fees?                         40            7            13
20.   Would you prefer to pay monthly water charges?                            7            41               11



Annex 5                                         - 92 -
Page 22 of 23
ANNEX 5.6: On-Farm Water Management Program
1.    Background. The dissolution of state farms and agricultural cooperatives has dramatically changed
land tenure and farming conditions in Albania's large irrigation schemes. A multitude of small farms with
average size of 1.4 ha have emerged in the project area. The new private holdings are operated by largely
unexperienced farmers using family hand labor. Cropping patterns are in part still oriented towards
producing cereals and forage crops. Water distribution to farmers is erratic since neither irrigation systems
were designed, nor WEs are equipped, to serve a smallholder farmer situation. Rehabilitation of irrigation
and drainage infrastructure supported by the project will substantially imnprove the reliability and equity of
water deliveries to the farm gate. However, the project will have a modest impact only on the actual water
quantities delivered to farmers which result from the low parameters accepted for the original system
design. A significant increase of water deliveries would require an expensive upgrading of entire systems,
including reservoirs and related distribution infrastructure, which would not be justified from an economic
point of view under the current constraints to distribution and marketing of agricultural output.
2.     Rationale for On-Farm Water Management Improvement. The water scarcity resulting from
system under-design is likely to be exacerbated by increasing water demand from farmers as their economic
survival will require the shift from the current low value field crops to highly remunerative vegetables and
fruits grown under intensive cropping patterns. In this context, increasing the productivity of limited water
deliveries at the farm level is of a high significance for the sustainability of irrigated agriculture.
Furthermore, the increase of water charges to cost-covering levels would be a powerful incentive for the
rational use of water by farmers. Increasing water productivity would be made possible through a
combination of three objectives including (i) reducing water losses through improved on-farm irrigation
facilities and techniques; (ii) accurately meeting actual crop water requirements through adequate irrigation
scheduling; and (iii) enhancing the biological transformation of water into vegetal matter through efficient
farming practices. The project would focus on the first two objectives which are related to on-farm water
management.
3.     Proposed On-Farm  Water Management Program.  A reduction of water losses would be
obtained from (i) lining of farm ditches (quaternary canals), (ii) precise land levelling of irrigated fields,
and (iii) use of adequate irrigation methods. Adequate scheduling of water applications by farmers would
result from a real-time estimate of plant water needs on a local experimentation center and the timely
dissemination of this information to farmers.
4.     Project Approach. The project would make a first step in the improvement of on-farm water
management by focussing on the acquisition of the required scientific equipment, organizing field
demonstrations on farms selected on a voluntary basis, and disseminating basic information on water
requirements. Farmers would also be informed and trained about the safe application of agro-chemicals,
based on information brochures in local language developed under financing of the FY92 Critical Imports
Project. The program would be limited to two districts (Tirana and Lushnje) and be implemented by the
Soil Institute (SI) and the Extension Service (ES) of MoAF, under the overall coordination by the Institute
for Study and Design of Water Works (ISDWW) in Tirana.
5.     SI would be responsible for an experimentation program to be implemented on its Tirana and
Lushnje field stations, including:



- 93 -                                          Annex 5
Page 23 of 23
(a) testing inexpensive methods for field ditch lining and land levelling;
(b) testing adequate furrow and border irrigation techniques;
(c) testing modern irrigation methods (drip irrigation, microjets, etc.); and
(d) measuring evapo-transpiration and estimating crop consumptive use and water requirements.
In addition, SI would carry out the following tasks in the all districts of the project area:
(e) estimating the parameters for surface irrigation on the demonstration farms; and
(f) measuring water and soil salinity in the areas exposed to salinization.
6.     The Extension Service would be responsible for:
(a) organizing demonstrations of improved irrigation practices on selected pilot farms in the Tirana and
Lushnje districts, using the parameters determined by SI; and
(b) disseminating information on real-time water requirements to farmers on a pilot basis in the all
project districts.
7. Resources Required for Implementation. The project would finance the acquisition of required
laboratory, scientific and office equipment and vehicles for SI and ISDWW. Scientific equipment would
include two climatological stations, lysimeters, tensiometers, and demonstration sets for drip irrigation and
microjets (0.5 ha each). Furthermore, technical assistance would be financed under the project in the areas
of bioclimatology, surface irrigation and soil salinity. Two training sessions would be organized to train
local trainers from the Extension Service and 15 training sessions would subsequently be organized with
farmers.
8.    Implementation Arrangements. Implementing of the described program lies within the scope of
SI's and ES's regular activities for which required staff and facilities are available. To coordinate the
program, a Water Management Unit would be created within ISDWW and would initially include one
specialist. The terms of reference of the Unit would also cover the coordination and evaluation of off-farm
water management activities by Water Enterprises in the project area, including, in particular, monitoring
of the efficiency of water distribution and an assessment of the environmental impact of irrigation and
drainage.



- 94 -



ALBANIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENTS, SUPERVISION
Annex 6.1: Indicative Procurement Packages for Drainage Works
DISmIcI                       Civil. WOtKS FM DRAINAGE REHABILTATION                             NUMBEt OF COthRACr PACKAGES
Sub-Project           Earthworks         Sbuctures and Gates       Culverts and Roads       below      between       above       Total
US$ '000     No. of    US$ '000      No. or    USS '000       No. of    $100,000    $100,000    $ 2s0,000
contracts               contracts               contracts               to 250,000
Lci.
LAKI                 0           0          156          2          515           3           1           4            0           5
Kruije
KRKI                157          2           6           1           34           1           3            1           0           4
KRK2                90           1           0           0           3            1           2           0            0           2
KRK3                S0           1           0           0           2            1           2           0            0           2
KRK4                81           1.          1           1           5            1           3           0            0           3
KRK5                76           1           0           0           12           1           2           0            0           2
Th-ana
TRKI                85           1           0           0           15           1           2           0            0           2
TRK6                84           1           0           0           16           1           2           0            0           2
Durres
DRKI                85           1           0           0           60           1           2           0            0           2
DRK4                36           1           0           0          106           2           3           0            0           3
Kavaja
KJKI                49           1           1           1           62           1           3           0            0           3
KJK2                121          2           4           1           55           1           4           0            0           4
KJK3                158          2           0           0           61           1           2           1            0           3
Lasbije
LUKI/5              221          2          138          2           33           1           4           1            0           5
FL-r
FRII                 0           0           0           0           96          .I                       0            0           1
FRK2                 0           0           0           0           88           I           1           0            0           1
FRK3                 0           0           0           0           77           1           1           0            0           1
FRK4                915          I           O           0           O            O           1           O            O           1           
TOTAL              1.421         1s         301         s81 z38                  20          39           7            0          46



Annex 6.2:  Indicative Procurement Packages for Irrigation Works
Dismic'rI ________                      CIVIL WOSKS IVOR IRRIGATIN REHABILrrATION  _ _______NumERR  OF CONw.Cr PACKLAGES                                              00
Sub-Projet         Canal Cleaning           Canal Lning         Structures and (Gates      Culverts and Roads       below       between       above      Total        P
US$ '000      No. of    USS '000    No. of    USS '000         No. of    USS '000       No. of      $100,000    $100,000    $ 250,000
contracts               contracts                contracts                 contracts               to 250,000
Laci
LAUI             829           4          241          2          660            3          417           3            0           11           1          12
Kruje
KRUI              46.          1          119          1           40            1          72            1            3           1            0          4
KRU2              44           1           77           1          18            1           58           1            4           0            0          4
KRU3              10           1           25           1           3            1          29            1            4           0            0          4
KRU4              23           1           37           I          18            1          46            1            4           0            0          4
KRU6             182           2           99           1          114           2          240           2            5           2            0           7
KRU7              30           1           0           0           28            1           32           I            3           0            0           3
Tirans
TRUI              106          1          363      .3              73            1           79           1            2           4            0           6
TRU6              128          1          313          2           77            1          135           3            4           3            0           7
TRU20             38           1          184          2           33            1           33           1            5           0            0           5
TRU39             16           1           17           1           4            1           18           1            4           0            0           4
TRU47             12           1           21           1           6            1          27            1            4           0            0          4
TRU48             9            1           15           1           3            1           12           1            4           0            0          4
Durres
DRU2             423           4          767          3           56            1          874           6            2           10           2          14
DRU5             100           2          250          2           10            I           16           1           4            2            0          6
Kavaja
KJUI             946           6          610          3           51            1          457           4            3           9            2          14
K1U2              120          2          139          2           17            1          180           3            6           2            0          8
LushnJe
LUUI             1,659         12        1,000         5           70            1          110           2            5           12           3          20
LUU3              122          2           87           I          12            1           15           1            5           0            0          5
Fler
FRUI             1,407         13         176          3           395           4          27            1            8           10           3          21
FRU2              604          5           123          2           45           L           14          J             5            3                       9
ITOTAL            6,855         63         4.665        38          1,731         27         2,892         37           84          69           12         165



- 97 -                                     Annex 6
Page 3 of 4
Annex 6.3: Estimated Schedule of Disbursements /a
IDA Fiscal Year    Semester Ending  ----------- US$ Million --        Cumulative
% of
Disbursement
By end of     Cumulative
Semester
1995              Dec. 94            0.5             0.5             5%
June 95            1.0             1.5            15%
1996              Dec. 95            1.0             2.5            25%
June 96            1.0             3.5           35%
1997              Dec. 96            1.0             4.5            45%
June 97            1.0             5.5           55%
1998              Dec. 97            1.0             6.5            65%
June 98            1.0             7.5           75%
1999              Dec. 98            0.5             8.0            80%
June 99            0.5             8.5           85%
2000              Dec. 99            0.5             9.0            90%
June 2000           0.5            9.5            95%
2001             Dec. 2000           0.5             10.0          100%
/a    Expected Effectiveness Date:  October 1994
Expected Completion Date:   December 2000
Expected Closing Date:   June 2001



Annex 6                                        - 98-
Page 4 of 4
Annex 6.4: Supervision Plan - Supervision Input into Key Activities
APpRox.  ACTIVITY                                       EXPECTED SKILL        STAFF
DATES                                                   REQUIREMENTS          WEEKS
FY95      One Project Launching Mission (9-10/94)                              6.0
- Review of bidding documents                -Engineering
- First year work program                    -Procurement
- Launching of TA programs and training       -Disbursements
- Accounting, disbursements                  -Accounting
FY95      Three Supervision Missions (11/94, 2/95, 5/95)                       20.0
- Annual work program, designs               -Engineering
- Technical assist., training, studies        -Procurement
- Procurement, accounting, disbursements     -Accounting
- Water User Associations- Inst. Development  -Inst. Development
FY96      Two Supervision Missions (9/95, 3/96)                                14.0
- Annual work program, designs               -Engineering
- Technical assist., training, studies        -Procurement
- Procurement, accounting, disbursements     -Accounting
- Works supervision                           -Training
- Impact assessment                           -Economics, Finance
FY97      Mid-Term Review (by 12/96)                                           9.0
- Progress on implementation                 -Engineering
- Indicative work program FY97-99             -Economics, Finance
- Impact assessment
FY97      One Supervision Mission (3/97)                                       7.0
- Procurement, accounting, disbursements     -Engineering
- Works supervision                          -Procurement
- Impact assessment                           -Economics, Finance
FY98      Two Supervision Missions (9/97, 3/98)                                14.0
- Annual work program, designs               -Engineering
- Procurement, accounting, disbursements     -Procurement
- Works supervision                          -Accounting
- Impact assessment                           -Economics, Finance
FY99      Two Supervision Missions (9/98, 3/99)                                14.0
- Accounting, disbursements                  -Accounting
- Works supervision                           -Engineering
- Impact assessment                           -Economics, Finance
FY2000   Two Supervision Missions (9/99, 3/2000)
- Accounting, disbursements                   -Accounting           18.0
- Works supervision                           -Engineering
- Impact assessment                           -Economics, Finance
- Preparation of PCR



- 99 -                                         Annex 7
Page 1 of 7
ALBANIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
Annex 7.1: Implementation Schedule
Approximate Dates   Activity                                      Implementing Agency
7/93               Project design initiated by ISDWW through       LWRD / ISDWW
financing under CIP
4/93 - 12/93       WUA Trainer sets up first WUAs on pilot basis;    LWRD / PIU of CIP
training of WUA promoters; financing under CIP
1/93 - 12/93       Drafting of new Water Code and WUA             LWRD / PIU of CIP
Regulations; financing under CIP
9/93               PPF approved (US$ 0.5m)                         IDA
12/93 - 1/94       Drafting of new Irrigation Code (policy support)    LWRD
12/93              Project Management Unit (PMU) created, staff   new PMU
appointed
12/93              Japanese (PHRD) Grant approved (US$ 0.4m)      Japanese Government
3/94               Contracts for TA for project preparation (irrigation  PMU, ISDWW
engineer, procurement, WUA establishment, WE
cost accounting)
2/94-8/94          Procurement of office equipment and vehicles for    PMU, ISDWW
PMU and ISDWW
4/94               New Irrigation Code passed by Council of        MoAF, Government
Ministers
5/95               Designs and bidding documents finalized for first    PMU, ISDWW
year's civil works
6/94               Irrigation Code presented to Parliament; WE     People's Assembly,
arrears cleared with the Albanian power company    WEs
7/94               Invite bids for canal cleaning for first year; invite   PMU
bids for remaining office and data processing
equipment and supplies; invite bids for first year
technical assistance contracts
8/94               New cost accounting framework for WE           PMU, WEs
established and operational; invite bids for
pumping equipment in first three districts (first
year); invite bids for cement mixers, workshop
equipment, vans, sedan cars, scientific equipment,
survey equipment



Annex 7                                           - 100 -
Page 2 of 7
Approximate Dates   Activity                                            Implementing Agency
9-10/94              IDA Credit becomes effective (WUA Regulations    MoAF, IDA
enacted by MoAF; Legal Opinion provided to
IDA); IDA project launching mission
9/94                 Award contracts for canal cleaning for first year;    PMU, ISDWW, IDA
sign contracts with ISDWW and WEs for design
and supervision of works in first three districts
(prior contract review by IDA); award contracts
for cement mixers, workshop equipment,
remaining data processing equipment and supplies,
and survey equipment
10/94               Invite bids for canal lining for first year; invite  PMU, SI
bids for structure and gates for first year (three
districts); award contracts for pumping equipment
in first three districts (first year); invite bids for
excavators, radio communication equipment; award
contracts for vans, sedan cars, scientific
equipment; sign contracts for first year technical
assistance
11/94                Annual Work Plan for 1995 (second year of         PMU, ISDWW, IDA
project implementation) submitted to IDA for prior
review; IDA supervision mission
12/94                Award contracts for canal lining for first year;  PMU, ISDWW, WEs,
award contracts for structure and gates for first  IDA
year; sign contracts with ISDWW and WEs for
design and supervision of works in the remaining
four districts (prior contract review by IDA);
award contracts for radio communication
equipment
12/94               Invite bids for culverts and roads for first year;  PMU, WEs
invite bids for building material for WEs; award
bids for excavators; invite bids for policy support
studies
1/95                Invite bids for irrigation equipment; initiate     PMU, Extension
external audit of WE accounts, and of PMU         Service, WEs
project accounts, Special Account and SOEs
2/95                 Award contracts for culverts and roads for first   PMU, WEs, IDA
year; award contracts for building material for
WEs, and for irrigation equipment; IDA
supervision mission
3/95                 Invite bids for structures and gates for second year;  PMU
sign contracts for policy support studies
4/95                 Invite bids for canal cleaning for second year     PMU



- 101 -                                       Annex 7
Page 3 of 7
Approximate Dates  Activity                                      Implementing Agency
5/95               Award contracts for structure and gates for second   PMU, IDA
year; invite contracts for earthworks for second
year; IDA supervision mission
6/95               Award contracts for canal cleaning for second  PMU
year; invite bids for structures and for TA under
canal control pilot scheme; invite bids for pumping
equipment in the second four districts
7/95               Award contracts for earthworks for second year;    PMU
invite bids for canal lining for second year
8/95               Award contract for structures and TA under canal   PMU
control pilot scheme; award contracts for pumping
equipment in second four districts
9/95               Award contracts for canal lining for second year;    PMU, IDA
IDA supervision mission
11/95              Annual Work Plan for 1996 (third year of project   PMU, ISDWW, IDA
implementation) submitted to IDA for prior review
12/96              Comprehensive Mid-term Review                 PMU, ISDWW, WEs,
SI, IDA
Annually by 3/31,   Review and adjust water charges to achieve full  MoAF
starting in 1995,    cost recovery of O&M costs by 1998, and of all
until Credit closing   budget-financed investment costs by 1999
Annually by 12/31,  Set next year's budget provision for WEs in the  MoAF, Government
starting in 1994,  project areas, as agreed with IDA during project
until Credit closing   negotiations
Quarterly, starting   Prepare and send to IDA quarterly activity and  PMU
in 10/94, until    progress reports
Credit closing
Quarterly, starting   Prepare and send to IDA quarterly project impact   PMU
in 7/95, until     reports
Credit closing
Annually on 11/15,  Prepare and send to IDA Annual Work Plans    PMU, ISDWW
starting in 1994,
until Credit closing
Annually on 6/30,   Audit PMU and WE accounts, Special Account,    PMU, WEs
starting in 1995,  SOE accounts for previous year and send audit
until credit closing   reports to IDA
Six months after   Prepare Project Completion Report             PMU
Credit closing



Annex 7                                                    - 102 -
Page 4 of 7
ALBANIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Annex 7.2: Procurement Schedule
Project Components/ Contracts      Value of   Financed    Procure-       First      First       Last
Contracts   by IDA        ment        Bids     Contracts   Contracts
(amounts net of contingencies)     US$'000    US$'000      Method      Invited     Signed    Completed
1,      CIVIL WORKS
1.1     Earthworks
all districts                   1,421          0      LCB         5/95       7/95         6/97
1.2     Canal Cleaning
Laci, Kruje, Tirana, Durres     1,996          0      LCB         4/95       6/95        12/97
Kavaja                          1,067        500      LCB         7/94       9/94        12/97
Lushje                          1,781        500      LCB         7/94       9/94        12/97
Fier                            2,012        500      LCB         7/94       9/94         6/98
1.3     Canal Lining
Laci, Kruje, Tirana, Durres     2,527          0      LCB         7/95       9/95        12/98
Kavaja                           749         600      LCB         10/94      12/94       12/96
Lushje                          1,087        601      LCB         10/94      12/94       6/97
Fier                             299         299      LCB         10/94      12/94       6/96
1.4     Structure and Gates
Laci                             815         278       ICB        3/95       5/95        6/98
Kruje                            228         228      ICB         3/95       5/95        12/97
Tirana                            195        195      ICB         3/95       5/95        12/97
Durres                            66          66      ICB         3/95       5/95        6/96
Kavaja                            72          72       ICB        10/94      12/94       12/95
Lushje                           221         221      ICB         10/94      12/94       6/96
Fier                             440         440       ICB        10/94      12/94       12/96
Canal Control Pilot Scheme       400           0      ICB         6/95       8/95        6/97
1.5     Culverts and Roads
all districts                   4,129          0      LCB         12/94      2/95        6/99
1.6     Buildings: all districts            140           0     IS/LS       12/94       2/95        12/97
On-Farm Repairs: all districts    2,099           0  LCB/IS/LS    12/94         2/95        6/99
1.7     Design & Supervision
Laci                              127          0       FA                    12/94       6/99
Kruje                             79           0       FA                    12/94       6/99
Tirana                            76           0       FA                    12/94       6/99
Durres                            117          0       FA                    12/94       6/99
Kavaja                            123          0       FA                    9/94        6/99
Lushje                            146          0       FA                    9/94        6/99
Fier                              141          0       FA                    9/94        6/99



- 103 -                                                 Annex 7
Page 5 of 7
Project Components/ Contracts    Value of   Financed    Procure-     First      First       Last
Contracts   by IDA       ment       Bids    Contracts   Contracts
(amounts net of contingencies)   US$'000    US$'000      Method    Invited     Signed    Completed
2.      GOODS
2.1     Pumping Equipment
(Supply and Erect)
Laci, Kruje, Tirana, Durres   4,180          0      ICB        6/95       8/95       12/97
Kavaja                          593        300      ICB        8/94       10/94      12/95
Lushnje                       1,385        300      ICB        8/94       10/94       6/96
Fier                          2,704        400      ICB        8/94       10/94      12/96
2.2     Maintenance Machinery
Excavators                      490        490      ICB        10/94      12/94       4/95
Cement Mixers                    70         70       IS        8/94       9/94       12/94
Workshop Equipment               70         70       IS        8/94       9/94       12/94
2.3     Vehicles
Vans (1-2 ton)                  160         160      IS        8/94       10/94       1/95
4WD Cars                        250        250    ICB/IS       2/94       4/94        1/95
Sedan Cars                      161        161       IS        8/94       10/94       1/95
2.4     Other Equipment
Scientific Equipment             51         51       IS        8/94       10/94       1/95
Irrigation Equipment             20         20    IS/LS         1/95      2/95        4/95
Radio Communication             700        700      ICB        10/94      12/94      4/95
Data Processing                 189        189       IS        2/94       9/94       12/94
Survey Equipment                 25         25    IS/LS        8/94       9/94       11/94
Materials,Supplies, Miscell.     77         77    IS/LS        2/94       4/94       12/94
3.      CONSULTANCIES
3.1     Technical Assistance
Canal Flow Control              160          0     short-      7/94       10/94      12/96
System O&M                      520        520    lists of     12/93      3/94       12/96
Design Capacity                  60         60    firms,       12/93      3/94       12/95
WUA Establishment             1,040        500   based on      3/93       5/93       12/99
On-Farm Water Managmnt.         120         120     IDA        7/94       10/94      12/97
Implementation Support          606        500   Guidelines    12/93      3/94       10/98
3.2     Training
Canal Flow  Control              42          0     short-      1/96       4/96       12/96
System O&M                       65         65    lists of      1/95      3/95        7/95
Design Capacity                 135        135    firms,       12/93      3/94       12/95
WUA Establishment                20         20   based on      12/93      3/94       12/99
On-Farm Water Managmnt.          59         59      IDA        7/94       10/94      12/97
Implementation Support            8          8   Guidelines     n.a.      n.a.       12/94
3.3     Studies
Policy Support                  320          0   (as above)    12/93      3/94       12/95



Annex 7                                                   - 104 -
Page 6 of 7
ALBANIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Annex 7.3: Monitoring Indicators
Indicators for Project Area, at year-end                                  Year
(to be subdivided by district)               1994      1995      1996     1997     1998      1999       2000
PHYSICAL INDICATORS
Area returned to irrigation (ha)               0    1,138    7,686   15,657   22,774   28,467        28,467
Area under improved irrigation (ha)            0    1,801    12,155   24,760   36,015   45,019       45,019
Area returned to drainage (ha)                 0      717    4,842    9,864   14,348   17,935        17,935
Area under improved drainage (ha)              0    3,255   21,970   44,753   65,095   81,369        81,369
Irrigation schemes rehabilitated               0        1         6       12        17       21          21
Drainage schemes rehabilitated                 0        1         5       10        14        18         18
Revenue generating area (ha)
Systems under project                 45,019   46,158   52,705   60,676   67,793   73,486        73,486
Non-project systems                   42,010   45,510   45,510   49,011   49,011    56,013       56,013
WUAs created                                   5       25        60      160       350      400         500
Total area under WUAs (ha)                   100      900    3,000   11,000   35,000   60,000       100,000
Average area per WUA (ha)                     20       35        50       70       100      150         200
Total farmers organized in WUAs              100      500    2,000    8,000   25,000   40,000    100,000
Average number of farmers per WUA             15       20        30       50        70      100         200
DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS
Farmers benefitting from works                 0    2,300    15,336   31,240   45,440   56,800       56,800
Incremental annual farm income (US$)
Zone 1: Rainfed to full irrigation        0        48       74       273      393       405        405
Zone 1: Low to full irrigation            0        14       102      256      375       410         410
Zone 2: Rainfed to full irrigation        0        32        64      192      291       304         304
Zone 2: Low to full irrigation            0        12        97      221      327       359         359
On-farm self-consumption                   100%     100%       90%      80%       70%      60%         50%
Vegetables share of farm output value       10%      10%       15%      20%       25%      30%         30%
Cropping intensity                          90%      90%      100%     115%      125%     140%        150%
Fertilizer use in % of requirements         20%      30%       50%      75%      100%     100%        100%
Average crop yields (tlha)
Wheat                                    2.4      2.5       2.8      3.2       3.5      3.7         3.9
Maize                                    3.3      3.5       3.8      4.1       4.3      4.6         4.8
Tomatoes                                15.3     15.8      16.8     19.0      21.7     22.3        22.7
Potatoes                                 7.2      7.3       7.7      8.2       8.6      8.9         9.2
Other vegetables                        13.5     13.9      14.7     16.2      18.4     19.2        19.8



- 105 -                                                   Annex 7
Page 7 of 7
Indicators for Project Area, at year-end                                   Year
(to be subdivided by district)                1994     1995      1996      1997     1998      1999        2000
FiNANCIAL INDICATORS
Average cost recovery
System O&M                              41%       55%      70%       85%      100%     100%        100%
Budget-financed investments              0%        0%       0%        0%        0%     100%        100%
Total budget transfer to 7 WEs (US$)         1.63     1.68      1.27     0.77         0    - 1.94       -1.94
Average price of water (Lek/1,00Om3)
Low consumption case                     1.8       2.9       3.4      4.0       4.4      4.8         5.0
High consumption case                     1.8      1.8       2.2      2.6       2.8       3.1        3.2
Avg. WE revenue generated (US$/ha)            13        23        30       40        50        51         54
Avg. budet revenue generated (US$/ha)          0         0         0        0         0        15         15



- 106 -



- 107 -                                 Annex 8
Page 1 of 19
ALBANIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
ANNEX 8.1: Financial Analysis
Agricultural Production
1.    Crop Yields. The project would increase the amount of irrigation water available at the crop by
an average of 400 m3/ha, in order to reach a total of 1,600 m3/ha, for an aggregate command area of
45,019 ha of at present under-irrigated land. In addition, 28,467 ha of currently rainfed areas would return
to irrigation at 1,600 m3/ha following rehabilitation works under the project. The project would also
improve drainage on a total area of 99,304 ha. Improved irrigation and drainage would result in higher
crop yields. However, due to the poor current cash position of farmers, use of fertilizer and pesticides will
remain limited over a number of years. Therefore, crop yields are expected to remain below maximum
achievable levels, as shown in figure 1, for major crops in the project area, until all required farm inputs
would be used in appropriate quantities by the fifth year of project implementation. It is assumed that
fertilizer and pesticide use would equal 20 percent of full requirements in year 1, increasing to 100 percent
by year 5.
FIGURE 1: Yields of Major Crops Under the Project
25
21.7
20-
15 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UYear 1
10                       . |                                      Year _
5                                            2   .5
0.69 1.1                 13F 1.7
0
Vegetable  Tomato  Potato  Tobacco   Maize    Wheat   Cotton
2.    Cropping Intensity and Patterns. Improved irrigation would also allow for higher cropping
intensities through introduction of double cropping, causing an expected increase of present average
cropping intensities of 90 percent in the project area to about 150 percent. Furthermore, farmers are
expected to change their cropping patterns due to improved irrigation and drainage, in order to include
more cash crops and other crops requiring irrigation such as maize, summer forage and irrigated wheat.
Figure 2 shows the assumed change in cropping patterns for areas that are currently rainfed which would



Annex 8                                          - 108 -
Page 2 of 19
return to irrigation and would benefit from improved drainage under the project.
FIGURE 2: Comparative Cropping Patterns Under the Project
(Example: Durres, Kavaja, Lushnje and Fier Districts)
Year 1: Rainfed Cropping Pattern
Cropping Intensity 90%
Wintor fodder /
47%                                Wheat (spring)
40%
Vegetables  Sunflowers
5%       8%
Year 5: Irrigated Cropping Pattern
Cropping Intensity 150 %
Alfalfa          Cotton
14%              5%
Forage maize
Winter fodder
19%
Maize
9%
Summer forage 6%
Sunflower 2%
Wheat (spring)Vegetables 4%
Wheat (zprng)                     Wheat (irrigated) 7%
3.     Incremental Production.  Without any marketing constraints, the project would result in an
estimated incremental agricultural production, expressed as output per year over a twenty year period, as
follows: 12,000 tons of wheat, equivalent to an 18 percent rise in production when compared to a base
case without the project; 24,000 tons of maize (113 percent rise); 450 tons of fodder (70 percent rise);
9,200 tons of tomatoes (173 percent rise); 2,400 tons of potatoes (117 percent rise); 19,700 tons of other
vegetables (51 percent rise); 23.5 million liters of milk (27 percent rise); 500 tons of tobacco (127 percent
rise); and 3,200 tons of cotton (128 percent rise).  However, marketing of produce is at present
significantly constrained due to consumers' low domestic purchasing power, lacking marketing and



- 109 -                                    Annex 8
Page 3 of 19
distribution infrastructure, and limnited access to export markets. Therefore, in the financial and economic
analysis of the project, assumptions are made such as to reduce the amount of produced and marketed
output during the first three years of project implementation (see below). Predictions for a potential shift
in cropping patterns due to restricted marketing options can only be made with high uncertainty and have
been excluded from the analysis.
FIGURE 3: Per-ha Production Values for Major Crops
(Example: Durres, Kavaja, Lushnje and Fier Districts)
US$
9,000
8,000
7,000
6,000
5,000                                -                                Year 1
4,000 -_                                                              Year 5
3,000
2,000
1,000 -              4 _ 
0  -               _1_111
Vegetable  Tomato  Potato  Tobacco   Maize   Wheat   Cotton
Farm Income
4.    Assumptions for Farm Models. The seven districts in the project area can be divided into two
agro-climatic zones (see Annex 1.3): The Central Coastal Plains (Zone 1), including the districts of Durres,
Kavaja, Lushnje and Fier, and the Northern Coastal Area (Zone 2) with the districts of Laci, Kruje and
Tirana. For each of the two agro-clirnatic zones, two farm production models have been developed,
reflecting a shift from either rainfed or under-irrigated conditions to an improved irrigation level of 1,600
m3/ha (see Attachment 1 for farm models in Zone 1). The average farm size for Zone 1 equals 1.41 ha
and for Zone 2 1.08 ha. Most incremental production would initially be for self-consumption, with the
assumed share of marketed surplus production rising from 25 percent in year one of the project to 100
percent by year four. Current local price levels of farm inputs and outputs are assumed to reach world
market levels over a five-year period (see Attachment 2). Farmers are expected to use mostly family labor
to cultivate and harvest crops, but they would continue to hire outside mechanization services for plowing
and tilling. It is assumed that credit for inputs and system repairs would be available, at a real interest rate
of 8 percent per year, to finance 25 percent of operating costs and on-farm investments. Water charges
are not incorporated into farm models in order to receive net farm cash flows as a basis for determining
farmers' ability to pay water charges out of annual net cash income.
5.    Farm Production Values. Under the above assumptions, the farm models reveal that per-ha
production values of tomatoes and other high-value vegetables would increase significantly from their
present low levels of about US$ 1,000 per ha and year to more than US$ 8,000 per ha and year by year
five of the project (see figure 3). Accordingly, the share of vegetables (incl. tomatoes and potatoes) among
annual farm production values would rise from about 10 percent in 1994 to 30 percent by 1998 (figure 4).



Annex 8                                  - 110 -
Page 4 of 19
FIGURE 4: Annual Values of Farm Production
(Examnple. Durres, Kavaja, Lushnje and Fier Districts)
2500 U                                                                          VSg.tbie
$2,060      0 LambU
2000                                                                         E3 Mli
U Fodder
1500               $1.270                                                          * F
1000       w-                                                                   Whe I at
500
0
1994                              1997       1998        1999+
6.    Expected Farm Cash-Flow. Under the project, net farm cash-flows, after on-farm consumption,
would remain negative during the first two years of the project, caused by the assumed initial constraints
for marketing of surplus production. Farmers' average annual net cash income would rise above US$ 100
equivalent by year three and would exceed US$ 500 equivalent by year five (see figure 5). This compares
favorably to farm incomes without the project of no more than US$ 200 equivalent by year five. Due to
the phasing of works, only some 2,300 farm families in the project area would be expected to start
benefitting from investinents under the project in the second year of imnplementation, rising to some 56,800
families at the end of project implementation, or 45 percent of the total of 126,000 families in the project
area. Additional beneficiaries of the project would include providers of farm services and any incremental
hired farm labor.
FIGURE 5: Farmers' Annual Net Cash-Flow
USS
800
600
400                                                                       Zoe
200
-200
-400



- 111 -                                  Annex 8
Page 5 of 19
ANNEX 8.2: Cost Recovery
7.    Cost of System O&M. In the absence of any reliable accounting data at the WE level, costs for
system operation and maintenance (O&M) have been estimated for each of the seven project districts.
O&M costs have been split into a fixed component, applicable to the total command area in each district,
rising from US$ 10 to US$ 20 per ha over the project period; and a variable component, applicable to the
actual operating area, rising from US$ 10 to up to US$ 40 per ha by 1999, depending on the amount of
pumping involved and electricity required in each district. As a result, current total costs for system O&M
of primary and secondary canals by WEs are estimated to range between US$ 24 and 43 per ha, with an
average cost of US$ 32 per ha (see Attachment 3). Over the implementation period of the project, these
costs are estimated to rise to an average of US$ 51 per ha by year 6 of the project, reflecting mainly the
expected increase in labor costs and energy prices (current electricity prices of US$ 0.018/kWh are
assumed to rise to about US$ 0.05/kWh to reach cost-covering levels). The cost of operation and
maintenance of systems below the secondary level by farmers is estimated to equal no more than US$ 10
per year and ha and would be recovered through WUA fees.
8.    Cost of Investments.  The total cost of investments under the project, including design and
engineering fees and required subsequent replacement investments, translate into a per-ha charge of about
US$ 15 per year, assuming that farmers in the project area would be granted a five-year grace period with
subsequent repayments over 35 years, reflecting the conditions of the IDA Credit.  Any on-farm
investments into the infrastructure below the secondary canal level would be financed by individual farmers
or WUAs.
9.    Cost Recovery Policy. As a result of the above, under full cost recovery, required annual revenues
from water charges, payable by farmers to WEs in the project area, would need to average US$ 32 per
ha during 1994, rising to about US$ 66 per ha by 1999. However, net cash-flows for private smallholders
in the project area, after on-farm consumption of outputs, would only become positive by year three of the
project (see para 6). Assuming a required annual minimum cash income of US$ 100 equivalent per farmer,
farmers would only be able to pay fully cost-covering water charges, and additional WUA fees, by year
five of the project. Therefore, a cost recovery policy would be adopted providing for the gradual increase
of water charges to cost-covering levels over a five-year period. Given the currently irrigated area, and
assuming a collection rate of 60 percent of billed water charges, the present charge level of Lek 1.8/m3
translates into an annual average revenue of US$ 13 equivalent per ha (see Attachment 3). This represents
a coverage level of 41 percent of the current estimated costs for system operation and maintenance of US$
32 equivalent per ha. Under the project, this percentage would be increased by 15 percent per year,
through annual revisions of water charges, to achieve the full coverage of operation and maintenance costs
borne by WEs in the project area by year five of the project, i.e, by 1998. In addition, starting in 1999,
water charges would be increased further to reflect the full recovery of Government-financed project
investments and required replacement costs.
10.   Water Charges. Under the above assumptions for per-ha costs borne by WEs and investment
costs, and assuming a gradual rise in the collection rate for water charges to 80 percent by year five of the
project, cost-covering water charges would need to rise from their present level of Lek 1.8/i3 to an
average of Lek 4.8/m3 by 1999. Water charges in 1999 would range from Lek 3.3/m3 in the Laci district
to Lek 5.2/m3 in the district of Durres. This takes into account the conservative assumption made under
the project of a comparatively low consumption rate after system rehabilitation (1,600 m3/ha/year, see table
5.3). Assuming that a higher average consumption rate (2,500 m3/ha/year) would be achievable, water
charges would need to rise to no more than an average price of Lek 3. 1/m3 to be fully cost-covering. An
increase in the collection rate for water charges would further reduce the required rise in the price of
irrigation water, to an average charge level of Lek 2.3/m3 by 1999 under an assumed collection rate of 100



Annex 8                                            - 112 -
Page 6 of 19
percent (see table 1).
TABLE 1: Estimated Water Charges in the Project Area
(Lek per 1,000 m3, in 1993 prices)  1994         1995         1996          1997         1998         1999
High Price Scenario
Laci                                          2.5           2.6          3.0          3.2          3.3
Kruje                                         3.0           3.2          3.7          3.9          4.1
Tirana                                        3.0           3.8          4.5          4.7          5.1
Durres                                        3.9          4.2           4.5          4.9          5.2
Kavaja                                        2.7           2.9          3.7          4.2          4.6
Lushnje                                       2.7           3.3          4.0          4.5          4.7
Fier                                          2.7           3.4          4.0          4.6          5.1
AVERAGE 7 DiSTRiCTS                  1.8          2.9          3.4           4.0         4.4          4.8
Low Price Scenario
Laci                                          1.5           1.5          1.6          1.6          1.6
Kruje                                          1.8          1.8          2.0          2.0          2.0
Tirana                                         1.8          2.1          2.4          2.4          2.5
Durres                                        2.3           2.3          2.4          2.5          2.5
Kavaja                                         1.6          1.6          2.0          2.1          2.2
Lushnje                                        1.6          1.9          2.1          2.3          2.3
Fier                                           1.6          1.9          2.2          2.4          2.5
AVERAGE 7 DLSTRICTS                  1.8          1.7          1.9           2.1         2.3          2.3
Notes: Water charges are set such as to achieve full cost recovery by 1998. The high price scenario assumes a collection rate for
water charges of 80 percent by 1998 and a low average water consumption of 1,600 m'/ha/yr in the project area. In the
low price scenario, collection rates rise to 100 percent by 1998 and average water consumption equals 2,500 m31ha/yr.
11.   Budgetary Impact.  As set out in table 2, budgetary subsidies to WEs in the project area are
estimated to equal about US$ 1.6 and 1.7 million equivalent in 1994 and 1995, and would fall to US$ 1.3
and 0.8 million in 1996 and 1997, respectively, in order to be phased out by 1998. Revenues from the
recovery of investment costs would start to be collected in 1999.
TABLE 2: Budget AUocations for WEs in the Project Area
(US$ '000 equivalent)          1994           1995          1996          1997         1998          1999
AVERAGE COST RECOVERY          41%           55%            70%          85%           100%          100%
NET BUDGET IMPACT
Laci                         - 77          - 109         - 74          - 46            0         +131
Kruje                       - 118          - 129         - 88          - 52            0         +138
Tirana                      - 216          - 236        - 177         - 102            0         +234
Durres                      - 195          - 184        - 148          - 94            0         +229
Kavaje                      - 130          - 166        - 114          - 79            0         +201
Lushnje                     - 459          - 446        - 349         - 203            0         +522
Fier                       - 433           - 416        - 319         - 194            0         +488
Total Impact                 - 1,629        - 1,684       - 1,269        - 770            0       + 1,942



- 113 -                                     Annex 8
Page 7 of 19
ANNEX 8.3: Economic Analysis
12.          Basic Assumptions. Over a twenty year period, both incremental recurrent and replacement
costs have been added to investment costs under the project to reflect the full economic costs of the project.
In accordance with the project implementation schedule, phasing of construction works has been assumed
such that 4 percent of the works would be completed in 1995, followed by cumulative completion rates of
27, 55, 80 and 100 percent for years 1996-1999. Incremental farm production was estimated assuming
that each farm in the project area would achieve maximum yields and incremental outputs with a five-year
time-lag after completion of rehabilitation works in order to allow for a temporarily limited use of fertilizer
and pesticides. Current marketing constraints for agricultural produce have been taken into consideration
by reducing the economic value of farm production by 75, 50 and 25 percent during the first three years
of project implementation since farmers are expected to decrease production of non-marketable surplus
output, after satisfying their on-farm consumption needs, if a change in cropping patterns would not resolve
the marketing constraint.
13.          Economic Prices. Since no standard conversion factor (SCF) for Albania exists, economic
prices have been calculated, using different methods depending on the nature of the input or output, as
follows (see the table on economic prices in Attachment 4):
(a) Tradeable outputs such as wheat and maize, which are net imports, and tobacco and cotton, which
are net exports are valued at corresponding import or export parity prices at the farm-gate.
Tradeable project inputs such as fertilizer are valued in the same manner;
(b) Locally consumed outputs and locally produced inputs, such as crops grown as animal feed and
crop seeds, are valued at prevailing local financial prices;
(c) Unskilled labor for agricultural production is valued at its opportunity cost which is assumed to be
close to zero since there are almost no alternative employment possibilities for rural farm labor.
A shadow wage rate of Lek 50/day (US$ 0.50 equivalent) is assumed, rising to Lek 360/day within
ten years after project start, thus assuming that employment opportunities in the rural area will
improve;
(d) Unskilled labor for project construction works is valued at its opportunity cost, assuming that
currently about 50 percent of the unskilled labor force would be unable find any employment, while
the remainder would find employment at the official current Government minimum wage rate of
Lek 45/hour (Lek 360/day). Indirect costs, amounting to 2.36 times the direct labor cost, are not
factored into the economic wage rate. These assumptions result in a shadow wage rate of Lek
180/day for the five-year project construction phase;
(e) Skilled labor for project construction works is priced at the current financial labor market wage rate
of Lek 71/hour, reflecting the large and growing demand for construction works (roads, buildings,
other public infrastructure) in Albania. Consequently, all skilled workers are assumed to be able
to find similar employments as a next best alternative;
(f) Transportation and agricultural mechanization costs are valued at current financial market costs,
rising to international averages within five years. The rise to international prices takes into account
equipment depreciation, repairs and maintenance, and replacement costs for obsolete farm
equipment. The average assumed equivalent world market price for farm mechanization equipment
(including fuel, labor to run the equipment, depreciation, repairs and maintenance) is US$ 20 per
hour;
(g) Water charges for irrigation are assumed at US$ 50 per ha for system operation and maintenance.
Infrastructure investment costs have been included in the project's total investment costs.



Annex 8                                       - 114 -
Page 8 of 19
FIGURE 6: Economic Rates of Return
ERR
30%                    28%
25%            24__ __ __ __ __ __
20%                                    246gt5%|Districtl
ERR
10% 0            -U--------   E         f* Project
10% ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~i                                      ERR (17 %)
0 %
Laci    Kruje   Tirana  Lushnje  Kavaje   Fier   Durres
14.   ERR and Sensitivity Analysis. The weighted average economic rate of return for the project, taking
into account all project components, equals 17 percent. ERRS for individual project districts are shown in
figure 6, assuming an allocation of project costs that are not linked to specific districts in proportion to
district-based system rehabilitation costs (see table in Attachment 5). Switching values have been calculated
assuming a benchmark discount rate of 12 percent. The results reveal that project costs would have to rise
by 35 percent, or project benefits drop by 25 percent compared to appraisal values to make project
investments non-viable (see figure 7). An increase in construction costs of more than 35 percent is highly
unlikely given the advanced stage of project design. A reduction of benefits by more than 25 percent is
equally unlikely in light of the already conservative assumptions made about farmers' ability to market
incremental surplus production. The project would also remain economically viable under the assumption
of a two-year time-lag for expected benefits to materialize.
FIGURE 7: Sensitvity Analysis
ERR
-4- SV Cairn * 35%
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ SV beaf *25%
40%                                                             BY  Y '  * 2 2
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -12 S 5WO RR
30%
2D%
12 %  Bwhw ERR 
.70%t  OD%  .6%  -40%A  -30%  -20%  -10%  0%  10%  20  30  40%  50  60  70  30  90
-10%
0    1    2    3    4
Log Years



Farm Models (Example: Zone 1)
Zone I Rainfed -  Tigation Level 2
Financial Budget (Aggregated)
(in Lek '000)
_An -ugust
1      2        3       4        6        5      7 o020     1       2        3        4        5        6     7to 2
Main Production
Whea (ptairma)               14.68   15.69    16.70    17.72    18.73    19.74    19.74    14.68    15.69    16.70    17.72    18.73    19.74    19.74
azed                            - ,     ,        ,        ,        ,       ,        ,     4.82     5.53     653      7.59    8.73     9.20        9.20
maize                             -        -       -     9.76    10.16    10.51    10.61    11.04    10.59    10.59
SugkwAwes                    0.94    0.94     0.94     0.94     0.94     094     0.94     0.47     0.47     0.47     0.47    0.47     0.47     0.47
Potts                                            -        -        .                      1.50     1. 8     1.76     1.84     1.92    1.92     1.92
Tomatoe s                               ,           ,                                     4.90     8.07    118    15.78    20.45    20.45    20,4S
Vege1a1les                    8.93   14.25    19.57    24.90    30.22    35.54    35.54    10.52    18.36    27.37    37.34    48.86    57.23    5723
Cotton                          -       -        -        -        -       -        -     5.15     5.54     5.94     6.34     6.73    6.73     6.73
F:oddor.                     10.80   10.80    10.80    10.80    10.80    10.80    10.80    24.03    25.54    27.02    28.48    29.96    29.96    29.96
calf                         13.50   13.0    13.50    13.50    13.50    13.50    13.50    13.50    13.50    13.50    13.50    13.50    13.50    13.50
Milkc                        30.00   30.00    30.00    30.00    30.00    30.00    30.00    32.00    34.00    36.00    38.00    40.00    40.00    40.00
Lambs                         6.00    6.00    6.00     6.00     6.00     6.00    6.00     6.W      6.00     6.00     6.00     6.00    6.00     6.00
Sub-toal Main Production      64.5   91.18    97.52   103.86   110.18   116.62   i16.62   127.13   144.54   163.49   183.17 206.10   215.79   215.79
By Products                                                                                                                                                         R
Broducts                                         ,        ,        ,        ,       ,     O0       0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    000      0.00
Sfrw                          3.56    3.56     3.56    3.56     3.56     3.56     3.56     4.69    4.82     4.96     5.09     5.23    5.23     5.23
51-ovr                                                                                    4.49     4.86     5.22     5.58     5.92    5.92     5.92
Surflowers*by-oducts          0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00       -
Potaoes  'podcts                        O-       -        -        .            -         0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00
Subtotal Byproducts             357    3.57     3.57     3.57     3.57     3.57    3.57     9.18     9.68    10.18    10.68    11.15    11.15    11.15
Gross Value Of Production      88.42   94.75   101.08   10742   113.75   120.08   120.08   136.31   15423   173.66   194.55   217.34   226.93   226.93
On-Farm Conumption
Consumption                  73.20   7320    73.20    73.20    7320    7320    7320   106.90   106.90   106.90   106.90   106.90   106.90   106.90
Net Value Of Production         3.80   10.78    20.91    34.22    40.55    46.88    46.88    7.35    23.66    50.07    87.65   110.44   120.03   120.03
Production Cost
Seeds                         3.02    3.02     3.02    3.02     3.02     3.02     3.02     6.24    6.24     6.24     6.24     6.24     6.24    6.24
Land Preparation              4.20    5.38     6.56     7.74    8.92    10.10    10.10     6.74     8.62    10.51    1240    14.29    16.17    16.17
Sedng / pfI*i9                0.21    0.21     0.21     0.21    021      0.21     0.21     0.35     0.35    0.35     0.35     0.35     0.35     0.35
ssP (4%)                      0.02    0.02     0.02     0.02     0.02    0.02     0.02     0.42     0.84    126      1.68     2.10     2.10     2.10
SSP(45%)                      0.74    0.74     0.74     0.74     0.74    0.74     0.74     0.82     1.17     1.51    1.86     220      220      2.20
nou(60 n       3              0.02    0.02     0.02     0.02     0.02    0.02     0.02     0.09     0.18    027      0.35     0.44     0.44     0.44
Anmonitin nb t,                          *        *        * -              '        -     0.32     0.64    0.5       127     1.59     1.59     1.59
Manur         o               0.12    0.12     0.12     0.12     0.12    0.12     0.12     024      024     0.24     0.24     024      024      0.24
Hemicl and Oc      e                                                                        00      0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00            OQ
Hetbicidesandlnsecticides     0.24    0.24     024      024      024      024     024      0.91     1.02     1.13     124     1.34     1.34     1.34            CD
Fugcd                          0.19    0.19    0.19     0.19     0.19     0.19    0.19     0.43     0.50     0.57     0.65    0.72     0.72     0.72              o
Marv als,tool5                025    0.25      025      025      025      025     025      2.82     2.82     2.82     2.82    2.82     2.82     2.82
Hai sti(g ecan)atlon)       0.82    0.90     099      1.07     1.15     123     123      1.06     1.17     129      1,41    1.52     1.63     1.63            _



- x
00
/September - August
Without Project                                                 With Project
1       2       3        4        6        6      7to20      1        2        3        4        5        6     7to20
Trmnspoftcosts                             0.32    0.68     1.04     1.40     1.77     2.13     2.13     1.45    3.32     5.41     7.78    10.36    12.48    12.48
Packaging                                  1.51    1.51     1.51     1.51     1.51     1.51     1.51    2.62     2.83     3.03     3.23     3.44     3.44     3.44
Sub-Total ProductionCost                    11.66   13.28    14.91    16.53    18.16    19.78    19.78    24.50    29.93    35.60    41.52    47.65    51.77    51.77
OUTFLOWS                                  11.66   13.28    14.91    16.53    18.16    19.78    19.78    24.50    29.93    35.60    41.52    47.66    51.77    51.77    _
CashFlowBeforeFinancing                     -7.86   -2.51     6.00    17.69    22.40    27.11    27.11   -17.15    *6.27    14.48    46.13    62.78    68.26    68.26
Farm Family Benefits Before Financing      65.34   70.69    7920    90.89    95.60   100.31   100.31    89.75   100.63   121.38   153.03   169.68   175.16   175.16
Sources of Finance
DbijrsementsonShortTermLoan               2.92    3.32      3.73     4.13    4.54      4.94    4.94     6.13     7.48     8.90    10.38    11.91    12.94    12.94
Loan Repayments
ShottTerm Principal                       2.92    2.92      3.32     3.73     4.13     4.54     4.94    2.92     6.13     7.48     8.90    10.38    11.91    12.94
Short Term Interest                       0.23    0.23      027      0.30     0.33     0.36     0.40    0.23     0.49     0.60     0.71     0.83     0.95     1.04
Sub-Total Loan Repayments                   3.15    3.15      3.59     4.03     4.46     4.90    5.34     3.15     6.62     8.08     961    11.21    12.87    13.98
Net Financing                               -0.23    0.17     0.14    0.11     0.08      0.04    -0.40    2.98     0.87     0.82     0.77     0.70     0.08    -1.04
On-farm Investment                             -    1.76      1.76     1.76     1.76       -        -        -     3.53     3.53     3.53     3.53        -        -
Cash FlowAfterFinancing&Invest             -8.09   -4.10      4.38    16.03    20.71    27.15    26.71   -14.17    -8.93    11.77    43.37    59.96    68.34    6723
Contribution from own savings                      -            -                 -        -        -   -18.38                 -        -        -        -
Farm Family Benefits After Financing & Invest    65.11   69.10    77.58    89,23    93.91   100.35    99.91    74.35    97.97   118.67   15027   166.86   17524   174.13
MinimumClFtoPayCashExps.b/fWaterCharg         10    12.5       15      17.5      20      22.5      25       10     12.5       15     17.5       20     22.5       25
Disposable Income AtF Cash Exps. BtF Water Ch  -       -         -              0.71     4.65     1.71       -        -        -    25.87    39.96    45.84    4223



Zone 1 Irrigation Level 1 -- Level 2
Financial Budget (Aggregated)
(in Lek '000)
_Septmmber -August
Wi"hout Project                                               Wihh Project
1       2        3        4       5        C 6    . to 20   1        2        3       4        6        6     7 to 20
Main Producton                14.63    15.69    16.70    17.72    18.73    19.74    19.74    14.68    15.69    16.70    17.72    18.73    19.74    19.74
W p y4.62  4.94  528      5.57    5.89     8.22     6.21    4.62     5.53     M53     7.59    8A73      9.20    920
Whe(pin.) 870                         8       80.7     7.96     7.64    7A       7.33     9.76    10.16    10.51    10.81    11.04    10.59    10.59
sumae                        1.7      0.27    0.47     047      0.47    0.47     0.47     0.47    0.47     0.47     0.47    0.47     0.47     OA7
Sunfowws  1.23  131  131  131     131      1.31     1.31    1.50     1.68     1.76    1.84     1.92     1.92    1.92
Potdoes                      4.05     6.01    798      9.94    11.91    11.91    11.91    4.90    8.07    11.68    15.78    20.45    20.45    20.45
Tomatos                      8.93    1425    i9.57    24.90    30.22    3554    35.54    10.52    18.36    27.37    37.34    48.66    5723    57.23
Vegetbes                     4.75     4.75    4.75     4.75     4.75    A.75     4.75     5.15    5.54     5.94     6.34     6.73    6.73     6.73
Colton                      2129    2129    21.29    21.29    21.29    21 29    2129    24.03    25.54    27.02    28.48    29.96    29.96    29.96
Fodder                      13.50    13.50    13.50    13.50    13.50    13.50    13.50    13.50    13.50    13.50    13.50    13.50    13.50    13.50
CIlf                        30.00    30.00    30.00    30.00    30,00    30.00    30,00    32.00    34.00    36.00    38.00    40.00    40.00    40.00
aMbs                        S6.00     6.00    6.00     6.00     6.00    6.00     6.00     6.00    6.00     6.00     6.00     6.00    6.00     6.00
Lambsta Main Production    118.43   126.80   135.10   143.41   151.71   158.04   158.04   127.13   144.54   163.49   183.87   206.19   215.79   215.79
Sub-total Mlain Producdio
By Products                    O.                        0.00     0.00    0.00 0.00
Tonutoes                     4.69     4.69    4.69     4.69     4.69    4.69     4.69     4.69    4.82     4.96     5.09     523     523      523
Sumw                         4.00     4.09    4.09     4.09     4.09    4.09     4.09     4.49    4.8      5.22     5.58     5.92    5.92     5.92
Staer                        0.00      0.     00 C0    0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     o.00    0.o0     0.0      0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00
Sunfloiwrs-by-producs        0.00     0.00    0.00    0co0      O.W     0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     o.00    0.00     0.00
Pton byducts                 8.78     8.78     8.78    8.78     8.78    8.78     8.78     9.18    9.68    10.18    10.68    11.15    11.15    11.15
Sub-total Byproducto         12721   135.58   143.89   152.19   160.49   166.83   166.83   136.31   15423   173.66   194.55   217.34   226.93   226.93
On-farmConsumption           106.90   106.90   106.90   106.90   106.90   106.90   106.90   114.90   114.90   114.90   114.90   114.90   114.90   114.90
Nect rlmuempO od nn            5.06    14.34    27.74    4529    53.59    59.93    59.93    5.35    19.66    44.07    79.65   102.44   112.03   112.03
Production Cost                624      6.24    6.24     624      6.24    624      624      6.24    6.24     6.24     6.24    6.24     6.24     6.24
SeeLd                        6.74     8.62    1051    12.40    1429    16.17    16.17     6.74     8.62    10.51    12.40    14.29    16.17    16.17
nP    on                 0.35     0.35     0.35    035      0.35    035      0.35     0.35     0.35    0.35     0.35     0.35    0.35     0.35
Sftd"g I (n iPwf             OA2      0.42     0.42    0.42     0.42     0.42    0.42     0.42     0.84    1.26     1.68     2.10    2.10     2.10
Ur" (46%)                    0.82     0.82     0.82    0.82     0.82    0.82     0.82     0.82     1.17    1.51     1.86     2.20    220      220
SSP(45%)                     0.09     0.09     0.09    0.09     0.09     0.09    0.09     0.09     0.18    0.27     0.35     0.44    0.44     0.44
0.32    0.32     0.32     0.32    032      0.32     0.32    0.32     0.64     0.95     1.27    1.59     1.59     1.59
Amonlum niabte (33%)         024      024      024     024      024      024     024      024      024     024      024      024     024      024
manure                       0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.0      0.00    0.00     0.00
Chmicalpan                   0.83     0.83     0.83    0.83     0.83     0.83    0.83     0.91     1.02     1.13    1.24     1.34     1.34    1.34
HFickds wn kdclcks           0.33     0.33     0.33     033     0.33     0.33    0.33     0.43     0.50    0.57     0.65     0.72     0.72    0.72
FurVides,         2.82     2.82     2.82     2.82    2.82     2.2      2.82    2.82     2.82     2.82    2.82     2.82     2.82    2.82
Mwng(n tIiools                1.06    1.17     127      1.3S    1.49     1.6      1.60    1.06     1.17     129     1.41     1.52     1.63    1.63
Hamp n (mecanbmdo)           1.26     2.69     4.13     5.56    6.99     8.42     6.42    1.45     3.32  5.A        7.78    1036    12.48    12.48       O
Transportcot                                                                                                                                                iC



(D X
~o
0
/September - August
Without Project                                                With Project
1       2        3        4        6        6      7 to 20    1       2        3        4        6        6     7 to 20
-clckagIng                                 2.31     2.31     2.31    2.31     2.31     2.31     2.31     2.62     2.83     3.03     3.23    3.44     3.44     3.44
'S  TotaiProductionCost                     23.83    27.26    30.69    34.11    37.54    40.96    40.96    2450    29.93    35.60    41.52    47.66    51.77    51.77
v JTFLOWS                                 23.83    2726    30.69    34.11    37.54    40.96    40.96    24.50    29.93    35.60    41.52    47.66    51.77    51.77
C.nhFlowBeforeFinancing                    -18.76   -12.91    -2.95    11.18    16.05    18.96    18.96   -19.15  -10.27     8.48    38.13    54.78    60.26    60.26
Frrm  FamilyBenefits Before Financing       88.14    93.99   103.95   118.08   122.95   125.86   125.86    95.75   104.63   123.38   153.03   169.68   175.16   175.16
S%n . ces of Finance
.sbursementonShotTerm Loan                 5.96     6.81     7.67    8.53     9.38    10.24    10.24     6.13     7.48     8.90    10.38    11.91    12.94    12.94    -
L.. Repayments
-.nort Term Principal                      5.96     5.96     6.81    7.67     8.53     9.38    10.24     5.96     6.13    7.48     8.90    10.38    11.91    12.94
9hort Term Interest                        0.48     0.48     0.55    0.61     0.68     0.75     0.82     0.48     0.49    0.60     0.71     0.83     0.95     1.04
5-b-Total Loan Repayments                    6.44     6.44     7.36    829      9.21    10.14    11.06     6.44     6.62    8.08     9.61    11.21    12.87    13.98
Net Financing                               -0.48     0.38     0.31    0.24     0.18     0.10    -0.82    -0.31     0.87    0.82     0.77     0.70     0.08    -1.04
C.; -farm Investment                            *     1.76     1.76     1.76     1.76       -        -        -    3.53     3.53     3.53     3.53        -        -
C.hFlowAtterFinancingLInvest               -19.23   -14.30    -4.40    9.66    14.46    19.07    18.15   -19.46   -12.93    5.77    35.37    51.96    60.34    59.23
Coitribution from own savings                   -       -        -        -        -                 -   -18.38                -
F   nFamilyBenefitsAfterFinancing&invest    87.67    92.60   102.50   116.56   121.36   125.97   125.05    77.06   101.97   120.67   150.27   166.86   175.24   174.13
Mi-imum CIF to PayCash Exps. bf WaterCharg    10      12.5      15     17.5       20     22.5      25       10      12.5      15     17.5       20     22.5      25
Dposabile ncome A/F Cash Exp. BIF Water C           -        -        -            -        -        -        -       -        -    17.87    31.96    37.84    3423



- 119 -                                              Annex 8
Page 13 of 19
ATTACHMENT 2
Financial Prices for Farm Inputs and Outputs (in Lek)
Ieptembem -Awgust
Unit      1994        1995         1996        1997         1998     1991 to2013
Ou0uts
Wheat (plans-ealy)
Wheat (ans-ear)                   T        14.000.00    14,9S4.00    15.928.00   16,892.00    17,856.00    18,820.00
Wheat (plans-main)
Vheat (plIns-maIns)               T        14.000.00    14,964.00    15,928.00    16,892.00    17,856.00    18,20.00
Maize
Mize                              T        14,800.00    14,277.00    13,754.00    13,231.00    12.708.00    12,188.00
Sunflowws
Sunflowes                         T        12,000.00    12,000.00    12,000.00    12,000.00    12,000.00    12,000.00
Potatoes
Potatoes  t                       T        21,000.00    22,284.00    22,284.00    22,284.00    22,284.00    22284.00
Tobacco
Tobacco (V) pain                  T       120,000.00   120,000.00   120,000.00   120,000.00   120,000.00   120000.00
Bea"
Besna1 (plains)                   T        28,000.00    28,000.00    28,000.00    28,000.00    28,000.00    28,000.00
Bans 2 (plains)                   T        18,000.00    18,000.00    18,000.00    18,0W.00    18,000.00    18,000.00
Bsns b-poduct                     T           20.00        20.00       20.00        20.00       20.00        20.00
Tomatoes
Tomatoes                          T        18,000.00    23,785.00    31,530.00    3029.00    47,060.0    47,O0.00
Tomatos by-product                T           30.00        30.00       30.00        30.00        30.00       30.00
Vegetabes
Vegetabls                         T        13,000.00    20,750.00    28,500.00    38250.00    44,000.00    51,750.00
Cotton
Coaon                             T        40,000.00    40,000.00    40,000.00    40,000.00    40,000.00    40,000.00
Fodder
ANala (plains)                    T         1,800.00     1,60.00     1,600.0      160.00      1,800.00     1,800.00
F0on maize (plains)               T         1,400.00    1,400.00     1,400.00     1,400.00    1400.00      1,400.00
Summ  forage                      T         1,3.00      1,300.00     1,300.00     1,300.00    1,300.00     1,300.00
Winter frage                      T         1,000.00     1,000.00    1,000.00     1,000.00    1,000.00     1,000.00
straw
straw                             T         3,000.00    3,000.00     3,000.00     3,000.00    3,000.00     3,00O.0
Stover
Stover                            T         3,000.00    3,000.00     3,000.00     3,000.00    3,00.00      3,00=0.
Sunflowrs-by-products
Sunflowrs-b     ts                T           20.00        20.00       20.00        20.00        20.00       20.00
Potatoes by-product.
Potaoe by-products                T           30.00        30.00       30.00        30.00        30.00       30.00
calf
Calf                             unit      13,500.00    13,50.00    13,00.00    13,500.00    13,50.00    13,500.00
M1Uk
Milk                             Kg           20.00        20.00       20.00        20.00        20.00       20.00
Lambs
Lambs                            unit       2,000.00    2,000.00     2,000.00     2,000.00    2,000.00     2,000.00
Consumption
Consumpton (on trm)             lbk            1.00         1.00         1.00        1.00         1.00        1.0
hIputs
Seeds
SoodsCotton                      Kg           100.00      100.00       100.00      100.00       100.00      100.00
Seeds/Wheat                      Kg           22.50        22.50        22.50       22.50        22.50       22.50
Seeds  Maize                     Kg           34.00        34.00        34.00       34.00        34.00       34 00
Seeds / Alfafa                   Kg          400.00       400.00       400.00      400.00       40.00       40000
Seds / Suotlowrs                  Kg          29.00        29.00        29.00       29.00        29.00       29.00
Seds / Potaoe                    Kg           22.50        22.50        22.50       22.50        22.50       22.50
Seds I Tobacco                   Kg          500.00       500.00       500.00      50.00        500.00      500.00
Seeds I Beans                    Kg           35.00        35.00        35.00       35.00        35.00       35.00
See"d/ Tomatos                   Kg        10.000.00    10,000.00    10,000.00    10,000.00    10,000.00    10,000
Seeds / Vegtbles                 Kg         1,000.00     1,000.00    1,000.00     1,000.00    1,000.00     1,0.00
Seeds  Sugar beet                Kg        10,000.00    10,000.00    10,000.00    10.000.00    10,000.00    10,00000
S"ed / Met" brag                 Kg           20.00        20.00       20.00        20.00        20.00       20.00
Seeds I Summer foraeg            Kg          500.00       500.00       500.00      500.00       500.00      500.00
Seeds I Wintr forage             Kg           25.00        25.00        25.00       25.00        25.00       25.0



Annex 8                                                  - 120 -
Page 14 of 19
Lnd Prpartion
Pdimy cutiatIon                     hm           633.00      1,086.00     1,300.00      1,533.00     1,767.00      2,000.00
Sacondary cultiaon                  h            8633.00     1,086.00     1,300.00      1,533.00     1,767.00      2,000.00
Seeding I planting
Seefing I pblaing                   h'           200.00       200.00        200.00       200.00        200.00       200.00
FPelIze* application
Fwtle applicaSon                    hi           200.00       200.00        200.00       200.00        200.00       200.00
Ursa (46%)
Urh  (46%)                          Kg            22.00        22.00         22.00        22.00         22.00        22.00
SS3P(4%)
SSP (45%)                           Kg             6.50         8.50          8.50         8.50          8.50         6.50
SoP(60%)
Sop (60%)                           Kg            15.90        15.90         15.90        15.90         15.90        15.90
Anwmonium nltatats (33%)
Ammonlum nirat (33%)                Kg            16.00        16.00         16.00        16.00         16.00        16.00
Manure
Man,                                Kg             0.10         0.10          0.10         0.10          0.10         0.10
Chenical appication
CFmial appiadons                    his          200.00       200.00        200.00       200.00        200.00       200.00
Herbicide and Insectcides
Hwbid                               itr          170.00       170.00        170.00       170.00        170.00       170.00
hweclckid                           Mr           800.00       800.00        800.00       800.00        600.00       80C.00
Funglcdes
Fungicides                          Kg           400.00       400.00        400.00       400.00        400.00       400.00
MIerlals& tools
Mtekriand tools                    UnIt          200.00       200.00        200.00       200.00        200.00       200.00
arvesting (mecanzaion)
Harvesting (mIecanlbton)            hs         1,330.00      1,464.00     1,506.00      1,732.00     1666.00       200000
Traport cost
T.rdport                            hs           300.00       640.00        980.00      1,320.00     1,660.00      2,000.00
Packaging
Ba I pciraging                     places         30.00        30.00         30.00        30.00         30.00        30.00
Wal hrles
Maitenace



- 121 -                                                                   Annex 8
Page 15 of 19
ATTACHMENT 3
Cost Recovery in the Proiect Area
1994        1995         1996        1997        1998        1999      2000+1
1 Loci DistAct
Revenus Area (ha)
Systems under the Pro1ect                   9000         6080         6540        7100        7600        8000        8000
Non-prolect systems                          546          592          592         637         637         728         728
Total                                       6546         6672         7132        7737        8237        8728        8726
Price of Water (Lsk/m31
Low consumption (1.600 n3/ha/yrl              1.6          2.5         2.6          3.0        3.2          3.3         3.5
H.qh consmpt,on t2.500 m3/ha/yrl                           1.6          1.7         1.9        2.0          2.1         2.2
Revenue Generated (US$/ha)
For WEs l0hMI                                  13           20          24          33          39           39          40
For central budget (investments)                0            0           0            0          0           19          IS
Total                                          13           20          24          33          39           54          55
Cost Recovery (US$/ha)
WE costs                                       25           36          35          38          39           39          40
WE revenues                                    13           20          24           33         39           39          40
Resulting subsidy to, WES                      12           16          10            6          0            0           0
Level of cost recovery                       52%          55%         70%          65%       100%         100%        100%
Impact on Central Budget IUS$)
Sub.dbes for WEs                         176,924)   1108,748)    174,367)    146,0431          130)         131        (21)
Investment costs recovered                     0            0            0           0           0     130.920    130.920
Net budget outflow / nflow               (76.924)   (10 ,748)    (74,367)    146,043)          (30)    130.917    130,899
2. Kuje District
Revsnue Area (ha)
Systems under the Project                   4649         4736         5239        5851        6398        6635        6835
Non.project systems                          1759        1905         1905        2051        2051        2344        2344
Total                                       6407         6641         7144        7902        6449        9179        9179
Price of Water )Leklm3)
Low consumpoon (11600 m33ha/y)                1.9          3.0          3.2         3.7         3.9         4.1         4.5
High conosmptron (2.500 m3/lh/yr)                          1.9          2.0         2.4         2.5         2.7         2.9
Rovenue Generated (US$/hal
For WEs, O&MI                                  13           24          29          39          46           47          51
For central budget (investments)                0            0           0            0          0           15          15
Total                                          13           24          29          39          46           62          68
Cost Recovery LUS$/hil
WE costs                                       31           43          42           45         46           47          S1
WE ovenues                                     13           24          29           39         46           47          St
Resulting subsdy for WEs                       18           19          12            7          0            0           0
Level of cost recovery                       41%          55%         70%          B5%       100%         100%        100%
Impact on Central Budget (US$)
Subsidies for WEs                       (117,920)   11289963)    (17,991)    (52.072)          (96)         (21         50
Investment costs recovered                     0            0            0           0           0     137,665    137,685
Not budget outflow /inflow              1117,920)   l128.963)    (97.991)    (52072)           (961    137 863    137,735
3. Ttnns, District
Revenue Area (hal
Systems under the Project                   4705         4785         5243        5600        6298         6696        6896
Non-project systems                         6700         7259         7259        7817        7817         8934       8934
Toted                                      11405        12043        12501       13617       14115       15630       15630
Pnce of Water )Lekim3l
Low conaumopton I 1.60o m3/h/yrl              1.8          3.0          3.8         4.5         4.7         6. 1        5.1
H,gh conaunmpton (2,500 m3/ha/yrl                          1.9          2.4         2.9         3.0         3.3         3.3
Rwvenue Generated (US$/ha)
For WEs (06&M                                  13           24          33           44         51           53          53
For central budget linvestments)                0            0           0            0          0           IS          1S
Total                                          13           24          33           44         51           68          68
Cost Recovery (US$/hal
WE coat.                                       32           43          48           52         S1           53          53
WE revenus                                     13           24           33          44         51           53          53
Resulting ubsidy for WES                       19           20           14           8          0            0           0
Level of cost recovery                       41 %         55%         70%          a5%       100%         100%        100%
Impact on Central Budget 1US$)
Subs.dies for WEs                       (216,297)   (235.5241   (176.501)   (102.479)         (232)         11           10
Investnment costs recovered                    0            0            0           0           0     234,444    234.444
Net budget outflow / mnifow             (216,297)   (235.524)   117868011   (102.479)         1232)    234.455    234.454
4. Dus". District
Revenue Ares (ha)
Systems under the Project                   2250         2543         4229        6262        8114         9580        9680
Non-proect systems                          4281         4638         4638        4995        4995         5708        5708
Toted                                       6531         7181         9867       11276       13109        15288       15288
Price of Water (Leki,31)
Low consumpt,on (11600 m3fha/yrl              1.6          3.9          4.2         4.5         4.9         5.2          5.6
H.gh consumption (2.500 m31ha/yrl                          2.5          2.7         2.9         3.1         3.3          3.6
Revenue Generated (US$/ha)
ForWEslO&M)                                    13           31          36           47         56           57          62
For central budget lonvestments(                0            0            0           0          0           1S          15
Total                                          13           31          36           47         56           72          77
Cost Recovery (US$/ha)
WE costs                                       43           57           55          55         56           57          62
WE evenues                                     13           31           38          47         56           57          62
Resultng subsidy for WES                       30           26           17           8          0            0           0
Lavce of cost recovery                       30%          55%         70%          85%       100%         100%        100%
Impact on Central Budget (US$)
Subsidies for WEo                       (I 94.8731   1184.134)   (147.642)    (94,3911          (61         (4)          (8)
Investment costs recovered                     0            0            0           0           0     229,320    229,320
Net budget outfio  /fntlow              (194.a73)   (184.134)   (147,642)    (94,3911           (af    229.316    229.312



Annex 8                                                                    ^122 -
Page 16 of 19
1994        1995         1996        1997       1998         1999     2000.
5. Kavaje District
Rivenue Are (he)
Sstenms under the Project                  6430         6572        7391         8388       9278        9990        9990
Non-project systems                        2544         2765        2756         2968       2968        3392        3392
Total                                      8974         9328       10147        11356      12248       13382       13382
Price of Water (LekJm3)
Low consumption (1,600 m3thvlyrl             1.8          2.7         2.9         3.7         4.2         4.6         4.9
High conw.mption (2,500 m3lha/yr)                         1.8         1.8         2.4         2.7         2.9         3.2
Revenue Generated (US$Iha)
For WEs )0&M(                                 13          22           26          39         49           52          56
For centre) budget linwvstment)                0           0            0           0           0          I S         1 5
Total                                         13          22           26          39         49           87          71
Cost Recovery (US$/ha)
WE costs                                      27          39           37          46         49           52          58
WE revenues                                   13          22           26          39         49           52          58
Resulting subsidy for WEs                     1 5         18           11           7           0           0           0
Level of cost recovery                      47%         55%          70%         85%        100%        100%       100%
Impect on Centrel Budget (US$1
Subsdiaes tor WEs                      (130,137)   (165,563)   (113,754)    (78.578)         (18)         20          (5)
Investment costs recovered                    0            0           0            0          0    200.730    200.730
Net budget outflow. inflow             (130,1371   (165,583)   (113,754)    (78,576)         (16)   200.750    200,725
t. Luehnls District
Revenue Area (ha)
SystsmsundertheProject                    11770        12002       13336        14960      16410       17570       17570
Non-project systems                       12907        13982        13982       15056      15058        17209      17209
Tota)                                     24877        25984       27318        30018      31468       34779       34779
Price of Water )Lek/m3)
Low consumption (1,800 m3hl3/yr)             1.8          2.7         3.3         4.0         4.5         4.7         4.9
High consumpton (2.500 m3tha1yr)                          1.7         2.1         2.5         2.9         3.0         3.2
Revenue Generated (US/tha)
For WEs. O&M)                                 13          21           29          40         50           50          52
For centrui budget finvestmentul               0           0            0           0           0          1 5         15
Total                                         13          21           29          40          50          8s          87
Cost Recovery 1US$tha)
WE costs                                      32          38           42          48          50          50          52
YErevenuss                                    13          21           29          40          SO          50          52
Resulting subsidy for WEs                     19          17           13           7           0           0           0
Level of cost recovery                      41%         55%          70%         85%        100%        100%        100%
Impact on Central Budget (US4)
SubsidbieslorWEs                       (459.150)    445,907)   (349.485)   (202,7491         (12)        (20)          0
Investment cosls recovered                    0            0           0            0          0    521,882    521,882
Not budget outflow/inflow              (459,150)   (445.907)   (349.485)   (202,7491         (12)    521,682    521,882
7. Fer District
Revenue Area (ha)
Systems under the Project                  9215         9439       10727        12295      13895       14815       14815
Non-project SYatems                       13274        14380       14380        15486      15488       17898       17698
Totel                                     22489        23819       25107        27781      29181       32513       32513
Pr,ce of Water Lek/m3)
Low consumption (1.600 m3hta/yrt             1.8          2.7         3.4         4.0         4.6         5.1         5.5
HWgh consumption 12,500 m3lthe/r(                         1.8         2.2         2.8         3.0         3.2         3.5
Revenue Generated (IUSslta)
For WEs (0&,111)                              13          22           30          40         51           53          58
For centrel budget (inrestmentsl               0           0            0 .         0           0          1 5         1 5
Total                                         13          22           30          40          51          88          73
Cost Recovery (US$/ha)
WE costs                                      32          39           43          47          51          53          58
WE revenues                                   13          22           30          40          51          53          58
Resulting subsidy for WEt                     19          17           13           7           0           0           0
Levl of cost recovery                       40%         55%          70%         85%        100%        100%        100%
Impact on Central Budget (US$)
SubridiesforWEs                        (433,257)   (418,074)   (319,0741   (193.9041          (7)         1B           0
Investment coats recovered                    0            0           0            0          0    487,701    487,701
Net budget outflow (inflow             (433,257)   (416.074)   (319,0741   (193,9041          (7)   487,717    487,701
AlM Prolact DistrIcts
Revenue Area (hal
Systems under the Project                 45019        48158       52705       80676       87793       73486       73486
Non-proj*ct systems                       42010        45510       45510        49011      49011       56013       56013
Tote)                                     87029        91688       98215       109687     116804      129499      129499
Average Price of Water LeUrnm3)
Low consumption t1,800 m3/rhalyrl            1.8          2.9         3.4         4.0         4.4         4.8         5.0
High conumptron (2,500 m3!hatyr)                          1.8         2.2         2.6         2.8         3.1         3.2
Averag Revenue Generated IUSS/ha)
For WEe l0&M)                                 13          23           30          40         50           5 1        54
For central budget (investments)               0           0            0           0           0          1 5         15
Total                                         13          23           30          40          50          66          69
Average Cost Recooerv (US$/ha)
WE cost                                       32          41           43          47          50          51          54
WE revenues                                   13          23           30          40         50           51          54
Resulting subsidy lor WEs                     19          is           13           7           0           0           0
Level of cost recovrvy                      41%         56%          70%         85%        100%        100%       100%
Impact on Central Budget (US$1
Subsdres for WEe                     11.828,558)  tl,584,913) (1,268,914)   1770,214)       (401)         19          25
Investmen costs recovered                     0            0           0            0          0   1.942.482  1,942,482
Net budget (outflow) /inflow         (l1625,5581 tl S84,913) (l,288.914f   1770,214)        (4011  1,942,501   1,942,507



- 123 -                                               Annex 8
Page 17 of 19
ATTACHMENT 4
Economic Prices for Farm Inputs and Outputs (in Lek)
/September - August
Unit      1994         1996        1996         1997        1998      1999 to 2013
Outputs
Wheat (plains-early)
Wheat (plans-early)                 T        18,900.00    18,900.00    18,90.00    18,900.00    18,900.00   18,900.00
Wheat (plains-main)
Wheat (plains-mains)                T        18.900.00    18,900.00    18.900.00    18,900.00    18,900.00    189ooo.o
Maize
Maize                               T        12,000.00    12.00000    12,0.00    12,000.00    12,000.00     12.000.00
Sunflowers
Sunflowes                           T        12,000.00    12,000.00    12,000.00    12,000.00    12,000.00  12,000.00
Pobtate
Potatoes (erly)                     T        22,500.00    22,500.00    22,500.00    22,500.00    22,500.00    22.500.00
Tobacco
Tobacco (v) plains                  T       120,000.00   120,000.00   1200.00   120,000.00   120,000.00    120,000.00
Beans
Beansl (plains)                     T        28,000.00    28,000.00    28,000.00    28,000.00    28,000.00    28,000.00
Beans 2 (plains)                    T        18,000.O0    18,000.00    18,000.00    18,000.00    18,000.00    18,000.00
Beans by-product                    T           20.00        20.00       20.00        20.00       20.00        20.00
Tomatoes
Tomatoes                            T        43.000.00    43,000.00    43,000.00    43,000.00    43,000.00
Tomatos by-product                  T           30.00        30.00       30.00        30.00       30.00        30.00
Vegetables
Vegetables                          T        55,000.00    55,000.00    55,000.00    55,000.00    55,000.00    55,000.00
Cotton
Cotton                              T        44,000.00    44,000.00    44,000.00    44,000.00    44,000.00    44,000.00
Fodder
falf (plains)                       T         1,600.00    1,600.00     1,600.00     1,600.00    1,600.00     1,600.00
Forage maize (plains)               T         1,400.00    1,400.00     1,400.00     1,400.00    1,400.00     1,400.00
Summer forage                       T         1,300.00    1,300.00     1,300.00     1,300.00    1,300.00     1,300.00
Winter forage                       T         1,000.00    1 000.00     1,000.00     1,000.00    1,000.00     1,000.00
Straw
straw                               T         3,000.00    3,000.00     3,000.00    3,000.00     3,000.00     3,000.00
Stover
Stover                              T         3,000.00    3,000.00
Sunflowers-by-products
Sunflowers-byproducts               T           20.00        20.00       20.00        20.00       20.00        20.00
Potatoes by-products
Potatoes by-products                T           30.00        30.00       30.00        30.00       30.00        30.00
Calf
Calf                               unit      13,500.a0   13,500.00    13,500.00    13,50000    1350000      1350000
Milk
Milk                               Kg           20.00        20.00       20.00        20.00        20.00       20.00
Lambs
Lambs                              unit       2,000.00    2,000.00     2,00.00      2,000.00    2,000.00     2,000.00
Consumption
Consumption (on farm)              hk            1.00         1.00         1.00        1.00         1.00        .1.00
Inputs
Seeds
Soeds/Cotlon                       Kg          100.00       100.00       100.00      100.00       100.00       100.00
Seeds I Wheat                      Kg           22.50        22.50        22.50       22.50        22.50        22.50
Seeds / Maize                      Kg           34.00        34.00       34.00        34.00        34.00       34.00
Seeds I AlSfal                     Kg          400.00       400.00      400.00       400.00      400.00       400.00
Seeds J Sunflowers                 Kg           29.00        29.00        29.00       29.00        29.00       29.00
Seeds J Potatoes                   Kg           22.50        22.50        22.50       22.50        22.50       22.50
Seeds /Tobacco                     Kg          500.00       500.00       500.00      500.00       500.00      50G.00
Seeds I Beans                      Kg           35.00        35.00       35.00        35.00        35.00       35.00
SeedslTomatoes                     Kg        10,000.00    10,000.00    10,000.00    10,000.00    10,000.00  10,000.00
Seeds/Vegetables                   Kg         1,000.O0    1,000.00     1,000.00     1,000.00    1,000.00     1,00.00
Seeds /Sugar beat                  Kg        10,000.00    10,000.00    10,000.00    10,000.00    10,000.00  10,000.00
Seeds I Maize forage               Kg           20.00        20.00        20.00       20.00        20.00       20.00
Seeds I Summer foraga              Kg          500.00       500.00      500.00       500-0O      500.00       Soo00
Seeds/Winte forage                 Kg           25.00        25.00        25.00       25.00        25.00        25.00
Land Preparatlon
Primary cultivaton                 hrs         833.00      1,066.DO    1,300.00     1,533.00    1,767.00     2,000.00



Annex 8                                               - 124 -
Page 18 of 19
Secondary cutivation               hrs          833.00     1.066.00     1,300.00    1,533.00     1,767.00    2,000.00
Seeding I planting
S"ding I planting                  hns          200.00      200.00       200.00       200.00      200.00       2D0.00
Fortilizer applicaton
Frtilizer applcasion               hns         200.00       200.00       200.00      200.00       200.00       200.00
Urea (48%)
Ura (46%)                           Kg           12.70       12.70        12.70        12.70       12.70        12.70
SSP(41%)
SSP (45%)                           Kg            6.30        6.30         6.30        6.30         6.30         6.30
SoP(60%)
SoP(60%)                            Kg           12.90       12.90        12.90        12.90       12.90        12.90
Amrnonium nitatate (33%)
Ammornum n1bale (33%)               Kg            6.70        6.70         6.70        6.70         6.70         8.70
Manure
Manure                              Kg           0.10         0.10         0.10        0.10         0.10         0.10
Cherical application
Chemical applicadons               hnr          200.00      200.00       200.00      200.00       2W.00        200.00
Herbicides and insectIcides
Heibid!des                          N           170.00      170.00       170.W        170.00      170.00       170.00
insecdldes er                                   800.00      80.00        800.00       800.00      800.00       800.00
FungIikes
Fungcides                           Kg          400.00      400.00       400.00       400.00      400.00       400.00
MarrlS& tool
Maeaias and tools                  UnIt         200.00      200.00       200.00       200.00      200.00       200.00
Harvesting (mecanlzation)
Hamvsting (mecnkation)             hm         1.330.00     1,464.00    1,598.00     1,732.00     1,866.00    2,000.00
Transport costs
Tnsport                            hns          300.00      640.00       980.00     1,320.00     1,66.00     2,000.00
Packaging
Bag / packagIng                   pleces         30.00       30.00        30.00       30.00        30.00        30.00
Wate charges
Water harges 2(p  n)               M3             3.13        3.13         3.13         3.13        3.13         313
Water charges 1 (plain)            M3             3.13        3.13         3.13         3.13        3.13         3.13
Maintenance
Labor
Esabl &manhtce (male)                days         50.00       112.00       174.00      236.00       298.00       360.00
Es3&bl&mahnce(rnemale)               days         50.00       112.00       174.00      236.00       298.00       3SO60
Harvest & post hav.(male)            das          50.00       112.00       174.00      238.00       298.00       360.00
Haivest & post harv. (female)        days         50.00       112.00       174.00      236.W        298.W        360.00



ATTACHMENT 5
Economic Analysis
(US$ '000)
1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2006    2006    2007    2008    2009    2010    2011    2012    2013
Incremental Benefits
Laci                 (S17)  ($108)   ($79)   $247   ($181)   $334  $1,087  $1,650  S1.954  S2.086  52,086  $2,086  $2,086  S2.086  S2.086  S2,088  S2,086  52,086  52.086
Kruje                  (t1)    (87)    (92)    186    (243)    277       961   1,414   1,689   1,689   1,689   1,689   1,689   1,689   1,689   1,689   1,689   1,689   1,689
Tlrne                (14)    (90)    (65)    193    (257)    270        883   1,348   1,683   1.683   1,683   1,683   1,683   1.683   1,683   1,683   1,683   1,683   1.683
Zone 2            (41)   (285)   (236)    626    (681)    880   2,931   4.412   5,326   5,458   5,458   5,458   5,458   5,458   5,458   5,458   5,458   5,458   5,458
LushnJe                (72)   (504)   (726)   (314)   (850)       67   1,587   2,714   3,318   3,581   3,581   3,581   3,581   3.581   3,581   3,581   3,581   3,581   3.581
Kavaje                (36)   (497)   (425)   (176)   (468)        46     944   1.568   1,877   2,012   2,012   2,012   2,012   2,012   2.012   2,012   2,012   2.012   2,012
Fier                  (41)   (378)   (627)   (267)   (760)        24   1,386   2,312   2,801   2,954   2,954   2,954   2,954   2,954   2,954   2,954   2,954   2,954   2,954
Dunes                  (22)   (163)   (210)      56    (285)    (78)    661   1,186   1,457   1,572   1,572   1,572   1,572   1,572   1,572   1,572   1,572   1,572   1,572
Zone 1           (172)  (1,543)  (1,988)   (701)  (2,364)    59   4,577   7,780   9,453  10,119  10,119  10,119  10,119  10,119  10,119  10,119  10,119  10,119  10,119
Total Incremental Bonefit  (213)  (1,828)  (2,224)    (76)  (3,045)    939   7,508  12,192  14,779  15,577  15,577  15,577  15,577  15,577  15,577  15,577  15,577  15,577  15,577
Incremental Costs
Lacd                 1,273    1,444    1,375    894      299     735      86      40      37     205     632   1,104   1.099      685     198     135      39      86      82
Kruje                 665      574      556     368      176     310      36      17      16      99     310     391      389     245     109      57      16      36      35,
Tirane                579      459      445     297      160     232      27      13      12      68      179     186     186     116      69      43      12      27      26_
Zone2           2,518   2,478    2,376    1,559     636    1,277     149     70       64     372   1.121   1,683   1,674   1,046    376      235      67     150     14$.
Lushnie              1,358    1,243    1,172    752     357      696      81      38      35     240     810   1,025   1,020      646    280      128      37      82      7&e'
Kavaje               1,070     884      829     552     295      503      59      28      25     177     564     573      570     362    210       93      27      59      56'
Fier                 1,727    1,492    1.408    933     465      929     108      51      47     351   1,224   1,380   1,373      877    435      171      49     109     104
Dunes                1,026     979      928     612     273      464      54      25      23     139     419     550      547     369     144      85      24      55      52
Zone 1          5,181    4,599    4,337    2.849   1,391    2,592   302      142     130     908   3,017   3,528   3,510   2,254   1,068     477     137     305    289
TotalCosts             7,699    7,077    6.712    4,407   2.027    3,869   450     212     194   1,279   4,138   5,211   5,184   3,300   1,444     712      204     455    432
Net Incremental Benefits
Lacd                (1,290)  (1,552)  (1.453)   (647)   (481)   (401)  1,002   1,609   1,918   1,882   1,454     982      987   1,401   1,889   1,951   2,047   2,000   2,004
Kruje                (676)   (662)   (648)   (182)   (419)    (33)    925   1,398   1,673   1,589   1,379   1,297   1,299   1,443   1,579   1,632   1,672   1,652   1,654
Tirane               (593)   (549)   (511)   (104)   (417)        38     856   1,335   1,672   1,615   1,504   1,495   1,497   1,567   1,614   1,640   1,671   1,656   1,657
Zone2           (2,559)  (2.763)  (2,611)   (933)  (1,317)   (396)  2,783   4.342   5,262   5.086   4.337   3,775   3,784   4,412   5,082   5,223   5,391   5,308   5,315
Lushnje             (1,430)  (1,747)  (1.898)  (1,066)  (1,208)   (630)  1,508   2,676   3.283   3,3.40   2,771   2,556   2,561   2,934   3.300   3,452   3,544   3,499   3,503
Kavaje              (1,106)  (1,381)  (1,254)   (728)   (764)   (457)    885   1,541   1,852   1,834   1,448   1,439   1,442   1,650   1.802   1,919   1,985   1,953   1,956
Fier                (1,768)  (1,870)  (2,035)  (1,200)  (1,225)   (904)  1,278   2,261   2,755   2,603   1,731   1,575   1,581   2,077   2,520   2,783   2,905   2,845   2,851
Dunes               (1,048)  (1,143)  (1.138)   (556)   (558)   (542)    607   1,161   1,434   1,433   1,153   1,022   1,025   1,203   1,428   1,486   1,547   1,517   1,520
Zone 1          (5,353)  (6,142)  (6.325)  (3.550)  (3,755)  (2.533)  4,276   7.638   9,323   9,211   7,102   6,591   6,609   7,865   9,050   9,642   9,982   9,814   9,829
Net Incremental Benefi ($7,912) ($8,905) ($8,936) ($4,483) ($5,072) ($2,930) $7,058 S11.980 S14,585 $14,297 S11,439 510,366 510,393 $12,277 $14,132 $14,865 S15,373 $15.122 S15.145
93
(9
x
00



- 126 -



- 127 -                                     Annex 9
Page 1 of 2
ALBANIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Annex 9: Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1.  ALBANIA: Law on Plant Protection Service (Law on Pest Management), Law No. 7662 of
January 19, 1993
2.  ALBANIA: Presidential Decree on the Transfer of Selected Irrigation and Drainage Works
under the Administration of Communes, Decree No. 576 of June 28, 1993
3.  ALBANIA:  Guidelines for Safe and Effective Use of Pesticides (Booklet in Albanian
Language), Published by the Project Implemenation Unit of the World Bank Critical Imports
Project, Tirana, March 1993
4.  ALBANIA: System Inventories and Scope of Required Rehabilitation Works for Irrigation
and Drainage Schemes in Seven Costal Districts, Institute for Study and Design of Water
Works, Tirana, November 1993
5. ALBANIA: List of Communal, Village and Feeder Roads (Unpaved) in Seven Costal
Districts, Ministry of Transport and Communications, Tirana, June 1993
6.  CAPONERA, Dante, Albania: Water Policy, Administration and Legislation, Report to the
Government of Albania, Tirana, June 1993
7.  FAO, Albania: Irrigation Subsector Review, Sector Mission Report, Rome, July 1992
8.  FAO, Albania: Irrigation and Drainage Rehabilitation Project, Preparation Mission Report,
Rome March 1993
9.  GELI, Henri, Albania: Water User Association Training - Action Plan, Mission Report,
BRL-GERSAR, Nimes/ France, June 1993
10. GELI, Henri, Albania: Consultancy for WUA Trainer - Mission Report, BRL-GERSAR,
Nimes/ France, October 1993
11. GERSAR, Albanie: Augmentation du Potentiel de Production de L'Amenagement Hydro-
Agricole de la Plaine de Korca, Project Preparation Report, BRL-GERSAR, Nimes/ France,
January 1993
12. IFAD, Albania: Mountain Areas Irrigated Agriculture Development Project, Mission
Report, Rome, April 1993
13. MARLAND, D.L., Albania: Training in the Safe Storage, Transport and Use of Pesticides,
Report to the Government of Albania, Tirana, May 1993



Annex 9                                       - 128 -
Page 2 of 2
14. NANNI, Marcella, Albania: Water Users' Association Legislation, Report to the Governmnent
of Albania, Tirana, May 1993
15. THE NETHERLANDS, Albania: Agricultural Development in Fier, Mission Report, The
Hague, January 1993
16. ONCUL, Ayhan, Albania: Water User Associations: Establishment - Management, Mission
Report, Ankara, August 1993
17. SCHULZE, F.E., Albania: Off-Farm Irrigation Management, Mission Report, Doorwerth/
Netherlands, July 1993
18. WORLD BANK, European Community, An Agricultural Strategy for Albania, Joint Strategy
Report, Washington, October 1992



ALBANIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Annex 10.1: Project Phasing
1994                 1995                  1996                 1997                  1998                 1999
Otr i atr 2     Qtr 4 Qtr I Qtr 2 Qtr 3 Qtr 4 atr  Qtr 2 Qtr 3 Qtr4 Qtr 1 Qtr 2 Qtr 3 Qtr4  tr 1 Qtr 2 Qtr 3 Qtr4 Qtr 1 Qtr 2 Qtr3 Qtr4
SYSTEM REHABILITATION                 +                             I
1. Lac District                  ___                                                 I
Irrigation Works
Design                                                         ___                                                                              _______
Tender
Procurement
Construction
Drainage Works
Design
Tender
Procurement                                                                                                                        _          -. _   -__
Construction
2. Kruje District
Irrigation Works
Design
Tender
Procurement-                                                                                                                                      -I-
Constructio`n
Drainage Works
Design
Tender
Procurement
Construction
3. Tirana District
Irrigation Works 
Design                                                                                                                                                        r
Tender                                   __o
0o  C



ALBANIA                                                                                                >
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT                                                                                                 CD
Annex 10.1: Project Phasing
1994                  1995                  1996                  1 1997   _            1998                  1999
P_______________         Qt 1 Qtr 2oQtr 3 Otr 4 Qtr 1 Qtr 2 Qtr 3 Qtr 4 Qtr 1 Ot 2 Qtr 3    Qtr 1 Qtr 2 ftr3 Qtr 4 Qtr 1 Qtr 2 Otr 3 Qtr 4 Qtr 1Qtr 2 Qtr 3 Qtr 4
Procurement                                             ~                                                                           _
Construction              _        I                    _              -                        i                              -       t-
Drainaige Works
Design
Tender
Procurement                                         ---t-1                           1       -        I    I     --                                                  w
Construction                    _           _                       _                                                        m t    I    I
4. Durres District
Irrigation Works
Design                                          -T__
Tender
Procurement
Construction   r _                           t                                   -  -  -  -  -
Drainage Works
Design-
Tender-
Procurement
Construction
5. Kavaja District
Irrigation Works
Design
Tender
Procurement
Construction
Drainage Works
Design
Tender



ALBANIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Annex 10.1: Project Phasing
1994                 1995                 1996                  1 997                 1998                 1999
Qtr 1 Qtr 2 Qtr 3 Qtr 4 Qtr 1 Qtr 2 Qtr3 Qtr 4 Qtr 1 Qtr 2 Qtr3 Qtr 4 Qtr 1 Qtr 2 Qtr 3 Qtr 4 Qtr I Qtr2 Qtr3 Qtr 4  trI Qtr 2 Qtr 3 Qtr 4
Procurement
Construction
6. Lushnje District
Irrigation Works
Design
Tender
Procurement
Construction
Drainage Works
Design
Tender                                                                                                                                                         -
Procurement                                                                                                    _
Construction
7. Fier District                                                                     It
Irrigation Works
Tender
Procurement
Construction
Drainage Works
Design
Tender
Procurement
Construction
8. Canal Control Pilot Scheme
Design
Tender



ALBANIA                                                                                            >
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Annex 10.1: Project Phasing                                                                              c
00
1994                 1995                 1996                 1997                 1998                 1999
P u etr Itr 4rtr3|   Qtr         2 Qtr 3 Qtr4 Qt       Q tr 3 Qtr4 1 Q  2      Qtr4 3t tr   tr 2Qtr      Qtr  1   Qtr 3tr4
Training                    _ ._        _  |         .__                        ___          _     t.4[t-!
-____________ ---                                  I       _ , __                   __  __    ___             _tr  __ __                      ___X      ,
______________________                             __    _      __             _ __  ___  __   .t ._ ____
2. Design Capacity    t_5__:         
3. WUA Establishment                                                                                                                        r 
__ __ __ __ - - __ _         2t tr f  r4__                      ;   _  _   C1--t
111. POLICYoSUPPORTion                                        _    . -                  -   -                                                 _ L
1. Irrigation CodeVEOPEN|-                                                                            -             --            ------  -
2. SmallSystem Turnover                                                             - 
3. WUA Consolidation                                  - _                  - |                                 - 1                            im
4.    Water Charges M                      i  . _                           -                    - I
5. Private Pumping Development t=1T42   -l_4t... 
IV. IMPLEMENTATiONSUPPORT
PMUSupport                     fl    i    i-  ~ --        i --t_tF I    I                      t   t      I             }    t    -       j-_   j     
_ II                                  II_                                  I     I- 



- 133 -                                         Annex 10
Page 5 of 8
ANNEX 10.2:
Rehabilitation of an
Irrigation/Drainage Scheme
Step/Stage                                 Institutions Involved
Proposal                                     WaterEnterprises
I
Project Management
Review                                             Unit
I
Approval                             Department for Land, Water and Rural
Approval                           ~~~~~~~~Development
Major Schemes                              Minor Schemes
Desig                Institute for Study and                      Wae Enepie
Desig n          |Design of Water Works                          W
Review/Approval/Procurement                           Project Management Unit
II1
Construction                                 Private Local Contractor
Works Supervision                                                         enterprises
Works Supervisionignof Water Works



Annex 10                                                - 134 -
Page 6 of 8
ANNEX 10.3:
Organizational Chart of the
Institute for Study and Design of Water Works
General Director
|      Administration                                     F iTnce
Project Group                         Project Group                        Support Services
Region I                              Region 11 I
Specialists (technical,
Design Team                           Design Team                            economic, environmental)
Construction Supervision Team         Construction Supervision Team          Studies Team (feasibility,
statistics, inventories)
Topographic Team                      Topographic Team                       Water Management Unit



- 135 -                                          Annex 10
Page 7 of 8
ANNEX 10.4:
Organizational Chart of Water Enterprises
rctor
Water User
Associations Unit
Administration and Finance                           Operation & Maintenance
Department                                           Department
Administration & Warehouse                          Workshop
Sector 1
Finance & Cost Accounting
Sector 2
Sector 3
etc...



-.0 >
00 
oo
00
ANNEX 10.5: Flowchart for Water Request, Payment and Delivery
Activity
Actor                      Area
Coverage                      Water                        Payment                         Water
Request                      of Charge                       Delivery
Individual                  Farmer                         Farmer                          arme
Faffner             1      reque5t                                                      receives
(1-2 ha)reesspyadnc
Village-based_____                ______
WUA                                                                                                                                              -
(50-200A              2       WUA                            WUA                    10 WUA distributes Co
WU         -      2      0 A}  consolidates       6       collects           ,/Vto fanrnerJ
Water Enterprise              Zone/Sector                 Technician                                                  hcan distributes
Technician                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tecncao itiue
Technician               (500- 1,000 ha)               consolidates                                                to tertiar level 
in the field
Water Enterprise               Scheme                   W    E      sWater Enterprise                                Water Enterprise
(up to 30,000 ha)           imakes scheduled l









IBRD 25357
_fi               ~~~~~F E D.   R E P   O F Y U G O S L A V I A                                                               7
CROATIA
42'                                                                 \-vvXlbone
A  SHnn i Hotih -                                     e
>, ,../Koplik 
lot~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~u
42'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ es03 V                                                                           e    l
Sh     hkde    -Lrgi ino                           1 
, ,  ,1,            ,~ubI,    Kubn           \  allRe
A  L B A  N  I A                                iiL eo'        Rbi             ur)6h        p      r
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION                                                  ohofl    R                              
PROJECT                                               LAC            u el                                              FYR
Project Districts                                                    FKrRI
Kru6 KRXuJ                           Bulq,z6           MACEDONIA
E3E   PROJECT DISTRICTS         SEE IBRD 25358        DURRES
FOR DETAIL             Shiijok     TIRANE
MINOR TOWNS                                                 r
*    NATIONAL CAPITAL                                 .ur        IRANE
DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
-      INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                              rr
RIVERS                                                                          Elbasan                           La P Onke,,
.,LUSHNJE    a<g.)                                             9.       p      5'
- n  Lushn_ kta                               
ELEVATIONS IN METERS:
1200
SEE IBRD 25359             Fier   Po                 
,200                    FOR DETAIL
,0                                       {9                     3len Berot '                                        ore      9 
:0orel  '          <    .    ,    ,,             6      5          0  
VIoril     S:nl
Mr vrove                               (~~~~~~~~~~~~~Erseke  )
'Tepelene                   Pe-nel     
ITALY
40             The boundaries, colors,                                                                                                                    40
denominations ond  any                  0    8   16   24                                                               G REECE
other information shown                                                                 Devine  
ani this map  do  not                        I    I...... Ievn                                          CC 
imply, on  the part of                     KILOMETERS      >S
The World  Bank  Group,
any judgment on the legal
status of any  territory,
or any  endorsement
or accept=nce of such
boundaries.
19P 219
APRIL 1994






ITs,   FE11  PCI (}YG,S.AEI*  7S'                                      KAVAJE rD               Rrogozhe            /           9!45
f i-                                                                                                 ,, ?
Adno,c i'/
A,) L 8'N I A
s~~~~
&o : / rJrovr  i t 5.                   .     . . . . . . . .
V   GREECE                                            a                      U-
I,,,  \S.a''. V;\   /- ,,.                                                    S      .       :.,:,,,          /.,,'                      .
I- ~ ~ ~ ~        ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~       ~      ~        
,,v{ ANS /-S   1g    A BAN 
Q : f .... . .~~~~~~~....                                                 . ..  .\ ........ ,., 
,: $1 ~~~~~~~.-                                             ..    ...           .  .....ir i 
q~~~~IRGTO  REHABI TAT ON PROJEUCTV
,/-:- ''',',, R ' 9E, ,',,\;,....,'..
\ \( ~~~~~~~~~F  R U     12                                                                       A    .  ...  ..sz*'RR 
'.E 0t,  4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ PUMIGAINO REHAEIIATO   POJC
A~~~ ~~~~~~~~ . . . .   .i                                                                                                                          40-450'
{                                \,          ,      9                                               L     g   [IEVAI.....INKMEIERS
\_                                 q )~~~~~~~~~~ DRAINAGE PUMPS
,_   ;  L_ i \>                         ~~~~~~~~~~RESERVOIES
,_ -'                         )               r                            43   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U3CAN AREAS /OISTRICT CENTERS
_^ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ '  -                                                 DOISTICI COUNDARIES
\ y ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIVERS
|   >                                         1.                           ---  S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NTEANATIONAL BOUNDARIES
.......                                                                                                           t'T b,  E   A   A 5  10   ISE
.   .                  .                     9,       |             rb. b ~~~~~~~~~~~dE rEASErolo   A d    I   _d  oEWE&tRos~ ,p  E
_R.u] .....                              !                             Sd,s*Ew _  V     S b    M  rhEp,O3
9.5                            S






r;   L    E    Z    H    E  f,R,A.H  C!>
// .        .   .   .   .   .   .   .   '.  .   . 0 1t
3      R
A D R I A T I C ('- t-> { , C I , mr \~~~~~-~                                                                 ' MACROfONIA
~~~.  ShijaJo'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'    /~T 1-
A TO'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AT
41-30-~~~~~~~ T:.                                                        - <        ,.                                     .,'__        
w  J::--:-::-::-::-:::S!!;:                      ./   ,.^.rui ,       '.-30'
OW~~~~~~~~~0
:D:.R  IJ  2,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OTE  RRGTD RA
\S        -S A_- _XT.y1                                        ,,/                                -         AS; -S   ?]~~~/ 
X               k  KRU1-\ KR!>                                                   .  \                 TowrTRU
I   MACI ROADS
0     OE ElITES               4
A ,        LT A  B     ON  ARIES
...    ...                                          IRRIGATION                NERABITO A T BOU NECART/
/  .                 k      --.,      RSH1KRU!~~LAC   DURES  KRJE    A                 J ANDT  TIAN    DITIT
LLJSI-IJRo h 'h                                                                   P          STATIONS
'TO                                                                                              IR/  DE R- U.FI 2I       *p'I -E Rh \    .  .A-EBTRU,A \
6                                                 URB~~~~~~~~~~~~CCT~gRSR, A.IgTNI,I AREAS.M, DISRICT RCENTERS
j0AS5t \-~~~~~~~~~~~ '> V ' ~~~~~~~DITRITBUNDRE
'DER.IESCR           -- -T--
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ T~~~~~~~~~~~~~C ?ALBNI
.~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b "I .1 Th W]  9- G-  DELVIC5 NMIR
/   (      L U  S  H  N  J E                    \      Z                 D               5                10               15 KT.II,h  E9 RS



