Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2652 ALB
(TF020031)
Dutch Grant Agreement
(in Conjunction with the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project)
between
ALBANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
ACTING AS ADMINISTRATOR ON BEHALF OF THE
MINISTER FOR DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION
OF THE NETHERLANDS
Dated December 21, 1994
RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2652 ALB
(TF020031)
DUTCH GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 21, 1994, between ALBANIA (the Beneficiary) and the 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association), acting as Administrator (the 
Administrator) on behalf
of the MINISTER FOR DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION OF THE NETHERLANDS (the Minister).
WHEREAS (A) Pursuant to the Development Credit Agreement (Irrigation 
Rehabilitation Project), dated September 9, 1994, between Albania (the Beneficiary) 
and the Association (the Development Credit Agreement), the Association has agreed to 
extend to the Beneficiary a Credit in an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
seven million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 7,100,000) to assist in 
the financing of a project (the Project) as described in Schedule 2 to the Development 
Credit Agreement.
(B)
Pursuant to the Arrangement for Administration, dated December 11, 1986, 
entered into between the Minister and the Association (the Administration 
Arrangement), the Minister has appointed the Association as Administrator of the Grant 
and has authorized the Association to do all such acts and things as may be necessary 
or appropriate to carry out such administration, including entering into this Dutch 
Grant Agreement on behalf of the Minister, and to extend the Grant on the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement.
(C)
The Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing to 
Page  2
act as Administrator of the Grant. 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the International Development Association, dated January 1, 1985, with 
the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part 
of this Agreement:
(a)
the term "Association", whenever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Association acting as Administrator of the Grant;
(b)
the term "Borrower", whenever used in the General Conditions, means the 
Beneficiary;
(c)
the term "Credit", whenever used in the General Conditions, means the 
Grant;
(d)
the term "Credit Account", whenever used in the General Conditions and 
herein, means the separate account opened by the Administrator in its books in the 
name of the Beneficiary pursuant to Section 3.01 (a) of the Administration 
Arrangement, to which the amount of the Grant is credited;
(e)
the term "Development Credit Agreement", whenever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Dutch Grant Agreement, except that in Section 6.02 (a), the 
term "Development Credit Agreement" means the IDA Credit Agreement;
(f)
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 4.01, 4.02, 4.03, 4.04, 4.06, Section 
6.02 (except paragraph (a) thereof), 7.01, 8.01 (a), 12.05, and the second sentence of 
Section 5.01, are deleted; and
(g)
in Sections 2.01 and 6.02, the term "Association" shall include also the 
Bank acting in its own capacity.
Section 1.02. Whenever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth; and the term 
"Netherlands Guilders" and "DFL" mean the currency of the Netherlands.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to extend to the Beneficiary, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement and subject to the 
receipt of the funds to be made available to the Administrator pursuant to Section 
1.04 of the Administration Arrangement, a grant in the amount of twelve million three 
hundred thirty-eight thousand seventy Netherlands Guilders (DFL 12,338,070).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement, as such 
Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the beneficiary and the 
Administrator, for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of carrying out the Project and to be financed 
out of the Grant.
(b)
Whenever a disbursement from the Credit Account is required to be made in 
a currency other than Netherlands Guilders for the purposes of this Grant Agreement, 
the Administrator shall withdraw from the Credit Account an amount in Netherlands 
Guilders sufficient for the Administrator to purchase the required amount of the 
appropriate currency.
Section 2.03. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the relevant provisions referred to in 
Section 3.02 of the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 1, 1997, or such later date as 
Page  3
the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the 
Beneficiary of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination;
Representative
Section 3.01. (a) This Agreement shall become effective upon the Effective Date 
of the IDA Credit Agreement, and the Administrator shall promptly notify the 
Beneficiary of such date.
(b)
This Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereto shall terminate 
if the IDA Credit Agreement shall terminate pursuant to Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions for failure to become effective.
Section 3.02. The Minister of Finance of the Beneficiary is designated as 
representative of the Beneficiary for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 3.03. The addresses specified in Section 7.02 of the Development Credit 
Agreement shall be the addresses specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 3.04. Subject to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, this Agreement 
shall continue in effect until the Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to 
this Agreement have fulfilled their obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE IV
Transfer of Rights and Obligations
Section 4.01. In accordance with Section 5.03 of the Administration Arrangement, 
the rights and obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement may be 
transferred to the Minister. The Beneficiary accepts and agrees that, upon notice by 
the Administrator to the Beneficiary to that effect, the Minister shall, ipso facto, 
from the date specified in such notice, be substituted in all rights and obligations 
of the Administrator under this Agreement as if the Minister had been an original 
party to this Agreement, without any further action or formality required on the part 
of any party, and from such date the Administrator shall cease to have any rights or 
obligations as a party under this Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names as 
of the day and year first above written.
ALBANIA
By /s/ Dylber Vrioni
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator on behalf
of the MINISTER FOR DEVELOPMENT
COOPERATION OF THE NETHERLANDS
By /s/ Kemal Dervis
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Page  4
Withdrawal of the Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
Grant, the allocation of the amount of the Grant to each Category and the percentage 
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Grant Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category            Netherlands Guilders)  to be Financed
(1) Goods                      4,100,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 85%
                                                of local ex-
                                                penditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally
(2) Consultants'               4,800,000        100%
    services
(3) Incremental                2,200,000        100%
    operating costs
(4) Unallocated                1,238,070
                              __________
         TOTAL                12,338,070
                              ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Beneficiary for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Beneficiary;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Beneficiary or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Beneficiary; 
and
(c)
the term "incremental operating costs" means operation and maintenance 
costs which would not have been incurred absent the Project and includes, inter alia, 
costs with respect to: (i) maintenance and operation of equipment procured under the 
Project; and (ii) salaries paid to staff hired for purposes of the Project. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
