Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2652 ALB
      TF 020807
Italian Grant Agreement
(for the cofinancing of the
 Irrigation Rehabilitation Project)
between
ALBANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of Grant Funds
provided by
REPUBLIC OF ITALY
Dated April 24, 1996
RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2452 ALB
TF 020807
ITALIAN GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 24, 1996, between ALBANIA (the Recipient) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) acting as Administrator (the 
Administrator) of grant funds provided by REPUBLIC OF ITALY (Italy).
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to a Development Credit Agreement (Irrigation 
Rehabilitation Project), dated September 9, 1994, between the Recipient and the 
Association (the IDA Credit Agreement), the Association has agreed to extend to the 
Recipient a credit in an amount in various currencies equivalent to seven million one 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 7,100,000) to assist in the financing of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to the IDA Credit Agreement (the Project); and
(B)
Italy has requested the Bank and the Association, and the Bank and the 
Association have agreed, to administer grant funds to be made available by Italy for 
the financing of the Project in accordance with the provisions of such letter 
agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Development Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
Page  2
modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article 1;
 
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (9), (12) 
and (13), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
 
(iv)
Sections 4.01 and 4.05;
 
(v)
Article V;
 
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (g) and (h), 6.03, 
6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
 
(viii)Sections 9.01, 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08;
(ix)
Article X; and
 
(x)
Article XI.
 
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
 
(i)
the term "Association", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
other than in Section 6.02 (e) thereof, means the International 
Development Association acting as Administrator of the Grant 
pursuant to the letter agreement between Italy and the Bank and 
the Association referred to in Recital (B) of this Agreement, 
except that in Section 6.02, the term "Association" shall also
include the International Development Association acting in its 
own capacity;
(ii)
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient;
(iii)
the term "Development Credit Agreement", wherever used in  the 
General Conditions, means this Agreement except that in Section 
6.02 (a), the "Development Credit Agreement" means the IDA Credit 
Agreement;
(iv)
the term "Credit", wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Grant;
(v)
the term "Credit Account", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the Grant Account, an account opened by the 
Administrator on its books in the name of the Recipient to which 
the amount of the Grant is credited; and
(vi)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
 
"Except as the Recipient and the Bank shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods procured in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the 
United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United 
Nations."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions, in the Recitals to this 
Agreement and in the IDA Credit Agreement have the respective meanings therein set 
forth.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Page  3
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to make available to the Recipient, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an 
amount of two million one hundred and thirty thousand two hundred forty-eight dollars 
and thirty-nine ($2,130,248.39).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such 
Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Recipient and the 
Administrator, for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the Grant.
(b)
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in Bank of Albania on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Administrator, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, goods, works 
and services to be financed out of the Grant shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to the IDA Credit Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or such later date as the 
Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the Recipient 
of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, Articles III, IV 
and V of the IDA Credit Agreement, including the Schedules referred to therein, are 
hereby incorporated into this Agreement with the same force and effect as if they were 
fully set forth herein, it being understood that all references in said Articles to 
the "Association" shall be deemed to be references to the Association as Administrator 
of the Grant under this Agreement, all references to the "Borrower" shall be deemed to 
be references to the Recipient, and all references to the Credit" and the "Credit 
Account" shall be deemed to be references to the Grant and the Grant Account, 
respectively.
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by the 
parties hereto.
ARTICLE V
Representation
Section 5.01. The Minister of Finance of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General  
Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministry of Finance
Bulevardi "Deshmoret e Kombit"
Tirana
Albania
Telex:
4295 Komplan AB
For the Administrator:
International Development Association
Page  4
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS 197688 
(TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names as 
of the day and year first above written.
ALBANIA
By /s/ D. Vrioni
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the Grant
By /s/ J. Loos
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and the percentage 
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                          Amount of the
                         Grant Allocated            % of
                          (Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Civil works              1,717,000           80%
(2) Goods                      200,000           100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures, 100%
                                                 of local expenditures
                                                 (ex-factory cost) and
                                                 85% of local expen-
                                                 ditures for other
                                                 items procured
                                                 locally
(3) Unallocated             213,248.39
                          ____________
      TOTAL               2,130,248.39
                          ============
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of the IDA Credit 
Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Page  5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and works required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the amount of the Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $200,000 
to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Administrator a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not 
exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such 
request or requests, the Administrator shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw 
from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of  the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Administrator requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Administrator shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Administrator the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the  Administrator shall, on behalf of 
the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from the Grant Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Administrator within 
the period of time specified in Section 3.03 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said Section 
in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have notified the Recipient of 
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant  Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the 
General Conditions, or  
Page  6
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect 
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such 
procedures as the Administrator shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Administrator 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Administrator, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Administrator: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Administrator may 
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Administrator shall so 
request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Administrator shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator, refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
