Page  1
September 1, 1995
Mr. Dylber Vrioni
Minister of Finance 
Ministry of Finance 
Deshmoret e Kombit Boulevard 
Republic of Albania 
Tirana
Dear Mr. Vrioni:
Re:
Albania: Amendment to the Dutch Grant Agreement
  (in Conjunction with the Irrigation
  Rehabilitation Project )
  Related to Credit Number 2652-ALB
  (TF020031)
     We refer to: the Dutch Grant Agreement between the International Development 
Association (the Association) and Albania dated December 21, 1994, in Conjunction with 
the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (TF020031); the fax received from Royal 
Netherlands Embassy, Economic Division, dated February 3, 1995, to reduce the Grant 
amount to DFL 12,288,070; and your request to amend the Dutch Grant Agreement to 
incorporate a Special Account.  Accordingly, we hereby agree to amend the said Grant 
Agreement as follows:
1.
Section 2.01 in Article II is hereby amended to read as follows:
"The Administrator agrees to extend to the Beneficiary, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement and 
subject to the receipt of the funds to be made available to the 
Administrator pursuant to Section 1.04 of the Administration 
Arrangement, a grant in the amount of twelve million two hundred 
thousand seventy Netherlands Guilders (DFL 12,288,070)."
2.
Section 2.02 (b) in Article II is hereby renamed Section 2.02 (c), and 
the following new paragraph is added as Section 2.02 (b):
"Section 2.02. (b) The Beneficiary may, for the purposes of the Project, 
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Administrator, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, 
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement."
3.
Schedule to the Grant Agreement is hereby renamed Schedule 1 
and 
the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule is replaced with the table as set forth in 
the Attachment 1 hereto.
4.
A new Schedule 2 is hereby added as set forth in Attachment 2 hereto.
This amendment shall become effective upon your agreement to the foregoing.  
Please agree and confirm your agreement by signing, dating and returning to us the 
form of confirmation on the enclosed copy of this letter.  A signed duplicate original 
of the letter is enclosed for your records.
Sinerely yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Christine Wallich
Acting Director
Country Department II 
Europe and Central Asia Region 
AGREED AND CONFIRMED
Page  2
ALBANIA
By:
Date:
September 19, 1995
Attachments
Schedule 1
Withdrawal of the Grant
1.
The Table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
Grant, the allocation of the amount of the Grant to each Category and the percentage 
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
   Grant Allocated
  % of
    (Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Netherlands Guilders)     to be Financed
(1)
Goods
4,100,000
100% of foreign
expenditurs, 100% of
local expenditures 
(ex-factory cost)
and 85% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(2)
Consultants'
4,800,000
100%
services
(3)
Incremental
2,200,000
100%
operating costs
(4)
Unallocated
1,188,070
TOTAL
      12,28,070
Attachment 2
Schedule 2
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Aareement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expendtures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with 
the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement;
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $100,000 
to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Administrator a request or requests for deposit into the Special account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Page  3
Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Administrator shall, on 
behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit in the Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenish of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Administrator requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Administrator shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Administrator the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Administrator shall, on behalf of 
the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Administrator from the Grant Account in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Nothwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Administrator within 
the period of time specified in Section 3.03 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said Section 
in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have notified the Recipient of 
its intentions to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the 
General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible 
expenditures, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the  Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant allocated to the eligible expenditures shall follow such procedures as the 
Administrator shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further withdrawals 
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Administrator shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the 
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditures or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Administrator, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Administrator: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Administrator may 
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Administrator shall so 
request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Administrator shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Page  4
Administrator, refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
