CREDIT NUMBER 2652 ALB
Development Credit Agreement
(Irrigation Rehabilitation Project)
between
ALBANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                             , 1994


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2652 ALB
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated §epf. 9-P1 )C c , 1994, between ALBANIA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Borrower intends to contract from other sources of
finance, Loans and Grants in an aggregate amount equivalent to about
$24,500,000 to assist in financing of the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in agreements (the Cofinancing Agreements) to
be entered into between the Borrower and the Cofinanciers; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section   1.01.  The   "General  Conditions  Applicable   to
Development   Credit   Agreements"  of   the  Association,   dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "ISDWW" means the Institute for Study and Design of
Water Works of the Borrower;
(b)   "Law  No.   7846"  means   the  Law  on   Construction
Administration, Maintenance and Operation of the Irrigation and
Drainage Works of the Borrower dated July 21, 1994, as amended to
the date of this Agreement;


﻿- 2 -
(c)   "MOAF" means the Ministry of Agriculture and Food of the
Borrower;
(d)   "Project Area" means the following seven districts of
the Borrower: (i) Laci; (ii) Kruje; (iii) Tirana; (iv) Durres; (v)
Kavaje; (vi) Lushnje; and (vii) Fier;
(e)   "Project  Preparation  Advance"  means  the  project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to the letter dated September 30, 1993 (PPF Agreement
Letter P835-0 ALB) between the Borrower and the Association.
(f)   "Regulations" means the Regulations on WUAs to be
enacted by MOAF as referred to in Section 6.01 of this Agreement;
(g)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(h)   "WEs" means   the Water Enterprises, the     district
directorates of water of MOAF; and
(i)   "WHAs" means the Water User's Associations to be
established according to the Regulations.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to seven million one hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR7,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank, acceptable to the Association, on terms and


﻿-3-
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into,
and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001, or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charae shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by th-
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.


﻿-4-
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each February 15 and August 15
commencing February 15, 2005 and ending August 15, 2034. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on August 15,
2014 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
(b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.


﻿- 5 -
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
MOAF, WEs and ISDWW with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, agricultural and
engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
(b)   The Borrower shall, prior to inviting bids for the first
civil works contract in each district in the Project Area for
irrigation and drainage, prepare, on the basis of guidelines
acceptable to the Association, environmental evaluation for such
works, and furnish the same to the Association for its approval.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, in accordance with
guidelines satisfactory to the Association:
(a)   starting with the calendar year 1995, submit by November
15 of each preceding year, detailed annual work plans for all
rehabilitation works to be undertaken in the following year; and
(b)   carry out a mid-term review by December 31, 1996.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall maintain a Project Management
Unit, to supervise Project implementation, with staffing and
functions satisfactory to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and


﻿- 6 -
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those
for the Special Account for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)    furnish  to   the  Association,  as   soon   as
available, but in any case not later than six
months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and
(iii)    furnish   to   the  Association    such  other
information concerning said records, accounts
and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)    maintain  or   cause  to  be   maintained,   in
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
records    and   accounts    reflecting    such
expenditures;
(ii)    retain, until at least one year after the
Association has received the audit report for
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
from the Credit Account or payment out of the
Special   Account   was   made,   all   records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and    other   documents)    evidencing    such
expenditures;


﻿-7-
(iii)    enable the Association's representatives     to
examine such records; and
(iv)    ensure that   such  records and accounts are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion
by said auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain arrangements
satisfactory to the Association for the: (a) maintenance by WEs in
the Project Area of records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with appropriate accounting practices their operations
and financial condition; and (b) for the carrying out by said WEs of
annual audits of their records, accounts and financial statements.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall, by March 31 of each year,
review and adjust annually, in each of the districts included in the
Project Area, water charges, based on a system therefor satisfactory
to the Association.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   Law No. 7846 and Regulations shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially
and adversely the implementation of the Project.
(b)   The Cofinancing Agreements shall have failed to become
effective by October 31, 1995, or such later date as the Bank may
agree; provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph
shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Bank that adequate funds for the Project are available to the
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.


﻿- 8 -
(c)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant or loan made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project
shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
to the terms of the agreement providing
therefor, or
(B)   any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof.
(ii)    Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if the Borrower establishes to the
satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such
suspension,   cancellation,   termination   or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other
sources on terms and conditions consistent with
the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur; and
(b)   the event specified in paragraph (b) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (b) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Ccnditions, namely, that the Regulations has been enacted in form
and substance satisfactory to the Association.


﻿-9-
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Bulevardi "Deshmoret e Kombit"
Tirana, Albania
Telex:
4295 Komplan AB
For the Association:
International Development
Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                 Telex:
INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
ALBANIA
By   /   /   /b       7i4c
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By   /Y/     I'f,/i~7~w(A
Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Civil works                2,900,000        80%
(2) Goods                      2,450,000        100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 85%
of local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally
(3) Consultants'                 700,000        100%
services
(4) Refunding of                 350,000        Amounts due
Project                                    pursuant to
Preparation                                Section 2.02 (c)
Advance                                    of this Agreement
(5) Unallocated                  700,000
TOTAL                   7,100,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for


﻿- 12 -
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
(b)    the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
expenditures under contracts for goods, works and services not
exceeding $100,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The  objectives   of  the  Project  are   to:  (i)  increase
agricultural production by raising farm productivity through rapid
rehabilitation   of   the   existing   irrigation   and   drainage
infrastructure; (ii) alleviate poverty by increasing income of small
private farmers and creating employment opportunities for dependent
farm labor in rural areas; and (iii) ensure long-term sustainability
of irrigation and drainage investments.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     System Rehabilitation
Rehabilitation of 21 irrigation schemes and 18 draivage
schemes, including a demonstration scheme for canal control.
Part B:     Institutional Development
1.    Provision of technical assistance, equipment and training to
WEs located in the Project Area to improve operational efficiency
and to enhance quality of services to farmers.
2.    Strengthening the engineering capacity of ISDWW and WEs
through technical assistance, equipment and training.
3.    Establishment of WUA units within each WE located in the
Project Area to promote creation of WUAs and strengthening their
institutional capacity through provision of technical assistance,
equipment and training.
4.    Provision of technical assistance, equipment and training for
the introduction of a pilot program for water management at the farm
level.
Part C:     Policy Support
1.    Provision of technical assistance for the implementation of an
improved operation and maintenance of the irrigation and drainage
systems.


﻿- 14 -
2.    Carrying out studies to:
(a)   develop a program and timetable for the transfer of
ownership and management responsibility for small irrigation systems
to WUAs and the eventual privatization of WEs within the Project
Area;
(b)   prepare a detailed program with timetable to promote the
consolidation of WUAs in the Project Area;
(c)   establish  a comprehensive database with subsequent
design and implementation of a financial model for determining cost-
covering levels of water charges, and to explore alternative models
for water tariff differentiation by district and scheme and by cost
components for investment and recurrent costs; and
(d)   address potential legal and institutional constraints in
the enabling environment that presently limit farmers' access to
irrigation water stemming from both private surface and groundwater
pumping.
Part D:     Project Implementation Support
Strengthening   the  institutional   capacity  for   Project
implementation through provision of technical assistance, equipment
and training.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International. Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation      to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Association, one to be applied to all foreign currency
components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.
(b)   In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with
this Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the
Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of
the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based
on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the
Association.
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped into bid
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more each.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Albania may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.


﻿- 16 -
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Civil works estimated to cost up to $250,000 per contract may
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Items or group of items for goods estimated to cost between
$25,000 and $250,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $900,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least
three suppliers from at least three countries eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
3.    Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $25,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $100,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from
at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to: (i) each contract for goods and works
to be procured in accordance with the procedures described in Part
A of this Schedule; and (ii) the first five civil works contracts to
be procured in accordance with the procedures described in Part C.1
of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to
said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to
the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in
respect of such contract.
(b)  With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the


﻿- 17 -
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the
Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the
Borrower shall employ such consultants under contracts using the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the
Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms
agreed with the Association.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior
Association review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than
$50,000  equivalent  each. However,    this  exception  to   prior
Association review shall not apply to the terms of reference for
such contracts or to the employment of individuals, to single source
selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature as
reasonably determined by the Association or to amendments of
contracts raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2)
and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term   "Authorized Allocation" means an     amount
equivalent to $750,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association
requests for deposits into the Special Account at
such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the


﻿- 19 -
documents and other evidence required pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been
paid out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph      3  of  this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)   once  the total unwithdrawn    amount of   the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have


﻿- 20 -
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be-utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELUPM ENT ASSOCIATiO :
CERTIFICATE
1 hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the
International Development Association.
FOR SECRETA RY


