Docrzt of
The World Bank
FOR OmaAL USE ONY
Uqct No. 12917
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1489-EG)
MARCH 29, 1994
Country Operations Division
Occidental and Central Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a rstricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witbout World Bank authorization.



II



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 1489 - EG)
Currency Equivalent
Currency Unit= CFA Francs= 100 cents*
Average Exchange Rate
1984                   US$1                    321.5
1985                   US$1                    449.3
1986                   US$1                    346.3-
1987                   US$1                    300.5
1988                   US$1                    297.8
1989                   US$1                    319.0
1990                   US$1                    272.3
1991                   US$1                    282.1
1992                   US$1                    264.6
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
*The CFA Franc (CFAF) is tied to the French franc (FF) in the mtio of FF 1 to CFAF 50.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



EQUATORIAL GUINEA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TECHMCAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 1489 - EG)
WEIGHT AND MEASURES
One Hectare (ha)                              = 10,000 square meters
Metric Ton (mt)                              =2,200 pounds
Metric Ton (mt)                               = 1,000 kg
Kilometer (kin)                               =0,6215 miles
Kilometer (km)                                = 1,000 meters
Cubic Meter (m3)                              = 1,000 liters
Meter (m)                                     = 1,09 yard
Square Meter (m.)                             = 10,76 square feet
Liter (1)                                     = 1,000 milliliters
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AfDB                          - African Development Bank
BEAC                          - Bank of the Central African States
ESAF                          - Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
FAO                           - Food and Agricultural Orgaization
ICB                           - International Competitiw Bidding
IDA                           - International Development Association
IDEP                          - Institut Africain de Developpement Economique et du Plan
ISSEA                         - Institution Sous-Rdgionale des Statistiques
et de l'Economie Appliqu6e
MALFF                         - Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock, Fisheries and Forestry
MES                           - Ministry of Education and Sports
MF                            - Ministry of Finance
MEPC                          - Ministry of Economy, Commerce. and Finance
MMH                           - Ministry of Mines and Hydrocarbons
MPED                          - Ministry of Planning and Economic Development
OPE                           - Office of Project Execution UNDP
PAU                           - Project Administration Unit
PCR                           - Project Completion Report
PPF                           - Project Preparation Facility
RIC                           - Rehabilitation Import Credit
SAR                           - Staff Appraisal Report
SAL                           - Structural Adjustment Lending
SDR                           - Special Drawing Rights
TFAP                          - Tropical Forestry Action Plan
UNIGES                        - Unit for the Management and Promotion of State Assets
UDEAC                         - Customs Union of the Central African States
UNDP                          - United Nations Development Program



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
March 29, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on the Republic of Equatorial Guinea
Technical Assistance Project (Credit 1489-EG)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on the Republic of Equatorial Guinea -
Technical Assistance Project (Credit 1489-EG) prepared by the Africa Regional Office, with Part
II prepared by the Borrower.
This project was approved in April 1984 and closed in March 1993--three years after the
original closing date.  Its main objectives were:  (i) to help the Government elaborate
macroeconomic and selected sectoral strategies; and (ii) to prepare projects and improve the
institutional capacities needed to implement those strategies. In the event, the project experienced
many difficulties and its impact on institutional development (ID) was negligible.
This outcome was in large part because governance problems created an inhospitable
environment for capacity building. Other factors constraining the project's impact included (i) weak
management and inadequate commitment to the project objectives by the Government; and (ii)
shortcomings in both project appraisal and supervision by the Bank. Some studies financed by the
project were of satisfactory quality and impact (e.g. a banking sector study laid foundations for
ongoing bank liquidations). But owing to the project's negligible impact on ID and capacity
building, its overall outcome is rated as unsatisfactory and its sustainability is rated as unlikely.
Tlhe quality of the PCR is on the whole satisfactory. It does not however deal much with
the serious systemic constraints, including the governance problems, that impinged upon project
effectiveness and that continue to prevent the Bank from pursuing a follow-up operation to assist
with badly-needed capacity building. Part II of the PCR gives a slightly more positive interpretation
of the project's outcome than Part I.
The PCR identifies as lessons the needs for (i) "early recognition [by the project's designers]
of political interests in decision-making" in a volatile political environment such as Equatorial
Guinea's; (ii) restraint in the ambitiousness of objectives and in the number of agencies to be served
in such projects; (iii) ownership and commitment on the part of the Government; and (iv) intensive
supervision on the part of the Bank. To these might be added the need for the Bank to
substantially re-design if not close a project when it becomes clear either that its original objectives
call for redefinition or that its existing modalities are not succeeding.
No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its
contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






EQUATORIAL GUINEA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 1489 - EG)
Table of Contents
Preface ..........................................................................             i
Evaluation Summary .................................................................... iii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity.                                                                          1
2. Background.                                                                                1
3.  Preparation and Appraisal.                                                                2
4.  Project Objectives and Description.                                                       2
5.  Project Cost and Financing.                                                               4
6.  Project Design and Organization.                                                          4
7.  Project Implementation and Results.                                                       5
8.  Impact and Sustainability of the Project.                                                 9
9. IDA's Performance.                                                                        10
10. Borrower Performance .11
11. Consulting Services .12
12. Project Documentation and Data .12
13. Lessons Learned .12
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE .....                      ........... 14
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Annexes
1. Related Bank Credits .31
2. Project Timetable .32
3.     Cumulative Estimate and Actual Disbursements .33
4.  Project Cost and Financing .34
5.  Allocation of Proceeds .35
6. Use of Bank Resources .36
7.  Status of Credit Covenants .37






- j -
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 1489 - EG)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Technical Assistance Project, for which
Credit 1489-EG in the amount of SDR5.7 million (US$6 million equivalent) was made to the Republic
of Equatorial Guinea. The project was designed to help the government elaborate key elements of a
medium-term development strategy and investment program and improve the institutional framework
necessary to implement them. Assistance would be provided to the government to prepare specific
development projects and create conditions conducive to private sector investments in the key growth
sectors of agriculture, forestry, and mining. The project would also help the government elaborate a
coherent, realistic development strategy in the education sector.
The credit was approved on May 31, 1984, signed on June 27, 1984 and became effective on
December 21, 1984. Delays in hiring the Administrative Officer for the project and in government
contribution to the Project Accounts led to the delays in declaring the Credit effective. It was closed on
March 31, 1993, three years after the original Closing Date. The last disbursement was made on
May 14, 1993.
This PCR was prepared by the Country Operations Division 1, Occidental and Central Africa
Department (AF1), Africa Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III), and the
Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of the PCR started in April 1993 and is based inter alia, on the President Report,
the Development Credit Agreement, Project Supervision Reports, correspondence between the Bank
and the Borrower, interviews of Bank staff involved in project implementation and internal Bank
memoranda.






- iii -
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.01   The Technical Assistance Project (TA) aimed at providing government the assistance required to
address the major constraints to developing a rational medium-term development strategy. The project's
principal objectives were to: (i) elaborate key elements of a medium-term development strategy and
investment program and improve the institutional framework necessary to implement them; (ii) prepare
specific development projects and assist with technical discussion and negotiations; (iii) help create conditions
conducive to private sector investments in the key growth sectors of agriculture, forestry, and mining; and
(iv) elaborate a coherent, realistic development strategy for the education sector (paras. 4.014.06, Part 1).
RSUL1S
2.01   Lack of coordination of project activities both at government and technical levels, poor aid
coordination and the high turnover rate in the position of the principal expatriate adviser-the macroeconomist,
led to severe difficulties in project execution. The translation of project objectives into policies and the
formulation of a rational medium-term development strategy for the country proved to be elusive. Part of the
problem was due to the inadequacy of the country's institutions and weak public administration. Government
failure to provide strong leadership to coordinate project activities, lack of government ownership of the
project's objectives, ineffective technical assistance are the underlying causes for the project's failure to deliver
on its key objective.
2.02   Although the project was declared effective within three months after signing, the project never
effectively got off the ground for at least three years. Recruitment of consultants both long- and short-term
proved to be more difficult than anticipated due to the weak administrative capacity of the government, the
ineffectiveness of the PMU's local staff, insufficient knowledge of IDA's guidelines for the selection of
consultants, procurement and disbursement procedures, and the country's poor international image which
made it difficult to attract high-caliber expatriate staff. In addition, execution of the training component only
began four years into project implementation and the lack of a coherent training program from the start meant
that no capacity-building took place, except for a few notable exceptions. Finally, IDA's failure to supervise
the project for the first three years of implementation aggravated an already difficult situation.
2.03   Following IDA's decision to intensify project execution beginning in 1987, the TA supported activities
in the areas of forestry, the banking sector, administrative reform, the oil and agriculture sectors in spite of
all the difficulties encountered in project execution. The government legally set up an institution to liquidate
the debts of the two bankrupt banks, UNIGES. This has fostered growing confidence in the banking sector
and allowed government to negotiate an ESAF with the IMF. The diagnostic study which was carried out in
coordination with French technical assistance has laid the groundwrk for institutional reform in the core
Ministry of Economy and Finance and will prove useful in the formulation of the proposed Economic
Management Project.
2.04   T"w of the five resident advisers recruited under the project-the second macroeconomist and the
forestry specialists provided the country with valuable assistance in preparing the then proposed structural
adjustment program and in designing a medium- and long-term strategy for the forestry sub-sector as well as
the preparation of the Tropical Forestry Action Plan (TFAP). The agriculture specialist mostly substituted
for local staff in the mainland office of the Ministry of Agriculture although he provided the major input which
led to the development of the ongoing IDA-financed Export Crops and Diversification project. The education
planner helped improve the collection of statistics for the sector but did not provide a positive contribution
in the coordination of sector activities with other donors, particularly the major donor, the Spanish
Cooperation. The mining specialist did not provide any input to the medium-term development strategy.



- iv -
2.05   Short-term consultants proved to be the most effective and the successes which the TA can boast of
are largely the results of their efforts. Short-term consultants were responsible for the banking sector study
which led to the banking refbrm, the diagnostic study, which will pave the way for institutional reform and
the oil and gas study, which analyzes the alternative uses of gas. This became an issue when the country
began to exploit its oil resources in January 1990. Short-term consultants also carried out a number of training
programs in the country, including the very successful seminar on project formulation and preparation.
2.06   Audits. IDA staff stressed the importance of audit compliance reporting to the Authorities upon the
start-up of project supervision which began in 1987. The project accounting system was initially very weak,
there were no internal financial controls in place and the first audit of project accounts was more than three
years late. Nonetheless, once financial control procedures were put in place, a rigorous accounting system
established and the PMU's bookkeeper trained to become an accountant, the project's auditors no longer had
to set up the accounts before proceeding with the audits. By 1988, they were finally able to certify the
accounts and make practical recommendations for strengthening the accounting system. After 1988,
subsequent audits were largely submitted on time and were satisfactory to IDA (paras. 7.01 - 7.09, and 7.12-
7.15 Part 1).
F1NDINGS AND LESSONS LEARNED
3.01   Although the TA provided the Government with the capability of formulating a medium-term
development strategy and investment program and improving the institutional framework necessary to
implement these, the project failed in achieving these goals. The low impact of the project was due to several
factors-notably, the inability of the public administration to translate this assistance into the formulation of
strategies and the lack of government commitment and ownership of the objectives of the project. This
commitment could have been obtained by fostering the creation of a coordinating committee made up of the
heads of the department of the sectoral ministries both at the political and technical levels. However,
government's lack of understanding of the efforts needed to attain the goals set forth under the TA and the
overwhelming influence of politically-motivated decision-making proved to be detrimental for the realization
of project objectives. At the same time, project objectives must be carefully measured against institutional
capacity for implementation, and local management must be fostered in order to ensure that institution-building
takes place. The project was too complex for a country for such weak administrative and management
capacity. Finally, arrangements should be made early on in project design to ensure that adequate accounting
systems and audit procedures are set up to ensure transparency in financial management {(paras. 14 (a)-(e)}.



EQUATORIAL GUINEA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 1489 - EG)
PARW I: PROJECT REVIIEW FROM TME BANK'S PERSPECI1E
1.    PROJECT IDENTrY
*     Project Name:        Technical Assistance Project
*     Credit No.:           1489-EG
*     Amount:              SDR 5.7 million (US$6.0 million equivalent)
*     RVP Unit:            Africa Region
*     Country:             Equatorial Guinea
*     Sector:              Technical Assistance
*     Subsectors:          Agriculture, Forestry, Mining and Education
2.    BACKGROUND
2.01.  Introduction. Equatorial Guinea is a small and sparsely populated country of 28,051km2, with a
population of 350,000. The country is situated on the southern corner of the Gulf of Guinea and consists of
two parts: Continental Guinea and Insular Guinea. Insular Guinea comprises five islands: Bioko, where the
capital, Malabo, is located, and fbur smaller islands: Corisco, Grand Elobey, Little Elobey and Annobon.
2.02   Following its Independence from Spain in 1968, the country suffered fbr eleven years under one of
the worst dictatorships in the world. When the present Government came to power in late 1979, the economy
was devastated and a large part of the population either had been killed or fled the country. The rest of the
population was surviving at a subsistence level; cocoa, coffee and timber production and exports had fallen
to only a fraction of pre-Independence levels. Infrastructure was dilapidated. The country was virtually cut
off from the outside world with unreliable telecommunications links. The access road to the port of Bata, the
major city in the continental region, was near collapse. Electricity and water were in infrequent supply due
in part to even more irregular billing of consumers. Transport was in many parts of the country virtually
nonexistent. A truck fleet that had been brought in with foreign aid languished in 1984 on the roadside for
lack of spare parts, maintenance, and repair. Although in 1968 Equatorial Guinea had one of the highest per-
capita incomes in sub-Saharan Africa, it now is classified as one of the least developed countries.
2.03   The Government embarked on its first economic reconstruction program which covered the period
1980-1984 and which aimed at revitalizing domestic food production, stimulating exports of cash crops, and
rehabilitating basic infrastructure. Macroeconomic policies during this period were not conducive to
establishing sustained growth. The lack of a well-defined, centralized system to control expenditures, and the
haphazard and intermittent collection of revenues led to budget deficits averaging about 50 percent of
budgetary revenues during the period 1980-1984, financed through money creation and a rapid accumulation
of external debt. As a result, the country's debt burden increased very rapidly and became huge. The
government's rehabilitation and development efforts during this period were also misdirected, principally
because investment evaluation and programming were inexistent. The inappropriate macroeconomic
framework and the lack of sectoral strategies provided donors with little indication of priority areas and



government's aid coordination was extremely weak. In addition, an acute shortage of skilled administrators
severely hampered the government's efforts. In view of these difficulties, the Govermnent sollicited the
Bank's help in developing a technical assistance program to elaborate a medium-term development strategy
and to strengthen the government's capacity to implement it. The first element of this program was an
eighteen-month stabilization program beginning in January 1985 with entry into the Franc Zone. The
stabilization program, supported by an IMF Stand-by aimed at reducing EQG's balance of payments and
budgetary deficits through an expansion of agricultural exports, expenditure restraint and budgetary control.
This program was complemented by a number of additional macroeconomic and sectoral reforms, to be
supported by the Technical Assistance Project, as well as key rehabilitation efforts to be supported by the
Rehabilitation Import Credit (RIC).
2.04   Overall economic performance deteriorated during 1985-86 with the end result that the IMF
performance criteria could not be met. There were several contributing factors. Upon the devaluation of the
local currency, the Epkwele, by 82 percent upon the country's entry into the Franc Zone, the Government
imposed a special tax on deposits, thereby severely limiting the liquidity of many private sector companies.
Weaknesses in the cocoa sector became more apparent with the new currency. Cocoa producers who had
access to hard currency in the past could no longer benefit from the differential between the official and black
market exchange rates or procure imported inputs. In 1987, macroeconomic perfbrmance began to improve
and the Government negotiated a PFP for the period 1988-1991 and a first year structural adjustment facility
(SAF) program with IMF assistance in July 1988. However, performance under this program also fell far
short of expectations. In 1990-1991, the Government took further measures to bring the structural program
back on track and to consolidate the reforms and strengthen the economy. The refbrms consisted mainly of
efforts to strengthen the productive sector, restructure some parastatal enterprises and to diversify economic
activity and the exploitation of the country's oil resources. To this end, the Govermment signed a contract with
a U.S. oil company to bring EQG's known oil resources into production. The development of the oil sector
is a new factor in EQG's development strategy. Total oil revenues expected to accrue to the Government from
1992 to 1994 will be about US$12 million, and some US$60 million on a cumulative basis during the period
1995-2000.
2.05   Progress achieved in 1990-1991 in (i) strengthening the management and perfbrmance of key public
utilities; (ii) liquidating the twv insolvent banks; (iii) adopting a budget for 1992, which was consistent with
the targets and objectives of the adjustment program, demonstrated government's resolve to push fbrward with
their reform program. In addition, Parliament's approval of a new investment law, the coming on stream of
oil production and the completion of negotiations with debtors on CFAF 935 million of unreimbursed bank
loans led the IMF to support the government's 1993-1995 economic reform program with an IMF Enhanced
Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) program of SDR 12.9 million. The accompanying PFP was approved
by the Executive Boards of the IMF and IBRD in January/February 1993.
3.    PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
3.01   The project was first identified in February 1980. Government presented its initial request for IDA
assistance at an April 1982 donor's conference in Geneva. The project was appraised in May-June 1983 and
a brief post-appraisal followed in July 1983. The primary objectives of the post-appraisal mission were to
review with the Government the specific terms of reference for each of the proposed experts and the
organization of the project in order to ensure that the proposed technical assistance package vwuld not
duplicate efforts being made by other donors.
4.     PRoJECr OBJECTIvES AND DESCRIPTION
4.01  Project Objectives. The objectives of the project were to assist the Government to: (i) elaborate key
elements of a medium-term development strategy and investment program and improve the institutional
framevwork necessary to implement them; (ii) prepare specific development projects and assist with technical



- 3 -
discussion and negotiations; (iii) help create conditions conducive to private sector investments in the key
growth sectors of agriculture, forestry, and mining; and (iv) elaborate a coherent, realistic development
strategy for the education sector.
4.02   Project Components. The project as appraised consisted of: (a) five long-term resident specialists in
the sectors of economic planning, agriculture, forestry, mining, and education; (b) short-term consultants,
including an architect/specialist in school construction, a training specialist and a public debt specialist; (c)
training and on-the-job expertise, both locally and abroad, for EQG nationals; (d) housing, vehicles, and
associated operating costs for the resident specialists; (e) the services of a locally recruited Administrative
Officer; (f) office equipment and supplies, local support staff, and other operating costs for project
administration; and (g) studies, short-term consultants' services, and other activities to be identified during
project implementation.
4.03   The following five resident specialists were expected to be recruited: (a) a Macroeconomist-Planner-
Economic Development Adviser for the Ministry of Planning and Economic Development (MPED). In
addition to his advisory role, he would assist in the elabora-tion of the key elements of a development strategy
and an investment program for the country as the project's Chief Technical Adviser;(b) an Agricultural
Planner-Agriculturl Projects Specialist for the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock, and Rural Development
(MALFF) to assist in supervising the Ministry's day-to-day activities on the mainland, to help in identifying
and reviewing agricultural projects on the mainland and to provide inputs covering agricultural development
on the mainland for use in the national development strategy and investment program;(c) a Forestry Specialist
for the Ministry of Water, Forestry, and Reforestation, to advise the Ministry on reorganization of the forest
service, preparation of sector plans, financing of sector investment projects and provide inputs covering the
development of the forestry sector for use in the national development strategy;(d) a Mining Specialist for
the Ministry of Mines and Hydrocarbons (MMH), to assist in the surveys of the country's mineral resources
and in the organization of a technical and legal framework for attracting new investmnents and provide inputs
on the sector for use in the national development strategy;and (e) an Educational Planner for the Ministry of
Education and Sports (MES), to advise on sectoral development, the elaboration of a long-term sectoral
strategy and plan, and the preparation of major projects.
4.04   The services of three short-term  consultants were to be provided under the project: (i) an
Architect/specialist in school construction attached to the MES, to assist in the design and construction of a
prototype model of a prima-y school; (ii) a Itaining specialist to assist the Government in the design of
training programs for the counterparts of the resident specialists; (iii) a Public debt specialist attached to the
Ministry of Finance (MF), to make an inventory of the country's public debt, and to help set up an
institutional framework for debt service operations.
4.05   Training. Given the low level of training of EQG's civil service, the skill enhancement activities of
the project were considered a high priority. The following arrangements were expected to ensure that
opportunities for raising local staff capabilities wvuld not be missed: (i) wvrk training programs to be prepared
by each resident adviser in agreement with the relevant minister including an assessment of progress made and
future needs; (ii) the design of the on-the-job training programs as well as other training programs to be
prepared by the resident advisers and the Government with the assistance of the training specialist. Sufficient
funds were allocated to this component to allow for up to four nationals in each of the five recipient ministries
to receive such training during the project implementation period. Care would be taken not to aggravate the
already acute shortage of trained staff in the ministries by limiting training attendance to one participant at any
given time. The qualifications and experience of all training candidates and the details of the proposed
training programs would be submitted to IDA for prior approval (Section 3.04 of Agreement).
4.06   Housing and Vehicles forthe Resident Specialists. At the time of project appraisal, acceptable living
quarters for foreign advisers were virtually unavailable. Many multilateral and bilateral agencies recognized
that the task of recruiting high caliber experts to the country would be even more difficult were adequate



housing not provided. As a result, the project provided funding for the construction and maintenance of
houses for the resident specialists.
4.07   Other. In addition, the project included financing the recruitment of an Equato-Guinean
Administrative Officer who muld be primarily responsible fur maintaining project accounts, carrying out
procurement, preparing withdrawal applications and quarterly reports on project implementation for the
government and IDA. An amount of US$1.0 million was reserved for studies and further short-term
consultants' services. In addition, the credit included financing of a portion of the project's operating costs.
All other local staff were to be financed with the counterpart funds.
5.    PROJECT COST AND FtNANCING
5.01   Total project costs were estimated at US$6.3 million equivalent, of which about US$5.0 million in
foreign costs (79%) and US$1.3 million in local costs (21%). In view of the country's extreme poverty and
extraordinary balance of payments problems, it was recommended that IDA finance 95% of total costs
(US$6.0 million equivalent), and the government the remaining 5% (US$0.3 million equivalent).
5.02   Procurement. The Bank's procurement guidelines were to be applied in the hiring of consultants and
purchase of goods and services. Local competitive bidding was envisaged fur individual equipment contracts
amounting to a total of US$263,000 equivalent.
5.03   Disbursements. The credit was expected to be disbursed over six years from 1985 to mid-1991, in
line with then applicable disbursement profiles. A Special Account of US$300,000 equivalent, corresponding
to three months of eligible expenditures was established as a result of the difficult financial situation of the
Government, which was not in a position to prefinance expenditures eligible for reimbursement from the credit
proceeds. A Project Account fur the counterpart funds was established in a local commercial bank acceptable
to IDA.
6.    PROJECr DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
6.01   Weak institutions, the shortage of technical capacity and the severe scarcity of qualified national stafF
in the administration were the major constraints facing the country at project appraisal. Against this
background, the scope of the project proved to be ambitious given the country's poor institutional base and
poorly trained administration. Nonetheless, IDA and the Government felt that the project scope was justified
in order to meet EQG's development priorities, alleviate the dearth of appropriately qualified national staff
and address EQG's urgent economic management needs. Consequently, the emphasis was put on the
fbllowing three major objectives: (i) to develop a medium-term strategy; (ii) to create an investment program
and establish an improved climate fur both public and private investment; and (iii) to develop on-the-job
training of key sector staff.
6.02   The project was to be implemented over a period of five and half years. Overall coordination would
rest with the MPED. The Macroeconomist-Planner-Economic Development Adviser, in his capacity as Chief
Technical Adviser, reporting to the MPED and assisted by the Administrative Officer, mould be responsible
for managing and facilitating the implementation and follow-up of the various project components. The
recruitment of a national Administrative Officer to facilitate the selection of experts and their settling-in was
a condition of Credit Effectiveness.
6.03   To ensure the timely and efficient start-up of the project, a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) was
approved in May 1984 in the amount of US$650,000 with the purpose of financing: (a) initial salary payments
for the five resident specialists; (b) six months' salary fur the public debt specialist; (c) initial salary payments
of the Administrative Officer; (d) subsistence costs for the resident specialists, while construction of project
houses was being completed, and fur the public debt consultant; (e) initial expenditures for construction of



- 5 -
houses; and (f) the purchase of six vehicles including six months of their operating costs. Prior to Credit
effectiveness (December 1984), no funds were disbursed against the PPF advance. As a result the PPF was
cancelled upon Credit effectiveness (Section 2.02 (b) of the Credit Agreement).
7.     PROJECr IMPLEMENTATION AND RESULTS
7.01   Background.  Project implementation started in an inhospitable institutional environment where
decision-making was frequently influenced by political motives. Coordination of development policies at
government level was non-existent and there was no clear vision on how to move the country towards the
realization of its development objectives. The administration was not prepared to absorb the complexity of
the technical assistance being provided under the project nor could it cope with the sheer amount of
administrative tasks involved in getting the project executed. The establishment of a Project Management Unit
(PMU) to assist the administration in project execution did not yield expected results. PMU staff were not
well-trained and were not familiar with IDA procedures with respect to the recruitment of consultants,
disbursement and procurement. Government's failure to make the initial deposit of US$15,000 under the
counterpart funds led to further delays in getting the project off to an adequate start. In addition, the
unreliable communications links to the outside world only compounded the initial problems met at the
beginning of project execution. As a result, recruitment of international consultants both short- and long-term
was seriously delayed by these problems and by the PMU's lack of experience in this type of work.
Moreover, despite IDA's assistance in helping the government identify potential consultants, it was difficult
to attract high caliber experts to the country due to its poor international image and the difficult living
environment in the country, including health risks associated with endemic malaria. As a result, there were
always significant time lags in the recruitment of consultants.
7.02   Logistics. On the logistics side, severe housing shortages, frequent water and power failures, and
poor quality of health services rendered the expatriate specialists' initial installation and subsequent daily life
a strenuous experience to the detriment of the project. Material problems, such as old and crowded offices,
lacking the most basic equipment, were further constraints. The situation improved somewhat after the project
moved to new offices on the grounds of the Ministry of Plan. Still, after five years of implementation, only
three resident specialists (agriculture, mining, education) from the total of five, were on board. Finally,
during the first three years of project implementation, the resident experts had to make bi-monthly trips to
Douala, Cameroon to purchase food items and other consumer goods not available in EQG. This created
major disruptions in the execution of the respective experts' work program, and was a disincentive to
undertaking activities with a longer-term horizon.
7.03   Project Staff. Problems with local staff also hampered project execution. The first Administrative
Officer, who was appointed in December 1984, was not equipped to handle his responsibilities and his
presence throughout the first phase of project implementation (1984-1987) severely affected the project. Weak
management, poorly trained staff and lack of transparency in handling the project accounts proved to be major
problems during his tenure (paras. 7.12, 7.13). He frequently failed to provide administrative support to the
resident experts, adopted a confrontational attitude towards them and was slow in responding to the experts'
needs. He was removed upon IDA's recommendations in 1988 when he was replaced by another Equato-
Guinean national. Although this new administrator played an important role in creating a better working
environment for project consultants and staff, he was not very effective in coordinating project activities and
frequently proved reluctant to take decisions. He often called upon the Task Manager to make decisions on
his behalf.
7.04   Project Coordination.  Although the project became effective in December 1984, the first IDA
supervision mission did not take place until February 1987. Throughout that period, the project had been left
to navigate on its own with long-distance supervision from headquarters. This was erratic at best given the
difficult communications links with EQG. Until December 1987, when telex links were installed, the only
form of communication was through cables and occasionally through operator-assisted telephone calls. A



- 6 -
reliable telephone system was installed in December 1988, significantly improving communications with the
country. Moreover, the geographical distribution of project activities made it very difficult to supervise the
project. Three of the five experts-mining, forestry and agriculture, were assigned to the mainland while the
macroeconomist and education experts were located in Malabo. The unreliable air transport links between
the island and the mainland created insurmountable difficulties with respect to providing funds to the experts
to allow them to carry on with their tasks and to coordinate their activities with the relevant sectoral ministries
on the island and with the key technical advisor.
7.05   IDAs prolonged absence from directly supervising the project meant that no adequate systems and
procedures were put in place to monitor project activities and ensure that actions were taken to facilitate
project implementation, at least during the first phase of project execution. Throughout that period, the PMU
was influenced by its environment and mirrored some of the worse aspects of the Equato-Guinean
administration. In the absence of adequate financial control systems and in view of government delay in
replenishing the counterpart funds, Special Account funds were used to finance ineligible expenditures (para.
7.12). Moreover, the lack of coordination of project activities at a political and technical level and the lack
of leadership on the part of the PMU further exacerbated the difficulties encountered in project execution.
Government's failure to set up a coordinating body made up of all sectoral ministers involved in the project
as recommended by IDA created further obstacles to smooth implementation. This was a reflection of the lack
of consensus which existed at government level over how to achieve government policies. Finally, the request
made by project beneficiaries to allocate a portion of Credit funds to each sectoral ministry underscores
government lack of ownership and internalization of project objectives.
7.06   In 1987, IDA fielded its first supervision mission to EQG. This first mission discovered problems
serious enough to merit cancellation or suspension of the project. However, IDA took the decision to continue
with project implementation under the understanding that adequate staff resources would be allocated to allow
for intensive supervision at least until most of the bottlenecks had been cleared. This decision was taken given
the fact that the TA was the only vehicle available to assist Government with economic management and help
with the identification of a new pipeline of development projects. IDA's first step was to ensure the carrying
out of the first audit of project accounts and to strengthen the PMU's capacity to implement the project
adequately and efficiently by placing emphasis on the administration of the project between 1987 and 1989.
A procedures manual was prepared by IDA staff with the auditors' input, accounts were set up and PMU staff
were trained in IDA procedures for disbursement, procurement and selection of consultants.
7.07   Training. Weak project management further impacted negatively on the implementation of the
training component. The training specialist was never recruited and the administration did not have the
capacity to formulate a coherent training program on its own. In July 1989, both the Government and IDA
took the decision to define a limited training prograAn based on the administration's most urgent training
needs. An IDA mission met with government agencies and several donors interested in supporting training
activities. The mission fbcused on perceived short-term training needs in planning, statistics, and project
monitoring in the ministries of Finance, Planning, Health, Public Works, Water Resources and Forests,
Education, and Agriculture. It was agreed that training mwuld be provided either in the country, through
organized seminars and courses, or in the sub-region. Instructors would be invited from abroad or would be
recruited among the technical experts residing in EQG. IDA-financed resident advisers and IDA staff on
mission to EQG were also invited to give mini-seminars in their areas of expertise. A training budget of about
US$280,000 equivalent was agreed upon and training seminars were organized locally. In addition, the
project financed some short-term and long-term training abroad for Equato-Guineans. The project also
financed the training of the PMU's bookkeeper as an accountant.
7.08   Long-Term Resident Experts. Overall, the long-term resident advisers did not perform as expected.
The first macroeconomist left after one year and Government requested that he not be replaced given the
presence of a UNDP-financed macroeconomist in the Ministry of Plan. However, in 1989, the government
requested that IDA finance a macroeconomist with TA funds to help in the preparation of a structural



adjustment program to be financed by IDA. Although he was very effective and began the task of
coordinating project activities, he was forced to resign after one year. The last macroeconomist was helpful
in advising the government in the liquidation of the tvu  banks but could not adapt to the local environment.
When he left in 1991, he was not replaced. This high turnover in this key advisory position deprived the
project of leadership and vision. As a result, the fundamental objective of the project which was to deliver
a medium-term development strategy for the country was not realized.
7.09   The performance of the sectoral advisers was generally weak. Most of the advisers did not deliver
on their terms of reference. Implementation of the forestry sector component did not get off the ground until
1989 due to delays in the recruitment of a suitable forestry specialist through FAO to replace the one who had
left the country in 1987 due to ill health. Nonetheless, the specialist who arrived in 1989 managed to assist
the country in the design of a medium- and long-term strategy for the forestry sub-sector and preparation of
the Tropical Forestry Action Plan (TFAP). The agriculture adviser provided the input for the agricultural
sector strategy which was to be incorporated in the proposed structural adjustment programn and contributed
to the development of the Export Crops and Diversification project being financed by IDA. However, he
spent most of his fbur years in the country substituting for ministry staff, particularly on the mainland. The
mining adviser did not provide any input to the medium-term development strategy for the country. He was
relieved of his duties upon IDA's recommendations. The education planner prepared a strategy for the sector
which was not acceptable to IDA. More importantly, this adviser was not helpful in assisting the most
important donors in the sector-the Spanish Cooperation, UNESCO and UNDP-by failing to collaborate with
them in the formulation of the strategy. The Spanish Cooperation ended up completing the strategy which
was presented at the donors' conference in the sector. IDA frequently expressed concern over her
performance but MES refused to take action. Finally, IDA informed Government in March 1990 that the
project would no longer finance the adviser's contract. The government, in turn, refused to recruit a new
specialist experienced in sectoral management and sectoral economics and finance.
7.10   Shoi1-Term Consultants. A Public Debt consultant was recruited to help the government to study the
pertinent legislation and procedures fur contracting new debt, both domestic and foreign. The consultant was
assigned to the Ministry of Finance (MOF), where progress was made in inter-agency communications on debt
issues and a Debt Management Unit was created within MOF, the Caja Autonoma de Amortizacion. In
addition, the consultant helped to set up a computerized recording and monitoring system. This system was
to help not only in recording debt already contracted but also to formulate a future borrowing policy to reduce
the debt-service ratio. Consultants were hired to review the restructuring of the banking sector and support
the liquidation of the two banks. A Unit for the Management and Promotion of State Assets (UNIGES),
created in March 1991, was legally set-up and procedures were established, including a list of debtors.
UNIGES prepared contracts fur each debtor and launched an infurmation campaign of its operations by radio.
The government was committed, under the action plan established when the PPF was negotiated, to have the
small depositors' debt portfblio liquidated by end-1993. However, approximately 90% of the debt owed to
UNIGES was held by powerful interests in the country. As of June 1992, UNIGES completed negotiations
regarding some CFAF 880 million of unreimbursed bank loans. It is committed to complete negotiations for
the recovery of CFAF 920 million by end-1993.
7.11   Procurement Issues. Procurement-related problems also slowed down project implementation and
was one major focus of IDA's supervision efforts. The government had no comprehensive framevwork for
conducting public procurement. Local competitive bidding was envisaged for individual equipment contracts
amounting to a total of US$263,000 equivalent but did not draw an adequate response, because equipment
suppliers were not represented in the country. Therefure, procurement of these items was carried out through
international shopping on the basis of at least three quotations from qualified suppliers in at least three
different countries. The contracts fur civil service wrks and protective enclosures (US$410,000) equivalent
were awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding. The absence of firm supervision by IDA staff early
in project implementation left the first Administrative Officer 1984-1988 (de facto project manager) to resort
almost exclusively to sole-sourcing in awarding service contracts. This was clearly contrary to IDA's



- 8 -
procurement guidelines, which only allows for sole-sourcing under special conditions. Procurement showed
some improvement during the last years of project implementation as 1DA increased supervision on this
matter. Actual progress in the procurement process was only seen after the establishment of accounting and
financial control procedures.
7.12   Disbunsements. Commitments and disbursements fell severely behind schedule primarily because of
the government's unfamiliarity with IDA procedures. Disbursements under the Credit did not take place for
almost three years after project approval. As of December 31, 1987, US$4.7 million remained undisbursed.
Given the irregularities identified in the first audit of project accounts, IDA delayed replenishment of the
Special Account until an agreement was reached with Government with respect to the reimbursement of funds
used for ineligible expenditures into the Special Account. IDA staff had to frequently reconcile the use of
funds under both the Special Account and counterpart funds accounts in order to ensure that government
reimbursed funds to the Special Account when required. The appointment of the new Administrative Officer
and the introduction of financial control procedures resulted in a marked improvement in this area. After a
slowdown in disbursements in 1990 and upon government's satisfactory reconciliation of the Special Account
with the initial deposit, disbursements rapidly accelerated in 1991-1992. The last disbursement was made on
May 14, 1993 and the Credit was closed on March 31, 1993.
7.13   Audit Reports. Although the project was declared effective in 1984, the first audit report was not
carried out until 1987. The audits listed a number of irregularities in project implemeitation: (i) bad
accounting practices -no accounting system to differentiate between expenses under the Project Account and
the Special Account, checks drawn against both accounts were indiscriminately registered in the same ledger-;
(ii) misappropriation and misuse of project funds-; (iii) ineligible expenditures -some CFAF funds were used
from the Special Account to finance ineligible expenditures which should have been financed out of local
counterpart funds-; (iv) poor administration -project receipts were kept in disarray and withdrawal
applications often had errors such as claiming reimbursement for the same expenses twice in the same
withdrawal application; experts had to finance local expenses related to the project out of their own pockets-;
and (v) non-payrment of counterpart funds. Given the situation, IDA took steps beginning in 1987 to correct
these irregularities. Notable progress was made and improvement in the project accounting system led to the
external auditors certifying project accounts on a regular basis from 1988 onwards.
7.14   Studies. The project financed a number of key studies in the last years of project execution. The
study of Cost of Lwmber Production as Logs and as Saw iibod comprised the analysis and assessment of
different components of the cost of lumber production under various conditions in which forestry operations
are carried out in EQG. The study of Alternative Uses of Natural Gas included as its main objective an
exploration of alternative uses of natural gas and their priorities in terms of economic viability. The study
also provided for a review of the technical, economic, and financial viability of other uses for natural gas,
including potential markets for natural gas in neighboring countries. The Banking Sector Study lay the
groundwork for the liquidation of the two bankrupt banks and the recovery of a substantial amount of bad
debts. This was a major factor in restoring some level of confidence in the banking sector. The Diagnostic
Study was carried out, in collaboration with the French Cooperation, to examine and define the organization
and duties of the Ministry of Economy, Commerce, and Finance (MEPC), including its efficiency in carrying
out its mandate of policy formulation and economic and financial management. Some recommendations were
included in the PFP. The government is planning its implementation over 1993-95. A LAnd 7nure Study
was carried out and its recommendations on legal aspects regarding individual property rights will be
implemented over 1993-95.
7.15   Donor Coordinaion. The TA was not intended to be a vehicle for improving aid coordination in
EQG despite the presence of a number of donors duplicating efforts in the same areas.This proved to have
negative consequences for the project. For exarnple, both IDA and UNDP financed a macroeconomist at the
Ministry of Plan. The terms of reference of both these experts overlapped as both were responsible, among
other tasks, to help the country put together a public investment program and serve as key technical adviser.



- 9 -
Given the distinct approaches adopted by the various experts which occupied these two positions over the
project's life, this overlapping of duties created unnecessary conflict and friction which were aggravated by
the lack of intervention on the part of the Government. Moreover, the sectoral experts' lack of coordination
with the other major donors such as the Spanish Cooperation, the French Cooperation and UNESCO
frequently led to interruptions in project implementation thus compromising the medium- to long-tern
sustainability of these activities. More success was achieved, however, in coordinating with the policy reform
initiatives supported by the IMF. IDA staff participated in all IMF missions during the implementation of the
TA.
7.16   Other. Periodical repairs had to be made to the houses due to their poor design (inadequate drainage)
which did not take into account the heavy rainfall and resulting humidity of the country's climate. Eight
vehicles were financed under the project for the use of the specialists, short-term consultants and the PMU.
However, they were not effectively maintained and operated, the use of project vehicles was not adequately
supervised, and they were often commandeered by higher level officials while the resident adviser stood
haplessly by. This often prevented the resident advisers from perfbrming their duties, particularly in the case
of the forestry and agriculture specialists who frequently had to travel to the interior. The computer
equipment (six units) financed under the credit was used for the training component and were installed in a
training unit within the PMU. In addition, computer equipment was financed to support the Caja Autonoma
and UNIGES.
7.17   The project was scheduled to be completed by March 1990 but project closing was postponed four
times, from the original Closing Date (March 31, 1990) to March 31, 1993 and the implementation period
was close to eight years.
8.    IMPAcr AND SUSTAINABILrrY OF THE PROJEcr
8.01   The overall impact of the project was below expectations. The project's objectives were predicated
on what proved to be an overly optimistic assessment of EQG's capacity to overcome its severe institutional
weaknesses and scarcity of skilled technical and administrative staff. When the project was designed,
insufficient attention was paid to these factors and to the sheer physical difficulties of supervising such a far-
reaching and complex project over geographical boundaries. More importantly, the lack of a coherent
political agenda foreshadowed the difficulties encountered in attempting to coordinate project activities. The
Government failed to internalize the project's objectives (para. 4.01) and primarily viewed the project as a
source of funds to finance activities not included in its annual budget. Moreover, the lack of internal
coordination in the execution of the project is manifest of the government's lack of ownership of the TA's
major objectives which consisted in providing a rational medium-term development strategy for the country.
Political interests in governing decision-making led to the Government not taking action to remove resident
experts even in the face of flagrant bad performance and conflict of interest (para. 7.09). Political interference
in the project robbed it of the clear focus required to move it towards achieving its goals. It also served to
demotivate both local and foreign staff as there was no rationale to decision-making. The government's
refusal to take action to ensure better coordination of project activities is a case in point. IDA also showed
a certain amount of ambilavence with respect to these problems given its initial lack of interest in the project
in the first three years of project execution and its own lack of coordination of project follow-up at its own
level (para 9.02).
8.02   Sustainability occurs when benefits of the project extend beyond the implementation period and results
in stronger institutional and human capacity to carry activities beyond the life of the project. The sustainability
of a number of activities under this project is unlikely. For example, little capacity-building took place under
the project with the exception of the training of the PMU's accountant and no transfer of skills took place as
was envisaged under project objectives. This was largely due to the very weak skills base of the national staff
but also to the lack of an adequate training strategy to address these problems. Moreover, the resident experts
may not have been the best placed to ensure that such transfer took place given the fact that they were not



- 10 -
necessarily proven trainers in their areas of expertise. With twv notable exceptions, training of civil servants
in statistics at the ISSEA in Cameroon failed in providing a critical mass of sound statisticians to the Planning
Unit, since the low level of skills of those selected did not allow them to benefit from the basic training to
which they were sent. This, despite the attention given to the selection process. The sad fact was that these
were the "best and the brightest" in their group and, in most cases, were selected on the basis of their better
performance on the job.
8.03   At the same time, it is worth noting that some of the short-term sector work done did provide some
benefits to the country. The most notable among which were: (i) the banking sector study which lay the
groundwork for reform in the sector and which helped the government to negotiate an ESAF; (ii) the
establishment of a working system for the Debt Management Unit at the MPED; (iii) the drafting of the
Forestry and Wild Fauna Law which makes provision for adequate legislation and provides an analysis of the
economic prospects in the sector as well as recommendations for the appropriate utilization of natural
resources; (iv) the Forestry Action Plan which was adopted by the government in 1990 and included the
elaboration of structural measures aiming at revitalizing forestry production with appropriate environmental
considerations; and (v) the study of Alternative Uses of Natural Gas which was carried out for the petroleum
sector and which proved useful in laying the foundations for the identification and implementation of the most
cost-effective methods for using natural gas.
9.     IDA's PERFORMANCE
9.01   IDA approached the project with a strong commitment to assist EQG in rehabilitating the country's
damaged economy. It hoped to assist the government through helping it obtain the expertise needed to redesign
its economic development strategy in several key sectors, a prerequisite for harnessing available development
opportunities and mobilizing aid more efficiently. IDA prepared the project rapidly to respond to EQG's
unusually difficult conditions. IDA made every attempt to specify what were the absolute critical gaps in the
technical assistance and to coordinate its intervention with the major donors (Spain, France, UNDP) to avoid
duplication of efforts.
9.02    However, IDA did not follow through on its initial commitment in the first three years of project
implementation. The number of IDA supervision missions was inadequate during that period, which was a
serious shortcoming, given the complexity of the project and the government's very weak implementation
capacity. It has to be recognized, however, that conditions for conducting adequate supervision were among
the most difficult faced by IDA staff anywhere in the world. At the time of appraisal and during the first years
of project implementation, shortages of basic consumer items were so severe as to require visiting staff to
bring with them virtually all basic items. Air transport ties were scarce and unreliable. Housing conditions
were austere.
9.03   IDA intensified supervision efforts during 1988-91, an average of four missions a year in an attempt
to redress the major constraints to implementation. IDA took the decision not to cancel the project given its
importance to the realization of EQG's development objectives. Among the corrective actions taken were:
(i) the replacement of the Project Administrator with another national; (ii) the drafting of a procedures and
operations manual for project administration; (iii) on-the-job training for PMU staff by IDA mission staff,
including seminars on economic management; (iv) arranging for quarterly visits on the part of the project
auditors to monitor the accounting and financial management systems while the project's bookkeeper was
being trained as an accountant; (v) ensuring clear and transparent procurement by taking measures to correct
identified problems; (vi) improving disbursement procedures through on-the-job training by IDA staff on
mission and training at headquarters for two of the PMU staff in both procurement and disbursement
procedures. In addition, efforts were made to streamline project objectives by dropping the mining component
once the low economic potential of the sector as a whole was established by a sector mission. Efforts were
also made to improve execution of sectoral objectives by intensifying the supervision of these components.



- 11 -
As a result of these efforts, project execution improved sufficiently-albeit late--to allow for the realization
of a number of activities of long-term benefit to the country (paras. 7.14, 8.03).
9.04    Another factor that added to the complexity of the project, increased the difficulty of supervision and
added to the implementation delays was the large number of executing agencies involved on the government
side (no fewer than seven). Government's reluctance to agree to a coordinating mechanism for the project
further exacerbated the problem (paras. 7.05 and 8.01). IDAs coordination of its own supervision efforts
was poor. Task management of the project was divided by assigning the agricultural and forestry sectors to
the Task Manager of the Cocoa Project, leaving in isolation the supervision of these two components from
the overall Task Manager.
10.    BORROWER PERFORMANCE
10.01 Despite repeated requests by IDA, there were significant delays in the submission of progress reports,
audited project accounts, and not enough information on procurement and approval procedures from the
government. As already mentioned, the major shortcomings of the project were the lack of internalization
and commitment by the EQG authorities. Under these circumstances, it is not surprising that the Borrower
did not ensure adequate conditions to fulfill the project's institutional strengthening objectives. In many cases
there were no counterpart personnel designated to work with the expatriate advisers and in those cases where
counterpart staff were assigned, the selection was made at the political level and did not involve the resident
advisers. The level of competence of the counterparts designated by the administration was poor, and they
did not carry out their tasks as requested by the advisers. Despite the training provided by several IDA
missions, the Project Management Unit local staff performed their tasks poorly.
10.02 Lack of coordination in the field was aggravated by the inability of the Project Administrator to play
a leading role. One of the most serious problems was project management. Several instances are
representative of this problem: (i) on several occasions the resident foreign specialists did not receive their
salaries for several months or were not reimbursed for project-related expenses; (ii) the same applied for the
short-term consultants who remained unpaid for several months after satisfactory completion of their
assignments, despite repeated applications to the Administrative Officer and advice from IDA staff to the Chief
Technical Advisor; (iii) improper per diem calculations and ineffective provision of transportation for field
trips by foreign specialists created severe disruptions and inefficiencies in project execution. The arbitrary
removal of support secretaries and drivers without prior notice by the ministries further complicated the
advisers' tasks; (iv) local administrative staff often faced intimidation and were frequently not paid their
salaries for even longer periods of time. On one occasion, IDA mission staff discovered that about CFAF 6.0
million of counterpart funds were used to pay for the MPED's new office furniture, essentially emptying the
account, and resulting in the lack of funds to cover the salaries of local employees. Efforts to impose discipline
on the PMU systematically failed because the Administrative Officer was continually put under political
pressure to take actions contrary to IDA's rules and procedures. As a result of these political pressures, the
Administrative Officer was widely ineffective and depended heavily on IDA staff to help him resist those
pressures. Political considerations led the government to keep the first Administrative Officer in post some
eight months after IDA's recommendations to remove him.
10.03  The lack of monitoring and coordination of project activities and consultants' performances were very
serious. As a result, progress under each project component depended on the foreign resident specialists'
capacity and relationship with the Minister and Administrative Officer. Despite intensive training by IDA staff
and expatriate project staff to establish an adequate filing system, project filing remained inadequate.
Documents and reports in the project archives were never readily available. However, notable progress was
made in the accounting system and these files were kept adequately in the last few years of the project.



- 12 -
11.   CONSULTING SERVICES
11.01  Consultant performance under the project was overall mixed. The work of the Macroeconomist-
Planner adviser was instrumental in helping the Government revise the Letter of Development Policy prepared
for the Bank and for the IMF for a SAL operation which ultimately did not materialize. He successfully
maintained close coordination with other donors. The Debt specialist was instrumental in helping the
Government to negotiate a rescheduling of the country's debt at the Paris Club in 1985 but he did not train
local staff in debt management (paras. 7.07, 7.08 and 7.10). Consultant reports were not systematically
prepared neither were they received on time by the Bank.
13.   PRojECT DOCUMENTATION AND DATA
13.01 Project documentation and data used in preparation of this report included legal documents, the
President's Report, mission back-to-office reports, supervision reports, and progress reports provided by the
Borrower.
13.02 The Legal Agreement and the President's Report were adequately prepared. They are generally very
comprehensive, and served satisfactorily during project implementation. They reflected the Bank's interest
in successful execution of the project. Mission Supervision reports provided a comprehensive picture of the
administration of the project, but initially they rarely touched on technical aspects of the project. The
treatment of such aspects improved in later supervision reports.
14.   LESSONS LEARNED
The principal lessons learned are summarized below:
(a)    In a volatile political environment like EQG's, early recognition of political interests in
decision-making is essential. Recognizing that fact would make IDA more effective in its
approach to project design and scope. The failure of ensuring coordination under the
Technical Assistance project should have been anticipated given the country's inward-looking
political system and the pervasive lack of trust which predominates relations among
government officials and the donor community. As a result, care must be taken to limit the
number of agencies involved in project implementation in order to maximize a project's
chances of success.
(b)    Technical assistance projects should not be overly ambitious, particularly in an environment
of weak institutions and local capacity. The scope of the project was very ambitious with a
number of components that placed burdens on the borrower as well as IDA. Even in the face
of the devastation presented by EQG at the time of identification and appraisal of the project,
it is imperative that project design and scope take into account the administration's
implementation capacity. Moreover, it has to be recognized that without the adequate human
resource base, substitution technical assistance in the more complex skills area is all that can
be provided. This can be counterbalanced with an adequate training program to address the
lack of skills in the priority areas of intervention of the project.
(c)    Successful project implementation requires not only a broad commitment by the Government,
but also effective, continued coordination on the part of the agencies involved in the
execution, as well as the coordinating of supervision activities on the part of IDA. The
government did not respond with the type of commitment required to ensure the success of
such a large and complex technical assistance project. The lack of government ownership and
commitment had a significant impact on all aspects of the project, ranging from incompetent
management, inadequate and excessive mobility of local counterparts, ineffective training and



- 13 -
poor accounting practices. IDA did not sufficiently contribute to ensuring coordination in its
own supervision of the project. This aggravated the difficulties in following-up on project
execution for both parties. In a country with the severe constraints as those presented by
EQG, it is essential that project activities be coordinated and responsibility for such
coordination be assigned to one person both by the Borrower and by IDA in order to ensure
a coherent vision for the realization of project objectives.
(d)    IDA has to recognize that the implementation of operations in countries with the weak
capacity exhibited by EQG in all areas requires heavy mobilization of IDA staff resources.
This implies that appropriate budgetary allocations be made to allow for intensive follow-up
in the field. In the absence of these provisions, even the best prepared projects are doomed
to failure if no adequate follow-up is provided on a regular basis.
(e)    Familiarity with IDA disbursement procedures and with guidelines for recruiting consultants
assure proper implementation. Th avoid delays in implementation, it is important that IDA
staff help the Borrower to become fully familiar with IDA disbursement procedures and
guidelines for recruiting and contracting consultants at appraisal. Also, it is important that
IDA, from the outset of project preparation, review local accounting and financial
management practices in order to ensure that the Borrower has an adequate system in place
by the time of Board presentation.



- 14 -
PART II: PROJECI REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(TRANSLATION)
Prior to independence, the Republic of Equatorial Guinea had reached a very high level of
development in comparison with other countries in the region. But this development rested upon a very
fragile economic structure, characterized by specialization in the form of exportation of non-processed
primary commodities; economic dependence, as demonstrated by the fact that most economic activities were
in the hands of foreigners; lack of industrialization; and regional imbalance.
The regime's performance in the first decade following independence (1968-1979), together with
a vulnerable economic structure, had highly negative effects on the country's economic and social evolution,
in particular:
The deterioration of production and exports, due to the departure both of the labor force and of
foreign owners. Consequently, the drastic reduction in foreign currency affected the country's
finances, and caused the physical deterioration of productive infrastructure;
The paralysis of public services, due to reduced imports and internal resources which were essential
for the operation of such services, a logical consequence of the sudden drop in foreign exchange
reserves and decreased fiscal income based primarilyon foreign trade. This situation worsened with
the sudden departure of technical staff which contributed towards gradually halting the normal
operation of the administrative structure and of essential services.
The deterioration of basic economic infrastructure, due to neglect.
The deterioration of the population's living conditions, caused by the interruption in basic public
services such as health, education, drinking water, electricity, refuse collection, etc.
As a result of these problems, most of the population had to fall back from productive activities to
a subsistence economy, the only type which was capable of meeting individuals' nutritional requirements.
This period was further characterized by the country's ever-greater external isolation.
The reinstatement of freedom on August 3, 1979 allowed the country to fully rejoin the
international community and, with the latter's assistance, begin the process of socioeconomic development
on a new footing. The Government was first concerned with re-establishing basic administrative
infrastructure and services, as well as with taking a series of measures to increase the production of food and
cxport products. Unfortunately, during the first years of reconstruction (1979-1982), these efforts were
inconsistent due to the lack of an overall, coherent development strategy.
It was under this scenario that, at the 1982 donors' conference held in Geneva, Switzerland, the
Government of Equatorial Guinea presented to the international community an economic reform program
which ranked actions in terms of several priorities consistent with key objectives, which would allow the
Government to define goals for the country's economic and social development as well as mechanisms to
put in place to allow for national development planning to be prepared.
The Technical Assistance Project, the subject of this report, was to assist the Government in
reaching the main objectives of the economic reform program, i.e., the establishment of planning structures
capable of gradually coordinating the activities of different ministerial departments and the preparatory
work for the establishment of a national development plan.



- 15 -
Throughout the project period, institutional changes occurred within Equatorial Guinea's
administration which affected the Ministry of Planning and Intemational Cooperation, the agency in charge
of project execution. In 1989, the Ministry of Planning merged with the Ministry of Economy, and in 1992
separated again to become an independent ministry once more and assumed intemational cooperation
responsibilities.
The project's objectives were the following:
a)    To assist the Government in preparing the basic elements of a development strategy and
a medium-term Investment Program, and in improving the institutional framework needed
to put them into practice;
b)    To help the Government in preparing certain development projects and to assist it in its
technical discussions and negotiations;
c)    To help create favorable conditions for private investment in key growth sectors:
agriculture, forestry and mining; and
d)    To help the Government prepare a rational, realistic strategy for the education sector.
In order to reach these objectives, the project financed:
a)    five resident specialists in the areas of economic planning, agriculture, forestry, mining and
education;
b)    short-term consultants, including an architect specialized in school construction, a training
specialist, and a public debt specialist;
c)    local and overseas classroom and on-the-job training for Equatorial Guinean nationals;
d)    housing construction, vehicle procurement and other operating expenses for resident
experts;
e)    the services of a locally-hired administrative officer in charge of project management and
administration;
f)    studies, short-term consultancy services and other project-related activities to be identified
during project execution.



- 16 -
I
PROJECr IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND EVALUATION
1.1   The project was originally requested by the President of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea at the
Donors' Conference which was held in Geneva in April 1982.
1.2   The project was prepared by World Bank Group missions that visited Equatorial Guinea in
September 1982 and February 1983, together with Government authorities. Technical assistance
requirements were determined for the most needy sectors of the administration.
1.3   Project evaluation took place in May and June of 1983, and a mission that visited the country for
a short time in July and August of 1983 examined, together with the Government, the sperific terms of
reference for each resident expatriate advisor which were approved by the Government. In January and
February of 1984, technical discussions were held in Malabo with the Government on hiring procedures,
housing construction, and project procedures. Project negotiations were held in Washington from April
24 to 26, 1984, with a Government delegation headed by the then Vice-Minister of Water, Forests and
Reforestation.
II
PROJECIT EXECUTION
As mentioned above, the objectives of the project, which began operating in April 1984, were to
assist the Government in preparing the basic elements of a development strategy and a medium-term
investment program, and in improving the institutional framework to put them into practice; to help the
Government prepare certain development projects and assist it in its technical discussions and negotiations;
to help create favorable conditions for private investment in key growth sectors; and to help the
Government prepare a rational, realistic strategy for the education sector.
To reach these objectives, the project hired and financed five resident specialists for a period of up
to four years each, as well as various short-term consultancy missions. The project also called for the hiring
of a local administrator to be in charge of the project's many administrative and logistical details, supported
by a local junior staff member.
2.1   Terms of Reference for Resident Specialists
2.1.1. Principal Technical Advisor
Macroeconomics, planning and economic development advisors assigned to work at the Ministry
of Planning and Economic Development, depending on the head of the Ministry, assisted in the preparation
of basic elements for a development strategy and an investment program for the country, the preparation
and supervision of routine economic policy objectives, the coordination of economic planning, and the
evaluation of proposed investment projects. The Principal Technical Advisor played a key role in project
structure as the technical coordinator in charge of organizing the work of other resident experts at the
sectoral level, in order to ensure the compatibility of their work with national development strategy, the
preparation of which was his main responsibility. It was also thought that the macroeconomist could play
an important role in the preparation of the Structural Adjustment Program and in external debt
coordination.



- 17-
The first resident specialist who arrived in Malabo one year after project start-up did not carry out
his duties effectively and was later removed. The hiring of a replacement took over a year. When the
second specialist took over in April 1989 the project was still disorganized: the agricultural, education and
mining experts had not fulfilled their terms of reference, due in part to a lack of central direction; the
forestry expert had not even been hired; no training program had been prepared and administrative staff
had not yet mastered the basic techniques of handling multilateral projects. For these reasons, improved
project administration and the establishment of clear agendas for each of its components became important
objectives for the macroeconomist. His endeavors in this regard were praised by the Government.
The project's last macroeconomist arrived in August 1990. Unfortunately, his year-and-a-half stay
was not a positive one either for the project or the Government, since he did not even present a work
program or outline a current action plan to improve or clear up possible difficulties or simply to try to
maintain continuity with his predecessor's work.
2.1.2. Sectoral Advisors
a)     Agricultural planning specialist
This expert worked at the Ministry of Agriculture's regional bureau in Bata. His work consisted
primarily of helping to supervise the Ministry's routine activities in the country's Continental Region,
identify and review agricultural projects in that region, and supervise the work of short-term consultants
hired to assist in project preparation.
b)    Forestry specialist
This advisor, residing in Bata and travelling periodically to Malabo, worked at the Ministry of Water,
Forests and Reforestation, advising on issues related to the reorganization of the forest service, preparation
of sectoral plans and sectoral project financing.
c)     Mining specialist
The responsibility of this advisor, who worked at the Ministry of Mines and Hydrocarbons, was to
advise the Minister on issues related to the follow-up of studies on the country's mineral resources. His
work also consisted of helping to organize a technical and legal framework to attract investment. This
specialist resided in Bata and made periodic visits to Malabo.
d)    Educational planning specialist
This specialist worked at the Ministry of Education and Sports and advised the head of this
Ministerial bureau on questions relating to sectoral development, including the preparation of a strategy
for a long-term sectoral plan and the preparation of a project to be carried out in connection with this plan.
e)     Public debt specialist
This advisor worked in the Ministry of Finance with the General Director of the Autonomous Fund
for Public Debt, for the purpose of performing an inventory of the country's public debt, establishing a
mechanism to serve it, advising the Government during negotiations to refinance old debts or enter into new
ones, and training staff who worked with him to continue these activities.
Each resident specialist was to prepare a detailed annual work plan for the first year of his contract,
within three months of his arrival in the country, and update it annually thereafter. Each sectoral specialist
was also expected to provide the macroeconomist-planner with information, including data on the



- 18 -
development of his particular sector, for use in the preparation of the development strategy and the public
investment program.
2.2   Sectoral Technical Assistance
2.2.1. Planning
*     Proposed Actions
-     To provide technical support for negotiations and effective application of World Bank and IMF
Structural Adjustment Programs;
-     To assist the Government, together with project staff from the UNDP's planning systems
improvement project, in preparing the national development strategy and public investment
program, and to establish the necessary institutional structure to put them into practice.
-     To formulate and initiate a training program to support the Government's general objectives.
-     To coordinate the work of the project's resident experts in accordance with general objectives.
*     Results
It is quite difficult to distinguish among the concrete actions made under the project since, as
indicated in the introduction to this report, the macroeconomic component did not unfold as such due
primarily to constant instability and the delayed arrival of macroeconomic advisors; their work consisted
mostly of some coordination of the project's administration, although project operations duplicated those
of the UNDP planning project which at that time played the lead role in the Ministry of Planning's
macroeconomic component. Mention should also be made of the macroeconomists' weakness in not clearly
establishing their mission's objectives, and although they tried to do so, their contracts were expiring. The
project's minimal involvement in the macroeconomic area was in conjunction with said UNDP project under
the Ministry's Master Program. This included:
-     Proposal for the formation of a Technical Committee to Negotiate and Monitor the Structural
Adjustment Program.
Computerized system to monitor economic policy measures.
Establishment of communication channels to obtain information on policy measures issued by the
President's office, the monitoring of which will become part of the overall system to monitor
economic policy measures.
-     Establishment of institutional coordinating mechanisms for the preparation of the Three-Year
Public Investment Program.
-     Preparation of the 1991-1993 Three-Year Public Investment Program, approved for the first time
in the country's history by the Council of Ministers and in line with World Bank requirements.
-     Conclusion of the evaluation of the actual financial expenses of public investment from 1987-1990.
-     1992-1995 Three-Year Public Investment Program (underway).
-     Establishment of a centralized data system on sectoral issues.



- 19 -
Inclusion of sectoral strategies in the national development strategy and in the Three-Year Public
Investment Program.
2.2.2. Agriculture
*     Planned Actions
-     To oversee the supervision of the daily operations and activities of the Ministry of Agriculture's staff
in order to achieve strategic objectives.
-     To oversee the supervision of programs and implementation of agricultural policy directives issued
by the Government in Malabo.
-     To assist in the identification and review of agricultural project proposals with the objective of
designing an ideal investment program for the agricultural sector.
*     Results
In this sector it is better not to speak of results because of the unfortunate lack of all sorts of
working data prepared by the resident sectoral advisor who did not leave behind his final mission report as
required in the agreement. Nevertheless, Ministry of Agriculture sources indicate that the advisor worked
on the following issues:
Socio-Economic/Agricultural Survey;
Formulation of the World Bank project for the diversification of auxiliary service exports;
Adoption of an agreement with principal cocoa exporters on deducting marketing costs, the
experimental use of more economical fumigation methods, and the gradual elimination of
the STABEX subsidy.
2.2.3. Forestry
*     Proposed Actions:
-     To reorganize the forest service to improve the country's efficiency.
-     To prepare a short-, medium- and long-term policy for the development of the country's
forest resource administration.
-     To coordinate technical assistance by potential donors and to eventually identify a suitable
project to be financed by the World Bank or other donor.
-     To provide opinions on forestry development for use in the national development strategy
and the investment program.
-     To examine current fiscal and legal policies and concession documents, and to advise on
policy matters and agreements, in order to encourage private involvement and investment
in the sector and thereby increase log production and local wood processing.
-     To select Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry staff who could benefit from short-term local
or overseas training.



- 20 -
*     Results:
Revision of the ongoing three-year forestry plan to replace unproductive licensees, improve
inspection services and simplify the tax structure;
Joint seminars with Government and private sector representatives to consider modifying
the forestry plan and adopting more realistic production goals;
Initiation of a forest inventory and preparation of a financial proposal in line with the
tropical forest action plan in order to complete the framework for long-term forest resource
conservation and development.
2.2.4. Mines and Hydrocarbons:
*     Proposed Actions:
-     Strengthening of the Ministry of Mines and Hydrocarbons' administrative capacity.
-     Review of and observations on ongoing studies of the country's mineral resources,
particularly in the Continental Region.
-     Preparation of international tenders and mining concession documents.
-     Design of an institutional structure for the sector.
-     Review of sectoral legislation and other regulations.
These pre-established, negotiated objectives in the agreement do not appear to coincide with
sectoral priorities and needs, nor were the objectives of the agreement reached.
Results:
In this list of objectives, only the second objective was reached, i.e., the review of observations on
studies made in the country; the advisor wrote and issued a report on the fourth stage of systematic
prospecting performed by the Bureaux de Recherches G6ologiques et Min&res (BRGM) of France whose
report was very positive.
2.2.5. Education
Actions undertaken:
Creation and start-up of a planning office with the educational planning units; human
resource development; project monitoring and evaluation; statistics and research.
Identification of models and design of a primary school model in keeping with the country's
circumstances.
Results:
Installation of a new building, with staff training and organization of the educational
planning and development office.



- 21 -
-     Start-up of each unit (educational planning, human resource development, project
monitoring and evaluation, and statistics and research).
-     Design of a human resource development program geared primarily towards the staff of the
educational planning and development office.
-     Establishment of a permanent workshop exclusively for planning office staff.
-     Design of a self-help program for equipping and rehabilitating a total of 197 schools in
district capitals, zones and rural areas in the Insular Region.
-     Workshop in the city of Bata to update the school map, with the participation of 15
educational inspectors from the Continental Region, primary education project staff,
educational advisors and staff from the educational planning and development office.
-     Design and printing of statistical data collection forms (starting with course completion,
matriculation records and number of students).
-     Ongoing construction of new primary schools in the Continental Region, totalling 100
classrooms with a capacity for 60 students, as well as housing for teachers.
2.2.6. Other Sectors
The Government's achievements in the civil service, through its involvement in the World Bank
Technical Assistance Project, should be underscored. These include:
a)    Administrative reform:
A census of civil servants was carried out;
An office for federal employee registration was prepared with financing from the
Technical Assistance Project.
An institutional analysis was made of the Ministries of Economy and Commerce,
and of Planning and International Cooperation, financed by the Technical
Assistance Project.
b)    Private sector promotion:
-     Establishment of a new agency to liquidate the External Bank of Equatorial Guinea
and Spain, and the Credit and Development Bank (UNIGES), using the services
of BEAC.
Hiring of an independent consultant (DFC) by the Government and the World
Bank to direct UNIGES, with financing from the Technical Assistance Project.
Financing of a land tenure study.
2.3.   Training
One of the main objectives of the Government's program is the training of civil servants. The
training program under the scope of the Technical Assistance Project therefore had a specific importance.



- 22 -
However, this component unfortunately did not reach full development during the project period. Three
types of training were designed:
On-the-job training in which experienced expatriate advisors were supposed to transfer
their technical and professional knowledge to local counterparts in order to ensure the
continuity of these techniques following the completion of technical assistance. This did not
occur, due either to the professional inability of several expatriate advisers, or due to their
lack of interest.
Short-term local and overseas training courses. The Project financed overseas training
between 1988-1991 for a total of 16 students attending one-year statistics courses at the
Subregional Institute of Statistics and Applied Economics (ISSEA) in Yaounde, and for 3
students attending a two-year technical officer training course to strengthen the Ministry
of Agriculture's statistical and professional staff.
Between 1990-1991, financing was provided for a student attending an 18-month educational
planning course at the Venezuelan Institute of Planning; for a two-month structural adjustment course at
the IMF Institute in 1990 for project counterpart staff and one planning staff member.
The following local courses and seminars were developed:
June-August 1990: ten-weekcourse on project formulation, implementation, evaluation and
monitoring, including sectoral case studies, for over 25 participants from the planning
service and Ministries of Agriculture, Health and Public Works, taught by Mr. Adolfo Solfs,
a former OAS expert.
-     June-July 1990: Computer course on MS-DOS and Lotus 1-2-3 for over 20 Planning,
Agriculture, Education, Health and Public Works staff, dealing with the use of spreadsheets
during project preparation.
-     July-August 1990: Computer course on D-Base III for Statistics, Planning and Civil Service,
with over 15 participants.
-     June-July 1990: Computer course on MS-DOS and Lotus 1-2-3 for Finance staff dealing
with administration and presentation of fiscal data.
-     Three seminars taught by an expert on the review of the three-year forestry plan, calculation
of production costs and use of the subregional model.
-     May 1990: The project's administrator and accountant attended a two-month accounting
course in Petiteau Scacchi, Cameroon.
-     July-August 1990: Computer course on WordPerfect for over 20 secretaries and
administrative staff.
After the departure of all expatriate staff in 1991, project administration, now in the hands of local
technicians, designed another internal training program which, when approved, became the Project's most
important activity to date. The results reached in this area during that period are:
In 1991:



- 23 -
A one-month course on advanced MS-DOS for 5 staff members of the General Bureau of
Statistics (September 20 - October 19).
Introductory MS-DOS course for 30 administrative staff members (August 19 - September
19).
WordPerfect word processing course for 17 civil servants.
Lotus 1-2-3 spreadsheet course for 13 civil servants.
An intensive course on MS-DOS, WordPerfect and Lotus 1-2-3, in Bata - Continental
Region, with 40 participants.
An intensive one-month course on MS-DOS, WordPerfect and Lotus 1-2-3 for
Autonomous Fund staff.
In 1992:
-     An informal, one-month retraining course for civil servants, with 20 participants.
-     Two one-month simultaneous retraining and introductory computer courses, with 35
participants.
-     Two one-month, simultaneous retraining and introductory computer courses in Bata, with
50 participants.
All these computer courses were developed under the direction and guidance of the local project
counterpart.
A one-month course on project evaluation and monitoring in Malabo, with 20 participants,
taught by staff of the Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation.
A three-month financial assistant course in Malabo, with 45 participants, taught by staff of
the Ministry of Economy and Commerce.
-     A ten-day seminar in Malabo on the Structural Adjustment Program, with 15 participants,
taught by staff of the Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation.
Mention and acknowledgment should be given to the Technical Assistance Project's effort to repair
and equip two training centers, one at the Ministry of Economy and Commerce, and the other at the
Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR THE AUTONOMOUS FUND
The project financed technical assistance for the Autonomous Fund for nearly fouryears. However,
despite the high cost of this technical assistance and the lengthy period of time, no significant changes were
noted in the improvement of public debt management; no transfer of experience or staff training took place
and therefore the Autonomous Fund still has the same basic problems in administering public loans.
Despite this, technical assistance in this area was clearly positive in the "preparation and celebration of the
first Paris Club meeting" held in 1985.



- 24 -
mI
OPERATIONAL AND FINANClAL ISSUES
a)    Operational Issues:
Under this project, an administrative officer (local administrator) was hired to handle the Project's
many administrative and logistical details. His work was to handle project accounts and procurement, draft
correspondence to consultants and potential suppliers, and prepare withdrawal requests and quarterly
reports for the Government and AIF on project execution.
In the case of public tenders, purchases of vehicles, office equipment, etc., the required international
competitive bidding procedures were followed (in accordance with Annex 3 of the Credit Agreement).
Similar procedures were used to hire international experts.
b)    Financial Issues:
-     The project's total cost is estimated to be the equivalent of US$6.3 million, of which about
US$5 million are foreign exchange expenditures. Local currency expenditures (US$1.3
million equivalent) include the equivalent of US$10,000 in duties and taxes on imported,
locally-purchased office equipment.
The Government has been paying 100% of local staff salaries, except that of the
administrator; 100% of the cost of temporary housing after the credit became effective;
100% of the cost of office equipment in local currency; and 35% of the cost of total office
operations. Disbursements made during the project period are fully documented in
accordance with requirements stipulated in the credit.
The project had both a special account and a counterpart account.
-     Special account: to finance advances for reimbursable expenditures, with resources from the
AIF credit. This account was periodically replenished at the borrower's request with funds
from the AIF account.
-     Counterpart (government) account: opened by the Government at the Bank of Central
African States in favor of the project to pay for project counterpart expenses; the equivalent
of US$15,000 was replenished quarterly.
Credit expenditures were planned as shown in the following table:



- 25 -
Table III-1
Planned Credit Expenditures
(thousands of DEG)
Amount    % of Planned
Planned     Expenditure
1. Resident specialists                     1980             100
2. Short-term consultants                    130             100
3. Training                                  280             100
4. Housing for resident specialists          430             100
5. Operation & maintenance expenditures       80             100
6.  Office equipment                          70             100  Foreign Currency
7.  Office equipment operating cost          180              65
8.  Per diems                                230             100
9. Administrator's salary                     50             100  Local
10. Requirements to be identified
during project execution                 940             100
11. Reimbursement of advance for
project preparation financing            610
12. Initial deposit to special account       290
13. Unallocated                              430
Total                            5700
Source: World Bank Report on the Technical Assistance Project. May 31. 1984
The actual performance of these planned expenditures is explained in the following table:



- 26 -
Table III-2
Actual Expenditures
(thousands of DEG)
Amount of Actual
Expenditure
1.  Resident specialists                                               1894
2.  Short-term consultants                                             1438
3.  Training                                                            222
4.  Housing for resident specialists                                    739
5.  Operation & maintenance expenditures                                370
6.  Office equipment                                                    136
7.  Office equipment operating cost                                     132
8.  Per diems                                                           233
9.  Administrator's salary                                               96
10. Related activities                                                  381
11. Reimbursement of advance for
project preparation financing
12. Initial deposit to special account
13. Unallocated
Total                                                      5641



- 27 -
Table III-3
Analysis of Compliance with
Planned Expenditures
(in thousands of DEG)
Overpayment   % Expend.
or Relative   or Relative
Planned       Actual       Savings       Savings
1.  Resident specialists                   1980         1894           86             5
2.  Short-term consultants                  130         1438        (1308)         (106)
3.  Training                                280          222           58            79
4.  Housing for resident specialists        430          739         (308)          (79)
5.  Operation & maintenance expenditures     80          370         (290)          (46)
6.  Office equipment                         70          136          (66)          (91)
7.  Office operating expenses               180          132           48            73
8.  Per diems                               230          233           (3)           (1)
9.  Administrator's salary                   50           96          (46)          (92)
10. Related .ctivities                      940          381           559           40
11. Reimbursement of advance for
project preparation financing          610              -            -             -
12. Initial deposit in special account      290
13. Unallocated                             430             -             -
Total                          5700          5641           59           1.03
As shown, there is a relative savings of 1.03%, equivalent to DEG 59,000 in absolute terms for
expenditures actually incurred with respect to planned project expenditures. However, the following
analysis by categories shows that this relative savings is due to:
a)   A relative savings of 5% under the category of resident specialists, equivalent to an absolute savings
of DEG 86,000, perhaps as a consequence of the one-year delay in hiring the project's second
resident macroeconomist.
b)   A relative savings of 79% under the training category, equivalent to about DEG 58,000 in absolute
terms, perhaps due to the delay in carrying out this component during the first three years of the
project, or to the improved use of resources allocated to this category starting in mid-1991.
c)   A relative savings of 73%, equivalent to DEG 48,000, under the category of office operating
expenses, because, since around the middle of 1991 until the end of 1992, the project's special
account was not replenished due to non-payment on the part of the Bank or because of proper use
of funds by the project's administration in recent years.
d)   Under the category of related activities, there was a relative savings of 40%, equivalent to a balance
of DEG 559,000. The main reason for this improvement was the overall use of project funds, due
perhaps to the fact that real activities were not identified throughout the execution of the project.
This savings caused the Government to propose that several identified activities be carried out, which
could not be done due to the impossibility of another extension of the project.



- 28 -
Nevertheless, this small savings could have been greater were it not for the serious status of the
following categories:
f)   Under the category of short-term consultants, the planned DEG 130,000 rose drastically to DEG
1,438,000, an overrun of DEG 1,308,000 in absolute terms. This category absorbed nearly one-fourth
of the total credit.
h)   Other categories affecting this absolute savings were not properly planned, that is, no provision was
made for possible changes in domestic prices, rates, taxes, etc.
IV
INSITUIMONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
Since its identification, both the Government and the World Bank have made great efforts to fulfill
the project's objectives as stated in the credit agreement. This is clearly shown in the Aides-M6moire signed
by representatives of both parties during project supervision missions.
V
CONCLUSIONS
It may be concluded that the fulfillment of project objectives translates into actual results. Their
interrelation with other projects in the Government's overall program led to the consolidation of
negotiations for the Structural Adjustment Program and its current implementation; the improvement of
the country's technical, administrative and managerial capacity. However, a detailed analysis of the
technical assistance offered by the project to the Government shows gaps in many sectors which may be due
the following reasons:
-    Overestimate of objectives during the initial stage of project formulation.
-    Improper planning of various activities which, besides being presented separately, were overly
ambitious in light of the country's particular limitations.
-    Improper selection of resident experts. These experts should have been the driving force of the
project, not only in providing advice but also in detecting irregularities in the course of project
execution which might affect the fulfillment of its objectives. Practice has shown, however, that most
specialists come to this country to earn a comfortable salary, not caring about the project's objectives.
Many times they considered themselves to be representatives of the World Bank, forgetting that they
were hired by the Government of Equatorial Guinea. This attitude caused them to lack interest in
fulfilling the objectives expected of them, thereby diminishing the efforts of the Government and the
World Bank. One of the principal tasks of the resident experts should have been to share their
knowledge with local counterparts. Some, however, were indeed effective, such as Messrs. Andrew
I. Lawson and Jorge Maleuz, the only specialists who, despite their short stay in the country, were
able to present and implement well-defined work programs and objectives. Others, unfortunately,
were totally negative, and some left behind no mark whatsoever.



- 29 -
-    Counterparts had few responsibilities; according to their contracts they were supposed to do only
what the principal technical advisor (ATP) told them to do. This was another notable error of the
project, since there were more ATPs who did little or nothing than those who actually worked.
-    Finally, training courses, while numerous and with many participants, did not meet expectations,
basically because of the separation between course content and participants' specific daily activities.
In view of the above, it may be concluded that, in future, the following issues should be considered,
in order to improve the implementation of similar programs.
1.   Ensure that documents for possible new technical assistance projects, or new phases thereof, be
prepared, as far as possible, with the participation of local staff with experience in World Bank
projects, in order to have a clearer understanding of the country's potential and limitations, and to
identify the its real needs and priorities.
2.   As far as possible, ensure that documents for a possible new project show the various objectives,
results and actions in a logical sequence, avoiding vague objectives since overestimates can lead to
lesser achievements.
3.   Local staff with suitable experience as required by the World Bank, should be priority candidates for
the position of principal technical advisor since these few local professionals are graduates of
European, American, Asian and African universities, as are those expatriates who have been hired
and whose cost is around 40% of the total credit, a percentage that could be considerably reduced
if local staff are hired. These savings could be used for other purposes.
4.   Insist on local, in-service training since the staff's work and course content are interrelated.
T heoretical ideas with little or no practical application should be avoided. More emphasis should be
placed on this type of training in other areas.



- 30-
VI
COM.ARATIVE ANALYSIS OF ExPENDITRES
2000
_60     . .....    _ ........,__ 
Qs  1400  ......
i1200  - ........._ ..  
100
1000- ... 
6 00-            
o 400
200-
1 2  3  4  5  6  7 8  9 10 11 12 13
CATEGORIES
PLANNED EXPENDITURES          ACTUAL EXPENDTURES



- 31 -
Annex 1
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 1489 - EG)
PART m: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
RELATED BANK CREDIS
[   ~ ~~'tlie                                   Purpose        .Sau
1304-EG. Technical Assistance       Study of the petroleum supply,         11/30/1982    Completed
Petroleum Sector (US$2.4 million)   distribution, and organization in the
country.
1548-EG. Cocoa Rehabilitation       Support the rehabilitation of large scale   2/19/1985  Completed
Project (US$9.3 mnillion)           cocoa plantations into production.
1690-EG. Rehabilitation of Imports    Support Governrnent's Reform         5/08/1986     Completed
RIC (US$6.0 million)                Prograrn.
1797-EG. Primary Education Project   Improve primary education and         5/21/1987     Completion expected
(US$5.1 million)                    expanding physical facilities in rural               in December 1993
school.
2181-EG. Crop Diversification       Support Government efforts to diversify   10/30/1990    Slow implementation
Project (US$6.3 million)            agricultural production.                              due to management
and fmnancial problems



- 32 -
Annex 2
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 1489 - EG)
PROJECT TIMETABLE
Activity                Date Planmed :         Date Revised:          Dat Actual-
Identification                July 10, 1982                    -           July 10, 1982
Preparation                   September 2, 1982                -           September 2, 1982
Appr-isal                     May 20, 1983                     -           May 20, 1983
Negotiations                  April 24, 1984                   -           April 24, 1984
Board Approval                May 31, 1984                     -           May 31, 1984
Credit Signature              June 14,1984                     -           June 27, 1984
Credit Effectiveness          September 25, 1984               -           December 21, 1984
Credit Closing                March 31, 1990             March 31, 1992    March 31, 1993
Last Disbursement             March 29,1990                    -           May 14, 1993



- 33 -
Annex 3
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 1489 - EG)
CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ million)
FY85      FY86   FY87   FY88    FY89   }FY90    FY91:   FY92
Appraisal Estimate                0.4       1.3      2.3     3.6      4.7       5.5      6.0
Actual                            0.3       0.9      2.3     3.0      3.9       5.3      6.4      6.8
Actual as % of Estimate           0.7       0.6      1.0     0.8      0.8       0.9
Date of First Disbursement                            April 2, 1985
Initial Credit Closing Date                           March 31, 1990
Actual Credit Closing Date                            March 31, 1993
Date of Last Disbursement                             May 14, 1993



- 34 -
Annex 4
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 1489 - EG)
PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
(US$ million)
A1praisal                    Actual
|:FoLoreig    Local,  Ttal1W. F ig   loca1+*-   Total
Total Cost                        5.0       1.3    6.3        5.8       2.0      7.8
*Sectoral development strategy    3.0      0.3    3.3         3.9       0.5      4.4
*Training national staff          0.4        -    0.4         0.2         -      0.2
*Project administration           0.3      0.4    0.7         0.9       0.6      1.5
'Identification of needs          0.6      0.4    1.0         0.6       0.4      1.0
*Contingencies                    0.7      0.2    0.9         0.2       0.5      0.7
Financing Plan                    5.0       1.3    6.3        5.8       2.0      7.8
*IDA                              5.0       1.0    6.0        5.8       1.0      6.8
*Government                         -      0.3    0.3           -       1.0      1.0
Total Cost                        5.0       1.3    6.3        5.8       2.0      7.8
* Due to SDR fluctuations, actual foreign cost and financing were higher than appraisal.
** Preliminaries Data



- 35 -
Annex 5
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 1489 - EG)
Allocation of Proceeds
(US million)
r-teg- les:            O i             A
* Resident specialists                  1.9              1.9
* Short-term consultants                0.1              1.5
* Training                              0.3              0.2
* Housing for resident specialists      0.4              0.7
* Operating-maintenance costs             -              0.3
* Project administration                0.5              0.9
* Needs to be identified                0.9              1.0
* Repayment of PPF advance              0.6
* Initial deposit account               0.3              0.3
* Unallocated                           0.4
TOTAL                                   5.7              6.8
* Due to SDR fluctuations, actual disbursements were higher than estimated.



- 36 -
EQUATORIAL GUINEA                                             Annex 6
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDUSrRIAL REHABILITATION CREDIT PROJECT
(Credit 1489 - EG)
USE OF BANK RESOURCES
Staff Inputs
Sfte of Pnxjed Cycb                                    Staff Weeks           Staff Wees
(pl naed             (actual)
Thnrugh Apprisl                                        n.a.                                27.0
Boad Appmvai through Effectiveness                     n.a.                                5.0
Supervision                                            n.x.                               146.6
TOTAL                                                  n.a.                               175.6
Missions
Aeivity         MontbiAYr    No.Pfatw           No,Vk          SpeciaEuth,u       athig Statu            Pmbleua
Identification    2V1980        2               2                                 -               -
Apprmisal       5/1923          2               2               ECN,LOA           -               -
PDst-Appaisl    7/1983          1               2               ECN
Supervision'    /19S4           2               1               ECN,LOA           n.a.            M
Supervision'    121985         1               2               LOA               2               M,P
Supervision*    9/19S6          2               2               ECN,LOA           n.a.            M,P
Supervision     10/1987         1               2               LOA               n.a.            M,Pr
Supervision     121987         2               2               ECN,TAM           na..            M,T
Supervision*    21988           2               2               ECN,TAM           n.a.            M,Pr
Supervision     4/1988          1               1               TRG               n.n             T
Supervision*    7/1988          2               2               TAM,ECO           2               M
Supervision*    11/1988         2               2               ECO,TAM           n.a.            T,M,Pr
Supervision     7/1989          1               2               AGR               n.a.            T
Supervision     1211989         1               2               TRG               n.a.            T
Supervision*    4/1990          1               2               OTH               n.a.            n/s
Supervision     7/1990          2               2               TAM,ECO           3               M,T,Pr
Supervision*    12/1990         1               2               TAM               3               M,Pr
Supervision*    1/1991          1               2               ECN               n.a.            n/s
Supervision*    7/1991          1               2               TAM               n.a             M
Supervision*    2V1992          1               2               TAM               3               M,Pr
Supervision*    4/1992          1               2               TAM               2               M
Supervision-    8/1992          1               2               TAM               3               M,Pr
Specislties: LOA = Loan Oicer;ECN = Economist;TK; 5 Trainmg Specialist; AGR -Agricultural Spcali
Type of PNoblem: T=technical; M=mgerial; P=political; Pr=Procurement; n/s=not specified
* Include supervision for other project,



- 37 -
Annex 7
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 1489 - EG)
Status of Credit Covenants
Covenant                     Subject                  Deadline               Status
Section m (a)           Draft work plan and progress     Annually, Quarterly  Complied with but with
reports prepared by resident                        considerable delays.
specialists will be submitted by
the Government to IDA for
review and discussion.
Section III (b)         Qualifications and experience of    Ongoing/Recurrent  Complied with but with
candidates for training and                         some delays.
proposed training programs will
be submitted by the Government
to IDA for prior approval.
Section m (c)           Residences constructed for long-    Ongoing/Recurrent  Partly complied with.
term specialists will be used for                   Specialists still resided
their intended purposes under the                   at houses after their
project and possible subsequent                     contract expired.
projects.
Disbursement Conditions  For expenditures from the Credit   Disbursement     Complied with.
allocation for unidentified project
activities will be recommendation
of Chief Technical Advisor and
approval of Minister of Planning
and IDA.
Credit Effectiveness    Hiring of competent              Effectiveness       Complied with but with
Administrative Officer.                             some delays.
(i)                                                                          Competence of two
Administrator Officers
were not satisfactory.
Credit Effectiveness    Opening of Special and Project   Effectiveness       Complied with but with
Account, the later with an initial                  considerable delays.
(ii)                    Government deposit of                                Government failed to
US$15,000 equivalent in local                       replenish the
currency                                            counterpart funds
timely.



