Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3803-EG
REPORT AND RECOMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
OF SDR 5.7 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF EQUATORIAL GUINEA
FOR A
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
May 3, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank auathorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
April 1983
Currency unit           =          Epkwele (plural,
Bipkwele)(BK)1/
US$1.00                            BK 298 (official rate)
BK1,000                            US$3.36 (official rate)
US$1.00                            BK 1,300 (parallel rate)
BK 1,000                           US$0.83 (parallel rate)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
METRIC
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADF                                African Development Fund
BEAC                               Banque des Etats de l'Afrique
Centrale (Bank of the
Central African States)
(the Central African franc
zone)
FAO                                Food and Agricultural
Organization
OPE                                Office for Projects Execution
(UNDP)
UNCDF                              United Nations Capital
Development Fund
UDEAC                              Union Douaniere des Etats de
l'Afrique Centrale (Customs
Union of the Central
African States)
UNDP                               United Nations Development
Program
REPUBLIC OF EQUATORIAL GUINEA FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
1/ The current official rate of exchange of the Epkwele is two Bipkwele
to one Spanish peseta.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF EQUATORIAL GUINEA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUM-ARY
Borrower:        The Republic of Equatorial Guinea
Amount:          SDR 5.7 million (US$6.0 million equivalent)
Terms:          Standard
Project
Description:    The objectives of the proposed project are: (a) to help the
Government elaborate key elements of a medium-term development
strategy and investment program and improve the institutional
framework necessary to implement them; (b) to help the
Government prepare specific development projects and assist
with the technical discussions and negotiations; (c) to help
create conditions conducive to private-sector investments in
the key growth sectors of agriculture, forestry, and mining;
(d) to help the Government elaborate a coherent, realistic
development strategy in the education sector.
The project wouli provide: (a) five long-term resident
specialists in the sectors of economic planning, agriculture,
forestry, mining, and education; (b) short-term consultants,
including an architect/specialist in school construction, a
training specialist, and a public debt specialist; (c)
training or on-the-job experience abroad for Equato-GuiLnean
nationals; (d) housing, vehicles, and associated opera-ting and
maintenance costs for the resident experts; (e) the services
of a locally recruited Administrative Officer to handle
details of project management and administration; (f) office
equipment and supplies, local support staff, and other
operating costs for project administration; and (g) studies,
further short-term consultants' services, and other project-
related activities to be identified during project
implementation.
Benefits and
Risks:          Principal projec-t benefits would be (i) the elaboration of the
key elements of a medium-term development strategy for the
country as a who:Le and for the main economic sectors and the
main social sector (education); (ii) the preparation of
related investment proposals; and (iii) an improved climate
for public and private investment in key economic sectors and
in education.
Possible risks to successful project implementation include:
(i) the possibility that the Government may not make ef'fective
use of work done by the resident specialists; (ii) the fact
that the country's spartan living conditions and difficult
administrative environment may prove a disincentive to
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of 1
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(ii)
attracting high-caliber technical personnel; and (iii) the
day-to-day logistical difficulties which may hinder the
experts from performing their services efficiently.
Project design has attempted to mitigate these risks and
includes specific measures to help counter them, including
provision of (a) housing for the resident experts; (b) funds
for fortnightly trips to Douala, Cameroon, to purchase
supplies; (c) a full-time Administrative Officer to deal with
day-to-day logistical problems; (d) initial short-term
contracts for the resident experts to allow all parties an
opportunity to judge whether they are competent and being used
effectively.



(iii)
Estimated Project Costs:                       Local      Foreign        Total
(US$ thousands equivalent)
I.   Strengthening the Government's capacity to elaborate general and sectoral
development strategies, prepare projects, and attract investments,
through expatriate technical assistance:
(a) Resident specialists                     -        2,400         2,400
(b) Short-term consultants
(school construction specialist
and public debt specialist)             -          120           120
(c) Short-term temporary housing            63             -           63
(d) Housing                                189           366          555
(e) Vehicles                                 -            66           66
(f) Operating and maintenance costs
(houses and vehicles)                   35           53           88
Subtotal                                   287        3,005         3,292
II.  Strengthening GovernmerLt's capacity through training national staff:
(a) Short-term courses and
apprenticeships                          -          300           300
(b) Training consultant                      -            80           80
(c) Short-term temporary housing            12             -           12
Subtotal                                    12           380          392
III. Project administration:
(a) Salaries of local staff                143             -          143
(b) Office equipment                        47            69          116
(c) Travel allowances                        -          247           247
(d) Office operating costs                 288             -          288
Subtotal                                   478           316          794
IV. Needs to be identified during
project implementation                     350           650        1,000
Base Costs                              1,127 1/    4,351          5,478
Contingencies
-  Physical                                98           175          273
-  Price                                  122          467           589l
220          642          862
*               Total Project Costs                     1,347 1/    4,993          6,340
1/ Includes US$10,000 equivalent of duties and taxes on imported but locally
purchased office equipment.,  Taxes and duties on imported but locally
purchased building materials, spare parts, and gasoline (for the opera-
tion and maintenance of houses and vehicles) are estimated to be negli-
gible. All other project items would be exempt from duties and taxes.



(iv,)
Financing Plan
Local     Foreign        Total
(US$ thousands equivalent)
IDA                                   1,007       4,993        6,000
Government                              340            -         340
Total                                 1,347       4,993        6,340
Estimated
Disbursements: 1/         FY85 2/   FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90
Annual                 1,790   1,190   1,180      800      540     500
Cumulative             1,790   2,980   4,160   4,960   5,500   6,000
Estimated Project Completion Date:             September 30, 1989
Economic Return:                               Not Applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:                        Not Applicable
Map:                                           I3RD No. 10259R1
1/  This schedule conforms broadly to the disbursement profile for technical
assistance projects in the Eastern and Western Africa Regions.
2/ Includes expenditures made in FY84 from the PPF advance but disbursed from
the IDA Credit in FY85 (assuming effectiveness 90 days after signing).



REPORT AND RECOPIMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF EQUATORIAL GUINEA
FOR A TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Republic of Equatorial Guinea for the equivalent of
SDR 5.7 million (US$6.0 million) on standard IDA terms to help finance a
technical assistance project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       A report entitled "Equatorial Guinea--An Introductory Economic
Report" (Report No. 4011-EG) was distributed to the Board on June 15, 1983.
Since then, the Bank Group has monitored the economy with the help of IMF
reports and several missions, the latest of which took place in January-
February 1984. The findings of these missions have been integrated into this
report.
Political Situation
3.       When Equatorial Guinea, a former overseas province of Spain, became
independent in October 1968, its per capita income was one of the highest in
sub-Saharan Africa. Although the distribution of income was highly skewed,
most of the population had access to educational and health facilities and a
basic modicum of consumer goods. During the subsequent 11 years of Macias
Nguema's regime, the economy was mismanaged, public administration ceased to
function, and the population survived at a barely subsistence level. In
August 1979, a military junta deposed President Macias and established a
Supreme Military Council (Consejo Militar Supremo--CMS) headed by President
Lieutenant Colonel Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo. The new Government has
taken steps to restore a measure of democratic process. A new constitution
was approved in a national referendum in August 1982. The country's political
isolation is being overcome gradually as Spain, other countries, and
international organizations have resumed their financial and technical
cooperation.
Economic Potential and Development Constraints
4.       Equatorial Guinea covers 28,051 km2 and comprises two parts:  Insular
Guinea and Continental Guinea. Insular Guinea comprises five islands: Bioko,
on which is located the national capital, Malabo, and four smaller islands.
Continental Guinea, named Rio Muni, is adjacent to Cameroon and Gabon; Bata,
its capital, is on the Atlantic Coast. in the early 1970s, the island of
Bioko, more developed and urbanized, produced approximately half of Equatorial
Guinea's GDP and had a per-capita income twice as high as that of Rio Muni,
where approximately 80 percent of the total population (300,000 in mid-1983,
according to the preliminary results of the 1983 census) live. Only about 17



-2-
percent of the total population live in urban centers.  With an estimated per
capita income of US$175 in 1981, Equatorial Guinea has recently been
classified as a least-developed country by the United Nations.
5.       The economy is based almost exclusively on agriculture (including
fishing and forestry), which provides a livelihood for roughly 80 percent of
the population and accounts for 50 percent of GDP and about 97 percent of
merchandise exports. Bioko, where the country's main cash crop, cocoa, is
grown, benefits from fertile volcanic soils and well-distributed rainfall,
whereas Rio Muni, covered with large forests, has a more pronounced dry
season. The Gulf of Guinea has abundant fish resources, and Rio Muni offers
good resources for river fishing.
6.       Cocoa, coffee, and timber have traditionally been the country's main
sources of income. Before Independence, high-quality cocoa was produced on
some 53,000 ha, most in Bioko, on large, mostly foreign-owned cultivated
plantations (about half of total acreage), on medium-size estates, and on
small holdings held by indigenous farmers. Coffee was grown on 60,000 ha in
Rio Muni, mainly by smallholders, and also on some 5,000 ha on Bioko.
Equatorial Guinea's forestry reserves, covering approximately 1,300,000 ha, of
which about 500,000 ha have been partially exploited, represent potentially
the country's richest resource, apart from possible future petroleum
production. Estimated yields are among the highest in West Africa, and
okoume, the most valuable species, accounts for roughly 20 percent of
production. Preliminary surveys have found encouraging indications of
titanium, iron ore, silica, manganese, uranium, and alluvial gold.  Oil
exploration has been going on since the mid-1960s, and the Government has more
recently received assistance from Spain, UNDP, and the Bank Group in this
sector.
7.       Though well endowed with natural resources, Equatorial Guinea faces
serious development constraints. A very weak public administration and a
shortage of the labor needed for operating the cocoa plantations are the most
severe obstacles to economic recovery. Shortly after Independence, many
expatriates left, and since then, the country has experienced a severe
shortage of administrators, technicians, and managers. During the 1970s, a
large part of the educated population was killed, approximately one third of
the population fled the country, and the formal education system ceased to
function for six or seven years. In addition, the country's development has
been hampered by the large distances between the various islands and the
continent and by a lack of infrastructure.
Past Performance
8.       During its short period of independence, Equatorial Guinea's GDP per
capita in current terms fell sharply, from US$2650 in 1970 to about US$170 in
1979, mainly because of the drastic decline of the country's agricultural
production. Cocoa exports fell-from some 40,000 metric tons in 1968 to less
than 20,000 metric tons at the beginning of the 1970s, following the departure
of the foreign plantation owners, and to about 7,000 tons a year after the
exodus of some 30,000-40,000 Nigerian contract workers in the mid-1970s. In
an effort to restore cocoa production, the previous Government nationalized
most plantations, introduced mandatory labor, and brought large numbers of
people from Rio Muni to Bioko to work on the state-owned plantations.



-3-
Inadequate management by civil servants, the insufficient and unmotivrated
labor supply, and a reduced application of insecticides and fungicides led to
a further decline in yields and in area cultivated. Exports fell to a record
low of 5,200 metric tons in 1980. Declines in the other agricultural sectors
were equally striking. Timber production declined from 360,000 metric tons in
1968 to an annual average of 6,000 tons in the late 1970s, and coffee and
palm-oil production virtually disappeared. Basic services in health care and
education and in water and electrical supplies could not be maintained, and
large sections of the population, especially in the cities, suffered from
malnutrition. Foreign investment stopped, and the trading system, operated by
state enterprises, broke down.  When the Macias Government started seizing
harvests without payment, cash crops were almost completely abandonedL, and
barter trade became the dominant form of exchange.
9.       The new Government, though initially not able to decide on a.
comprehensive development strategy, has taken several steps aimed at
revitalizing the economy. In 1980, the former plantation owners were invited
back, cocoa producer prices were raised from BK 85/kg to BK 190/kg, and
minimum agricultural wages were almost doubled, from BK 4,500 to BK 8,500.
Some of the large estate owners returned and attempted to rehabilitate part of
their plantations. But since credit was only available on a seasonal basis
(although medium- and long-term investments were also needed), and since many
of the forcibly recruited plantation laborers returned to Rio Muni after the
coup d'etat and had no inclination to go back to Bioko, even at wage offers
considerably above the fixed minimum level, labor remained scarce, and most
plantation owners could not break even. Uncertainties as to the question of
land tenure also slowed the rehabilitation of the cocoa sector. Many
plantation owners quit the country for a second time, some without repaying
their credit.  Consequently, cocoa exports have remained at a low level (some
8,000 tons in 1981). Timber production, though having recovered from the low
levels of the 1970s to some 70,000 tons in 1981, has remained far below its
potential, estimated at 300,000 tons a year in a recent FAO study, because of
difficult road conditions, a lack of capital, and weaknesses in the
Government's forestry policy. Domestic food production has been increasing
steadily since 1980, as farmers have returned to cultivating their fields, and
fishermen have resumed artisanal fishing. Some distribution problems
notwithstanding, basic necessities have reappeared at the markets and in the
shops.
Budgetary developments
10.      The devastation of Equatorial Guinea's economy was accompanied by the
complete disarray of its public finances. Under the Macias regime, public
financial transactions were recorded only sporadically, and the accounts of
the Treasury, the Central Bank, and public enterprises were not kept
separate. The new Government reintroduced regular budgetary and banking
procedures with technical assistance from the IMF, and in April 1980, the
first formal budget since 1974 was enacted. The economic and financial.
stabilization program,- agreed upon with the IMF in mid-1980 for a stand-by
arrangement, included several measures aimed at establishing financial
discipline. The two main public import and trade enterprises were converted
into autonomous government-owned or mixed enterprises, independent of
Goverinment funding, the numerous Government accounts in the Central Bank were
consolidated into one single revenue and expenditure account, the customs



-4-
administration at Bata was strengthened, and most importantly, all
expenditures were to be strictly controlled with the help of a high-level
Government committee.
11.      Because of uncertainties about the extent and speed of the economic
recovery, rather large differences between budgeted and actual revenues and
expenditures occurred in 1980. Actual revenues, amounting to BK 2,706
million, were almost 40 percent higher than budgeted, due mainly to unexpected
revenues which had been amassed by the previous regime and to revenues from
merchandise sales by the public enterprises, the accounts of which had not yet
been separated from the Treasury. Tax revenues were considerably lower than
budgeted, because of delays in implementing new tax measures, lower import                4
tariffs and tax rates than foreseen in the stabilization program, and
inefficient tax collection. Expenditures, on the other hand, were almost
twice as high as budgeted. Two thirds of total expenditures, estimated at
BK 4,150 million, were made outside the budget, and included outlays for
reconstructing Government buildings and a road, as well as subsidies to
various public enterprises. Most of the deficit of BK 1,444 million was
financed by the Central Bank.
Balance of Payments
12.      Except for a few years during the 1970s when exports slumped,
Equatorial Guinea's balance of payments had recorded surpluses. The current
account surpluses remained small, however, and foreign trade became
increasingly restricted, as foreign financing became difficult to acquire.
International transactions were handled by the Government or by state
enterprises, and only the most essential goods were imported. When the new
Government liberalized the system of import licenses in 1980, Equatorial
Guinea's balance of payments deteriorated drastically. Although the country's
currency, the epkwele (BK) had been devalued by 50 percent in relation to the
Spanish peseta in mid-1980, following the wage increases in the agricultural
sector (para. 9), exports fell to a record low level in 1980. Imports of
foodstuffs and of intermediate and capital goods increased from an annual
average of US$16 million during 1977-79 to an annual average of US$43 million
during the period 1980-81, and the annual current-account surpluses of US$9
million turned into deficits of US$24 million. Capital inflows, especially
from Spain, increased considerably, and the overall balance-of-payments
deficits amounted to US$14 million a year during 1980-81, of which more than
80 percent was financed by the IMF. At the end of 1981, gross foreign reserves
were estimated at approximately US$20 million, or about five months of
merchandise imports. Prospects for balance-of-payments surpluses in the
second half of the 1980s are good, since foreign exchange earnings from timber
and perhaps from oil resources I  are expected increasingly to outweigh the
rapid rise of imports.
1/ Oil has been discovered off-shore north of Bioko, but it is not yet known
-whether it exists in commercial quantities.



-5-
The External Debt
13.      At the end of 1980, Equatorial Guinea's total outstanding debt
(including undisbursed debt) was estimated at US$76 million, of which US$41
million had been disbursed.  Debt-service payments were estimated at US$2.3
million in 1981, and at about US$3.4 million a year over the next three
years.  The country's debt-service ratio was estimated at 8 percent in 1981
and is expected to amount to close to 10 percent in the following three years,
if cocoa and wood exports reach their projected levels.
Development Strategy and Tnvestment Plan
14.      The absence of a functioning civil service at the time of the sudden
change of regime in late 1979 rmade it difficul't for the new Government to
pursue a comprehensive deve'lopment strategy. During the first two years of
its rule, the Government concentrated on returning the country to political
stability and on reestablishing the legal and administrative framework needed
to attract and coordinate the foreign aid expected. The Government has stated
that it counts on the private sector to play a significant role in the
country's reconstruction process, but a shortage of entrepreneurial skills and
the authorities' hesitation to implement rigorously a development approach
based on private initiative has so far left most economic activities in the
hands of state enterprises or under the Government's close control. Although
a series of policy measures (including the promulgation of a foreign
investment law and a new customs and capital-control law and the conclusion of
several cooperation agreements with European and Latin American countries)
have created a favorable climate for the country's economic reconstruction,
investments have been made at only a moderate pace because of the very limited
absorptive capacity.
15.      With UNDP assistance, the Government presented a short-term economic
reconstruction and development plan at an International Donors' Conference in
Geneva in April 1982.  The Reconstruction Program: 1982-84 formed a link
between the emergency measures taken in 1980 and 1981 and the medium-term
development plans to be prepared from 1985 onwards. The Program aimed at
revitalizing domestic food production, stimulating the production of export
crops, and providing basic infrastructure. It provoked a great deal of
interest in the problems facing Equatorial Guinea but generated little
additional aid, largely because it was overly ambitious, lacked focus,
proposed projects which were insufficiently prepared, and gave low priority to
agriculture (which had been correctly identified by most donors as the key
priority sector). It is not likely that more than one third of the overall
program will have been implemented by the end of 1984.
16.      The Government has recently implemented, or announced its intention
to implement, a series of macroeconomic policies and measures designed to
further open up the country's economy to the outside world and speed economic
development. Chief among these are (a) the acceptance in principle of the
need to devalue the epkwele, (b) a request to the IMF to provide technical
assistance to ensure increased control over foreign-exchange allocations and
public expenditures, (c) renegotiation of the country's external debt to its
major creditors (notably Spain), and (d) entry into the Customs Union of the
Central African States (UDEAC) and continuing negotiations to enter the Bank
of the Central African States (BEAC). The first three items have already been



- 6 -
discussed by the Government and the IMF as possible parts of a stand-by
arrangement for 1984. The Government has requested the IMF's advice in
evaluating the consequences of a devaluation and in determining the amount and
timing of the devaluation, which is likely to coincide with the country's
entry into BEACe The Government has also recently implemented measures aimed
at increasing control over foreign exchange allocation and public
expenditures; the expertise being provided by the IMF-L will increase the
likelihood that such measures are implemen-ted and respected. Entry into UDEAC
took place on January 1, 1984, and entry into BEAC is expected for early 1985.
17.      With regard to sectoral development, the Government has rethought its
priorities and now gives first priority to the development of agriculture, and
within agriculture, to the rehabilitation of the cocoa sector. In order to
increase cocoa production and strengthen the institutions involved in the
cocoa subsector, the Government has requested the assistance of IDA and the
ADF for a cocoa rehabilitation project (para. 22). In the forestry sector, a
new forestry law is expected to stimulate investments and improve the
operating climate for foreign companies. Timber production could increase
rapidly during the rest of the decade, provided that (a) the necessary
infrastructure be put into place, and (b) the national forestry administration
be considerably strengthened. About four percent of the total investment
program for 1982-84 was reserved for the energy sector, where projects aim at
providing Equatorial Guinea's population centers with electricity and at
defining an overall energy policy, taking into account the country's
hydroelectric resources. Finally, the Government has given high priority to
the deve'opment of the country's po-tential oil resources.
Prospects
18.      After a decade of economic decline, the prospects for a recovery of
Equatorial Guinea's economy in the medium term are good. Production of the
country's export commodities can be expected to increase steadily, providing a
base for developing domestic food production and marketing. At a later stage,
a small-scale manufacturing industry could be reestablished around cocoa,
coffee, and timber production. In addition, oil and other mineral resources,
if they materialize, will substantially raise the country's medium-term
development potential. However, Equatorial Guinea's very limited capacity for
identifying, planning, and implementing investment projects as well as for
generally managing the economy is likely to continue to be the country's most
serious development constraint for some time.  Technical assistance provided
by the international community is expected to mi-tigate this obstacle gradually
in the course of the next few years.
19.      In view of the country's poverty and its public-finance difficulties,
Equatorial Guinea is not creditworthy for conventional borrowing, and donors
should extend their assistance on highly concessional terms. During the
economy's recovery phase in the 1980s, public savings net of debt service are
likely to be negative. The Government's contribution to public investments
will therefore remain modest at best for several years. If the country's
administrative capacity continues to improve, foreign donors should be
1/ A consultant expert from the IMF's Central Bank panel assumed his duties
as Vice Governor of the Central Bank at the end of February.



- 7 -
prepared to assist new development projects, financing a high proportion of
project costs, including a substantial portion of local costs.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EQUATORIAL GUINEA
20.      Before the present Government came to power in August 1979, the Dank
Group had had only one project in Equatorial Guinea, a Highways Project
(Credit 362-EG) for which an IDA Credit for US$2.0 million equivalent was
approved in March 1973. Only minimal disbursements were made under the
project, and the Credit was cancelled in April 1976 at the Government's
request. Economic and political conditions during most of the 1970s made it
impossible for the Bank Group to undertake a meaningful dialogue with the
Government, much less to finance projects, although periodic efforts were made
to ascertain whether the situation had changed sufficiently to recommence a
lending program.
21.      Under the new Government, the Bank Group cautiously reinitiated
activities in the country. The first of these was to execute a UNDP-financed
technical assistance project in the petroleum sector. The project provided
technical assistance to (a) draw up basic petroleum legislation for the
country, (b) evaluate the country's petroleum resources, (c) train nationals
in the oil sector, and (d) prepare an international competitive tender (which
took place in March 1983) for offshore exploration and production rights. The
UNDP-financed project was followed by an IDA-financed technical assistance
project in the petroleum sector (Credit 1304-EG) for which an IDA Credit of
US$2.4 million equivalent was approved in November 1982. The project is
assisting the Government in establishing and staffing a Department of
Petroleum Affairs and in establishirig an energy-sector data base. The Credit
became effective in May 1983, and implementation is proceeding as envisaged.
22.      A cocoa rehabilitation project, appraised in June 1983, aims at the
rehabilitation of this critically important export crop on the island of
Bioko. The project would provide variable-term credit to farmers with
holdings of all sizes and to cooperatives, as well as technical assistance to
aid in administering the credit program, importing agricultural inputs,
controlling the quality of cocoa, and exporting cocoa. Given the Government's
lack of experience in executing rural development projects, this first-phase
project was designed to be limited in scope and complexity, with major
emphasis given to rapid increases in production, working through creditworthy
farmers. Actions for long-term agricultural development through extension at
the cooperative or small-farm level would be postponed until some success is
achieved with this project.
23.      Given the country's severe economic problems and limited absorpt;ive
capacity, the Bank Group's strategy in Equatorial Guinea has been to encourage
the Government to concentrate its own and external donors' scarce resources on
the country's productive sectors, those which could rapidly increase the
country's foreign-exchange earnings and Government revenues. Should the
efforts of the Government to implement projects in the petroleum and cocoa
sectors prove successful, the Association would be prepared to continue its
assistance to these sectors and, gradually, to consider financing project;s in
other priority sectors such as coffee production on the continent. A highways
project mission visited the country in March 1981 and concluded that a highway



- 8 -
rehabilitation project will eventually be neces3ary to support the forestry
and agricultural sectors but is not as urgently needed as was originally
believed. Another reconnaissance mission and sector work are scheduled for
FY85-86. A Bank forestry specialist visited the country in February 1982 and
identified the type of assistance necessary which would be provided under the
proposed technical assistance project.  A Bank education specialist undertook
a reconnaissance mission in June 1983, and a UNESCO sector survey mission
visited the country in February 1984. This sector work is expected to lead to
the identification of a project in the education sector.
PART III - THE NEED FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
24.      After a decade of inaction caused by the previous regime's dismal
record of economic management, the international community, led by Spain,
moved rapidly following the 1979 coup d'etat to help the new government
revitalize the economy. Spain provided balance.-of-payments support, credits
for the purchase of consumer goods and equipment, and loans and grants in
practically every sector, but particularly in agriculture, health, and
education.  The European Community provided capital investments in the
agricultural, health, public works, fishing, and electrical sectors. The
People's Republic of China provided support to -;he communications, transport,
health, and power sectors. France provided support to the mining and fishing
sectors and strengthened electrical and port in:frastructure. Spain and other
traditional donors including UNDP, the Federal Republic of Germany, FAO,
UNCDF, ADF, and the USA also provided assistance to the agricultural sector.
Several non-traditional donors, including some neighboring African countries
and some Spanish-speaking countries of Latin America provided food aid,
assistance to the agricultural sector, and equipment.
25.      It soon became apparent, however, that such material aid could not be
utilized efficiently and would not yield the full expected benefits unless it
were accompanied by a strengthening of the key domestic institutions (notably
those related to planning, finance, and investment), to enable them to evolve
a coherent development strategy and coordinate its implementation. In
addition, the serious lack of technically skilled and experienced people
throughout the civil service meant that donors could have little confidence
that project aid would be usefully invested, unless substantial operational
technical assistance were made available at the same time. This situation can
only be alleviated through technical assis-tance, in the short and medium
terms, and through training, in the long term. Most donors (including Spain,
UNDP, the European Community, the People's Republic of China, and the Federal
Republic of Germany) have therefore included substantial technical assistance
components in their aid programs.
26.      Most of this technical assistance is concentrated at the technical
level:  teachers, doctors, nurses, agronomists, electrical maintenance
personnel, road maintenance personnel, airplane pilots, etc.; a great deal of
the Spanish, German, and Chinese technical assistance falls into this
category. A number of technical assistants have administrative functions:
this is the case, for example, with agricultural project directors (Spain,
ADF, USA, People's Republic of Korea, France), technical assistance team
leaders (Spain, UNDP, Germany), and the four newly arrived administrators with
executive functions supplied to the Ministries of Agriculture, Education,
Health, and Finance by UNDP under its Public Administration Project. The



experts the IMF proposes to provide to the Central Bank and to the Ministry of
the Economy and Finance will also have administrative, executive functions.
27.      Few donors, however, are providing policy advice per se.  The Spanish
technical assistance team leaders in almost every Ministry provide some policy
advice, but their function is primarily administrative. France provided an
adviser to the Ministry of Planning, but his activity has been limited mainly
to trying to establish planning cells in the technical Ministries. Germany is
providing an agricultural programmer for the island of Bioko whose terms of
reference include providing policy advice for agricultural development on the
island. UNDP has recently provided an expert to the Ministry of Planning
whose terms of reference include writing a Development Plan, reorganizing the
structure of the Ministry, and gathering basic economic data. No one,
however, is providing (or planned to provide, as of February 1984) general
policy advice in the critical secto:rs of agriculture on the continent,
forestry, mining, and education, and the advisers provided to the Ministry of
Planning at present are preoccupied with technical and administrative tasks.
28.      For this reason, the Government approached the Bank Group with a
request for experienced advisers in macroeconomic planning, agricultural
policy on the continent, forestry and mining policies, (also on the continent)
and education planning. The Bank Group agreed that the presence of these
advisers would be essential in helping formulate development policies and in
developing a project preparation capability allowing the Government to
mobilize external aid more efficiently and rapidly. The Bank Group would be
well placed to provide technical supervision of the advisers it would finance,
as well as to build on the latter's work to encourage the international donor
community to expand its vital aid to the country. The proposed project would
also assist the Banx in developing a sound lending program for Equatorial
Guinea. Finally, the Bank Group's involvement in the petroleum sector
technical assistance project (para. 21), in the preparation of the cocoa
rehabilitation project (para. 22), and in economic and sector work (para. 23)
has convinced the Government that it could benefit from the involvement at the
policy level of a large multilateral development agency like the Bank Group.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
29.      The proposed project was initially requested by the President of
Equatorial Guinea at the International Donors' Conference in Geneva in April
1982 (para. 15). The project was prepared by Bank Group missions which
visited Equatorial Guinea in September 1982 and February 1983. Project
appraisal took place in May/June 1983, and a brief post-appraisal mission in
July/August 1983 reviewed specific terms of reference for each proposed expert
(Annex IV) with the Government and obtained the Government's agreement to
these terms of reference. Further technical discussions on recruitment
procedures, construction of houses, and project processing were held in ]Malabo
in January-February 1984.
30.      Negotiations for the proposed project were held in Washington from
April 24-25, 1984, with an Equato-Guinean delegation headed by His Excellency
Mr. Angel Alogo Nchama, Vice Minister, Ministry of Water, Forests, and
Reforestation.  Special conditions of the project are listed in Annex III of
this report. There is no separate Staff Appraisal Report.



- 10 -
Project Objectives and Description
31.      The objectives of the proposed project are: (a) to help the
Government elaborate key elements of a medium-term development strategy and
investment program and improve the institutional framework necessary to
implement them; (b) to help the Government prepare specific development
projects and assist with the technical discussions and negotiations; (c) to
help create conditions conducive to private-sector investments in the key
growth sectors of agriculture, forestry, and mining; and (d) to help the
Government elaborate a coherent, realistic development strategy in the
education sector.
32.      The project would provide: (a) five long-term resident specialists in
the sectors of economic planning, agriculture, forestry, mining, and
education; (b) short-term consultants, including an architect/specialist in
school construction, a training specialist, and a public debt specialist;
(c) training and on-the-job experience, both at home and abroad, for Equato-
Guinean nationals; (d) housing, vehicles, and associated operating costs for
the resident specialists; (e) the services of a locally recruited
Administrative Officer to handle details of project management and
administration; (f) office equipment and supplies, local support staff, and
other operating costs for project administration; and (g) studies, short-term
consultants' services, and other project-related activities to be identified
during project implementation.
53.      Resident Specialists.  Five resident specialists would be provided
for up to four years each. Terms of Reference have been agreed with the
Government and are given in Annex IV.
(i)   A macroeconomist/planner/economic development adviser in the Ministry
of Planning and Economic Development, reporting to the Minister, who
would assist in the elaboration of the key elements of a development
strategy and an investment program for the country, the design and
monitoring of day-to-day economic policy objectives, the coordination
of economic planning and policy-making, and the review of proposed
investment projects. This specialist would act as Chief Technical
Adviser for the project (para. 42).
(ii)   An agricultural planner/agricultural projects specialist in the
Rio Muni Regional Office of the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock,
and Rural Development, who would advise and assist the Ministry's
delegate at Bata. The work of this specialist would focus on
assisting in supervising the Ministry's day-to-day activities on the
mainland. He would also assist in identifying and reviewing
agricultural projects on the mainland and in supervising the work of
short-term consultants recruited to assist in project preparation.
The specialist would also provide inputs covering agricultural
development on the mainland to the macroeconomist/planner in Malabo,
for use in the national development strategy and investment program.
(iii)   A forestry specialist in the Rio Muni Regional Office of the Ministry
of Water, Forestry, and Reforestation, who would advise the Ministry
on reorganization of the forest service, preparation of sector plans,
and financing of sector investment projects. The specialist would



-11 -
also provide inputs covering the development of the forestry sector
to the macro-economist/planner in Malabo, for use in the national
development strategy and investment program. The specialist would
live in Bata but would visit Malabo periodically as necessary for his
work. The work of the forestry specialist would be supported by
short-term consultancies by legal specialists to advise on the
revision and implementation of legal and fiscal regulations affecting
the sector.
(iv)   A mining specialist in -the Rio Muni Regional Office of the Ministry
of Mines and Hydrocarbons, who would advise the Ministry on follow-up
to surveys of the country's mineral resources currently being
undertaken. This might include assistance in organizing a technical
and legal framework for attracting new investments. The specialist
would also provide inputs covering the development of the mining
sector to the mlacro-economist/planner in Malabo, for use in the
national development strategy and investment program. The specialist
would live in Bata but would visit Malabo periodically as necessary
for his work. The work of the mining specialist would be supported
by short-term consultancies by legal specialists to advise on the
development of an organizational framework for the sector, including
the role and structure of private- and public-sector institutions,
and to review and make recommendations for changes in legislation and
regulations affecting the sector.
(v)   An education planner in the Ministry of Education and Sports, who
would advise the Minister on sectoral development, including the
elaboration of a long-term sectoral strategy and plan, and the
preparation of a major project which would be implemented under the
plan. The specialist would also provide inputs covering the
development of the education sector to the macro-economist/planner,
for use in the national development strategy and investment program.
Each resident specialist would be expected to prepare a detailed annual work
plan for the first year of his assignment within three months of arrival in
the country, and would update that work plan annually thereafter. The draft
annual work plan would be submitted to IDA for review and approval. Each
resident specialist would also submit quarterly progress reports to the
Government, to be forwarded to IDA for review and discussion. In addition, a
detailed annual report on the execution of the previous year's plan,
highlighting achievements and problems, would also be submitted to IDA for
review and discussed with the Government to help ensure that the resident
specialists were meeting the project's objectives (Section 3.03 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement)(hereafter, "the draft Agreement").
34.      Short-term Consultants.  Three short-term consultants would be
provided under the project. Terms of Reference have been agreed with the
Government and are given in Annex IV.
(i) An architect/specialist in school construction, for six months
beginning in October 1984.  This specialist, attached to the Ministry
of Education and Sports, would advise the Minister of Education on
labor-intensive, low-cost building materials and designs, including
the design of a prototype model of a primary school. He would also



- 12 -
advise on the use of local materials and skills in the manufacture of
school furniture and equipment. His work would be intended to form
the basis for an eventual IDA-assisted education project.
(ii)  A training specialist, for a total of eight months over a period of
four years. This specialist would assist the Government and the
resident specialists in the design of training programs for the co-
workers of the resident specialists, both on the job or abroad. His
role is discussed in more detail in para. 35. He would come
initially for a period of about one month, after the resident
specialists had been in post for at least three months. Thereafter,
he would return at six-month intervals for about a month at a time.
Within a month after each visit, he would submit a report to the
Government, to be forwarded to IDA for review and comment, covering
his activities and the progress of the training component.
(iii)  A public debt specialist, for an initial period of six months and
then as needed thereafter. This specialist would work in the
Ministry of Finance with the Director General of the Public Debt
Agency to make an inventory of the country's public debt, establish a
mechanism for servicing the debt, advise the Government during
negotiations on rescheduling of old debt or contracting of new debt,
and train his co-workers -to continue these activities.
35.      Training.  Because the level of training of the vast majority of
middle-level technicians in the Government administration is so low, the
proposed project could make only a modest contribution to training.
Nevertheless, the following arrangements would ensure that opportunities for
raising local staff capabilities would not be m:issed:
(a)  In connection with the preparation of the work plans described in
para. 33, each resident specialist would agree with his Minister on a
realistic allocation of work among himself and several designated
local technicians, the purpose of which would be to give the latter
specific and motivating responsibilitie!s, and to enable the adviser
to assess their progress, needs, and potential and, on this basis, to
formulate plans for formal training.
(b)  The consultant training specialist to be provided under the project
(para. 34) would assist the resident specialists and the Government
in the design of such on-the-job training and in the preparation of
plans for training and apprenticeship abroad, and would monitor
progress of the overall training program.
(c)  The Government has given assurances that it would give its full
support to the formulation and implementation of the overall training
program, notably by providing appropriate career development
incentives to such persons who had successfully completed overseas
training courses (Section 3.04 of the draft Agreement).
(d)  To the extent that local training instil;utions may be created and
become operational during the project period (e.g., the new
Agricultural Training School), it would be expected that arrangements
would be made for the resident specialists to participate in the



- 13 -
teaching, thereby offeringP a possibility of identifying suitable
fresh candidates for recruitment into the Ministries.
Sufficient funds have been allocated to this component to allow up to four
nationals in each of the five recipient Ministries to receive such training
during the project implementation period. Given the shortage of trained
people in each Ministry, only one trainee would be absent from any given
Ministry at any given time. The qualifications and experience of all
candidates for training and the details of the proposed training programs
would be submitted to IDA for prior approval (Section 3.04 of the draft
Agreement).
36.      Housing and Vehicles for the Resident Specialists.  At present,
living quarters of international standards are virtually unavailable. Many
multilateral and bilateral agencies have recognized that it is impossible to
attract specialists of high caliber to the country in the absence of adequate
housing and funds for maintenance, and they have financed construction cf
houses for their resident specialists. Similarly, the proposed project would
provide for construction of houses for the long-term resident specialists, as
well as subsistence allowances for the specialists until the houses are
ready. The Government has provided assurances that the residences will be
used for their intended purposes, i.e., for resident specialists provided
under the proposed project and possible subsequent projects, whether financed
by IDA or other IDA-approved external agencies (Section 3.06(b)(ii) of the
draft Agreement).  Additionally, the resident specialists' contracts would
provide for fortnightly trips (present round-trip cost: US$90 equivalent) to
Douala, Cameroon (about a half-hour flight from Malabo), for provisions, as is
now the case for UNDP resident specialists. This clause in the contract would
become inoperative if the Association, during the normal course of
supervision, decided that such trips were no longer necessary. Once
Equatorial Guinea enters BEAC (para. 16), the supply of consumer goods should
improve substantially, and such trips will no longer be necessary, but in the
short term, specialists of high caliber will probably be unwilling to
undertake the proposed assignments unless such arrangements are available.
One service vehicle would be purchased under the project for each resident
specialist. Funds would also be provided under the project for the operation
and maintenance of the vehicles and the houses.
37.      Regarding land for construction of houses, the Government has agreed
to take all necessary actio.n to acquire land as and when required, and will
provide IDA with satisfactory ev-idence that adequate land and the legal rights
to that land are available for the project (Section 3.08 of the draft
Agreement). The Government has contributed to the provision of housingw by
offering one residence (in Bata, on the mainland) for the agricultural
specialist.
38.      Administrative Officer.  An Equato-Guinean national would be
recruited to deal with the project's numerous administrative and logistical
details. Tasks would include maintaining project accounts, carrying out
procurement, drafting correspondence to potential consultants and suppliers,
preparing withdrawal applications, and preparing quarterly reports on project
implementation for the Government and IDA. In addition, the Administrative
Officer would be expected to pay close attention to ensuring satisfactory
living and working conditions for the resident specialists during project



- 14 -
start-up and throughout project implementation. To supplement the selected
candidate's experience, the Credit would finance a two-week visit to IDA
Headquarters for orientation in subjects related to the administration of IDA-
assisted technical assistance projects, and a two-week visit to neighboring
Cameroon for on-the-job training in the project unit in the Ministry of
Planning responsible for the IDA-financed Second Technical Assistance Project.
39.      In the event that no competent Equato-Guinean candidate is found, the
position would be advertised internationally and a qualified expatriate
recruited. Funds are available in the project to hire either a national or an
expatriate. Since the Administrative Officer will need to be active as soon
as possible in order to facilitate the selection of specialists and their
settling in, the hiring of a competent Administrative Officer on terms and
conditions acceptable to IDA would be a condition of Credit effectiveness
(Section 6.01(c) of the draft Agreement).
40.      Local Staffing and Operating Costs.  In addition to the
Administrative Officer, the Credit would finance the services of secretaries,
chauffeurs, and other local support staff to assist the resident
specialists. The conditions of employment of national staff would be
consistent with UNDP policies on such matters. Funding would also be provided
for office equipment and supplies, and for other operating costs of project
administration, including communications, maintenance, etc.
41.      Other Activities to be Identified.  An amount equivalent to US$1.0
million would be reserved for studies, further short-term consultants'
services, and other project-related activities within the objectives of the
proposed project. Some of these funds would be used to hire short-term
specialists to provide backstopping as needed to the resident specialists. In
particular, it is expected that some of these funds will be used to hire (a)
agricultural consultants to prepare agricultural projects on the mainland, (b)
legal specialists to examine and advise on the revision of the existing legal
and fiscal policies and concession agreements in the forestry sector, and (c)
other legal specialists to periodically review the legislation governing the
mining sector (para. 33). Funds under this component might only be drawn upon
for activities or expenditures recommended by the Chief Technical Adviser and
approved by the Minister of Planning and IDA (Schedule 1, paragraph 3(b) of
the draft Agreement).
Project Implementation
42.      The project would be implemented over a period of five and a half
years, including six months of activities begun before Credit effectiveness
and financed from a PPF advance (para. 43). The estimated Completion Date
would be September 30, 1989. Overall coordination would rest with the
Minister of Planning and Economic Development. Thke Economic Development
Adviser, in his capacity as Chief Technical Adviser, reporting to the Minister
of Planning and assisted by the Administrative Off'icer, would be responsible
for managing and facilitating the implementation and follow-up of the various
other components of the project. These arrangements are consistent with the
Government's decision that development activities are to be coordinated by the
Ministry of Planning. Other project components would be overseen by the
respective technical Ministry as indicated in para. 33. Detailed arrangements
for coordination of project activities, including management and auditing of



- 15 -
accounts, and reporting procedures, have been discussed and agreed with the
Government (Sections 3.07 and 4.01 of the draft Agreement).
43.      To ensure smooth project s-tart-up activities, it is important that
the Administrative Officer be recruited as soon as possible, and that
arrangements for construction of houses be finalized.  The Government has also
expressed the desire that recruitment procedures for the resident specialists
and for the consultant public debt specialist be started, and that they take
up their posts as quickly as possible.  The Government has officially
requested UNDP's Office of Projects Execution (OPE) for assistance in
recruiting the technical specialists, negotiating and administering their
contracts, administering the training component, and supervising procurement
at the Government's request, IDA has provided a PPF advance to (a) undertake
construction of houses.; (b) allow recruitment to proceed by providing initial
payment of salaries (up to six months) of the resident specialists, the
Administrative Officer, and the consultant public debt specialist; (c) provide
subsistence costs for the resident specialists until the houses are ready
(para. 36); and (d) purchase, operate, and maintain vehicles.
Project Costs and Financing
44.      Total project costs are estimated at US$6.3 million equivalent, of
which about US$5.0 million represents foreign costs (79 percent). Local costs
(US$1.3 million equivalent) include about US$10,000 equivalent of duties and
taxes on imported but locally purchased office equipment. Taxes and duties on
imported but locally purchased building materials, spare parts, and gaso:Line
(for the operation and maintenance of houses and vehicles) are estimated to be
negligible. All other project items would be exempt from duties and taxes.
An exchange rate of US$1.00 = BK1,300, reflecting the parallel market rate,
has been used in computing project costs as the best estimate for the shadow
exchange rate. In view of the country's extreme poverty and extraordinary
balance-of-payments problems, it is recommended that IDA finance 95 percent of
total project costs, equivalent to about US$6.0 million; the Government would
finance the remaining US$0.3 million equivalent in local currency.
45.      Base costs have been, estimated as of April 1984, the date of
negotiations. Construction cost estimates are based on similar housing
projects underway or recently completed in the country. Physical
contingencies of 10 percent have been provided for all items except sala,ries
(technical assistance and local personnel).  Since it is assumed that the
divergence between local and international rates of inflation will disappear
once Equatorial Guinea enters BEAC (para. 16) and starts to use a freely
convertible currency, international rates of inflation have been applied to
both foreign and local costs. Price contingencies have accordingly been
calculated at 3.5 percent in 1984, 8.0 percent in 1985, 9.0 percent annually
in 1986-88, and 7.5 percent in 1989.
46.      Procurement.  The resident specialists and short-term consultanits
would be recruited internationally (with the assistance of OPE) and wouLd be
employed by the Government on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA (Section
3.02 of the draft Agraement). The resident specialists' contracts would be
for an initial period of six months, with the understanding that they would be
extended to two-year contracts if all parties were satisfied after the initial
six-month period. After two years, contracts would be renewed annually as
appropriate, up to a total of four years (para. 33). No substitution of the



- 16 -
originally agreed specialists and consultants, or modifications of the terms
and conditions of their employment, would be made except with the prior
approval of IDA (Section 3.02 of the draft Agreement). Purchases of vehicles,
equipment, and furniture would total about US$263,000 equivalent, comprising
(a) vehicles (US$58,0_00), (b) furniture (US$50,000), (c) an electric generator
(US$70,000), (d) the water supply equipment (US$25,000), and (e) office
equipment (US$60,000). Locally advertised competitive bidding was considered,
given the small size of the individual contracts, but this procedure would not
draw a response because equipment suppliers are not represented in Equatorial
Guinea. Therefore, procurement of these items would be undertaken through
prudent international shopping by obtaining at least three quotations from
qualified suppliers in at least three different countries (Schedule 3 of the
draft Agreement). Most of the contracts are likely to be won by suppliers
established in neighboring countries. The contract for civil works for houses
and a protective enclosure (US$410,000), however, would be awarded on the
basis of local competitive bidding (Schedule 3 of the draft Agreement). Local
construction firms exist (albeit very few of them), are competitive, and have
the capacity to undertake the works in question.  It is unlikely that foreign
entrepreneurs would bid for such a contract, o:r, if they did and were
successful, that they would satisfactorily execute the contract, due to the
location of the building sites.
47.      Disbursements.  The IDA Credit proceeds would be disbursed as shown
in the following table:
Disbursement Schedule
us TUT'000T-
% of
Amount        Expenditures
to be            to be
diEsbursed       disbursed
1.  Resident Specialists                        2,100              100%
2.  Short-term Consultants                        140              100%
3.  Training                                      300              100%
4.  Housing for Resident Specialists              455              100%
5.  Operating and Maintenance Costs                79              100%
(Houses and Vehicles)
6. Project Administration:
(a)  Office Equipment                        69             100% of foreign
expenditures
(b)  Office Operating Costs                 188              65%
(c)  Travel Allowances                      247             100%
(d)  Administrative Officer                  50             100% of local
expenditures
7. Needs to be Identified during
Project Implementation                    1,000             100%
8.  Repayment of PPF Advance                      650
9.  Initial Deposit in Special Account            300
10.  Unallocated                                   422
Total                                       6,000
The Government would finance 100 percent of local staff salaries except for



- 17
the salary of the Administrative Officer, 100 percent of the post-
effectiveness costs of temporary housing, 100 percent of the local costs of
office equipment, and 35 percent of total office operating costs. Since
Equatorial Guinea is virtually a new Borrower, disbursements would be fully
documented. The disbursement schedule conforms broadly to the disbursement
profile for technical assistarLce projects in the Eastern and Western Africa
Regions.  Although the project implementation period is estimated at five and
one half years, each resident expert would not be hired for more than four
years under the project. There may, however, be substantial delays in (a)
recruiting acceptable candidates, (b) deciding on the use of the US$1.0
million equivalent fund for as yet unidentified needs, and (c) receiving and
processing withdrawal applications and requests to replenish the Special
Account (para. 48). Disbursemernts are therefore assumed to be spread over a
six-year period, with a projected Closing Date of March 31, 1990.
48.      Special Account.  Because the Government may find it difficult, in
its present financial situation, to prefinance expenditures eligible for
reimbursement from the IDA Credit, a Special Account of US$300,000 in US
dollars (corresponding to an estimated three months of eligible expendituLres,
plus 20 percent), advanced from the IDA Credit proceeds, would be established
in the Bank of- Equatorial Guinea (Central Bank).  The Special Account would be
replenished periodically, at the request of the Borrower, from the Credit
Account established by the Associa-tion at the time of signing; the Special
Account's funds would be used for eligible expenditures under the Credit
(para. 47),
49.      Project Account.  A Project Account would be established in a local
commercial bank acceptable to IDA for the Government's own contribution to
project costs. The establishment of this account in a commercial bank would
ensure that the Government had actually made its counterpart funds available
for the project and that they might be freely drawn upon for eligible project
expenditures. In addition, the establishment of a separate Project Account
for the Government's contribution to the project should assist the (possibly
somewhat inexperienced) national Administrative Officer (para. 38) to avoid
using funds from the Credit to pay for items which should be financed by the
Government. Establishment of the Special Account and the Project Account (the
latter with an initial Government deposit of US$15,000 equivalent in local
currency) would be a condition of Credit effectiveness (Sections 6.01(a) and
6.01(b) of the draft Agreement). The Government has given an assurance that
the Project Account would be replenished at the beginning of each quarter to
the level of US$15,000 equivalent in local currency (Section 3.05 of the draft
Agreement).
Project Benefits and Risks
50.      The principal project benefit is that the country would be able to
begin developing a realistic, coherent, coordinated development strategy, one
which would take into account both the country's probable resources (internal
and external) and its constraints (financial and human).  The potential
development of the country's key productive sectors (agriculture, petroleum,
forestry, mining) and its largest social sector (education) would also be
reflected in this strategy.  The project should also increase the country's
absorptive capacity for external investment, through improved project
preparation, a better dialogue wish potential donors and investors, and



- 18 -
increased external confidence in the country.
51.      The project's major risk is the possibility that the Government may
not make effective use of the specialists provided. This issue has been
discussed thoroughly and frankly with Equato-Guinean authorities at all levels
throughout project preparation. Unanimously, these authorities have
reiterated their need and desire for such assistance and their commitment to
using it effectively. Bank staff most familiar with Equatorial Guinea judge
that the time is right to proceed. Nevertheless, the initial probationary
period built into each contract, and the necessity for annual renewals after
the end of the second year, would allow IDA to intervene if it were determined
during the normal course of project supervision that the technical expertise
being provided were not being well used.
52.      The second major risk is that the spartan living conditions and the
difficult administrative environment in Equatorial Guinea may prove to be a
disincentive to high-caliber technical assistants.  The project has been
designed to mitigate these difficult conditions to the extent possible,
notably through the provision of acceptable housing and fortnightly trips to
purchase provisions. Recruitment delays will probably be unavoidable,
although advertising began early in an effort to keep such delays to a
minimum.
53.      A third risk is that day-to-day logistical difficulties may hamper
the specialists from providing their services efficiently. The project has
been designed to minimize this risk, notably through the provision of a local
Administrative Officer who can work virtually full time on solving such
problems. If it were discovered, however, during the normal course of project
supervision, that logistical problems were severely hampering the efficiency
of the specialists, then consideration would be given to improving or
expanding the project's administrative unit.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
54.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Equatorial Guinea and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association, are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
55.      Features of special interest in the draft Agreement are referred to
in Section III of Annex III of this report. Special conditions of Credit
effectiveness would be: (i) hiring of a competent Administrative Officer for
the project on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA (para. 39); and (ii)
opening of the Special Account and the Project Account, the latter with an
initial Government deposit of US$15,000 equivalent in local currency (paras.
48 and Z9).
56.      I am satisfied that the proposed Developmnent Credit would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 19 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
57.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
by Ernest Stern
Attachments
May 3, 1984
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
- 20 -                                           Page 1 of 5
EQUATORIAL GUINEA        - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
EQUATORIAL GUINEA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                       (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
1960 /b      lb  RECENT  /b           LOU INCOME               MIDDLE INCCME
1970- ESTIMAT8L          AFRICA S. OF SAHARA      AFRICA S. OF SAHARA
AEA (TROUSARD SD. EM)
TOTAL                                  28.1        28.1         28.1
AGRICULTURAL                            3.2         3.3          3.3
GNP PEI CAPITA (US$)                        ..           ..       180.0               254.6                     1147.9
mElT COWMNTIOH PR  CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENr)        44.0         64.0         96.0                79.8                      724.2
POPtAfTON AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)      244.0        288.0        346.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)         25.5         39.0         54.8                19.5                       28.5
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                                 0.5
STATIONARY POPbLATION (MILL)                                   1.2
YEAR STATIONARY pOP. REACHED                                2155
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                          8.7         10.3        12.2                29.5                        56.5
PER SQ. X4M. AGRI. LAND             76.0         87.5       102.1                94.1                       131.8
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (I)
0-I4 YRS                           38.9         40.4        41.9                45.0                        45.9
15-64 YRS                           57.1         55.5        54.7                52.1                        51.2
65 AND ABOVE                         4.0          4.1         3.3                 2.9                         2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                1.5          1.7          1.7                 2.8                        2.8
URBAN                                6.4          5.9         4 8                 6.2                         5.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)             ..        40.0        59 5                47.9                        47.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)             ..        26.9        21.6                 19.2                       15.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                  ..         2.4          2.4                3.2                         3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)              ..          ..
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)            ..           ..           ..
race AM NUDEITIOK
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                        103.7        100.0          ..                87.8                        95.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (1 OF REQUIREMENTS)           ..          ..           ..               88.0                        97.1
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)              ..           .,           .                51.2                       56.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE              .          ..           ..               18.1                        17.2
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE           43.7         37.5        30.0                25.7                       23.6
HEALTR
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)            ..        37.4         42.7               47.4                        5L.9
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)        187.8        166.6       140.7               126.5                       117.6
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (.POP)
TOTAL                                  ..          ..           ..               24.7                        25.4
URBAN                                  ..          ..           ..               56.8                        70.5
RURAL                                  ..          ..           ..               18.3                        12.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(I OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..           ..               28.1
URBAN                                  ..          ..           ..               65.7
RURAL                                 ..           ..           ..               21.9
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            5810.0      11720.0          2. 7420.6                                  12181.6
POP. PER NURSING PERSON              620.0      73250.0           ..             3456.2                      2292.0
POP. FER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              190.0            .         90.0c           1183.2                      1075.4
URBAN                               50.0           ..         60.07W            380.6                      402.3
RURAL                             9080.0            .        210.0/c           3177.5                     3926.7
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL RED .B                                   ..
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                  * *.
URBAN                                 *-                        '*
RURAL                                        ..          .          .
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..           ..           .                   .
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                 * -          * -*
ACCESS TO ELECT. (Z OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..



- 21 -                                               ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
EQUATORIAL GUINEA        - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
EQUATORIAL GUINEA                        REFEREiiCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) 7r
MOST                        (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) lb
/b          /b  RECENT                 LOW INCOME               MIDDLINCOME
19601-       1970-  ESTIUATE-b        AFRICA S. OF SAHARA        AFRICA S. OF SAHLARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                      85.0         75.0         81.0/d               63.9                        97.2
14ALE                    103.0         86.0         89.0|d               73.6                       103.1
FEMALE                    67.0         64.0         72.07W               51.6                        88.5
SECONDARY: TOTAL                       2.0         17.0         11.0/d               12.5                        17.2
MALE                       3.0         24.0         19.07/               16.7                        23.5
FEMALE                     1.0          9.0          4.07T                8.1                        14.2
VOCATIONAL (I OF SECONUDAY)             37.8         10.0          8.2/d                7.3                         5.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                               76.0         57.0/e         ..                 46.4                        42.9
SECONDARY                             36.0         34.b         27.b/d               25.1                        23.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (Z)                   ..           ..         28.0/f               36.5                        37.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS/TdOUSAND POP               ..           ..           ..                  3.3                        18.8
RADIO RECEIVERS/TdOUSAND POP              ..         27.8        293.3                 45.3                        97.8
TV EECrIVERS/TIIOUSAND POP                ..           ..          2.9                  2.2                       1.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST ) CIRCULATIOd
PLR THOUSAND POPULATION                 3.3           ..           ..                  4.7                        18.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA           ..           ..          1.5/c                1.0                         0.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)               74.0         84.0         96.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                       3.d          4.2          4.8                34.5                         36.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                 84.0         80.0         76.0                 76.9                        56.8
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                     6.0          7.0          8.0                 9.8                         17.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 30.2         29.1         27.7                40.9                         37.0
MALE                                  59.6         57.1         54.2                 53.0                        47.1
FEMALE                                 2.3          2.4          2.6                 28.9                        27.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.4          1.5          1.6                  1.2                         1.3
INCOMIE DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
dICdEST 52 OF EOUSEdOLDS               ..
RilGlEST 2U% OF dOUSEdOLDS              ..
LOWEST 202 OF iOUSEHiOLDS               ..
LOWEST 4114 OF hOUSEiOLDS               ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..           ..           ..               165.9                        534.Z
RURAL                                   ..           ..           ..                87.4                        255.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US5 PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..           ..           ..               100.8                        491.j
RURAL                                   ..           ..           ..                64.6                        188,L
LSTIEMATELD POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (S)
URBAN                                   ..           ..           ..                39.5
RURAL                                   ..           ..           ..                69.0
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N 0 T E S
la The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries among, the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted,  Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970' between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Host Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  1977; /d 1975; /e 1973; /f 1978.
Nay 1963



N                             N   WNN-NN-NN  -N-                                                                      N-N-N-N-N-N-NNNN-
N-N-N-N-N-N                               NNNNNN<NN  N- -,  -                                                                                    'N-'    N-NNN
N-N          N-N   N-NN-NN-S   -"           N-N-       I   I
I                                    N-NNN-N-NNN               NNNNN-NN-NNN  SN  5N-NN  -                                                        I                    ON-N-N-INN-N-  N- NO  N-NO
[N                                                       I                  N-N-                            -                        ass          as
N-                    N-NN-N-NN-N-N-NNNN-NN-N-N- - '5N-'N-N-N                                                                                             [N NN-N-N-N-O   N-N-    N-N-EN-N-N-  5N-  N-N- >A              N-                        NN-S
N-N-N-        N-N-N-N-N-N05                             NN-N-N-N-N-N-N-NNN                                                                              N-N-NrL                                N-N
NN-N-NN-N-NNNN-N                                                 -'   N N- -N N N                                                                        IF
I                                                                               NN-N-o NqN
N-NN-N-N                           N   N      N N NN  N N N           N                              N-'   N N N NN-NN-NN-N    NN -                               N- NNN-    NN- N- N-NNNNN-N-N             5N-'-N         N-N-N-                     -   N- N N        N-
N-57N-7N-N-N-g-7                                                    NN5N-N N-N                  N NO  5  N-N-N-N-N-N-N-   NNNNO I  N-oN   NNN-N-a557N-N-N-N-N  N-  ON-N-                                                                            N-N- 5N N-
N-   N- N N- N-  N                           NNN-              NNNN-N-NNN-                                 N-N   NNN- N-N  NNN-N-NNN-NN-NN                              N-NON-N-N    NN-N-N          NON  N   N-NI      N          N
ONN-NN-t                                   N-                 N--                                                                N-N-N-N-N N-N-                                                 NN-N-jN-N-N            NIN                                              N-N-
N   N- NN                            2NN-N  N-N                        N-                                  N-aSN-gN-?N-NNt7                                       NN-                       N N N N   k N-  N-N-NON-N -NNN-N-NNN- N N-N-N-N-NNONN-N-  NN  N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-  N-NN-  NN    N-  -   -   N   NN-N-iS   NNN-  NNNNN-N-
N-N-N NON-N  N- N- N                       N  N- N  N   N N N N N N- N N N N   N-                       N      N- N   - N   N N-  N NN- N                             N- N     N   N-. N    N- N- N    N N   N- N.  N N   N-  N- N                        N- N- N N N   N- N-
N-N-N-N     N-    N-N-N-N-N-   N                                 NN-N-N-NN-N-NNN- N N          NNNN-N-NN           NON              N-N-NNN-N-    N-IN N-N-                              7707    N- N N N-N-N-N-ON                                  N-N-                       - N   o   N- N- N
N-N-N-N  NN-NNN                          N-NN-NN-N-NN-N-NNN-N-NNNNNN                                       N   NNNNON-NN-NNNN-NN-N-                                     N NNNONNN-NN                   N-N-ON-NO    N-N-    NN                              N-N-N-5NNN
N-N-N-   N-N-N-                                                  N   N-N-N-                                                                                N-N-N N-N-N-N-N N- N   NN-NNNNN-5N-   N N-N   N-             N-N-          N                     N-N-N-N-N-   N-N-N
N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N             &                              N-   N-N-N-ON  N-NNN  N  -N-N   5N-N-   N-N-N-N                               N                                NN-N     NN-                     N- N N N     N-  N-
N-  N- N N- N N N N N- N-NN-N-NN-N                        N-I N- N- N- N-NNN-NN-N-NN-NN    N-                             N N   I N- N- N-N-   IN-NN-N- N- N- N N-                    N-SN-N-NN  NNNN-NNNNNN
N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N                                 N N N-  N N-  N N N - N N-  N-  N- N N   N-                        N-   N   N- N I N- I N-  N-  N N N N-                      N-  N- N N- N- N- N N- N N- N N-   N   N-  N-    N- - N      N                       N-N-N-N-
N-N-N-N-N N-    N- N-N- N-N-N-N-N                                  N-    N-N-   55N        N-         N ON-N    N-N-N-N-N-N- N iN-  N N-N- N- N N-N   N N   ON- N-  N-
N-N-NNNNNN-N-N-NNNNI                                    N--NN-NNN-N-    N-N-N-   NN-N-N-N-          N-N-N NN-NNN-N-NN-NN-NONN-NNNN-O                                                     N   NNNN-N-N-NN-N-N-    N-N-I   N                        N-                         N-N-N-
NNNNNN-   N-N   N-           N        N-   N   -N-N-N-N-N- NN-N-NN N-    N-N-N   N                              N--NNN-NNN-NN-NNN-N-N   N-N-N-              N- N- N-N   N   N-N-N-N N-N-N-N-N N   ON-                   NN-         N-                                    N
I                                                                                                                                                              72   NN-8
N-N-N-N NN-NN-N-                         N-N-N   N-N-N-N-N N- N-N-N-N-N-N-N-      NN-N-N -N    N- N   N-N   N-N-N-NNNNNN-N-NN-NN-                                       N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-                      N- N      N-N
N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-                       N  - N- N-N N- N- N-  N N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N            I             N N   NNNNNNN-INN-N-                                           N-N-N-  N  N-N- N N- N- N   N  N- N-          N- N- N-                            N-      N-  N- N- N-
N-N-N-N-N-N--N-                          'N-  N-NON- N-N-N-N-N  NN-N-ON-N-                               N-N   N-N-        N-  N-  N
N-  N-  N N- N- N N N-                    N-  N-    N-  N- N- N-N-N-N-N-N-N   N- N-N-N-N-            N-   N-  N-N- N              IN-                                 N N- N-  N N N- N N- N N-N-N-   N-ON-   a       N-N        75                       N-N-N-N-N-   N-N-N
N-N-  N- N- N-N-N-N-N-   N    -N-   N-N- N-N-N-N-ON-N-N- N-N-N-N-N-N-N-                                 N-        N-             N-                                               N-                N-N-              NN-N-                                          a
N-N-NON-N-N-N-N-N-                                               N-N-  N-N-      N-N- N 'N-N-N-     N                         ON-N-!;    NNN-N-NNONN  N- N-                     N-N-N-N-                         N-           -
N- N- N-  N-N N- N-N-N-
N-N-N-N-N-N-N-  I                        N- N- N- N- N-  N- N I N-  N-N-N-N-N-N-N-                       N-N-N-N-N-N-N-  N N-  N-                                                                     N N-N-  N-       N-   N     N-N-                    N- N- N-          N-
SN-N-                N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-                               N-N-N-N-N-   N-   Z?    N-S                                                                                                                   N-N- N-gN-   N-N-
N-N-N-N-N-ON-N N-                          IN-N-  N-N--N-N-SN-N-N-N--N-   N-SN-N                                   ON-N-                     I                                                                                       N-                         N-N-N-N-N-N-
N-N-N-                        N-N-N-  N-  N--N- N-NON-N-N-N-N-                                                 N-   N-    N-N-                           N   N-N-N- N-N-N-N-N-N-N- N-       N-o          N-N-N-     N-N-                    N-N-N-N-N-N-N- N
N-NON-       N-N-                        N- N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N   N-  N                            N-5   N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-  N-N-                               N-N-N-N-   N-N-  N-N-N-N-N-N     N-N-  N-       N-N-N-       N-                     N-N-N-N-N-   N-N-N-
N- N-   N N- N- N - - N- N-               N N- N- N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-                                 N-N-           N-  N-  N-  N-  N                             N- N- - N-NN-N-N-  N- N- N- N-    N- N-         N- N- N-    N- N-                   N- N- N-N-N-N-N-N
N-N-N-   N-N-N   N-                      N-N-N-N-N-N-      N-  N-N-N--N-N-N-N-N-   N-                                             N-  N-  N-N-                          N-N-    N-N-N-N-N- N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-                                           N            N-N-N-
N-N-N-7N-N-N-   N-N-           N-N-N-                    N-N-  N- N- N- N- N- N-  N-                        N-  N- N-    N-                 N-N-
N-  S   S                                    5N-S;N-N-a;a    N-N-    -N-N-  --                           N-N-                     N-N-N- N-N   N-N-N-
N-N-N-N-   N-N-N-   N-N-N-N-N-   N-I                             N                  N   N   N-  N-N                          N- N- N- N- N- N- N-  N-  N-  N-   N-             N N- N-    N- N                    N-N-N-N-N-N-N-
N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-          N- N- N- N- N-    N- N-  N- N-  -NN-N-   N-N-N-N-N-N-N                                N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-           N-NO            N-       N-                       N-N-N- N-    N- N-
N-N-N-N-N-N-N-   N-N-N-N-N-N-NO                                                  N-  N   N-  N-N                          N-N-N-  N-N N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-   N-             N-N-N-     N-N-
N- N- _ N-N      N- N-                       N-N-  N-N-N-N- N-N--N-N-N-N- N  -                             N-   N-N-N   N-                                            N- N- N- N- N- N- N-N-N-N-N-N- N-    N- N-  N-   N- N-      N-N N
N- N-  N-  N- N- N N-                    N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-                                           N- N-  N N- N   N-  N-       N                                N-N-N-N-SN-N-N-N-N-   N-               N
N-N-N-ON-N-                                   N-N-N-N-     N-N-  N-N-    N-    N-        N-       Sd                                                     N-    N-N-           -N- N-N-                             IN-NN-N-   N-
N- N- N N- N-   N- N-N-N-N-N-N-N                                              N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-   -N N N- N- N- N-    N- N-  N- N-  N- N- N-   N   N          N                         N- N-N-N-N-N-N-N- N- N-N-        N-N--N-        NN N-                               N-ON-SN-    N-N-N-N
N- N- N- N N-  N-   - N-                       N- N- N-  N-N-  N- N N N N-  N N-                                                                                          N-N-N-N-N-N-N-  N- N-N-N-N-N-N                            N-N-
N-N-N-   N-N-N-NON-N-N-N-N-N-N-                        -7   5SdN-SN-N                                                    N-    'N-IN-        N-  N-  N-  N-N--                         N-NON-N        N-  N-N-N-N-        N   NN         N-N-     N-
N- N-  N- N- N-  N-   N-N-ON-N-                              N-N-N-   N-N-N-NN-N-N-N- N-    N- N-   0        N-N-                                  N-N-N-N-N-N-
N- N-    N-  N- N   N                    N   N-  N   N- N-             N- N-  N-  N                        N- N-  IN N N-  N-              N- N-                       N- N-  N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N- N-  -                  N- N N-      N-                    N-   N N-N-N-N-N-
N-N-N-N-N                                N-  N- N- N- N- N- N- N-   N N- N-  N N- N                        N-    N N-    N-  N-  N-  N-   I N-                          N N- N- N- N- N-N-N-   IN- N-N-    N-           N-IN-      N-                      N- N- N-  N-  N- N- N-
N- N- N- N- N-    N-  N-                       N-  N- N- N- N-  N- N- N-  N N- N-  N- N-N- N-N- N-N-N-N-N-N-N-IN-N-N-N-   I                                               N-N- N-N-N-N-N-N-NON- N-    N-N-  N-          N-NO       N-N-
N-ON-N-N-N- N-                            N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-                   N-               N- N   N- N- N-  N       N-  N-  N- N-                        5N-N-N-N-N-       N-NN-N-        N-N-N-         N-N        N-N-
N-N-N-IN- N-N-N-
N-N-N-N-           N-                        N-N-N-N-N-N-N- N-  N-  N-                                      N-  N-ON-   N   N-  N-  N-  N-N-                           N-N-   N-N-N-N
N-      N   N-N-                         N-  N-N-  N-N-N        N-    N-  N-N-                              N-  N-        N-N-o   N-                                 N-       N- N N-  oN-N-   N-    N-N-  N-           N-       N-N-     N-N-   N-N-N-N-N-N-               N-
N-N-N-N-N-N-I    N-N-           N-     OS      N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-                 N-N-NNN-N-        N-N-    N-    N-      N-N-                    N-             N-N-                        N-  N-   N- N-                                 N-N-  N-       N-N- N-N-N-N-N-N-N-   N-
N-      N-N-N-N-N-   N-   N-                              N          N-  N-N-N-N              N-N-N-N            N-             o         I       N     N-N-N-              N-                                       N-  N-         N-                ON-   -         N-  N- N-N-  N- N- N-  N-
N-      N-N-N-ON-                                         N-N-       N-N-NN-NN                                          N-      N-               N-   N-         0                                     N-    0                                --       N N-            N-N-N-N-N    NON     N-N
N-N-N-                                        N-                       N-   NN-                                                                 N-         N-                  N-              N-N-N-N-   N-N-N-  N-N
a     a                 N                                                          I                                                          5                                            N-           N-N-N-N-N-N-    N-
N-N-N- S
N-   - a N-       N-   N-         N-N-  N-  N- N- N-  N- N-                                            a           a    I -            a    -                                                                                                            1:5-7    ass
N-]          N        N                     N-N-N-N-N-N-N-                     N N-   N-  N- N-         N-N-  N- N-NN-N-N- N-N-N-N-N-N-N   N- N-N-           N-N-N-N-N->                            IN       -                         ISbN-tN-             N-N-NNN-
N-N-N-N-           0asaaN-                                  N-N-N-N-NN-N-NNN-       N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N N-N-N-                 N-N-       N-N-N-S                        N-SN-N-N-MN-N-N-  N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-    N- N-N-N-N-N-
N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-              K        N-    N-N-N-N-N-   N-N-N-SN-N-N-N-N-N-N-N--   N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-   N-NfrNS  N-  N-N-   N-N-N-N-N-N-SN-IN-N-N-N-N-                                                :a N- N-N-N-N-                               N-N-N-N-N      -N-N-
N N N N- N N                               N N-ON- N N N N N-N- N   N             N-                                                                    N- N-N-N-ON                       N-  N IN      N-   N N-N- N N N   N N N- N   N-N-             N-N-NN-N-N-           N-
N{N-N-NN-N-N N-N-N                       N-N-N-N-N  N-N-h-N--                                         N-N-   N-IN-N-      N-IN-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-                       -   N- N- N   N-N-:N--N-N-N-N-N-N-                                    N-N-NN-
N-N-N- N N N- N N- N              [N     N-NNN-NN  N-   N 2N-N-N-N-N-   giN                      [N-    N N N N N-N- N N N-N-   N N N-N-N- N N-N- N N- N-N-N- N N N N-N-                   N-N-N-N-                                               oN-N-N-N-N-N-
N- NNN-   N-N N      N-N-INN-   N-N-ON-N-N-N-N-  N- N                                N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N         N-N-N-  N-N-   N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-                          N-MN-NN-         N-N N-NON-N-N-N-N-N- N-   N N-   N N-N
N-N-NN-5N- N-N-                        :N N-SIN-NI   N-N-N-N-N-    N-5                                                        IN-                     FiNNN-N-N-
N-N-N-N-N-N    N-                                                  I                                                                                                                                          ai;N-2N-N-N-N-N-N-N-   N-N-N-N-N-              N-N-N-N-N-    N-
N-N-N   NNN-N         N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-                                         N-N-K
N-IN-N-                         N-N-N-   N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N                                                NN-N-N-N-NNN-N-          N-N NNNNN-NN-N- N-N--NN-N-N-N-07N-N-            N-N-N-N-N-N-IN-N-                                      N-N-NSNN-tN-                        N-N-
N- N  N N   N- N- N                     NNNN-N-NN-                                 N NON    N N N   N N N N   N N N            N N- N N- N N-N-N-N-NNN-N-N-N-N                            I                 N-N-N-N-N-N-N-5N-        N-N-N-N-N-N-        N *NNNR7NN
N-N-N-                                                                                  K               I        NN           N-N   N-N-   NN       N-N-                       NN-N N-N       N-N
N- N N N- N   N-N N   N-N-            N- N N N      N   N- N N N-   N   N N-N                         N- N-N-N-NNN-N          N-N-N-  N-N-N-N-N- N-N   NN    N-NNNNN          N- N-N       N-ON-C         N-N-INN-   N-N-N-NNN-                            N   N-N-   N-N-N-
N- N- N- N- N-  N                 I      ON-N-N-N-N-    ON-                                             N-N-N-N-N-   N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-                            H                                      N-N-N-  NN-NN-N-N-N- N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-
N- N- N N- N- N  N- N-                   N-   N- ON-N-N-N-NN-N-N-N          N N-         N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-IN-NNN-NN-N-.           iN             N-        N-                        L         N-N-N-       NN-aSN55N-N-55N-                                                 N-
-NO    N-N-N-N-N-N-N-                                           j                I       N-    N-N-          N-5                 N-  N-N-N-N-N-                              N-N-N-N-5N-JN-       N N- N  N-     N-
N-                                           N-N-                                    N-N-N-N-ON-                   N-                      N-N-N-              N-v                                           N-              N-         N-N-N-   N        N-
N    555                       N-IN-N-N-N              N-N-NoN-N-             I               N-N-N-N-ON   N-N-             N-          N N-N-   N-N-N-    N-           N-k       N-N-N-N N-N      N-N-                    NN-N-N-                N   N--N-O
Sr
N-N-N-IN-    _                       N[NN-N-N-              N   N-N-N-                              N-N-N-     N-  N-N-       N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N N-N-                                 N-N-N-   N-N-    N-                        N-N-N-N-N-
N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-                   N- N-N-N-N-N-   N-INN-N-N-N-            N-N-   -N-N-N-N-        N-N-N-N-N-N-N-                                          N- N-N-N- N- N- N-N  N- N-   N-N-N'       N-N-N-N-N-N-
N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N N-N-                                                     N-                      j   N-[                                                              N-N-  N-   N-
N- N- 7                                           I                                N- N N-N N-N-  N-                                             NNN-N-NNU    N-                                          ia
N-                                          'N-N-N-N-N-N              N-N-N-N-         N-N-ON-N-    N-N-N-   N-NN-N-   55        N-N-   N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-                    N-          N-N-N-N-N-N-                                       N-N-N-N-                     N-N
_                           N-N-N N-N-N-   N-N-N-    N- N-  N-         I                 N-N-N-N-N-   N-N-           N-N-N-N-N-      N-N-N-N-N-N-NM                N-                                N-N-NON-NON-              I N-N-
N-SN-N-SN-N-N-N-                           N- N-N   N-I        N-N-N-N-N-N-N             r                               L             N-N-N-N-          S     W                         N   N-N-N-N-          I                     N-O
N-N-N-                 N- N-  N- N N-      N-  N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-                    N-N-N-                                             N                   50SN55                N-I   N-IN-
N-N-N-N-N-N-   N-N-N-                      N-N-  N-N-N-        N-N-N-N-N-N-N-'           S                                N     N-N        N-N-                                                                                                             N-Sg:S
ON-                                N-N-ON-     N-  N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-                           N-N N-N-N-
O              N-N-N-ON-N-N-                               N-N-N-N-N-N-N-   N-N-N-   N-N-N-N-           N-                             a        N-    N-N-N-N  N-  N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-                 N-    SN-N- N-N-N-
SN-N-                             N-N-N-N  N- N-N-N-N-ON                                           I                                            N-   N-                                         N-N-N-N-SN-N-   LN-N- N-N-N-'N-N-jaaN-                      N
N-      N-                                                                                                N-                               N-N-N-N-N-N-
N-N-N-N-N-N-N-          N-NN-N-N-N-N-      N-N-N-   N-N-N-N-N-   N-N-N-N-N-          &    a5         N-  N-N-N-  N-N-                        N-N-N-N-N-N-      ftN-N-O7NIIONN-SN-N-N-Sd   N-N-N-                   gN-       N-
N-N-N-5    N-S-o                         N-N-N-   N-N-N-   N-N-N-N-N-N-N-RN-                   K      N-  N-N-N-N   N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N                      N-N-  N-N-                    N-
II N-N-N-N- N- N-N-N-
N-N-N-N-N-   N-  N-                        N-N-N-N-N-      N-                       N-  N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N- N-  N- N-   N- N-  N- N- N-  N-  N- N-N-N-N-N-N-N                                                    N-N-N-N-   N-N-N-N-N-
a                                                                                          004                                                                                                                               N-SN-N-                     :
N-N-N-N-                                               N-               -a                   N-                             as                N-N-N-8N-  N-a                         5550N-N-   N-8N-5N-NN-ON-N-MNIN-  :s-
N-N-N-N-  N-  N-  N-                       N-N-N-N-N-            N-  N-N-N   N-          S              N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-  N-  N-N-N-ON-N-N-N-N-
?NNN                                                                                                                                                                                                                   N-N-     N-N-INN-     aJi            g-
N-                            N-N-N-N-N-                N-MN-              N-N-N-N-                 N-jN             KL                       N-             N-N            XN-N-N-       iN-N-N-N-   5N-SNSN- N-N-N-N-N-N-
N-N-N-N-                                    N-N-N-N-N-N-N-   N-N-    N-  N-N-N-        N-N-N-N-   N-N  -    N-  N-N-  N-               N-N-N-N-N-                                          N-                 N-iN-i-N-N-   IN-N-N-   N-N-5                 N-N-N-j        N-N-
sa             N-N-N-N-N-N-                                N-NN-N-N-N-N-                                        I                      51       N- N-    N- N-   N                                                                   N-N-N-NN-N-    N- N-N-N-N-            N-N-N-N-N-
N-N-                                     N-N-N-N-     aas-N-                      N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N   5SN                 N-N-   N-N-N-N-                                 N-         N-N-N-i           N-N- N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N- N- N-   N-  N- N-                       N-i
N-N-N-                                         N-N-N-N-   N-N-N                                N-       N-N-     N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-                             N- N-   N- N-N-     N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-
N-    N-N N   N-N-      N-N-N-   N-N-           N-INN                              N-N-     N-N-     N-NN-N-N-N-N-N-N-   N-N-N-N
N-N-N-N-NO                               N-  N-  N-  N-  N-  N-N-N-N-N N-                             N-S  N N- N-  ON-          N-N-I  N-N-I   N-N-       N-N-N-N-N-                       N-  N-N-N-     N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N- N-N-N-N-N-  N-              N-N-N-
N-N-  N-   N-    N-N-         N-         N-  N-N-N-N-N-  N-N-N-N-N   N-N-N-          N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-          N-N-N-        N-N-N-   N-N-      N-N-N-ON-N-N-No                         1   557         N5N-NN-N-        N- N-N N-N-N-   N-5N--N       N-N-N-N-N-       N-
N- N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N                         N-  N-N-ai   N-N-N-N-   77                                     N-SSN    N-N-       o     5555    7Sdi7-5                                   N-N-    N-N-N       N-N-N--    N-SN-SN-8                        COIN-N-N-N-     MN-
JNN-N-                                                                                             N-                                N-N-N-N-N-N-N-
N-N-N-N-N-                                                                                                                                                       N-                        N-
N-N-N-N-N-N-ON-N-                                                      N                                N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-               N-             N-N-          N N-N-IN-N-N-    N-jN-
N-N-           N- N N- N-  N N- N-                      N-  N- N- N-    N- N-    N-N-    N-N-N-N-                                                                                N-
N-N-                          N-  N-N-N-      N-N-    N-N   N-N-N-  N-                                N-N-N-            N-N          N- N-N-N-N-N-N                  jN-                       
N-  N-  N-   N N- N-                                       N-                                                                                      N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-
taN-saN  SN                                       -N-N-N-N-S-sN-ass                           N-N-N-  SN-SN-  N-N-  5N-                       57  N-N-N-N-N-N-N-                                                NN-              N-I
N-N--N-N-N-                              N                 N-N-N-N-N-                                         N-N   N-N-      N-N-  N-N-N N-N-                                                 a            N- N-5.N-a0                  -   N-
N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-                   N-N-       EN-N-        AN-N-   S                          N-N-N-N-N-N-N-              N-             N-N-              N-N--N-N-                 N-
N-N-N-N-N- N-                                                           as                                                 N-N-N-     N-N-      N-   ;N-.N-                 I  N-N-N-N-
N-  N-0N-N-'    N-N-ON-N-   N-N-N-                                                   N                  N-N-N-N-N-N-NO                          N-N-                      N-N-N-N-N-N-   N-N-      N-N-N-         N-N-N-N-
5N-N-N-N-N-   N-N-N-                                        N-                                                                         N-N   N-N-                                                  N-N-N            N-N-N-N-   N-N-N -N-NN-N  -N-EN-N-      N-N-N-N-N-
N-I              N-N-   N-I   N-N-N                       N-                             N-N-N-                             INN-N-              CNN-               N-N-7-   EN-N-SN                               N-N-        N-  N-N-N-   N-5IN-N-      N-                N-NN-N- IN-
N     N- N     N-                          N-    N-N-N-N-   N-N   NN-   N-N N-                          N-              N-N-                        N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-                      N-N-  N-N-         N-                              N-N-N-N-
N-  N- N- N- N-N-N-N-N-           N                          N-             .N-     N- N-  N- N-  N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-                                                                                          N-
N-N-                                                                                                                                                                                            rN-         N   RN-N-FN-i11!IFIj   IN-N-N-N-               ft  N-N-    N-
N-N-N-N-N-   N-N-aN-N-   N-N-                           N-               N-                         N-N-N-N-N-N-N-                                                                                          N-SaN-N-
N-                                                                                                                                                                 N-N-N-N-
N-N-         ia-a                                          N-N-N-N-N-N-                                                                                                                           N-              N-N-N-
N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-                   N-             N-                                          N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-                                              N-N-N-
aS                                                                                                                                                                                                                    N-N-N-N-N-N-            SN-
N-N-N N-N-    N-                                               N-ON-N-   N-N N-        N-a   N-N-N-N-N-N-   SN-NON-             N- N-N-N-       N-NN-N-   N-N-N-N-                   N-    N-N-                              N-N-117N-N-N-       N-N-ft
N-             N-N-       SN-SN-aN-N-N--N-  N-N-N-N-                         N-N- N-N-                N-                                                N-N-N      N-N-
N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-                                                      N-N-                                                       -N-N-             a:a[:  -                                     N-N-  II
N- N-  N-  N-  N- N- N-                                                                                 N-              N-N-           N-N-                                                                                           as:    aria           5N-55N-N-       5
  Ih-N-1:                                   Rj               a
N-  SN-N-    N-                 N-N-                             N-N-                                   N-N-SN-                                        SN-I
N-N-K   -.t                          5   N-N-N-N-        aaaa    N-N-S                            N                                                                                    ft   N-h                                         p                      a
N-                              N-N-                       N-N-                                                                                                                :'
N-N-                                                                   I                                                                 N-
SN-                                                                                                                                          N-N-                                             N-
N-N-                 N-                    N-N-            N     2                              *              N-N-N-i             IN-[              N-
a              N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-                            N-    N-N-N- S   N-N-AN-  N-                                                              t   N-    N-N-ft
N-  N-N-N-                               N-                                                                      N-              N-N-                                                       -
N-                                                                          I                 [N-
N-    N-N-                       N-  N-N-                 5                                                    N        N  7N-                                          N                                    -N-N    N-N-
N- N- a N- N-N- N- ft I N-N-TN-
N- N- N- * N- ;N-
ia
0
U'



- 23 -
At S
1S. la f 5
KtHWnc DOVElDOPHT DAT4 SMfT
(in dillions of current EX)
AvqrCa GDP growth rate: in 2
(at,conetnt 1970 ortEc_)
1970      1976      1978      1979      1930      1981    1,.1970-76          197641
A. Eational Accounts
1. GDP                                           5,1O    3,570      4,220     4,260     4,590      5,017        -5.3             3.7
2. Consumption                                   3*940     5,190     6,210     6,590     7,329      7,320
Private                                    3,180     3,890     4,750     5,020    .5,090      4,940
v               Public                                       760     1,300      1,460     L,510     2.239     2,350
3. Gross Investment                                470       380       31l0      420       674      1,495
4. Dcstic Savingt                                1,120    *1,880    -2,310    -2,680    -2,620    -2,303
S. Ixports, tncl. ?9FS                           2,720     1,620     2,930     3,110      1,907     3,723
6. Isporta, tc.  NFS                            -1.,950    -3,620    -5,230    -5860    -5,320    -7,521
7.  GDP (in a77lions of i8$,-
exchange race of 1981)                        27.1      18.7      2,21      22.3       24.0      238_3
8.  GDP (tin millions of US$,
current exchange rates)                       74.0      53.4      55.2      35.7       32.0      26,3
D. Sector Outout                                                                                                   1970      1976      1978      1979      19o0      19I81
Value Added                                      5,180     3,570     4,220     4,260     4,390      5,017     1OO.o    100.0      100.0    100.0      100.0      100.0
1. Agriculture                                   3,430     1,490     2,070     1,990     2,100     2,500      66.2       41.7      49.1      46.7      45.8      49.8
2. Industry                                        195       250       2tO       220       230        250       3.8       7.0       5.0       5.2       5.0       5.0
3. Services                                      3,555     1,830     1,940     2,050     2,260     2,267       30.0      51.3      4S.9      48.1      49.2      45.2
C. Public Finaoce
1. Budget Revenue                                  813        ,                    '    2,706      2,732
of which: Tax revtnue g.                                  .                          1,112      2,303
mon-tox revenue                      ..                                   1,594       429
2. Current expenditure                             589                                   3,476      2,788
3. Capital expenditure                             651        ..            .      ,       674        95
4. 8udget surplus or deficit                                                  .,        -1,444       -151
5. rILnnclng                                       427        1, .                 ,     1.444.    _ 1_1_
foreiV granta  nd suppliers credit           172        .          .
Treasury                                     329                                     231         -
Contrel Bank (net)                                                          .,    1,213         151
Other                                        -74        ..        ..            ..        .
Average A ... ICrovth Rat..
D. Monetary Survev                                                                                                        1976-19B0
1. Money and Quasi-money                           763     3,057     3,594     3,606     5,387         -                15.2
2. Domestic Credit                                  44     2,332     1,661     1,295     7,923                          35.8
Credit to Public Sector                     4559       738      -665      -959       254
Credit to Private Sector                     603     1,594     2,326     2,254     7,669
3. honey and Quasi-Money as 7  of GDP               17        85.6      85.2      84.6    117.4
4. Dowastic Credit ao 2 of GDP                       -        65.3      39.4      30.4    157.9
.V  Official exchange rates have be   Usd.                                                                                                              October 19n2



- 24 -
AS SX  7
Page 5 of 5
(in aillice. of US current eoller.)
1170    01976       1978      1979      1990      191l
(Pr-.)  (Prel.)  (Prel.)  (Prel.)
Eaponrc, intl. SYS                                                           25.0       9.7      23.3      28.5       13.3      19Y5
Zeporte, tncl. IFS                                                          -22.6    -12.2    -16.1    -23.6    -37.1    -39.4
Reenurce 9alace                                                               2.       -2.5       7.4       4.9    -23.8    -19.9
Factor Seovi.es (net)                                                        -5.5       0.2      -0.4      -0.9      -0.8      -0.6
Current Ac.c.nt Balenre (e.clding public tran.fers)                         -3.1      -2.3       7.0       4.0    -24.6    -20.5
Plbli. Tran.fer. (net)                                                         ..                    .        .        35        3 9
Capital (net)                                                                 ...1               -0.8          -       1.2       6.5
SOR allocation                                                                  _         -          -      1.3       1.3        1.3
Trust Fund                                                                      _3.9                                               -
Error. and  njsesoons                                                                  44.   -17.9          1.4      -1.3       -2.4
Increase in rce.sres (+- g                                                                      -11.7       6.7    -14 .0    -112
Level of net fornigo acant. (end year)                                       13.0                          20.0       6.0
Echang. rate                                                                 70.0      66.9      76.5      76.5    143.4    190.9
NMCWDOIIE  XORTS
(in tlliooa of US current de.ll-r)
Share in 2 of Total
1970      1976      1978      1979      1980      1981            1970      1976      1978       1979      1980      1911
Report.. f.o.b                                                                                                                                  O 100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Coco                                                                       15.2       8.4      23.0      27.3      11.3      14.6            65.0      86.6      97.9      93.5       85.0     81.1
Coffee                                                                      5.4       1.0       0.5       0.8       2.0       3.0           -23.0      10.3       2.1        2.8      15.0      16.7
W..d                                                                       z2.        0.3         -       0.4          -      C.4            12.0       3.1          -       1.4         -       2.2
EITERNAL DEBT. Decetber 31. 1980
(io nillione of US dollar)
P.blic Debt, including publicly guareoneed            76.2
Poblia Debt, disbtrned only                           41.0
DEBT SERVICE RAlIO 1981
P.blic Debt, disbursed                                 8.2
InRD/IDA Lending. Febrory 1982
October 1982



- 25 -
ANNEX II
REPUBLIC OF EQUATORIAL GUINEA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
A. Statement of IDA Credits (as of March 31, 1984
Credit                                                Amount (US$ million)
Number       Year     Borrower      Purpose          Total    ndisbursed
362-EG       1973    Republic of    Highway            2.0       2.0 1/
Equatorial      Maintenance
Guinea
1304-EG      1983    Republic of    Petroleum          2.4 2/   2.37 3/
Equatorial      Sector T.A.
Guinea
- of which has been repaid:       0
- now outstanding                2.4
B. Statement of IFC Investments
Nil.
1/   This Credit was cancelled in April 1976 at the request of the Governmaent.
2/   The Credit is denominated in SDRs.  This figure was computed at the rate
of exchange on August 31, 1982 (the rate used at the time of credit
negotiations in September 1982).
4/   This figure was computed at the rate of exchange on March 31, 1984.



- 26 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF EQUATORIAL GUINEA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:            September 1982 to May 1983
(b)  Project prepared by:                      IDA staff assisted by
consultants and Government
services
(c)  Appraisal Mission:                       May/June 1983
(d)  Negotiations:                             April 1984
(e)  Credit Effectiveness:                     September 1984
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Actions
A PPF advance has been provided to undertake construction of houses;
provide initial payment of the salaries of the resident specialists, the
consultant public debt specialist, and the Administrative Officer; provide
subsistence costs for the resident specialists (lodging and meals) until the
houses are ready; and purchase, operate, and maintain vehicles. An IDA
mission is tentatively scheduled for June to assist the Government in meeting
the conditions of Credit effectiveness.
Section III: Special Conditions
The Government has provided assurances on the following principal
items:
(a) draft annual work plans and quarterly progress reports, prepared by
each of the five resident specialists, as well as a detailed report
on execution of the previous year's annual plan, will be submitted by
the Government to IDA for review and discussion (para. 33);
(b) the qualifications and experience of all candidates for training and
the details of the proposed training programs will be submitted to
IDA for prior approval (para. 35); and



- 27 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(c) residences constructed for long-term specialists will be used for
their intended purposes under the proposed project and possible
subsequent projects (para. 36).
A condition of disbursement for expenditures from the Credit allocation for
unidentified project acfivities will be the recommendation of the Chief
Technical Adviser and the approval of the Minister of Planning and IDA (para.
41);
Special conditions of Credit effectiveness will be: (i) the hiring of a
competent Administrative Officer for the project on terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA (para. 39); and (ii) opening of the Special Account and the
Project Account, the latter with an initial Government deposit of US$15,000
equivalent in local currency (paras. 48 and 49).



- 28 -
Annex IV
Page 1 of 17
REPUBLIC OF EQUATORIAL GUINEA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
MACROECONOMIST/PLANNER/ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ADVISER
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Hierarchical Responsibility
Within the Ministry of Planning and Economic Development, the
Economic Development Adviser will report directly to the Minister for Planning
and Economic Development, but he will also work closely with the Minister and
Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation, the Minister and the Ministry of
the Economy and Finance, and the officials in the Office of the President
responsible for economic affairs.
Principal Responsibilities and Functions
The main tasks of the Adviser will be to:
(a)  Elaborate the key elements of an economic development strategy and an
investment program for the country;
(b)  Review proposed investment projects, and assist in identifying the
best sources of financing for such projects;
(c) Assist the Minister of Planning to create and manage an integrated
working group so that economic planning, economic policy-making,
international development cooperation, and the financing and
implementation of development projects are all coordinated;
(d) Design and monitor day-to-day economic policy objectives;
(e) Prepare detailed annual work plans for himself and his designated co-
workers within the Ministry of Planning and Economic Development (the
first work plan should be prepared within three months of arrival in
the country), submit quarterly progress reports, and prepare a
detailed annual report on the execution of the previous year's plan;
(f) Train his designated co-workers, both on the job and through formal
instruction (if appropriate);
(g) Assist in selecting Ministry of Planning staff who might benefit from
short-term training or on-the-job experience abroad, and elaborate,
with the Training Specialist, appropriate training programs for such
staff; and



- 29 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 17
(h) Act as Chief Technical Adviser for the project (primus inter pares of
the five resident specialists), managing and facilitating the
implementation and follow-up of the various other components of the
project.
Qualifications
The candidate for this post should have:
(a)  At least a Master's degree in Economics, or equivalent, with
extensive training in economic development issues and in national
economic planning.
(b) At least five years of practical experience, at technical and policy
levels, in economic development planning; substantial professioral
development experience, including residency, in sub-Saharan Africa;
and, preferably, experience with the practices and procedures of the
World Bank or other development cooperation agencies.
(c) Proven ability to coordinate and manage tasks and people and to
provide technical assistance.
(d)  A pragmatic and realistic approach to development economics.
(f) Fluency in written and oral Spanish.
(g) An ability to work closely and effectively with Equato-Guineans and
with expatriate advisers and other officials in his area.
The initial appointment will be for a period of six months, with the
understanding that the contract will be extended to two years if all parties
are satisfied after the probationary period. Thereafter, the contract might
be extended annually as appropriate, up to a total of four years. The
successful candidate would be expected to commence his duties within three
months after being notified of his selection.



- 30 --
ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 17
REPUBLIC OF EQUATORIAL GUINEA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
ADVISER IN AGRICULTURAL PLANNING/AGRICULTURAL PROJECTS SPECIALIST, RIO MUNI
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Hierarchical Responsibility
The Adviser in Agricultural Planning/Agricultural Projects Specialist
for Rio Muni will be ultimately responsible to the Ministry of Agricultural,
Liverstock, and Rural Development but will report to the Ministry's Delegate
in Rio Muni (Continental Equatorial. Guinea).
Principal Responsibilities and Functions
The Adviser will:
(a) Assist in supervising the daily operations and activities of the
Ministry of Agriculture's staff based in the Continental Zone, with a
view towards achieving strategic objectives;
(b)  Assist in supervising agricultural programs and in implementing
agricultural policy directives emanating from the Government in
Malabo;
(c) Assist in elaborating a strategy for achieving maximum agricultural
production in the Continental Zone and provide inputs covering
agricultural development on the mainland to the Economic Development
Adviser in Malabo, for use in the national development strategy and
investment program;
(d) Assist in identifying and reviewing agricultural project proposals so
as to design an optimal investment program for the agricultural
sector in the Continental Zone, and advise the Government on the best
sources of financing for these proposals;
(e) Supervise the work of short-term consultants recruited to assist in
the preparation of agricultural projects for the mainland.
(f)  Help start up the implementation of approved projects, monitor the
implementation of ongoing projects, and evaluate the success of
completed projects, all with regard to the agricultural strategy for
the Continental Zone;
(g) Prepare detailed annual work plans for himself and his designated co-
workers within the Ministry of Planning and Economic Development (the



- 31 -
ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 17
first work plan should be prepared within three months of arrival in
the country), submit quarterly progress reports, and prepare a
detailed annual report on the execution of the previous year's plan;
(h) Train his designated co-workers, both on the job and through formal
instruction (if appropriate); and
(i) Assist in selecting Ministry of Agriculture staff who might benefit
from short-term training or on-the-job experience abroad, and
elaborate, with the Training Specialist, appropriate training
programs for such staff.
Qualifications
The candidate for this post should have formal training in general
economics or (preferably) agricultural economics at a post-graduate level. He
should have a minimum of five years of professional experience, at least part
of it in the tropics, preferably in Central Africa.  He should be experienced
in sector analysis and planning and in project implementation and
management. He should be at least 40 years old, be fluent in Spanish, and
possess a good working knowledge of English or French.
The initial appointment will be for a period of six months, with the
understanding that the contract will be extended to two years if all parties
are satisfied after the probationary period. Thereafter, the contract might
be extended annually as appropriate, up to a total of four years. The
successful candidate would be expected to commence his duties within three
months after being notified of his selection.



- 52 -
ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 17
REPUBLIC OF EQUATORIAL GUINEA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
FORESTRY ADVISER
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Hierarchical Responsibility
The Forestry Adviser will be ultimately responsible to the Minister
at the Presidency responsible for Water, Forests, and Reforestation but will
report to the Ministry's Delegate in Rio Muni (Continental Equatorial Guinea).
Principal Responsibilities and Functions
The task of the Adviser will be to assist the Minister to:
(a, Reorganize the forestry services in order to improve the efficiency
of the available staff;
(b)  Prepare a policy for the short-, medium- and long-term development
and management of the country's forestry resources;
(c)  Coordinate aid from potential donors, eventually identifying a
project suitable for World Bank or other donor financing;
(d) Provide inputs covering the development of the forestry sector to the
Economic Development Adviser, for use in the national development
strategy and investment program;
(e)  Prepare terms of reference for and superv:ise the work of short-term
consultant legal specialists hired to examine and advise on the
revision of the existing legal and fiscal policies and concession
agreements, with a view to encouraging -private activity and
investment in the sector and thereby increasing log production and
local processing, which in turn would lead to increased revenues for
the Government;
(f)  Prepare detailed annual work plans for himself and his designated co-
workers within the Ministry of Planning and Economic Development (the
first work plan should be prepared withLn three months of arrival in
the country), submit quarterly progress reports, and prepare a
detailed annual report on the execution of the previous year's plan;
(g)  Train his designated co-workers, both oIn the job and through formal
instruction (if appropriate); and
(h)  Select Ministry of Forestry staff who might benefit from short-term
training or on-the-job experience abroad, and elaborate, with the
Training Specialist, appropriate training programs for such staff.



- 33 -
ANNEX IV
Page 6 of 17
Qualifications
The candidate for this post should have at least five years of
experience in forestry administration, forestry legislation, and forestry
fiscal affairs, preferably in the tropics.  He should have acquired experience
as a senior officer in a developing country's forestry services, and he should
be fluent in Spanish. A good working knowledge of English and French would
also be desirable.
The initial appointment will be for a period of six months, with the
understanding that the contract will be extended to two years if all parties
are satisfied after the probationary period. Thereafter, the contract might
be extended annually as appropriate, up to a total of four years. The
successful candidate would be expected to commence his duties within threet
months after being notified of his selection.



- 34
ANNEX IV
Page 7 of 17
REPUBLIC OF EQUATORIAL GUINEA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
MINING ADVISER
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Hierarchical Responsibility
The Mining Adviser will be ultimately responsible to the Minister at
the Presidency responsible for Mines and Hydrocarbons but will report to the
Ministry's Delegate in Rio Muni (Continental Equatorial Guinea).
Principal Responsibilities and Functions
The Adviser will:
(a) Following the completion of the initial survey of Equatorial Guinea's
mining reserves (presently being carriec out by the French firm
BRGM), which is to include an initial estimation of the costs of
exploration and production, assess BRGM's findings and advise the
Minister on the best way to proceed;
(b) Depending on the results of this assessment of the country's ore
reserves, recommend courses of action for further development of the
sector; these recommendations may include assisting the Government in
organizing a technical and legal framework for attracting new
investments;
(c)  Assist with project identification and preparation, including
advising on the best sources of financing for such projects;
(d)  Assist with the selection and coordination of technical assistance
for the sector, including preparing terms of reference for and
supervising the work of short-term consultant legal specialists hired
to periodically review the legislation governing the sector and
suggest any changes necessary (the new National Mining Law dates only
from 1981, and since mineral exploration has barely begun, the law
may need modification, once it has begun to be applied);
(e)  Provide inputs covering the development of the mining sector to the
Economic Development Adviser, for use in the national development
strategy and investment program;
(f) Advise the Minister on the development of an organizational framework
for the mining sector, including the role and structure of private-
and public-sector institutions;



- 35 
ANNEX IV
Page 8 of 17
(g)  In particular, assist the Minister in the organization of the
Directorate of Mines within the Ministry responsible for Mines and
Hydrocarbons;
(h) Prepare detailed annual work. plans for himself and his designated co-
workers within the Ministry of Planning and Economic Development (the
first work plan should be prepared within three months of arrival in
the country), submit quarterly progress reports, and prepare of a
detailed annual report on the execution of the previous year's plan;
(i)  Train his designated co-workers, both on the job and through formal
instruction (if appropriate); and
(j)  Assist in selecting Ministry of Mines staff who might benefit frorm
short-term training or on-the-job experience abroad; and elaborate,
with the Training Specialist, appropriate training programs for such
staff.
Qualifications
The candidate for this post should be a mining expert with at least
five y-ears of experience in the mining industry. He should be thoroughly
aware of the legislation governing the mining sector in several different
countries and should have thorough knowledge of mining exploration and
production contracts. Ideally, he should have had experience in both the
public sector and the private sector. The successful candidate must be fluent
in Spanish and should also have a good working knowledge of French and
English.
The initial appointment will be for a period of six months, with the
understanding that the contract will be extended to two years if all parties
are satisfied after the probationaryr period. Thereafter, the contract might
be extended annually as appropriate, up to a total of four years. The
successful candidate would be expected to commence his duties within three
months after being notified of his selection.



- 36 -
ANNEX IV
Page 9 of 17
REPUBLIC OF EQUATORIAL GUINEA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
EDUCATIONAL PLANNING ADVISER
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Hierarchical Responsibility
The Adviser will report directly to the Minister of Education and
Sports.
Principal Responsibilities and Functions
The task of the Adviser will be to:
(a) Advise the Minister, on a continuous basis, on questions of
educational planning, management, and budgeting;
(b) Organize educational data collection with a view to preparing a ten-
year education development plan;
(c) Assist in the drafting of that plan;
(d) Advise on educational policy questions related to the implementation
of the plan;
(e) Assist in the identification, preparation, and initial implementation.
of envisaged education projects, and ad-vise on the best sources of
financing for such projects;
(f) Provide inputs covering the development of the education sector to
the Economic Development Adviser, for use in the national development
strategy and investment program;
(g)  Prepare detailed annual work plans for himself and his designated co-
workers within the Ministry- of Planning and Economic Development (the
first work plan should be prepared within three months of arrival in
the country), submit quarterly progress reports, and prepare a
detailed annual report on the execution of the previous year's plan;
(h) Train his designated co-workers, both on. the job and through formal
instruction (if appropriate); and
(i) Assist in selecting Ministry of Education staff who might benefit
from short-term training or on-the-job experience abroad, and
elaborate, with the Training Specialist, appropriate training
programs for such staff.



- 37 -
ANNEX IV
Page 10 of 17
Qualifications
The candidate for this post should have had at least five years of'
relevant experience in education planning, preferably in developing countries;
this experience should include expertise in the compilation and analysis of
education and manpower statistics.  He should be fluent in Spanish and have a
good working knowledge of English or French.
The initial appointment will be for a period of six months with the
understanding that the contract will be extended to two years if all parties
are satisfied after the probationary period. Thereafter, the contract might
be extended annually as appropriate, up to a total of four years. The
successful candidate would be expected to commence his duties within three
months after being notified of his selection.



- 38
ANNEX IV
Page 11 of 17
REPUBLIC OF EQUATORIAL GUINEA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
ARCHITECT/SPECIALIST I]N PRIMARY SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Hierarchical Responsibility
The Specialist will report directly to the Minister of Education and
Sports.
Principal Responsibilities and Functions
The task of the Specialist will be to:
(a)  Review locally available building materials with a view to
identifying the most suitable area for low-cost, low-skill and low-
maintenance construction of primary classrooms;
(b) Develop the sketch design of a prototype classroom; and
(c) Review possibilities for the domestic manufacture of simple school
furniture from locally available materials.
Qualifications
The candidate for this post should have had at least five years of
relevant experience in construction of schools, preferably in developing
countries. A knowledge of the use of local building materials, and experience
in the design of low-maintenance school buildings made of local materials will
be an advantage, as will a basic knowledge of the design and production of
simple school furniture. He should be fluent in Spanish and have a good
working knowledge of either English or French.
The appointment will be for a period of six months, starting around
October 1, 1984.



ANNEX IV
Page 12 of 17
REPUBLIC OF EQUATORIAL GUINEA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PPROJECT
TfRAINING SPECIALIST
T__ERMS OF REFERENICE
Hierarchical Responsibility
The Training Specialist will be responsible to the Minister of th,e
Economy and Planning, who has overall responsibility for the Technical
Assistance Project.  On a day-to-day basis, however, he will report to the
project's Chief Technical Adviser (thie Economic Development Adviser). Ve will
work closely with all five resident specialists to design training prograa3
for their co-workers, and with the Administrative Officer to assist in
arranging the logistical aspects of the training.
Principal Responsibilities and Functions
The Training Specialie't will:
(a) Work together with the five: resident specialists in assessing the
progress, needs, and potential of specific co-workers of each
resident specialist;
(b) Assist the resident specialists and the Government in designing
training to meet these needs, both on-the-job training and training
or apprenticeships abroad;
(c)  Advise the resident specialists in techniques for making on-the-job
training more effectire;
(d)  Suggest specific opportunities for formal training or apprentice'ships
abroad;
(e)  Assist the Administrative Office in arranging the logistical aspects
of such training or apprenticeships, including preparation of
communications and documentation;
(f)  Assist the Government in reviewing the adequacy of the system of
career development and other incentives related to improving the
efficacy of the training program; and
(g) Monitor the progress of the overall training program, submitting,
within a month after each visit, a report to the Government, to be
forwarded IDA for review and comment, covering his activities and the
progress of the training component.



- 40 -
ANNEX IV
Page 13 of 17
Qualifications
(a) At least a Bachelor's degree (or the equi.valent)--field of
specialization unimportant.
(b) An additional degree or certificat;ion in teaching or training.
(c) At least ten years of experience in teaching and training, including
formal classroom teaching and informal training, preferably in
different countries and different parts of the world.
(d) Some experience in the preparation. of training programs, the
development and testing of training materials, and the coordination
and management of training program.s.
(e)  Knowledge of training programs and opportunities existing in Africa
and Latin America.
(f) Substantial professional experience, including residency, in
developing countries, preferably in sub-.Saharan Africa and/or Latin
America.
(g)  Fluency in written and spoken Spanish.  A working knowledge of
English and/or French would also be desirable.
The appointment will be for an initial period of one month, beginning
around October 1, 1984. Thereafter, the training adviser will visit
Equatorial Guinea for one-month periods, once every- six months during project
implementation. The total number of man-months would not exceed eight.



- 41 -
ANNEX IV
Page 14 of 17
REPUBLIC OF EQUATORIAL GUINEA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
PUBLIC DEBT SPECIALIST
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Hierarchical Responsibility
Within the Ministry of and Finance, the Public Debt Specialist will
report directly to the Minister of Finance. He will, however, also work
closely with the Director-General of the Public Debt Agency, the Governor of
the Bank of Equatorial Guinea, and other officials involved in public debt
matters.
Principal Responsibilities and Functions
The task of the Specialist would be to:
(a) Assist the Government in the inventory and regular recording of
Equatorial Guinea's public debt;
(b)  Set up an information and reporting system paralleling those used in
other member countries of the CFA franc zone;
(c) Monitor the timely repayment of the public debt;
(d) Assist the Government in debt-contracting negotiations; and
(e) Train his Equato-Guinean counterpart and other co-workers in these
tasks.
Qualifications
(a)  At least a Bachelor's degree (or the equivalent) in economics or
business administration.
(b)  At least three years of practical experience in public-sector
financial accounting.
(c)  Knowledge of, and experience with, the system of accounting used by
the member countries of the CFA franc zone would be highly desirable.
(d)  Fluency in written and spoken Spanish.  Given Equatorial Guinea's
intention to enter the CFA franc zone, knowledge of spoken and
written French will also be an important consideration. Knowledge of



- 42 -
ANNEX IV
Page 15 of 17
spoken and written English (for dealing with Arab donors, etc.) would
also be desirable.
The appointment will be for an initial period of six months, starting
around June 1, 1984, and ending around November 30, 1984 Thereafter, the
specialist might be contracted for short-term missions to deal with specific
situations or problems, as requested by the Govetrnment and approved by the
Association.



-413  -
ANNEX IV
Page 16 of 17
REPUBLIC OF EQUkAOPRIAL GUINEA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
ADMINISTRIATIVE OFFICER
y                                       TERMS OF REFERENCE
Hierarchical Responsibility
The Administrative Officer will report to the Secretary of State of
the Ministry of Planning and Economic Development, being ultimately
responsible to the Minister, but working closely with the five resident
specialists supplied to the Government under the project.
Responsibilities and Major Duties
The tasks of the Administrative Officer will include the following:
(a)  Communicate (by letter, telegram, and telephone) with potential
consultants, candidates for resident positions, suppliers of goods to
be financed under the project, Ministries involved in the project,
other Government agencies, and the Association;
(b) Maintain project accounts so that it is at all times possible to
determine the use of f'unds supplied by the Government and those
provided by the Association, and monitor the cost of each project
component;
(c)  In accordance with Government and IDA regulations, procure the goods
to be financed under the project;
(d) Prepare project's withidrawal applications for submission to the
Association;
(e)  Prepare quarterly reports on the project, including a discussion of
progress and problems, for the Government and the Association;
(f)  Resolve all problems -hat might hinder the work of' the resident
advisers, either directly or through the appropriate Government
cshannels;
(g)  At the end of the project, prepare a report describing its succelss or
failure, problems encountered, solutions implemented, lessons
learned, performance of the Government and the AsEiociation, and
whether the project achieved its main objectives.



- 44 -
ANNEX IV
Page 17 of 17
Requirements
The candidate for this position should have:
(a) At least a high school diploma;
(b) Basic knowledge of accounting and at least five years' experience in
administration and accounting in a public and/or private enterprise;
(c) Perfect command of oral and written Spanish, and, preferably, a
working knowledge of English or French;
(d) Experience in drafting letters and. business or official documents;
(e)  Some experience with competitive tenders;
(f) Good public relations with the authorities of Equatorial Guinea and
private parties; and
(g) Personality traits necessary to carry oult the work successfully, such
as optimism, proven capacity for work, dliplomacy, complete honesty,
drive, and the ability to get on with others.
The appointment will be for a period of up to six years, commencing
as soon as a candidate is selected by the Government and approved by the
Association. The Administrative Officer will receive his salary in local
currency, paid by the Government. The candidate must be proposed and selected
by the Government and approved by the Association.  Neither the person
selected nor the terms of reference may be changetd without the prior approval
of the Association.



IBRD 10259R1
9 0  t   > ,   ,,        ( A \ > <   D o u a l a                              g p /Io l                                 O C T O B E R   1 9 8 2
DZoualal
. -  M A                                        ,L  C 8'   EQUATORIAL GUINEA
4 ,  MALABO                                    WIR 
*e        y                                  X                   ,,>ney                                   Existing asphalt roads
Boloerig           g  }                                                                                                   Existing laterite roads
Planned roads
BIOKO                                                                                             Rivers
Lubo                                                                                                                 4     Ports
Batete                                                                                                                    +0   Airports
0                                                                                                             z    Bridges
Moh    l      b u/._-. International boundaries
-30                                                                                                                                                                      3-
Ebolowa
Gulf of Gu/nreg
/                     CAMEROON
Rio Campo
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ym Ke                                                                                comesengn                    e 
_   E                                   \      \                           _XNkue                                 \           * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2--
ANNOBON 1.                                                  B
r30'                         i3\
St30^   :     Mbini  S Senye            R IO      M  U N                                Mongo           Z
90   ,calabot                                                                                                                    .
MANIGER                                                                                                    v /yn
UPPER\                                                            -
VOL TA                         s  CHAD
.0              ~~NIGERIA       P
~p   AFRRE                                                                                                                                Nslaog  rkI_60 e
0          [      S      O       D      g t., >              4     _     _     _      _       W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~kurenam             9sr 
0Y      VO                   El OBEY CHICO,   --                                            ------                           ------          
~ EQUATOIAl  *~ .~) -Pi*        ELOBEY GRANGDE Is
GUU'IEA  -       'r *1                                                                  0
GABON~ (9,                                                                    _____       4_0__     6_0_____
,,0  kGASONj(,r.              CORISCO t.                                            ____,          _,      _, _,_           , Kilometers
Ar,n*bonL      ~ ~ ?ZAIRE                                       -      GABON                   0      10      20      30      40      50 Miies
MifesIt.   ZA/RE                                        Th,o mp hao beenerepared by the World Banks staff co,,lesively fr the Co-cenience
O          Soo         lo0 bI-oondaries shown on th,s m-p do not imply, on the pert of the World Back and,ts
a ffifia tes en"Yj"dgr-et on the leala stot-s Of anY territoY or co,y coders, ereto
acceptance of such bo-oda-es
KiLtemeterooo                iA'                                                    10                                                     11-
A, N  A 



I



