 AL       CREDIT NUMBER 1489 EG
evelopment Credit Agreement
(Technical Assistance Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF EQUATORIAL GUINEA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated   if   ,0s                    , 1984


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1489 EG
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated ,JLL&                                , 1984,
between REPUBLIC OF E UATORIAL GUINEA (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement;
(b) "Project Account" means the account referred to in
Section 3.05 of this Agreement; and
(c) "Project Preparation Advance" maans the project pre-
paration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated April 25, 1984 and
May 2, 1984 between the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various curren-
cies equivalent to five million seven hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 5,700,000).


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the prin-
cipal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
(c) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and thereafter maintain in dollars a Special Account at
Banco de Guinea Ecuatorial on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1990 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a comm4tment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without re-
strictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the


﻿-3-
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each
year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Febru-
ary 15 and August 15 commencing August 15, 1994, and ending
February 15, 2034, each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on February 15, 2004, to be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment there-
after to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the Republic of France is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall, under the coordination of its
Ministry of Planning and Economic Development, carry out the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate  financial,   planning,  management,  administrative,
forestry, mining, education and agricultural practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in carry-
ing out the Project, the Borrower shall: (i) employ consultants
and experts (including a macro-economist/planner to serve as


﻿-4-
Chief Technical Adviser to the Borrower for purposes of the
Project), whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association,
such consultants and experts to be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association, on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981; and (ii) appoint an administrative
officer whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
(b) The Borrower shall cooperate fully with such consul-
tants and experts in the performance of their services for the
Project and make available to them all information relevant to
the Project.
(c) Any amendment or waiver of the terms and conditions
of employment of the experts or consultants employed under the
Project, or grant of any material extension of time or approval
of sub-contracts or modifications thereof, or substitution of
personnel of such consultants shall be satisfactory to the
Association.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause the experts referred
to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement: (a) within three months of
their arrival in the country, to prepare and furnish to the
Association for its review and approval work plans for the
remainder of the calendar year; (b) subsequently, to prepare and
furnish to the Association for its review and approval, not later
than November 30 in each year, work plans for the next year; (c)
to prepare and furnish to the Association quarterly progress
reports not later than one month after the end of each quarter
covering the execution of the work plans during such quarter; and
(d) not later than January 31 in each year, to furnish to the
Association detailed progress reports on the execution of the
work plans covering the preceding calendar year.
Section 3.04. For purposes of carrying out Part G of the
Project, the Borrower shall:
(a) not later than two months before commencement of any
overseas study courses, furnish to the Association a proposal
satisfactory to the Association detailing the courses to be
followed and the qualifications and experience of the candidates
intended to follow them; and


﻿- 5 -
(b) provide career development incentives to persons who
have successfully completed overseas training, and exchange views
on such incentives with the Association by December 31, 1984;
such incentives to be effective by June 30, 1985 and thereafter.
Section 3.05. For purposes of financing the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and not financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the Borrower shall: (a) open
and thereafter maintain in the Borrower's currency a Project
Account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfac-
tory to the Association; and (b) deposit in the Project Account
an initial deposit equivalent to $15,000 and, thereafter, deposit
in the Project Account on the first day of every quarter such
funds as shall be required to ensure that the amounts available
in the Project Account on that day are equal to the aforemen-
tioned amount.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclu-
sively for the purposes of the Project; and (ii) in the case of
the facilities included in Part H of the Project, cause such
facilities to be used, upon completion of the Project, to house
technical assistance staff financed by the Association or by
other development aid agencies approved by the Association.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the


﻿-6-
Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's representatives to
visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall furnish to the Association at regular intervals all such
information as the Association shall reasonably request concern-
ing the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to
be derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit
and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as
the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the Bor-
rower and the Association of their respective obligations under
the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satis-
factory to the Association that such land and rights in respect
of land are available for purposes related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the


﻿-7-
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Proj-
ect, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)  The Borrower shall: (i) have the Special Account, the
Project Account and the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by indepen-
dent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association, as soon as available, but in     any case not later
than four months after the end of each such year, a certified
copy of the report of such audit by such auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning said accounts, records and expenditures
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
(a) the "Special Account" has been opened;
(b) the Borrower has opened the Project Account and the
Borrower has deposited therein an initial deposit equivalent to
$15,000; and
(c) the Administrative Officer referred to in Section 3.02
of this Agreement has been employed.
Section 5.02. The date 'Q1 'Q  LLAN   c2S    g   is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 5.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sec-
tion 3.06 (b) of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the
date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or
on a date ten (10) years after the date of this Agreement, which-
ever shall be the earlier.


﻿- 8 -
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section  6.01.   The  Minister  of  Planning  and   Economic
Development of the Borrower is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Planning and Economic Development
Malabo
Equatorial Guinea
Cable address:
Ministry of Planning and
Economic Development
Malabo
Equatorial Guinea
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this


﻿-9-
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF EQUATORIAL GUINEA
B y
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
A CL       Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Resident experts'        1,980,000          100%
services
(2) Short-term                 130,000          100%
consultants'
services
(3) Training                   280,000          100%
(4) Housing for                430,000          100%
residents'
specialists
(5) Operating and               80,000          100%
maintenance
costs for
housing and
vehicles
(6) Office equip-               70,000          100% of foreign
ment                                       expenditures
(7) Office operat-             180,000          65%
ing costs
(8) Travel allowances          230,000           100%
(9) Services of the             50,000           100% of local
Administrative                             expenditures
Officer


﻿- 11 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(10) Goods and ser-            940,000           100%
vices under
Part I of the
Project
(11) Initial deposit           290,000          Amount due under
in the Special                             paragraph 3 of
Account to                                  Schedule 4 to
prefinance                                 this Agreement
items under
Categories (1)
through (10)
above
(12) Refunding of              610,000          Amount due under
Project Prepara-                            Section 2.02 (b)
tion Advance                               of this Agreement
(13) Unallocated               430,000
TOTAL              5,700,000
2.   For  the purposes of    this  Schedule, the    term  "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than that of the Borrower for goods and services supplied
from the territory of any country other than that of the Bor-
rower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that the proceeds of
the Credit shall not be disbursed on account of payments for
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of items in any Category decreases or
increases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such Category as required to be consistent with the aforemen-
tioned policy of the Association.


﻿- 12 -
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures:
(a) prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b) under Category (10) unless the Association has approved
the items to be financed under said Category on the basis of pro-
posals recommended by the Chief Technical Adviser and approved by
the Minister of Planning and Economic Development of the Bor-
rower.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
diture for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association
under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Bor-
rower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's
reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project's objectives are to assist the Borrower in
elaborating a medium-term development strategy and investment
program and to strengthen the necessary institutional framework.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Strengthening of the Ministry of Planning and Economic
Development
(i)  Strengthening the planning and administrative capacity
of the Ministry;
(ii) design,   implementation   and  monitoring  of  economic
development objectives;
(iii)  coordination of economic planning and policy-making
and appraisal of proposed investment projects; and
(iv) acquisition    of  a   vehicle,  office   equipment  and
supplies.
Part B:   Strengthening of the Ministry of Agriculture, Live-
stock, and Rural Development
(i)  Strengthening the planning and administrative capacity
of the Ministry;
(ii) improving    planning   and   implementation  activities
intended to increase agricultural production on the
mainland;
(iii) identification and appraisal of agricultural projects
on the mainland; and
(iv) acquisition    of  a   vehicle,  office   equipment  and
supplies.
Part C:   Streng-hening of the Ministry of Water Forestry and
Reforestation
(i)  Strengthening the planning and administrative capacity
of the Ministry;


﻿- 14 -
(ii) reorganization of the forest service;
(iii) design of sector plans;
(iv) identification of sector investment projects for the
continental region;
(v) review of legal and fiscal regulations for the sector;
and
(vi) acquisition    of  a   vehicle,  office   equipment   and
supplies.
Part D:   Str-i-gthening the Ministry of Mines and Hydrocarbons
(i) Strengthening the planning and administrative capacity
of the Ministry;
(ii) reviewing and monitoring the surveys of the Borrower's
mineral resources currently undertaken principally in
the continental region;
(iii) preparation   of   international  tender  documents   and
mining concessions documents;
(iv) design of an organizational structure for the sector;
(v) review of legislation and regulations for the sector;
and
(vi) acquisition of a vehicle, office equipment and sup-
plies.
Part E:   Strengthening of the Ministry of Education and Sports
(i) Strengthening the planning and administrative capacity
of the Ministry;
(ii) design of a long-term      sectoral strategy and major
projects;
(iii) improving the use of labor-intensive, low-cost building
materials and designs, and design of a prototype
primary school; and


﻿- 15 -
(iv) acquisition of a vehicle, office equipment and sup-
plies.
Part F:   Strengthening of the Ministry of Finance
(i) Strengthening of the Public Debt Agency of the Bor-
rower;
(ii) Drawing-up of an inventory of the country's public
debt, including a comprehensive list of due debts and
amounts payable; and
(iii) improving public debt management.
Part G:   Training
Training in-service for staff of the Ministries of the
Borrower and provision of short-term overseas courses
and apprenticeship.
Part H:   Housing
Construction and furnishing of houses for the long-term
resident experts.
Part I:   Additional Activities
Studies, provision of short-term consultants' services,
other related activities to be identified during Proj-
ect implementation, and acquisition of equipment and
materials therefor.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30,
1989.


﻿- 16 --
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   Procurement Procedures
1.   The contract for civil works shall be procured on the basis
of competitive bidding in accordance with local procurement
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Vehicles, equipment and furniture shall be procured on the
basis of price quotations from at least three qualified suppliers
in at least three different countries.
B.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
(a) Prior to the procurement of vehicles, equipment, and
furniture, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association for its
concurrence a list describing such items to be procured and the
estimated price thereof as well as the expected delivery dates
thereof. Prior to the award of the contract for the construction
of houses, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association for its
concurrence a description of the number and size of such houses
and other specifications therefor and the expected completion
dates thereof, as well as evidence that the necessary sites are
available for the purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Associa-
tion of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the
Credit Account in respect of vehicles, equipment, furniture, or
houses, two conformed copies of the contracts or purchase orders
therefor, together with an analysis of the respective quotations
or bids and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that
the award of a contract was inconsistent with this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of a contract or purchase
order shall not, without the Association's concurrence, mate-
rially differ from those on which quotations or bids were
invited.


﻿- 17 -
(d) Two conformed copies of each contract shall be fur-
nished to the Association promptly after its execution and prior
to the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit as set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to Categories (1) through (10) in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c) the term "initial deposit" means an amount equivalent
to the amount allocated to Category (11) and to be withdrawn from
the Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant
to the first sentence of paragraph 3 to this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclu-
sively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the pro-
visions of this Schedule.
3.   The Association shall, at the request of the Borrower,
withdraw on behalf of the Borrower from the Credit Account and
deposit into the Special Account the initial deposit. Thereafter
and on the basis of requests by the Borrower furnished to the
Association at such intervals as the Association shall specify,
the Association shall further so withdraw from the Credit Account
and deposit into the Special Account such amounts as shall be
required to replenish the Special Account with amounts equal    to
payments made out of the Special Account for eligible expen-
ditures, but only to the extent that the amount of any such
deposit, together with any amount remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such request, shall not exceed
in the aggregate the equivalent of the initial deposit. Except as
the Association may otherwise agree, each such deposit after the
initial deposit shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective Categories (1) through (10),
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by the evidence supporting the request for such deposit
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.


﻿- 19 -
4.   Prior to or at the time of each request by the Borrower for
a deposit by the Association into the Special Account after the
initial deposit, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
in respect of each payment made by the Borrower out of the
Special Account such documents and other evidence as the Associa-
tion shall reasonably request, showing that such payment was made
for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Sched-
ule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by
the Association: (a) when the Association shall have determined
at any time that all further withdrawals can be made directly by
the Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b) unless otherwise agreed by the Association, when the total
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to Categories (1)
through (10) for the Project, minus the amount of any qualified
agreement to reimburse made by the Association and of any special
commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall
be equal to the equivalent of twice the amount of the initial
deposit, whichever shall be sooner. Withdrawal from the Credit
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to Categories (1) through (10) shall follow such procedures
as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower and
shall, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, be made
only after and to the extent the Association shall have been
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice have been or will
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   If the Association shall have determined at any time that:
(a) any payment out of the Special Account, (i) was made
for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association and,
unless otherwise agreed by the Association, prior to any further
deposit into the Special Account by the Association, deposit into
the Special Account or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified; or
(b) any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not
be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,


﻿- 20 -
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
and unless otherwise agreed by the Association, refund to the
Association such amount then outstanding in the Special Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198
FOR SECRETARY


