Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-5237-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 132.7 MILLION
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
MAY 14, 1990
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EgUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =   Taka (TK)
US$1                 Tk 34.22 (Nay 1990)
Take 1           -   0.0292
FISCAL YEAR
Government   =   July 1 to June 30
NCBs         =   January 1 to December 31
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
BB        -   Bangladesh Bank
BCO       -   Banking Companies Ordinance
BIBM      -   Bangladesh Institute of Bank Management
BJC       -   Bangladesh Jute Corporation
BJMC      -   Bangladesh Jute Mills Corporation
DFI       -   Development Finance Institution
ESAC      -   Energy Sector Adjustment Credit
ESAF      -   IMF Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
FY        -   Fiscal Year
FSC       -   Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
GDP       -   Gross Domestic Product
GNP       -   Gross National Product
GOB       -   Government of Bangladesh
IDA       -   International Development Association
IMP       -   International Monetary Fund
MIS       -  Management Information System
MOF       -  Ministry of Finance
NCMBC     -   National Commission on Money, Banking and Credit
NCB       -   Nationalized Commercial Bank
O&M       -   Operations and Maintenance
PFP       -   Policy Framework Paper
SAF       -   IMF Structural Adjustment Facility
SOE       -   Statement of Expenditure
TLPP      -   Technical Assistance Project Pro Forma
T-Bill    -   Treasury Bill
USAID     -   United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Credit Sumnary
Borrower      s  People's Republic of Bangladesh
Amount        s  SDR 132.7 million (US$175 million equivalent)
Terms         :  Standard, with 40 years maturity
Purpose       s  The  Credit  would  provide  foreign  exchange  to finance
general imports.    It would  support  the  Government of
Bangladesh's (GOB) reform program in the financial sector,
as outlined in GOB's Letter of Sectoral Policy to IDA
(Annex IV) and in the matrix of development policy
(Annex V),  and  assist   in  financial  restructuring  of
nationalized commercial banks (NCBs).   The reform program
consists of significant improvements in the areas of
interest rate policy; monetary policy; priority lending;
central  bank   supervision   and   regulation  of  banks;
strengthened NCBs; improved debt recovery environment; and
the capital market.
Disbursements :  The proposed Credit would be available for disbursement in
three   tranches:   SDR   56.9   million   (Us$75  million
equivalent) upon credit effectiveness, SDR 37.9 million
(US$50 million equivalent) aboLt January 1991, and the
remaining SDR 37.9 million (US$50 million equivalent)
about March 1992, subject to GOB meeting the specific
conditions listed in Annex V.   It is expected that US$125
million equivalent would be disbursed in FY91 and US$50
million equivalent in PY92.
Cofinancing   :  The United  States  Agency  for  International Development
(USAID)  proposes  to   provide,  through  parallel  grant
financing, US$18.2 million for technical assistanc3 to the
Bangladesh Bank (BB), the NCBs, and Bangladesh Institute
of Bank Management (BIBM) to assist in implementing the
reform program.
Benefits      :  The proposed financial  sector  reform program's principal
benefits  will  include   improved  credit  allocation  in
response to flexible interest rates and less distorted
market signals, an improved debt recovery environment,
more effective mcnetary policy impact, and a healthier and
more efficient banking system, due to competition and
better supervision
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
Risks         s  The main risk  in  the  reform  program  is that political
considerations might interfere in BB's freedom to raise
interest rates if inflation were to increase sharply.
This risk is reduced in that the interest rate policy has
been  extensively  debated   at   the  highest  levels  of
Government  before  adoption   and   BB  will  have  four
opportunities to review interest rates to institutionalize
the policy before third tranche release. Also, NCBs may
take longer to reclassify their loan portfolios than
anticipated  and   NCB  management   and   debt  recovery
performance  might  not   improve   as much  as  desired.
Technical assistance  has   been  carefully  designed  to
address both of these risks.   Also, Government set up its
task force on NCB management to ensure that fundamental
management improvements will be made.
HaDt               IBRD 20726R



BANGLADESH
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    THE ECONOMY ..........................                  ........       1
A. Background .......................................................  1
B. Recent Economic Developments ............................        2
C. Development Strategy and Medium Term Prospects ..........        4
D. Financing Needs and Prospects   ..........................       9
E. Creditworthiness ......... ......... ......   ....... .....      9
II.   THE FINANCIAL SECTOR .. ..         ...... . ....... ..........        10
III. MAJOR SECTOR.AL ISSUES AND PROPOSED REFORMS  ...................       12
A. Macro-Financial Policy Issues         . ...............         12
B. Central Bank Issues.........*..............                     17
C. NCB Issues     .      ....................                      19
D. Other Issues    .     .......      .      ........... . ...     22
IV.   THE CREDIT . ............    . .. ........ .......         .. .....   23
A .Background .     0*#0*.0                4.404*...0  .. ... .    23
B. Cofinancing .......400.......24
C. Procurement and Disbursement ........ ...................       24
D. Tranching    ,.. .............................                  25 t
E. Conditions for Effectiveness and Tranche Release . .......      25
F. Implementation and Monitoring .       ..........................  28
G. Social Costs ...........  .........................................  28
H. Benefits and Risks  ...........   ..... .............  #..      28
V.    BANK GROUP OPERATIONS AND STRATEGY IN BANGLADESH ..............       29
VI.   COLLABORATION WITH THE IMP  ................ . .................      32
VII.  RECOMMENDATION      ..............................                    33
ANNEXES
I.       Key Economic Indicators
II.      Status of Bank Group Operations in Bangladesh
III.     Supplementary Data Sheet
IV.      Government's Letter of Sectoral Policy
V.       Development Policy Matrix
VI.      Interest Rate Matrix
VII.     Su-mary of Accounting Requirements for Possible Bad Debt
VIII.    NCB Management and Accounting Systems Reforms to be Implemented
under the Credit
II.      Technical Assistance to the NCBs



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF TEE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
1.       I submit the following  report  and  recommendation for a proposed
Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (FSC) to the People's Republic of
Bangladesh for SDR 132.7 million (US$175 million equivalent), on standard
IDA terms with 40 years maturity, to provide foreign exchange for financing
general imports. The credit would support the Government in implementing
policy and institutional reforms in the financial sector.
PART Is THE ECONOMY
2.       A   Country   Economic   Report,   *Bangladesht   Recent  Economic
Developments and Short-term Prospects* (Report No. 7596-BD, dated March 13,
1989), was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 17, 1989.
A. Background
3.       Bangladesh, with its large population (estimated at 109 million in
1988), limited natural resource base and extreme vulnerability to natural
disasters, is one of the poorest countries in the world. Annual per capita
income is only about US$170 (1988) and poverty is widespread. Its con-
tinued high rate of population growth remains a major constraint on
development.
4.       Agriculture is the mainstay of  the economy, accounting for almost
half of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and exports, and three-quarters of
employment. Foodgrain production, which accounts for two-thirds of agri-
culture, is vulnerable to natural disasters and, despite recent progress,
the country continues to require annual foodgrain imports of about one-
tenth of total consumption.    Moreover,  agriculture  has not been able to
fully absorb the rapidly growing labor force or generate adequate foreign
exchange earnings. Therefore, growth in industry, which accounts for about
141 of GDP, and expansion in labor-intensive exports are important for
achieving employment and balance  of payments  objectives.   However, the
Bangladesh labor force's lack of  skillF  and education and poor health and
nutrition impede this transition.   The  adult  literacy rate is only about
29Z, and per capita public expenditures on education are among the lowest
in the world. Other constraints on industrial development include a weak
domestic financial system (institutions and policies), weak infrastructure
(power and transportation), inefficient public enterprises and restrictive
trade policies.



-2-
S.       The economy is also characterized  by  a low savings rate (4.12 in
FY89), which in part reflects the low level of incomes, and by a large
structural balance of payments gap.    Remittances account for over half of
national savings, which in turn finance less than half of total investment
in the economy. Export earnings cover only about 40Z of the import bill,
although non-traditional exports have grown rapidly in recent years.
Inadequate growth in domestic resources also seriously constrains the
financing of key public sector investments as well as the operation and
maintenance of eristing assets.
6.       Despite  these  constraints  and  repeated  disruptions  caused by
natural disasters, Bangladesh made significant progress in the early to
mid-1980s. Sustained stabilization policies (assisted by the DMF and the
Bank) helped to reduce external and fiscal deficits from ovet 102 of GDP in
the early eighties to around 72 by FY86. Policies designed to strengthen
the agricultural, industrial and export sectors were adopted, permitting
the economy to grow by about 42 per year during FY81-86. Foodgrain produc-
tion growth averaged 3.02 per year during the same period, despite adverse
weather conditions. Industrial output, which stagr-ated in the early 1980s,
also rebounded, led by import substitution in chemicals and export-oriented
labor-intensive  activities.    Rapid  development  of  domestic commercial
energy supplies, especially natural gas, permitt ' high growth in the power
and fertilizer subsectors and significant impor- substitution of petroleum
products, which helped to improve the ba'ance of payments. Non-traditional
exports (mainly ready-made garments and shrimp) rose rapidly by over 202
p.a. on average in the 1980s and now account for 572 of exports, ccmpared
to only about 202 in the early eighties.
B. Recent Economic Developments
7.       During the FY87-89 period, the  Government continued to m   tain a
stable economic environment and make progress in a number of areas   uch as
agricultural and trade policies;  however,  more recently both the --ternal
and external financial position have weakened noticeably (para. 9). The
adjustment  effort  during  the   FY87-89   period was  supported  by  the
International Monetary  Fund  (IMF) and  the  Bank  through  a  t;;ee year
Structural Adjustment Facility (SAF) which has been completed recently; (a
fourth year program for FY90 under the Enhanced Structural Adjustment
Facility (ESAF) is in the final stages of negotiation with the Government).
Macroeconomic management during most of this period was generally cautious.
Monetary expansion was brought under control (with domestic credit and
liquidity growth limited to about 102 and 152 p.a., respectively), while
overall fiscal  management was  generally  conservative.   These policies,
together with sluggish demand in an economy beset by natural disasters
helped to reduce the fiscal and external deficits further to around 62 of
GDP, while external reserves improved to the equivalent of about 3.5
months' imports, and the annual rate of inflation fell to about 92 by the
end of FY89. In regard to pricing policies, the Government generally made
the necessary adjustments, though with some lags. The official exchange
rate, for example, was adjusted frequently in small steps to maintain
competitiveness, though in late FY89 and early FY90 some appreciation of
the real effective exchange rate occurred. Agricultural pricing policies
are generally  more  realistic  than  in many  other  countries; announced
support prices to farmers generally reflect international prices, although
support prices have not been made fully effective through adequate domestic



-3-
procurement. Similarly, although deposit interest rates have varied In
real terms in recent years, they have been generally positive and
sufficient to encourage financial savings through the banking system.
However, there is a reed to increase the flexibility of the lending rate
structure to ensure an adequate flow of credit and sufficient spreads for
lending institutions.   Finally,  trade  and  Industrial policies (tariffs,
quota restrictions and licenses) have been improved markedly, especially in
the last three years. However, these improvements are only the early steps
in a phased program. Distortions in the trade system brought about by high
and variable tariffs and quantitative restrictions are still excessive.
8.       The last  few  years  have  also witnessed  some disappointments.
Overall real GDP growth averaged only about 22 p.a. in the last two years,
well below the Third Five-Year Plan (TFYP) (1Y86-90) goal of 5.4? p.a.
Disastrous floods, political uncertainties and overly cautious fiscal
management by the Government contributed to the slowdown in economic growth
in both FY68 and FY89.    Growth  momentum  in the agricultural sector also
slowed, due in part to floods, but also due to a slowdown ia implementation
of minor irrigation programs in the mid-eighties, reduced credit avail-
ability as a result of measures necessary to collect overdues, and institu-
tional problems.    In  view  of  this  slowdown,  the  Government recently
completed a major review of the agriculture sector with UNDP absistance.
On the basis of this review, a revised agricultural policy aimed at
accelerating foodgrain production has been formulated and is being imple-
mented with good results  this  year.    Manufacturing growth averaged 1 sqs
than 3S over the past two years, largely reflecting low income generation
in the economy and insufficient demand for industrial goods. Domestic
resource mobilization is inadequate and needs to be improved significantly.
Government revenues have stagnated at around 9? of GDP in recent years. At
the same time, Government has not been able to effectively utilize avail-
able resources. Vhile current expenditures have increased rapidly (in part
due to the effects of the floods, but also to wage increases and higher
subsidies), O&M expenditures have been constrained, and the development
budget has  been  sharply  cut  back.    These  developments, together with
deficiencies in project planning and preparation, have led to continuing
difficulties in project implementation and aid utilization. As a conse-
quence, public investment declined in real teoms and could not provide the
stimulus needed to resuscitate the economy and overcome recessionary
pressures brought on by the recent floods.
9.       In late FY89 and  and  early  FY90,  clear  signs of a potentially
serious deterioration in the  macroeconomic  situation  emerged.  Due to a
surge in imports, attributable in part to comaer-ial food imports, foreign
exchange reserves fell sharply to less than US$500 million by November
1989, equivalent to 1.6 months' coverage of imports. The fiscal and mone-
tary situation weakened significantly; tax revenues fell about 10-;2S below
budget projections, and credit expansion increased well in excess of agreed
credit ceilings. Current expenditures increased rapidly (due in part to
large wage increases and higher subsidies), constraining the public invest-
ment program through induced shortfalls in the availability of local funds.



-4-
10.      Recognizing this  deterioration,  the  Government  in February and
March 1990 initiated a short-term program to stabilize the economic
situation, in consultation w.'th the Bank and the Fund. To contain the
rapid growth of imports in order to maintain foreign exchange reserves at
around US$500 million, the Government in late February 1990 imposed a 50?
deposit requirement for opening letters of credit on all imports; and
tightened the availability of bank credit for financing of imports by
reducing the duration of post-shipment credits for imports and limiting the
access of banks to refinancing facilities at the central bank. On March 5,
1990 a 5Z nominal depreciation of the Taka was also announced signalling a
resumption of the flexible exchange rate management policy, with a further
adjustment of 1*Z in April  1990.    To improve the budgetary situation, the
Government announced new measures designed to mobilize additional revenues
of Tk 2 billion and imposed tight restraints on current expenditures to
limit such expenditures to the levels assumed in the original FY90 budget.
These measures are expected to limit the budget deficit to about 7.1? of
GDP in FY90 and help reduce net government borrowing from the banking
system from Tk 12.7 billion at the end of February to about Tk 8.5 billion
by end-June 1990. Based on recent estimates of resource availabilities and
Government's expecta- tions of increased project aid disbursements on a few
large projects, a development program (ADP) of roughly Tk 41-45 billion now
seems likely; this is considerably short of the original budget target of
Tk 58 billion for the ADP, but is significantly better than would have been
possible in the absence of new measures noted above.
11.      These measures represent a much  needed beginning to stabilize the
macroeconomic situation. To regain a greater measuro of financial sta-
bility, much m're needs to be done over the nomning months. The essential
steps in this regard include: the re-establishment of fiscal discipline
through vigorous efforts in the PY91 budget to drastically reduce the
growth of current expenditures, substantially increase revenue mobili-
zation, and reassess priorities in the development budget and provide
additional local resources for high priority projects to improve project
implementation and aid utilization. Concurrently, to help achieve external
payments viability, continued active exchange rate management is needed in
order to ensure competitiveness of exports on a sustained basis and
restrain import growth without resorting to restrictive trade and foreign
exchange practices. At the recently concluded Bangladesh Aid Group Meeting
in Paris, the Government agreed to implement an Action Plan to address
these issues in the coming months.   The implementation of this Action Plan
is to be reviewed by the Bank and the donors in the Fall of 1990. A Policy
Framework Paper incorporating the essential elements of the Action Plan and
outlining further steps to be taken over the next three years was finalized
by the Government in consultation with the IMF and the Bank in early May.
C. Development Strategy and Medium-Term Prospects
12.      The  alleviation  of  poverty   remains  the  cornerstone  of  the
Government's development strategy. In the first ten years of Independence
(1972-1981), the proportion of the population in extreme poverty (those
unable to afford enough food to live a reasonably active life) rose from
432 to 502. Real wages fell, and the quality of the diet worsened. This
deterioration was apparently arrested after FY82. as more food was made
available to lower income groups through the rapid expans!ion of Food for



-5-
Work and Vulnerable Group Development programs, and real agricultural wages
rose, recovering to their pre-Independence levels by 1986. The incidence
of poverty declined slightly  during  FYS1-86, although the absolute number
of poor continued to increase and the magnitude of poverty remains over-
whelming. However, in the last two years, economic stagnation and major
natural disasters have reversed the improving trend observed earlier.
13.      Bangladesh needs to revive and accelerate the momentum of economic
growth and development as soon as possible. The economic stagnation of the
last two years makes this even more imperative. Without significant accel-
eration of economic growth, it will not be possible to make even modest
strides in alleviating extreme poverty and improving the living standards
of the vast majority of  the  population.    Of critical importance in this
regard is the need to raise the level of agaregate investment (both public
and private); and for renewed commitment to structural reform. It will not
be possible, however, to raise investment levels without intensified
efforts to mobilize domestic resources.   GIien the limited availability of
resources, greater attention also will have to be paid to increasing the
efficiency of resource use, particularly through more effective pubic
resource management. At the same time, it is necessary to encourage the
private sector to play a considerably expanded role in the creation of
productive assets  and  the  provision  of  inputs  and  services.   Simul-
taneously, the Government will need to take steps to address the critical
issues of human development and poverty alleviation in order to ensure that
social and political pressures do not impede economic reform and undermine
the development process.
14.      To accelerate overall economic growth, rapid growth of agriculture
and industry is essential. In agriculture, priority needs to be given to
foodgrain production over the next few years in view of Bangladesh's
continued dependence on foodgrain  imports.    To this end, Government will
need to continue to implement the recommendations of the recent agricul-
tural sector review, i.e., increased investment in irrigation (particularly
minor irrigation), drainage and flood control, intensified command area
development,  improved  research   and   extension  services,  strengthened
delivery systems for credit and input distribution, and the provision of
adequate incentives to private farmers through appropriate input and output
pricing policies and effective procurement programs. Attention will also
need to be given to implementing a cost-effective flood control strategy
and integrating such plans into the agriJultural development strategy. To
revive a stagnant  industrial  sector,  it  is  necessary  to create a more
favorable environment conducive to increased industrial production and
investment, especially by the private sector. While a recovery in agricul-
ture should help to stimulate domestic demand for industrial goods, a
supporting fiscal policy aimed at increasing investment (see below) should
improve the industrial climate. Greater exposure to import competition and
increased export orientation are also necessary to help develop an
efficient industrial structure.    In  this  context,  trade policy reforms
aimed at eliminating quantitative restrictions and reducing high tariffs,
removing distortions in the interest rate structure, and appropriate
adjustments in the real effective exchange rate should help to provide
adequate signals to entrepreneurs with regard to investment and production
decisions.



-6-
15.      Encouraging  greater private  sector  involvement  in  productive
economic activity  should  be  an  impcrtant  element  of  the strategy for
achieving higher growth. While there are opportunities for such involve-
ment in a number of sectors   for  example in the provision of agricultural
inputs and services, trade and transport, distribution of energy products,
and the banking sector, they are especially critical to fostering indus-
trial development. The Government can take positive steps to encourage
private sector involvement by further deregulation of investment sanc-
tioning (approval) procedures, encouraging direct foreign private invest-
ment, and reducing the role of public enterprises in conmercial and
econdmic activities over time through further divestiture (e.g., in
industry  and  transport).    Private  sector  access  to  essential infra-
structure, inputs and financial tesources for investmeat and working
capital also should be increased. Planned reforms in the financial sector
can play a critical role in this regard. The proposed market determination
of interest rates and credit allocation decisions, together with enforce-
ment of credit discipline, should help ensure equitable access as well as
more efficient use of credit by the private sector. Similarly, proposed
reforms in the areas of institutional tinance (recapitalization), credit
subsidies and banking supervision would improve the capacity of the
financial institutions and develop more competition among public and
private sector banks, which should facilitate private sector development.
16.      In order to achieve higher  economic growth, Bangladesh must raise
the level of investment (both public and private). Total investment in the
economy has fallen from over 16Z of GDP to around llS over the past few
years. The cutback has been largely in public investment, as inappropriate
expenditure  priorities,  poor  resource   mobilization  efiorts,  and  the
Government's inability to use available resources has squeezed the develop-
ment budget. Thus, both the future level and quality of the public expen-
diture program needs to be substantially improved by reordering public
expenditure priorities. Such reordering should emphasize priority rehabi-
litation needs, operations and maintenance, core development projects,
increased allocations of local resources for htgh priority projects in
productive sectors, human resource development, and financing incremental
recurrent costs of social sector programs, while restraining less essential
current expenditures.    Concurrently,  efforts  should  be  made to reduce
implementation bottlenecks (e.g., procurement, technical assistance) and
streamline bureaucratic procedures to improve the utilization of foreign
resources.
17.      Increased domestic resource mobilization efforts will be needed to
help finance higher investment levels and generate local currency resources
for the public expenditure program.   These efforts should include: (i) tax
reforms to improve tax revenue elasticity (as well as allocative efficiency
and equity) over the medium term; (ii) increased cost recovery through
appropriate pricing of goods and services, effective revenue collection by
public en:erprises (PE), and enforcement of PE debt service obligations to
increase non-tax resources; and (iii) improved financial discipline through
more effective loan recovery  in  all  sectors.   Similarly, efforts should
also be made to generate more private savings, particularly through the



-7.
financial system.  A  market-oriented  interest  rate structure and credit
allocation system which provides adequate incentives to both savers and
financial institutions to mobllize mere private savings, as proposed under
the financial sector reforms, can make an important contribution towards
this objective.
18.      While the growth-oriented  policies  discussed above are necessary
for reducing widespread poverty, they are not sufficient for achieving
poverty alleviation goals.    Sustained  efforts  to promote human resource
develoment through expanded programs  in population, health and education,
and to improve the social and economic conditions of women, are also
important. Even with such efforts, however, Bangladesh will still need to
expand and improve the effectiveness of targeted programs (such as Food for
Work and Vulnerable Group Development) to assist the urban and rural poor.
the landless, the assetless and the unskilled, who are likely to benefit
only marginally from the economic growth process. Reducing the population
growth rate from the present 2.62 p.a. is one of the highest priorities.
While there has been considerable progress in this area in the last decade,
further strengthening of the family planning program through increased
provision of financial and administrative resources, expanding service
delivery and improving the quality and reliability of bervices, and
generating  greater  demand  for   family   planning  services  is needed.
Similarly, general education needs to be improved by promoting equitable
access to primary schooling, especially for girls, and raising education
standards both at primary  and  secondary  levels.   Complementary to these
efforts, special attention will need to be paid to off-farm employment
creation targeted at the assetless and landless, who form the core of the
r-ural poor, by further expanding and improving the effectiveness of
existing programs in these areas, involving both the Government and local
NGOs. The foremost envizm-mental issue at present is the need to improve
flood and cyclone protection, which will help the poor disproportionately.
At the request of Government, and in response to a reselution of the    G-7
sumuit meeting in July 1989, the Bank took a lead role in coordinating
donor support for flood control thrcugh a donors' conf,rence held in London
in December, 1989. Other environmental issues that the Bank is helping to
address include deforestation and water p;..lution.



-8-
Table 1: KEY ECONOMIC PROJECTIONS s FY88-FY92 3/
(A. contaned In the May 1900 PFP)
FY86    FY09      FY90       FY91      FY92      FY9U
__                         ___F_   -P roJX 70n - =
GDP growth rate v                     2.7       2.4       6.6      4.6       4.7       4.8
GOP de fltor  f                       7.6       7.9       8.6      7.0       0.6       6.0
Consumr price                        11.4       8.0      9.0       7.5       6.5       6.0
GMP per capita (growth rate)          0.2        -        8.1      2.2       2.8       2.4
Gros fixed Investment/GOP V          11.8      11.0      10.8     11.9      18.2      14.1
Dometic savings/GDP                   2.6       0.7       1.6      2.8       4.2       5.4
National savings/GOP                  5.9       4.1       4.8       5.6      7.0       8.0
Public fixed investment/GOP 2 W       5.8       5.0       4.6      6.0       5.5       6.0
Public national savings/GDP F3       -0.4        -       -0.6      0.8       1.8       1.9
Private fixed lnvestmsnt/ODP V        6.4       6.0      6.2       6.9       7.6       8.1
Private nationol s*vingo/GOW          6.8       4.1      4.9       5.8       5.7       6.1
Governmnt revenue/GDP                 8.9       9.1       9.8      9.0      10.8      10.6
Govern ent expenditure/COP           16.7      16.8      16.4     16.4      16.8      17.4
Deficit (-)/GDP                      -7.7      -7.2      -7.1     -6.7      -6.5      -6.
Domestic bank financing/GOP          -0.1      -0.7       1.1      0.a       0.8       0.8
Domestic credit growth rate          18.4      18.4      20.3     16.4      18.0      12.0
Broad money growth rate              16.8      16.8      17.0     16.4      14.6      14.8
Export growth rate                   14.7       4.4      16.6     11.8      12.2      18.6
Non-traditional export growth rate   26.8       7.4      16.2     16.7      16.0      21.8
ExportU/ODP                           6.5       6.3      6.6       6.0       7.8       7.6
Mon-traditional exports/GDP           4.8       4.t      4.4        6.0      5.8       5.8
Import growth rate                   14.0      18.0      6.2       6.0       9.8       9.9
ImportS/GOP                          15.7      16.5      15.7     16.1      16.1      16.2
Current account (in USS million)    -1,111   -1,402   -1,477   -1,478   -1,609   -1,788
Current account/GOP                  -5.8        .9      -.6      -6.8      -.2       -4.1
Aid disbursemnt. (In U966 mIllion)   1,640    1,669    1,600    1,730    1,988    2,127
Aid disbursements/GDP                 6.6       8.2       7.0      7.8       7.5       7.5
Debt service (in US1 mtillon)         528       628      640       68        600       598
Debt service ratio y                 22.5      21.0      28.6     22.7      18.7      16.8
Debt s*evice/GDP                      2.8       2.6      2.8       2.8       2.8       2.1
Real effective exchange rate !/     100.4    111.8         -        -         -         -
Gross resrves (months of imports)    8.6        8.4       1.9      2.0       2.2       2.6
Soures: Data provided by the Bangladesh authorities; and 1iF and World Bank staff
projections.
y   Data are for fiscal years nding Juan 80.
V    Official national accounts are presntly being reviewed. Present data (based on
the 1984/86 series) understate prlvate lnvestment In Industry, construction, and
transport sectors.
/  Owing to data Ilmitations, operating -urpluse and def iits of pubile enterpriesl
ar inclided in private savings, while a portion of publie enterprises' invest-
ments (that channeled through the ADP) ts Included In public sector investment.
j/  Debt service as a percentage of recipts from *xports of goods, servies and
privats transfers.
j,   Index for the nd of period.



-9-
D. Financing Needs and Prospects
1.      Achieving tbe goals of higher  growth and enhanced human resource
development wlll require increased foreign aid flows. Total disbursements
of about US$5.8 billion are likely to be required during 1Y91-93. This
compares with disbursements of US$4.9 billion in the most recent three
years (FY88-90) and represents a real increase of about 8S for the period
as a whole. Over half of the increased flows could come from improved
implementation performance of the large existing undisbursed project aid
pipeline (currently over US$4.7 billion), with little real increase in
project aid commitment levels (currently about US$1.1 billion per year).
Food aid will also be required at about US$200-225 million per year to
bridge the gap between domestic production and demand, and provide for Food
for Work and Vulnerable Group Development programs. Finally, over US$1.8
billion of quick disbursing program aid will be required over the three-
year period.
20.      The recent deterioration  in  the  external payments situation has
heightened  the  need  for  quick   disbursing  assistance  to  enable  the
Government to make orderly adjustments without rolling back progress
achieved in recent years in key areas of the economy. It also underlines
the fragility of Bangladesh's external payments situation and its vulner-
ability to unforeseen  exigencies.    However,  the major justification for
quick disbursing ass.starce to Bangladesh, as outlined above, is its medium
term development needs.    Given  the  large  structural  imbalances in the
external  accounts,  the  momentum   of   the  development  effort  can  be
accelerated and policy reforms sustained only if the prospective external
resource gaps envisioned over the medium term can be bridged through quick
disbursing non-project assistance.
21.      With improved efforts to implement  policy reforms and careful aid
coordination, almost two-thirds of Bangladesh's need for quick disbursing
aid is expected to be available from bilateral and other multilateral
donors. IDA would need to finance the remaining one-third, a total of
about US$500-600 million during the three-year period. In addition to the
proposed Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (PSC), IDA's program tenta-
tively includes quick disbursing credits to support policy adjustments and
institutional strengthening in trade and industrial policy and an adjust-
ment operation to improve public resource management. Additional policy
reform programs for jute and agriculture are also being developed.
E.   Creditworthiness
22.      Bangladesh's total public and publicly-guaranteed medium and long-
term debt stood at US$9.3 billion at the end of 1988, equivalent to 48.3?
of GDP. Bangladesh's short-term obligations (including private debt) are
quite small, and total debt, including short-term debt and borrowings from
the IMf, amounted to US$10.2 billion or 52.91 of GDP at the end of 1988.
Bangladesh's external debt service ratio, equal to 21? of exports of goods
and services and private transfers in PY89, is somewhat higher than that of
other low income countries in the Asia region. This ratio is expected to
decline somewhat in the 1990s.    Nevertheless,  this level of debt service



-10-
highlights the need for careful debt management and for highly concessional
external assistance.   Bangladesh  does  not  have unresolved disputes with
foreign ienders, and an debt reschedulings are planned. The Bank accounted
for 351 of long-term debt outstanding and disbursed in 1988 (almost all of
it on IDA terms) and III of total long-term debt service payments.
PART 1I t THE FINANCILL SECTOR
23.      Bangladesh's financial system is  at  a  relatively early stage of
development  in  terms  of   the   range  and  diversity  of  institutions.
Government plays the dominant role in financial policy formulation, with
Bangladesh Bank (BB) playing a major role in implementing these policies
and regulating the financial institutions.   The financial sector comprises
a number of institutions including inter alia the BB, 21 commercial banks,
2 agricultural development banks, 2 state-owned DFIs, a public investment
company, 4 private capital market institutions, 2 large publicly owned and
several  private  insurance  companies.    While  there  is  a  small stock
exchange, the development of the capital market has been slow, institu-
tional capabilities and the regulatory framework are generally weak and
there is a limited range of financial instruments and small financial
flows.
24.      The c oercial  banking  system  dominates  Bangladesh's financial
sector.  As of June  1989,  its  four nationalized commercial banks (NCBs),
ten domestic private banks and seven foreign banks had a total of 4,330
branches and total deposits amounted to 95Z of broad money. While the CeBs
have continued to grow robustly (deposits grew 232 per annum between 1981
and 1988), their market share has dropped from 92? of coumercial bank
deposits in 1981 to 63Z in 1989 due to establishment and subsequent rapid
growth of new private banks and denationalization of two former NCBs.
Government has sold about  262  1/    ownership  to  the  public in one NCB
(Rupali) and is considering partially privatizing two others. NCBs play a
key role in  channelling  credit  to  high  priority  sectors through their
extensive rural branch networks, while private and foreign banks concen-
trate on more profitable urban blue chipl commercial and industrial loans.
25.      Bangladesh's macro-financial  policies  have  resulted  in a rela-
tively stable monetary environment, reasonable levels of financial savings
through the banking system, modest GOB borrowing from the banks, and
substantial flows of funds to priority sectors. However, GOB has concluded
that reforms are needed to address serious inadequacies in financial sector
policies and institutional weaknesses in the banking system. Prior to
November 1989, an inflexible administered interest rate structure virtually
eliminated price competition and made priority sector lending (e.g., agri-
culture, exports, small scale industry and jute) and mobilization of term
deposits  commercially  unattractive.       Monetary  policy,  which,  until
recently, relied on credit ceilings supplemented by BB refinancing of
priority sector loans, sometimes conflicted with economic development
objectives.
1/ Representing partial subscription of a 49? share issue which has been
earmarked for private and employee ownership.



-11-
26.      The NCBs, which dominate the  financial  sector, are in a critical
financial state as a result of rapid credit expansion to priority sectors
in response to Government directives, without due attention to the quality
of loans. Their records suggest that roughly 232 of their portfolios is
overdue. Sharp increases in lending have been accomplished in the face of
substantial institutional and manpower constraints--the NCes have anti-
quated policies and procedures designed for much smaller pre-Independence
levels of operations.  Sound credit  risk and commercial criteria have been
largely overridden in view of the high priority accorded to socio-economic
objectives. Debt recovery performance has been poor due to a lack of
credit discipline, an inadequate legal framework for debt recovery, and
ineffective NCB debt  recovery  efforts.    Accounting policies have masked
most of the real bad debt and its serious financial ramifications. Central
bank supervitlion has been inadequate, both in its ability to diagnose the
problems and to enforce action to reverse the deterioration. The resultant
undermining of the banks' viability and deterioration in credit discipline
now  threatens   socio-economic   objectives   and   the   vital  financial
institutions on which their achievement depends.
27.      The authorities have recognized these serious problems and taken a
number of recent steps to prepare and begin implementing reforms to
strengthen the finarcial  sector.    In  1986,  the  National Commission on
Money, BEnking and Credit (NCMBC), a government-appointed task force,
completed a study of the sector's problems. The two industrial development
banks have been recapitalized following large provisions against poorly
performing portfolios, and their collection performance, although still
very disappointing, has improved. Cabinet is reviewing recommendations for
Improving NCB management which were submitted in August 1989 by a special
GOB-initiated NCB management task  force.    Moreover, GOB has already made
important progress toward implementing the financial sector reform programs
to be supported under the proposed Credit, especially with respect to
interest rates, monetary policy, BB bank supervision, loan classification,
and debt recovery legislation.
28.      Resources need to be  more  efficiently allocated through interest
rates that reflect maturity, relative risk and administrative cost and
allow for some price  competition.    The  lending rate structure, prior to
recently introduced reforms, set the lowest interest rates for the highest
risk priority sectors, thus undermining the NCBEs' financial viability and
discouraging private banks from lending in these areas. It was necessary
that lending rates (augmented by reimbursement for losses where admini-
stered rates remain low for selected priority sectors) allow sufficient
spreads for banks to maintain profitability, while paying consistently
positive real rates for term deposits, to provide adequate incentives for
banks to support Government's credit and savings objectives. Also, BB
needed to replace the credit ceilings with more active use of existing
indirect instruments of monetary control and introduce a BB debt instrument
which could be used to facilitate open market operations.
29.      Adjustments are also required to  place  the NCBEs on a financially
viable basis and create a better environment for all financial institu-
tions. Reforms relating to proper valuation of NCB portfolios and the cost
of bad debt, improving debt recovery, and strengthening m.nagement and
accounting systems are  essential.    A  strengthened  loan recovery law is



-12-
needed if the banks are to improve debt recovery performance significantly.
BB bank supervision needs to be further strengthened, an adequate credit
information system needs to be developed, and banking regulations need to
be modified.
30.      The  proposed  elements  of  this   FSC  are  designed  to  assist
Government in making  the  highest  priority  adjustments.   They have been
exAmined in some detail in both the NCMBC report and an IDA financial
sector report,21 and the authorities attach high priority to their
implementation. These reports contain other recommendations which should
be addressed under a possible second Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
(para. 64), allowing attention to be focused on the higher priority
elements in this Credit.
PART III : MAJOR SECTORAL ISSUES AND PROPOSED REFORMS
A. Macro-financial Policy Issues
31.      Interest Rates.  Until November  1989, Bangladesh had a comprehen-
sive system of controls on the level and structure of interest rates. This
administered nominal rate structure changed infrequently, with the result
that real rates have fluctuated with changes in inflation. Government
policy had been geared primarily toward limiting the cost of bank credit to
borrowers in general and to priority sectors in particular, while simul-
taneously attempting to use deposit rates to promote financial savings.
However, significant distortions were introduced because the structure of
interest rates did not  reflect  market  forces.    They detracted from the
banking system's efficiency in allocating resources as lending rates did
not adequately reflect relative risk, maturity, or the cost of term deposit
funding, creating disincentives for the private banks to collect deposits
and lend to priority areas, and resulting in inadequate interest rate
spreads for the NCBs, for whom these activities are essentially obligatory.
32.      During 1980-1989, nominal interest rates on fixed deposits changed
only once (by less than 12), although the annual inflation rate varied from
over 162 in 1982 to about 92 in 1988189. Pressures on the NCBs to increase
deposits, accompanied by high real rates throughout much of the period,
resulted in an increase in deposits of over 61 annually in real terms.
However, these rates did not reflect market demand for credit and often
resulted in the NCBs accumulating excess liquidity. The private banks, on
the other hand, had insufficient financial incentives to mobilize term
deposits because there has been little scope for profitable onlending. For
example, three year term deposits (which represented about 372 of NCB term
deposits in June 1989) cost about 16Z when reserve and liquidity require-
ments are taken into account, while industrial term lending rates were
10-13.5Z; only a relatively small portion of total lending could be
undertaken  at  rates  higher  than   16t.       Current  levels  of  deposit
mobilization cannot be sustained unless mobilizing longer term deposits
becomes a more commercially viable activity.
21 A Bank sector report entitled Bangladesh--A Program for Financial
Sector Reform, dated December 17, 1987.



-13-
33.      On the lending side, there was  a complex structure of rates which
also changed  infrequently.    Government  efforts  to  keep  the rates low
squeezed commercial bank margins, reducing incentives to mobilize term
deposits  and  lend  to  priority  sectors.    Rigidity  in  the  structure
eliminated  price  competition  in  mobilizing  and  allocating  resources
efficiently and provided the banks with little flexibility to adjust to
changes in credit demand or manage excess liquidity. Moreover, the admini-
stered ternm structure was distorted, with longer-term rates generally lower
than short term rates and lending rates higher for low risk than for higher
risk sectors.
34.      The interest rate regime suffered  from a number of serious disad-
vantages. These includeds (i) no price mechanism equilibrating supply and
demand in the financial system or allowing for an element of price competi-
tion; (ii) a disincentive to generate long term deposits which, at the
margin, cost more than the expected return on loans of similar or longer
maturity; (iii) the quality of investment was undermined as interest rates
were not used to allocate credit to activities with the highest expected
rate of return, and capitalilabor ratios were biased in favor of capital by
artificially low interest rates on investment; (iv) the amount of bank
lending for term investment was small as low lending rates and inverse
yield curves discouraged such lending; and (v) inadequate spreads under-
mined NCB financial viability and discouraged private banks from engaging
in priority sector lending.
35.      In view  of  these  disadvantages,  GOB  moved  to  a more market-
oriented approach to interest rate determination in November 1989, with
deposit rates that are more responsive to market forces and lending rates
that better reflect the costs of funds, intermediation expenses and rela-
tive risks. Because of the dominant NCBEs' relatively non-market oriented
attitudes and experience base, GOB has chosen an approach that increases
the role of market forces gradually rather than an abrupt freeing of rates
that could  exert  potentially  destabilizing  influences  on the financial
system and economy.    The  new  interest  rate  structure,  as well as the
structure it replaced, is shown in Annex VI and can be summarized as
follows:
(a)   For deposits, BE  has  established  a  regulated zone of interest
rates, defined by a floor and, for prudential reasons, a ceiling
within which scheduled banks can adjust their savings and term
deposit rate structures.   The  term  deposit  rate floor will be
reviewed semi-annually and adjusted from time to time so that it
remains positive in real terms (about .52 above the then current
inflation rate).31 Given their higher administrative costs, the
floor for savings deposits has been set 1? below that level.
3/ Initially, the term deposit floor was set 1.5 above the inflation rate
to make initial deposit rate adjustments more gradual and reduce the
extent to which rates may need to increase within the first six months
if inflation should increase.



-14-
General supply and demand conditions for financial resources
should also provide guidance in setting the floors. Initially, a
ceiling at 3.752 above the deposit floors has been set to prevent
banks from paying above market rates to support rapid expansion
with overly risky loans;
(b)   For  lending,  B3   has   Introduced  more  flexibility,  greater
consideration of cost of funds and risk, and some market price
competition into its  interest  rate  structure.   BB, with USAID
technical assistance, has developed a methodology and used it to
calculate ^shadow market rates' for each major lending category.
These rates take into account the banks' average cost of funds,
administrative cost, a portion of *bad debt, expense in the form
of sectoral risk premiums to reflect the higher risk of lending
to certain categories (the only factor expected to vary for
different loan categories), and a modest profit margin. These
"market rates' have been incorporated into 6 of the 12 categories
in the new BB published lending rate schedules (covering 682 of
loans outstanding) in the form of a 3-6Z band around the 'shadow
market rate' for each major lending category, with the banks free
to individually determine their lending rates within that band to
provide an element of price  competition.   In order to achieve a
gradual transition to the new policies, the banks, once having
determined their interest rate structure within the bands, were
initially required to maintain those rates for a six month
period. BB will amend the policy to allow banks to change rates
as often  as  once  a month  prior  to  effectiveness.   BB also
simplified the rate structure by reducing the number of lending
categories from 29 to 12.    With this structure, banks can raise
the general level of lending rates significantly relative to the
cost of funds to assist in rentoring adequate spreads and their
financial viability. For example, banks can charge as much as
17Z for medium and large scale industrial term loans, while
paying, say, 13Z for term deposits, a significant improvement
over previous negative spreads; and
(c) Shadow market rate calculations will be updated semi-annually
with regard to cost of funds and annually with respect to
administrative  cost  and  bad   debt  expense  based  on  recent
historical data.    Within  the  next  five  years,  GOB plans to
further liberalize interest rates by gradually widening bands and
increasing the number of categories and percentage of lending
subject to price  competition.    At  this  initial stage, BB has
chosen to maintain subsidized administered rates for six priority
sector lending areas (agriculture, jute working capital, jute
trading,  jute  exports,   other   exports  and  special  program
categories) and reimburse the banks for the cost of the subsidies
as discussed in para. 33.
36.      Based on indicative  estimates,  NCBs  would  have  to raise their
average lending rates to at least shadow market rates, as well as make
significant improvements in debt recovery (paras. 55-56), to achieve
sufficient profitability to maintain capital at the required minimum SS of
deposits (para. 51). The NCBs initially raised rates to at least shadow
market rates for most non-administered lending categories. Similarly, as a



-15-
state-ained DFI, Bangladesh Shilpa Bank (BSB), plays a major role in
industrial term lending and now lends at negative spreads, Government has
agreed to cause it to raise its medium/largo scale industrial terms rates
to at least the shadow market rate during 1990.
37.      Subsidized Lending to Priority  Sectors.   The Government. through
BB, has intervened extensively in determining the allocation of financial
resources within the banking system through quantitative directives,
refinance facilities and a pervasive system of preferential interest rates
on different categories of loans to priority sectors. These interventions
are designed to  increase  the  amount  of  credit  avai'able  to high risk
priority sectors, provide  incentives  to  borrowers  through interest rate
subsidies, transfer  some  income  to  borrowers  in  selected sectors, and
ensure that public enterprise operations are not constrained by a shortage
of working capital. Preferential (subsidized) lending programs have been
concentrated in agriculture, jute, non-traditional exports, small scale
industry and public enterprises.   The  bulk  of the subsidized lending has
been undert&:en by the NCBs, and an estimated 60-70Z of their portfolios
comprise priority lending.   As  administered interest rates are relatively
low and risks associated with much of this lending high, the NCBs have
incurred substantial  losses  on  this  lending.    These losses undermined
financial viability and reduced Government budget revenue from NCB income
taxes and dividends.   Low  interest  rates also provided disincentives for
private banks to lend in priority sectors.
38.      As a first step  in  reducing  or  reimbursing  the banks for high
costs associated with these subsidies,  BB  has made their cost transparent
in the interest rate schedi'e.  The  amount of subsidy to be reimbursed has
been estimated for each subsidized category of loans in Annex VI by
applying the differential between the shadow market rate and the lower
administered interest rate to the most recent outstanding loan balances
within each category.4i The estimated initial annual cost of subsidy reim-
bursement is roughly Tk 1.5 billion (US$44 million equivalent) of which up
to 601 (the marginal tax rate) would be returned to Government through
increased income  tax  revenues.    Given  national  budgetary constraints,
subsidized  administered  interest  rates   will  be  reviewed  and,  where
warranted, increased over time  to  reduce  or  eliminate  the subsidy.  As
shadow market rates include an allowance only for reasonable* bad debt
expense, banks will not be reimbursed for additional losses incurred
because of inefficient collection performance.   The more inefficient banks
are likely to lose money on priority lending programs even after reimburse-
ments are taken into account.
39.      Although most NCB loans to  public enterprises (about 34Z of port-
folio) are performing reasonably satisfactorily, large loans to two public
jute corporations (amounting to 16002 of total 1988 NCB capital and
reserves) are a cause for concern. GOB had already taken steps in the case
of loans to the Bangladesh Jute Hllling Corporation (BJMC) to protect the
banks through converting overdrafts to Government guaranteed term loans to
be repaid directly from export receipts.   More recently, GOB has agreed to
41 Reimbursements will be incorporated in the annual budget and disbursed
quarterly thereafter following BB and external auditor (end of year)
reviews of bank reimbursement requests.



-16-
take responsibility for paying interest to  the  banks on Tk 8.7 billion in
Bangladesh Jute Corporation (BJC) loans (out of a total outstanding of
Tk 10 billion) for a period of three years pending formulation of a plan
for restructuring that insolvent  public  enterprise.   This will impose an
annual Tk 850 million (US$24.8 million) charge on the budget, less off-
setting increases in income tax revenues--as it increases banks' taxable
income by that amount.   This  action  serves to protect the banking system
from huge losses that would be incurred on these loans which were made at
GOB behest.  Moreover,  the  budgetary  ramifications (which recognize and
make already incurred costs more transparent) should increase pressures for
expeditiously finding solutions to serious fundamental problems in the
politically sensitive Jute industry. Making these costs transparent is one
step toward facing the tough political decisions that will be necessary to
deal with Jute sector and BJC problems.51
40.      The BB has established a technical unit, staffed with ten officers
and reporting directly to BB senior management, to provide the analytical
framework (with USAID-financed technical assistance) to facilitate imple-
mentation of the new interest rate policies as well as more active monetary
intervention, including a tendering mechanism for open-market operations,
and the operational framework for monetary programming and policy formu-
lation. In February 1988, the technical unit established its procedures
and analytical framework for monetary programming with IMF advisory mission
support.
41.      Monetary Policy.  Until  recently,  direct credit controls were an
important monetary policy instrument in  Bangladesh.   The amount of credit
expansion permitted under credit ceilings was determined by the target
growth of M2, which in turn depended on the target for inflation. Also, BB
refinanced a program of directed lending to priority sectors at heavily
subsidized rates both to partially reimburse the banks for the cost of
subsidized lending and ensure that, in periods of tight liquidity,
sufficient funds were available to meet priority sector needs. This
approach has caused a number of problems beyond those normally associated
with the use  of  direct  credit  controls.    In particular, the automatic
refinancing of priority sector loans at highly subsidized rates injects
liquidity into the system, which is beyond the control of BB. Although
banks are required to maintain cash reserves as well as to hold Treasury
Bills and other prescribed Government securities under Liquid Asset
Requirements (LAR), these have not been used as active instruments of
monetary control.
42.      The move towards liberalization in the financial sector requires a
corresponding move away from direct monetary policy controls toward more
indirect, market-oriented instruments through the replacement of the
subsector-specific subsidized refinancing facility for commercial banks
with a general non-subsidized BB rediscount facility. It also encompasses
introduction of open market operations (supported when necessary by changes
in reserve and liquid asset requirements).
S/ IDA is in the early stages of preparing a possible jute sector restruc-
turing credit which would address underlying causes of sector problems,
including those of BJMC and BJC.



-17-
43.      As a first step, BS discontinued the subsidized refinance facility
for priority sector loans and replaced it (effective Jaruary 1990) by a
more general rediscount facility at the Bank rate 61 (as detenmined from
time to time based on inflation and the economic situation), which can be
more effectively used to augment scheduled bank liquidity and support mone-
tary policy objectives through rediscounting the banks' loans. As the cost
of interest rate subsidies on priority sector lending will now be expli-
citly reimbursed, subsidized refinancing rates are no longer necessary. If
refinancing levels do not change, the new higher refinancing rates would
increase BB income by about Tk 500 million annually, an indirect offset to
the cost of reimbursed subsidies.   The  BB has also invoked a provision in
the Bangladesh Bank Act which enables BB to require banks to maintain
additional cash reserves in the BB (on which it pays the treasury bill
rate--presently 8.5Z) to absorb excess liquidity in the system.
44.      BB will also issue its  own interest-bearing short term securities
through an auction system by early 1991 and utilize these securities to
conduct open market operations. This would help address one of the major
constraints facing the introduction of open market operations, i.e., the
lack of a short term money market due to the modest stock of Treasury Bills
outstanding. The Bangladesh Bank Act has been amended to enable BB to
issue these securities. The introduction of the rediscount facility, along
with flexible use of the rediscount rate, liquidity ratios and open market
operations, will provide additional instruments for liquidity and monetary
policy management.
B.   Central Bank Issues
45.      Central Bank Supervision.   The  BB has primary responsibility for
regulating and supervising the banking system. However, no single depart-
ment within the central bank is clearly responsible for overall bank super-
vision, and the periodic inspections have become largely formal exercises
in loan classification and an audit-type review of various irregularities.
BB is substantially strengthening its supervision of banks and plans to
extend it to non-bank financial institutions in view of the (i) need to
reduce the incidence of non-performing loans and consequent erosion of
financial institutions' soundness and viability; (ii) growing importance of
institutions with private and mixed ownership; and (iii) increased reliance
on competition and market forces.   As  an  initial step, BB has decided to
strengthen its bank supervision functions by forming two supervision/
inspection departments. An implementation department has been set up for
follow up of problems identified during or between inspections. For close
coordination, the inspection, implementation and banking control depart-
ments have been placed under one deputy governor. Moreover, for coordin-
ation of the work of the different departments of the bank, a coordination
committee, headed by the deputy governor, takes decisions on different
issues including work of the banking control, banking inspection and imple-
mentation departments.   They will  be  responsible  for  the follow-up of
problems identified during or between inspections and for the imposition of
penalties on banks that fail to take corrective measures as instructed.
The staff of the Bank Inspection Department has been nearly doubled and
61 Presently 9.75Z.



-18-
bank inspection staff are now rotated out of the department after five
years, rather than the previous three years, to facilitate the build up of
a core staff of professional bank supervisors and inspectors. BB has also
established an accounting and auditing coammittee to monitor auditing and
accounting standards, review ardit reports and ensure that external
auditors of financial institutions meet established criteria.
46.      BB will take several additional  measures to strengthen its super-
vision functions. It will conduct bank supervision as a continuous process
based on regular reports submitted by the banks, with the reports' accuracy
verified through bank  inspection.    All  requirements  and forms for bank
reporting to BB will be reviewed to rationalize the returns and update them
to conform to its  data  needs,  ease  the  burden  on the reporting banks,
facilitate the simultaneous provision  of  data for several BB departments,
and allow for  future  computerization.    Special  forms will be added to
enable banks to  report  regularly  on  loans  and  debt service status for
public sector borrowers. Other measures that will be taken to strengthen
supervision include (i) establishing a unit to monitor non-bank financial
institutions; and (ii) undertaking a major training effort to develop staff
in line with the proposed changes in supervision. The IMF is expected to
provide technical assistance to support implementation of these changes and
the training requirements.
47.      Credit Information Unit.   A  central  credit information unit has
been established under the auspices of BB within its supervision function
to monitor loan concentration and collect data on advances to delinquent
borrowers. Information on defaulters should be available to the banks to
augment their credit decision-making and also be used routinely in super-
vision and inspection. The unit would build on the existing credit data
base on large borrowers and collect and consolidate loan data on the
largest borrowers and the larger defaulters (those with loans outstanding
of over Tk 0.3 million--US$10,000  equivalent).   After the unit is capable
of providing timely data on loans in default, banks will be prohibited from
providing increases in credit facilities to defaulters reported by the unit
unless they obtain a letter of no objection from other banks whose loans
are in default.
48.      Loan Classification.  A new  system of loan classification as well
as regulations with respect to accounting policies for provisions and
suspension of interest were implemented in November 1989. The new policies
more adequately reflect the cost of bad debt and its impact on bank
viability.   The  previous  inadequate  bank  policies  for  provisions and
suspension of interest--which largely fail to distinguish better from
poorer quality portfolios--sent distorted signals by reflecting litA.0 of
the substantial losses incurred by the NCBs in directed lending programs
which seriously undermined real net  worth.   They also provided inadequate
incentives for avoiding bad lending decisions and improving collections.
The banks now have primary responsibility for classifying their loans at
least annaillly and preferably on a continuous basis, with the BB Inspection
Department reviewing the adequacy of the classifications and requiring
modifications  where  necessary.    The new  system  requires  (i)  adding
classification criteria relating to repayment performance to the existing
risk criteria, i.e., loans more than one year overdue or overdrafts that
are performing unsatisfactorily must be classified as substandard, and
those  more   than   three   and   five   years   overdue,   or  performing



-19-
unsatisfactorily for those periods, must be classified as doubtful and love
loans, respectively; (Ui) implementing a new, strengthened definition of
unsatisfactorily performing cash credits and overdrafts; (iii) suspending
all accrued interest on classified loans; and (iv) taking a 102 provision
on sub- standard loans in addition to existing provisions requirements on
doubtful and loss loans (502 and 1002, respectively). Elements in the new
system are shown in Aknex VII.    The new policy requires implementation of
provisioning and  suspension  of  interest  at  the  bank  branch  level, a
necessary  precondition   for   establishing   effective  loan  accounting,
management reporting,  and  performance  evaluation  systems.   Following a
transitional period during which banks would have an opportunity to improve
their management and collection policies and procedures, BS plans to make
classification definitions and accounting policies for suspension of
interest and provisions more stringent.
C. NCB Issues
49.      Provisions  and  Recapitalization.    While  the  NCBs  have  been
reporting profits in recent years, they are actually incurring losses and
would have negative net worth if real bad debt losses were properly
reflected  in  their  accounts  (para.  51).    Poor  profitability  is due
primarily to low interest rate spreads (2.02 of average total assets in
1988) in the face of unusually high bad debt expense. Administrative costs
(2.32 of  average  total  assets)  are more  reasonable.    The capital to
deposits ratio for the four NCBs as a group has deteriorated to an
inadequate 0.82 as of December 1988, even before adequate provisions for
bad debt are taken. The NCBs have been able to pay taxes and dividends to
Government only because of the increase in deposits--a practice that has
continued to decapitalize the banks for some years. The new interest rate
policy and reimbursement for the cost of subsidies will increase the
spreads, while improved debt recovery, as well as income associated with
recapitalization bonds (para. 51), will also improve profitability.
50.      The NCBes must reclassify  their  portfolios and establish adequate
loan provisions, in line with the recently adopted BB policy requirements,
to ascertain their true net worth and the need for new capital. The BB and
NCBs are undertaking a joint effort, assisted by USAID-financed technical
assistante, to reclassify the loan portfolios and establish new loan provi-
sions and interest suspension as of December 31, 1989, in line with the new
BB accounting policy guidelines.    Until  this process is completed (about
September 1990), the size  of  the  required provisions and consequent need
for new capital  can  only  be  roughly  estimated.    Total NCB provisions
requirements amounting to roughly 8-162 of portfolio under the new
accounting guidelines might be anticipated, based on reports showing over-
dues amounting to a combined 232 of gross portfolio in June 1989.



-20-
51.      GOB has agreed to raise each NCB's  capital to a level equal to 5;
of deposits 1/ (about 4.11 of total assets) after provisions ta be
reflected in the December 31, 1989 accounts and to ensure that capital is
maintained thereafter at or above that level. The nov capital requirements
can only be ascertained when the reclassification and provisioning exercise
has been  completed.    However,  if  a  122  of  portfolio  provision were
required, the NCBs, on a combined basis, vould have negative net worth of
roughly Tk 8.2 billion (US$240 million equivalent) as of December 31, 1989,
and would be  undercapitalized  by  roughly  Tk  15 billion (US$440 million
equivalent), the amount required to raise capital to the recommended
minimum of 5S of  deposits.    The  amounts  of  provisions and, hence, the
amount of the recapitalization requirement will not be known until the loan
reclassification is completed  in mid-1990  and could differ substantially
from this estimate. As the banks have no serious liquidity problems at
present, cash infusions are not necessary. Therefore, GOB intends to raise
the required capital for each NCB through Ci) issue of a special non-
negotiable GOB bond to each NCB of, say, Tk 13 billion Of (US$380 million
equivalent), with interest payable at the treasury bill rate and a balloon
repayment of principal at the end of 15 years; (ii, conservatively
revaluing fixed assets on a one time basis; and (iii) reinvestment of
future profits to the extent necessary to maintain capital at 5I of
deposits thereafter. While performance of individual NCBs will vary, they
are expected to achieve sufficient profitability on a combined basis
through  improved  spreads  to maintain   adequate  capital  in  1992  and
thereafter. Government has agreed to take the necessary actions so that
the  NCBs'  capital  is maintained  at  5?  or  more  of  deposits.    NCB
recapitalization should be considered in part as a reversal of past
transfers to GOB and to borrowers through interest rate subsidies. To the
extent that the NCBs achieve sufficient profitability, the negative impact
on the budget (annual interest expense of roughly Tk 1.1 billion on the
bonds) would be largely offset, on a lagged basis, by Tk 660 million in
income taxes and possible future dividends.
52.      Management and Accounting  Systems.    Management is a fundamental
weakness in the NCBs, and deficiencies in their management procedures and
systems must be corrected if they are to derive the desired benefits from
the proposed restructuring.   Although  extensive  changes (as presented in
the IDA Financial Sector Report) are necessary over time, the design of the
initial NCB management reform program has taken absorptive capacity limita-
tions into account. Major changes in management and accounting systems to
be initiated at  this  time  are  listed  in Annex  VIII.    One of these,
financial statements that will measure cost of bad debt and, hence,
performance at the branch, regional and bank levels, combined with
appropriate  incentives  for   performance,   should  play  a  particularly
important role in  effecting  change.    Selected additional NCB management
reforms will be added following Cabinet review of the recommendations of
the MCB management task force.   The  focus of NCB management reforms is to
instill a more commercial attitude, move toward greater autonomy, and
prepare the NCBs for privatization.    As  noted in GOB's policy letter, it
intends to take steps toward privatizing one or two of its three wholly
owned liCBs within the next three to five years.
7I Private banks will continue to be required to maintain ainimum capital
equal to  6?  of  deposits.    Government  intends  to increase minimum
capital levels for all banks to 8S of risk adjusted assets over time.
81 Assuming a one-time Tk 2 billion (1332) revaluation of land and
buildings that have never been revalued.



-21-
53.      USAID has  agreed  in  principle  to  finance technical assistance
(described in Annex IX) designed to assist the NCBs in strengthening their
management systems in the areas of (i) accounting, management information
systems and performance budgeting: (ii) credit and debt recovery; (iii)
tr.tning; and (iv) a *CB privatization study.   GOB has approved the TA and
the Project Agreement will be signed prior to credit effectiveness.
54.      Debt Recover .  The NCBs'  poor debt recovery performance reflects
exogenous facltor, as well as internal deficiencies, including a breakdown
of credit discipline throughout the country, an ineffective legal frame-
work, the large role of priority and public corporation lending, and
important non-commercial developmental objectives with which aggressive
collection procedures may conflict.    Also,  there are insufficient incen-
tives or penalties in the banking system to induce timely repayments:
borrowers who default take little risk; bank staff receive the same rewards
whether they make good or bad loans.
55.      Debt recovery will  be  enhanced  through  GOB  enactment of a new
Finaneial Loan Courts Act (para. 59), a strengthened BB credit unit,
directly addressing the worst cases of public corporation defaults,
measuring and monitoring the costs of poor debt recovery at the branch
level, rewarding or penalizing staff for collection performance, and
allowing NCBEs to select legal counsel from panels they propose for debt
recovery cases.    NCB  credit  approval  policies  and  procedures will be
strengthened with the aid of technical assistance and intensified training.
Better MIS systems will improve debt collection monitoring. Also, banks
will not be allowed to lend to defaulters identified in the credit unit
reports   without  letters  of  no  objection  from  lenders  who  hold the
defaulted loan.
56.      While the NCBEs have taken some  steps to improve debt recovery, it
is important that they strengthen their efforts to collect existing loans
in default, particularly the larger  ones.    NCB loan portfolios are rela-
tively concentrated, with the 100 largest borrowers in c-ch NCB responsible
on a combined basis for abt'ut 332 of total loans outstanding in 1986, of
which 242 was not  performing  satisfactorily.    Each NCB has designed and
commenced implementation of a debt collection strategy pertaining to its
100 largest borrowers  in  default.    The  strategies entail assignment of
specific responsibility for time bound programs to resolve each case of
default tot (i) collect all overdues; (ii) accept partial repayment and a
satisfactory rescheduling of future payments; (iii) initiate legal action;
and (iv) identify candidates for restructuring. Monitorable targets have
been set, based on a careful loan-by-loan review, for resolution of cases
and the amount of collections and actual performance vs. targets are
reported quarterly.   Progress  on  legal  actions against these defaulters
will be monitored in the context of review of the Financial Loan Courts Act
implementation (para. 59).    Monitorable  targets  have been set beginning
June 30, 1990 for collections vs. a target of 90? on new amounts falling
due on all new loans over Tk 1 million (US$30,000 equivalent) approved by
each NCB head  office.    Satisfactory  progress  on  collections vs. these
targets would be a condition for release of the second and third tranches.
As the bulk of the lending is overdrafts and cash credits without repayment
schedules,  bank-wide  collection  targets  are  not  appropriate.    As of
December 1989, the four NCEs' 100 largest defaulters on a combined basis



-22-
involved overdues of Tk 7.4 billion (roughly 252 of overdues). Collections
for the nine months ending December 31, 1989 were Tk 1.2 billion and the
NCBes have targeted additional collections of Tk 4.8 billion by December
1991.   Litigation  has  been  initiated with  respect  to  235 defaulters
involving Tk 2.4 billion in overdue loans.
D.   Other Issues
57.      Improved Bank Regulatory  Environment.    The  Ministry of Law has
finalized a draft revised Banking Companies Ordinance, initially prepared
by the NCMBC, that updates and strengthens bank regulation. It includes:
(i) setting minimum capitalization requirements for banks;9/ (ii) restric-
tions that bar loan defaulters from serving as directors of a banking
company; (iii) restrictions on advances to directors; (iv) restrictions on
advances to single borrowers to 152 of capital for unsecured borrowings and
25 of gross capital funds for fully secured borrowings; (v) authorizing BB
to define and adjust the liquidity asset requirement; and (vi) authorizing
BB to oblige scheduled banks to provide data on individual borrowers and to
publish data on  loan  defaulters.    GOB  has  agreed  to  enact a Banking
Companies Ordinance that satisfactorily addresses these issues prior to
second tranche release.
58.      Several other banking-related regulations  have also been modified
Including (i) removing the present rigidly administered bank fee structure;
and (ii) revising income tax requirements to make BB required provisions
and interest suspension tax deductible up to a maximum of 4.52 of gross
loans outstanding per annum.   References in the national industrial policy
that dictate financial institution lending requirements for repayment
schedules, terms, etc., will be removed by July 1990.
59.      Legal Framework  for  Debt  Recovery.    An  inadequate  legal and
judicial framework has contributed substantially to debt recovery problems
for all  financial  institutions  in  Bangladesh  by  giving incentives for
borrowers to abuse and delay legal process.   GOB has recognized a need for
special legislation to facilitate speedy debt recovery and make legal
actions against defaulters a credible threat.   It would reduce the average
cost of all credit, increase the supply of new credit, improve resource
allocation and spur economic  growth.    Therefore, Parliament has recently
enacted a Financial Loan Courts Act which will set up special loan recovery
courts in each district with jurisdiction over loan recovery cases, safe-
guarding against undue postponement of court hearings, requiring a debtor
to pay 50 of the amount decreed prior to any appeal, and allowing appeal
within 30 days only to the Supreme Court. Presently, borrowers can delay
cases and avoid making any payments for many years by appealing, whether or
not they had a sound basis.   GOB has established ten Financial Loan Courts
and has appointed sub-judges as their judges.   IDA and GOB will review the
Act and GOB has agreed to take all measures necessary to ensure satis-
factory implementation.
91 The draft sets capitalization requirements at 62 of deposits for banks.
However, GOB anticipates revising the NCB requirement to 52 at this
stage.



-23-
60.      Capital Market Development.   GOB  plans to strengthen the capital
markets as there is no secondary market for government securities, no
market for corporate debt, and the equity market remains small, with rela-
tively few shares listed on the Dhaka Stock Erchange (DSZ). The issuance
of BB debt securities (para. 44) will increase thie supply and market for
debt instruments. Increases in long term interest rates will provide
increased incentives for the capital market to play an expanded role in
financing new investment to augment cam ercial bank and DPI lending. GOB
has established a Capital Market Development Committee under the auspices
of the Ministry of Finance, with private sector participation, to inter
alia identify and propose methods for removing impediments to increasing
the supply of and demand for securities and to design an appropriate
regulatory and self-regulatory system for the DSE.
PART IV * THE CREDIT
A. Background
61.      The proposed FSC would be the third sector adjustment operation in
IDA's Bangladesh program, in which a mix of sector and structural adjust-
ment credits is being used to achieve broad policy and institutional
reforms while transferring quick-disbursing resources used primarily to
finance general imports. The first such credit, an FY87 Industrial Sector
Credit, was designed to encourage higher industrial growth, expand exports
and create increased employment.   Second, an FY89 Energy Sector Adjustment
Credit was designed to assist in implementing GOB's priority energy invest-
ment program, improve pricing, and enhance institutional performance and
development.
62.      This Credit will be the  first  IDA credit supporting GOB's reform
program for strengthening financial sector policies and institutions and
enhancing the  debt  recovery  environment.    The program  of  reforms is
described in Part IV of  this  report.   Detailed elements are described in
GOB's financial sector policy letter (Annex IV) and the development policy
matrix (Annex V). A timetable of key events relating to the credit and its
special conditions  is  listed  in Annex  IIT.    The  proposed Credit was
appraised in August 1989 and negotiated with a GOB team led by the
Secretary, Ministry of Finance in March-April, 1990. It is based on a 1986
report by a GOB-initiated National  Commission on Money, Banking and Credit
(NCHBC), which diagnosed numerous financial sector problems, a December
1987 Bank sector report entitled Bangladesh--A Program for Financial Sector
Reform, and a 1989 GOB task force report on NCB management issues.
63.      This reform program is  a  precondition for successful IDA lending
through financial sector institutions in Bangladesh. Projects involving
new credit lines for industrial and agricultural lending have been held in
abeyance for about nine years because relatively weak institutions and the
poor credit disciplinary environment diminished prospects for success
considerably. However, given anticipated improvement resulting from imple-
mentation of the fundamental financial sector reforms under the FSC,
projects geared toward channelling credit to mediumilarge scale industry



-24-
(an FY92(S) Industrial Investment Credit) and small scale industry (an
FY94(S) Small Industries IV Credit) are now under preparation. Key FSC
commercial bank reforms, including provisions and refinancing policies as
well as financial restructuring, will be extended to the agricultural
lending institutions under a proposed FY91 Agricultural Credit Project.
64.      While the reform program is  comprehensive and designed to address
the highest priority issues, the extent of change proposed has been limited
to keep it manageable and feasible to implement. Therefore, a second FSC
is planned for FY94 to build on and expand reforms undertaken in this
Credit.   Among  issues  to  be  addressed  are  further  liberalization of
interest rates, tightening interest suspension policies, increasing NCB
autonomy, privatizing one or more NCBs, and strengthening the capital
markets.
B. Cofinancing
65.      USAID proposes to provide US$18.2 million as grants on a parallel
basis to finance technical assistance in the form of expatriate advisors,
equipment (mainly computers) and training for BB. BIBM and the NCBs. It
will also analyze the privatization of Pubali, Uttara and Rupali Banks in
order to make recommendations with respect to privatization of other NCBs.
Advisors include a Chief of Party based in BB, short term experts, and four
project implementation teams to assist each of the NCBs in strengthening
management,  setting  interest   rates,   MIS,   performance  planning  and
budgeting, loan  administration,  etc.    A  description  of this technical
assistance is contained in Annex IX.
66.      The IMF will  provide  two  advisors  to  BB,  one  to  assist in
developing a BB debt instrument to be used in open market operations, and
another to assist BB in strengthening its banking supervision departments
and bank reporting requirements.
C. Procurement and Disbursement
67.      The proposed credit  of  US$175  million  equivalent would finance
about 22 of Bangladesh's total merchandise imports and about 3? of gross
capital inflows over the anticipated disbursement period, July 1990 to
December 1992. In view of Bangladesh's need for quick-disbursing program
aid (paras. 9, 20), the funds would be used to finance imports of goods
other than those specified in a short list of ineligible items. Imports
directly financed from other sources would not be eligible for IDA
financing. No more than 252 of credit proceeds would be used to finance
expenditures from a  single  SITC  Division.    Disbursements will be fully
documented in all cases and only contracts of US$50,000 equivalent or more
would be eligible.
68.      Procurement would  be  limited  to  goods  from countries eligible
undet. the Bank's  Guidelines  for  Procurement.    Both  public and private
sector imports would be  eligible  for  financing.   Except for proprietary
items, all import orders costing the equivalent of US$5 million or more
would be procured under contracts awarded after International Competitive
Bidding. IDA would review procurement decisions after such contracts have
been signed and prior to the first payment in respect of such contracts.



-25-
Non-proprietary items costing less than US$5 million tquivalent could be
procured  through  normal   procurement   procedures  for  such  purchases,
generally including the invitation of quotations from at least two
countries.    Contracts  for  proprietary  items  or  equipment  subject to
domestic standardization regulations endorsed by IDA could be let on a
negotiated basis, but the award of such contracts would be subject to an
overall ceiling of US$20 million equivalent. Subject to the prior approval
of IDA, procurement of commonly traded commodities may be undertaken
through organized international commodity markets or other channels of
competitive procurement acceptable  to  IDA.       IDA would conduct a post
disbursement  review  of  all   contracts   signed with  values  exceeding
US$500,000 equivalent, and would conduct similar reviews of all other
contracts on a random basis.
69.      Disbursements would be made  against  1002 of the foreign exchange
costs of eligible imports on the basis of fully documented withdrawal
applications prepared by BB. It is expected that the proposed credit would
be fully disbursed in about 30 months.   A special account of US$27 million
would be established in BB for the purpose of prefinancing all eligible
items under the Credit. In order to support GOB's policy of liberalizing
its foreign exchange market system, the Credit's proceeds would be used to
finance expenditures through the secondary foreign exchange market.
D. Tranchina
70.      The credit's proceeds would  be  eligible  for withdrawal in three
tranches. The first tranche of SDR 56.9 million (US$75 million equivalent)
would be available for withdrawal vhen the proposed Credit becomes effec-
tive. The second tranche of SDR 37.9 million (US$50 million equivalent)
would be available by January 1991 subject to IDA being satisfied that the
Government is implementing a sound interest rate policy and has restruc-
tured the NCBs appropriately, as well as meeting the specific conditions
listed in Annex V. The third tranche of SDR 37.9 million (US$50 million
equivalent) would be released about March 1992 subject to satisfactory
implementation of the interest rate policy, as well as meeting the specific
listed conditions.
E. Conditions for Effectiveness and Tranche Release
71.      Conditionality for this  Credit,  listed  in  the Matrix of Policy
Actions (Annex V), includes the followingt
(a) To be Completed Before Effectiveness
(i) Amend new interest rate policy to allow banks to change
interest rates at least monthly.
(ii) Sign Project Agreement for USAID-financed TA for NCBs.



-26-
(b) To be Completed Prior to Second Tranche Release
(i) BB to implement new interest rate policy in accordance with
agreed methodology based on semi-annual reviews and adjustments
In structure as needed.
(ii)  Raise BSB medium/large scaie term  industrial rates to at least
shadow market rates.
(iii) BB to implement procedures for monetary programming, policy
formation and regular review of interest rates, including
issuing debt instruments at market determined yields and
developing a tendering mechanism for these issues.
(iv)  GOB to reimburse banks for cost of interest rate subsidies for
the six months ending June 30, 1990.
(v) BB to strengthen bank supervision by (i) requiring banks to
report regularly on loans and debt servicing status for their
public sector borrowers; (ii) establishing and staffing a
supervision   unit   for   non-bank   financial   institutions;
(iii) designing and   making  satisfactory  progress on imple-
menting a training program for supervision and inspection
personnel; (iv) establishing criteria for selection of bank
auditors, criteria for bank external audits, and review of
audit  reports;  and   (v)   designing   and  introducing bank
supervision.
(vi)  NCBs  to   reclassify   December   1989   portfolio  (with  GOB
confirmation that it be done by September 30, 1990).
(vii) NCBs to make new provisions and suspend accrued interest in
accord with new accounting policies (with GOB confirmation that
it be done by September 30, 1990).
(viii) NCBs to reconcile interbranch and suspense accounts and write
off or fully provide for unmatched accounts and uncollectible
items in 1989 accounts, as well as to eliminate suspense items
more than six months old (with GOB confirmation that it be done
by September 30, 1990).
(ix)  GOB to issue bonds to recapitalize each NCB to a level at least
equal to 5Z of deposits after provisions have been taken (with
GOB confirmation that it be done by September 30, 1990).
(z) USAID-financed TA in place and a tripartite process established
for its review.
(xi)  BB and NCBs to make  satisfactory progress on implementation of
USAID-financed TA.
(xii) NCBs to take necessary steps to achieve satisfactory collection
performance against targets for 100 largest defaulters and on
new loans approved by NCB head offices.



-27-
(xiii)  GOB to enact Banking Companies Ordinance that vll, inter alia.
establish sound mlnimum capitalization requirements for all
banks, prudent limitations on maximum bank loan sizes to
individual borrowers, prudent  maximm  aggregate  loans  to
directors, and significant further restrictions on loans to
defaulters.
(siv)  BB to set limits as  percent  of capital for private bank loans
to individual borrowers and in aggregate to their directors.
(xv)  GOB to delete  from  its  National  Industrial Policy-1986, all
references to terms, conditions and interest rates associated
with industrial lending by banks.
(xvi)  GOB to implement  the  program  set  out in the 1990191-1992193
Policy Framework Paper so that a sound macroeconomic framework
is in place.
(xvii) GOB to enable NCBs to select legal counsel for debt recovery
cases from panels prepared by NCBs and approved by GOB.
(c) To be Completed Prior to Third Tranche Release
(i) BB to continue to implement new interest rate policy satis-
factorily in accordance with the agreed methodology with semi-
annual reviews and adjustments in structure as needed.
(ii)  GOB to reimburse banks for  cost of interest rate subsidies for
the six-month periods ending December 31, 1990, June 30, 1991
and December 31, 1991.
(iii) BB to make satisfactory progress toward designing and imple-
menting  system  for   establishing   bank   supervision  as  a
continuous process, and toward designing and implementing
rationalization   and    streamlining    of    bank   reporting
requirements.
(iv)  BB Credit  Information  Unit  operating  and  providing on-line
credit reports to banks.
(v)  GOB  to maintain  NCB  capital   at   52  of  deposits  as  of
December 31, 1991.
(vi)  BB and NCBs to make  satisfactory progress on implementation of
NCB TA, computerization and developing a satisfactory capacity
to set interest rates within the scope allowed.
(vii)  NCBs to identify large borrowers needing restructuring.
(viii) BB to require that banks not lend to defaulters identified by
Credit Unit without letters of no objection from the lender who
holds the defaulted loan.



-28-
(ix) NCBes to take steps as necessary to achieve satisfactory
collection performance vs. targets for 100 largest defaulters
and on new loans approved by NCB head offices.
(x) GOB to take all measures necessary to ensure satisfactory
implementation of the Financial Loan Courts Act and agree on
recommended   corrective   action,    if    any,   to   improve
implementation of the law.
F. Implementation and Monitoring
72.      Overall GOB monitoring of the  reform  program will be done by the
Ministry of Finance in close association with the Bangladesh Bank. A
committee within BB chaired by the BB Deputy Governor will supervise day-
to-day project implementation. The BB Technical Unit will be responsible
for monitoring project implementation and NCB debt recovery performance on
a regular basis as well as preparation of the analyses on which interest
rate reviews will be based.    They will prepare quarterly progress reports
to be submitted  to  IDA.    Implementation  of  interest rate and monetary
policies will be reviewed by both IMF in conjunction with its ESAF and by
IDA. A tripartite committee with representatives from BB, USAID and IDA
will be established to review the progress of the USAID-financed assistance
program, and USAID will participate in IDA supervision missions.
G. Social Costs
73.      Defaulters, including industrialists with large debt burdens, will
be hurt by more effective bank debt collection efforts and a new loan
recovery law. Interest rate subsidies to some categories of borrowers will
be eliminated or reduced, thus increasing interest cost. Banks will become
more concerned that new loans be repaid once the costs of bad loans show up
more clearly in their accounts, and defaulters and some high risk borrowers
in priority areas may find it more difficult to obtain new credit. On the
other hand, large defaulters requiring restructuring will be identified
under the credit, and GOB is preparing an Industrial Investment Credit for
possible IDA financing which, inter alia, will provide assistance for
comprehensive restructuring of selected industrial defaulters. Moreover,
higher spreads will provide incentives for more bank lending in higher risk
categories to individually sound borrowers.   The policy changes would have
no negative environmental or poverty impact.
H. Benefits and Risks
74.      The principal benefits  of  the  proposed  financial sector reform
program will include improved credit allocation in response to flexible
interest rates and less distorted market signals, an improved debt recovery
environment, and a healthier and more efficient banking system, due to
competition and better supervision.
75.      More flexible interest rates and less distorted market signals are
expected to (i) allow banks to adjust deposit rates to changes in demand
and liquidity, while assuring positive real interest rates for savers;
(ii) allow profitable term transformation based on locally mobilized
resources; (iii) increase incentives for banks to lend in productive higher



-29-
risk  categories  (e.g.,   small   scale   industrialists  and  exporters);
(iv) reduce borrowing costs to the soundest borrowers, providing incentives
to increase investment; (v) remove biases toward capital intensive invest-
ment due to artificially low costs of capitall (vi) reduce interest rate
subsidies over time by making their cost transparent; (vii) improve NCB
lending decisions through reflecting the cost of bad debt in accounts at
branch level; (viii) strengthen borrower incentives to repay by increasing
the cost of default; and (ix) enhance monetary policy control through
refinancing interest rates that reflect the cost of money.
76.      A  healthier,  more  efficient   banking  system will  (i)  allow
efficient banks to grow more rapidly; (ii) encourage private banks to
expand term deposit taking and lending in higher risk areas; (iii) enhance
financial interaediation efficiency through reduced bad debt expense (thus
reducing real interest rates over time) and competition induced reductions
in cost of financial services; (iv) make NCBs financially viable, more
commercially oriented, more suitable channels for subsidized priority
lending, and better candidates for privatization; and (v) reduce risk that
one or more banks could collapse financially.
77.      The main risk in  the  reform  program is that political consider-
ations might interfere in BB's freedom to make substantial upward adjust-
ments in interest rates if inflation were to increase sharply. This risk
is reduced in that the interest rate policy has been extensively debated
over many months at the highest levels in Government before adoption and BB
will have four opportunities to review interest rates to institutionalize
the policy before second tranche  release.    Also, NCBs may take longer to
reclassify their loan portfolios than anticipated and NCB management
performance might not improve as much as desired. Technical assistance has
been carefully designed to address both of these risks. Also, Government
set up its NCB management task force in order to ensure that fundamental
management improvements will be made.
PART V : BANK GROUP OPERATIONS AND STRATEGY IN BANGLADESH
78.      Cumulative  Bank   Group   commitments   to   Bangladesh  totalled
US$4,612.7 million equivalent, net of cancellations as of March 30, 1990
(Annex II). The Bank Group has approved 128 credits and one loan since
Bangladesh became a member in 1972. Of the total IDA commitments, approxi-
mately 192 have been for agriculture, irrigation and rural development, 172
for power and energy, 132 for industry, 82 for education and technical
assistance, 72 for transportation and telecommunications, 32 for population
and health, 3S for urban infrastructure, 252 for adjustment and other non-
project  credits,  and  42  for  emergency  flood  rehabilitation.    Since
Bangladesh became a member of IFC in 1976, five investments have been
approved.
79.      The Bank chairs  the  annual  Bangladesh  Aid  Group meeting which
provides  a  forum  for   donor   consultation,  and  the  Bank's  Resident
Representative chairs regularly scheduled donor meetings in Dhaka to
exchange views on policy issues, project implementation and aid coordina-
tion. A special meeting on agriculture was held in Dhaka in April 1989 and
a special meeting on flood control was held in London in December 1989.



-30-
80.      IDA's country  assistance  strategy  is  designed  to  support the
Government's development priorities and objectives, as well as its overall
strategy for achieving them. IDA^'s lending program for FY91-95 is expected
to average US$400-500 million  a  year.    In  FY89, total commitments were
US$423 million for four operations. Ia FY90, the planned lending program
is US$550-600 million. Two adjustment operations have been approved in the
industry and energy sectors; this FSC would be the third. In response to
severe floods in 1987 and 1988, IDA has made approximately US$250 million
available for flood rehabilitation work, including an FY89 US$133.6 million
third Flood Rehabilitation (Emergency) Project.
81.      Given the predominant position  of  agriculture in the economy and
its direct impact on the incomes and consumption levels of the poor, IDA's
lending has emphasized agriculture, with particular importance attached to
increasing food production through improved flood control, drainage and
irrigation, and by augmenting the supply of essential inputs such as
irrigation equipment, fertilizer and improved seeds, development of exten-
sion services, research programs and rural cooperatives, provision of agri-
cultural credit and promotion of input and output pricing policies that
provide better production incentives  to  farmers.   IDA has also supported
Government efforts to encourage greater private sector participation in the
supply and distribution of agricultural inputs. IDA's lending program has
also promoted agricultural diversification through increased production of
fish and forestry products.
82.      IDA's assistance to Bangladesh's  industrial sector is intended to
enhance its capacity to contribute to a higher, sustained level of economic
growth, provide productive employment for a rapidly growing work force and
improve the country's external trade and payments position on a sustained
basis. IDA has assisted Bangladesh's industrial sector through program
credits as well as specific projects to increase fertilizer production,
rehabilitate the jute and textile industries, strengthen development
finance  institutions  and  promote   small-scale  industries.    The  FY87
Industrial Sector Credit supported the first phase of the Government's
program of industrial and trade policy reforms. A Second Industrial Sector
Credit (FY9lS) is under preparation, as well as lines of credit for
mediumilarge scale and small scale  industry.   A jute industry rehabilita-
tion credit is also under preparation.
83.      IDA's lending in the ener8y sector has been designed to expand the
use of natural gas as a substitute for fuported oil, rationalize the supply
of petroleum products, promote conservation and more etticient energy use,
and encourage further  gas  and  oil exploration.    IDA is also financing
projects to expand the country's power generation and transmission capa-
bilities  and  rural  electrification  system.    Recognizing  the critical
shortage of traditional fuels, IDA is financing investments in forestry to
increase the supply of fuelwood.    An PY89 ESAC is supporting improvements
in  investment  planning,  energy   pricing   and  demand management,  and
institutional development.



-31-
84.      In the transport sector, IDA has supported projects to improve the
inland water transport system, expand the country's port facilities and
upgrade key secZions of the road network, as well as a multi-modal project
to enhance fertilizer handling and distribution operations. Bangladesh's
road network is extensive, but the roads are in poor condition and inade-
quately maintained.    IDA's  future  transport  lending will concentrate
primarily on supporting the Government's program to rehabilitate deter-
iorated roads by improving maintenance standards, techniques and expendi-
ture levels and  overall  investment planning.   IDA  is also considering
support  for  the  construction  of   the  first bridge  over  the  Januna
(Brahmaputra) River, providing a permanent transport and power link between
the northwest and eastern regions.
85.      IDA's lending strategy in  education  focuses on primary education
and  skills  development.   Lending  for prmary  education  supports the
national goals  of   achieving   universal  primary  education,  reducing
illiteracy, expanding access to education and upgrading quality. Projects
for vocational and technical education promote the training of craftsmen,
technicians and engineers.
86.      IDA and other donors are  assisting the Government in implementing
accelerated family planning and maternal and child health care programs to
help alleviate severe economic and social pressures created by the
extremely high population density and continuing population increase, With
Bangladesh's urban population expected to increase from about 16-18 million
in 1985 to 35-40 million by the year 2000, IDA is financing water and sani-
tation improvements in Dhaka and Chittagong, as well as projects intended
to help Government in providing low-cost shelter and infrastructure
services to the urban poor.
87.      Project Implementation  is hampered  not  only  by  a shortage of
domestic financial resources, but also by poorly trained staff of imple-
menting agencies, limited managerial capacity and cumbersome bureaucratic
procedures. IDA, in consultation with other donors, is engaged in a
continuing dialogue with Government on ways to improve project itplemen-
tation and  disbursements.    Studies  on  project  aid  and  commodity aid
utilization in Bangladesh were recently discussed in specially convened
donor meetings in Dhaka.   ID   intends  to work closely with Government to
identify an appropriate package of measures to improve project performance,
which might be supported under the planned Public Resource Management
Adjustment Credit. In support of broader institutional reform, IDA is also
providing technical assistance for project preparation and implementation,
financing projects to train civil servants and other managerial and
technical personnel, and encouraging the Government to introduce admini-
strative reforms and imprnve the structure and management of the civil
service.



-32-
PART VI i COLLABORATION WITH THE De
88.      The IMF has provided  assistance  to  the  GOB through a series of
Standby and Compensatory Finance Facility Arrangements (CF?) in the 1980s
and three annual arrangements under the Structural Adjustment Facility
(SAP) since 1987.   A  three  year  SAP was  approved  by the IMF Board on
February 6, 1987; and SDR 57.5 million was disbursed pursuant to the first
annual  arrangement  under  the  Facility.    Subsequently,  the  DFl  Board
approved and disbursed SDR 86.3 million on November 23, 1987, SDR 38.8
million in mid-November 1988, and SDR 18.7 million in May 1989, under the
second and third year  arrangements,  respectively.   This brings the total
disbursements .ader the three SAP arrangements to SDR 201.3 million. A new
three year arrangement under the Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
(ESAF) is under discussion.
89.      Following the  1988  floods,  the  1W   approved special emergency
assistance to Bangladesh in November 1988, and an amount of SDR 71.9
million was disbursed. Total Fund credit outstanding to Bangladesh at the
end of October 1989 amounted to approximately SDR 563 million, or 1962 of
the quota.
90.      IMF resources have  been made  available to support comprehensive
adjustment policies initiated by the Government in 1985, which were subse-
quently developed into a medium-term structural adjustment program with
Bank and Fund assistance.   Macroeconomic management Improved substantially
in FY86 and FY87, and broadly continued in FY88 and FY89 in line with that
envisaged under the program.   As a result, external and budgetary deficits
were reduced to manageable levels.   In FY87, the Government also initiated
serious efforts to restore discipline in the domestic financial markets.
However, there have been some slippages, notably with regard to the revenue
effort, public investment and inflation targets, and in the latter part of
FY89 with regard to the real effective exchange rate. In early FY90 there
were indications of further slippages in these areas and a deterioration in
the broader macroeconomic situation as noted in para. 9.
91.      Following the completion of the  three-year SAP arrangement, a new
Inhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF)  arrangement is in the final
stages of negotiation with  the  Government.    The  objectives of the new
arrangement include, in addition to addressing slippages in the areas noted
above, accelerating GDP growth rate to about 52 with increased focus on
alleviating poverty, reducing inflation to 7S by the end of the three-year
period and limiting the external current account deficit to about 7% of
GDP. To achieve these objectives, GOB will attempt to increase investment
(both  public  and  private)   to   levels  consistent with  macroeconomic
stability, raise domestic savings to finance such increases in investment,
and improve resource allocation. Accordingly, reforms are envisaged in tax
policy  and  administration   and   the   financial management  of  public
enterprises; public expenditure management; reform of the financial sector,
including  further  strengthening   of   loan   recovery   efforts  in  the
agricultural and industrial sectors; and trade and industrial policies.



-33-
92.      Bank-Fund collaboration in the policy dialogue with Government hab
been close. IDA's objectives under its policy based lending, such as IPC-
13 (Cr.1655-BD) and the Industrial Sector Credit (Cr.1816-BD), have been
coordinated with IMF programs under the Standby Arrangement and incor-
porated in the SAP program. Bank and Fund staff have jointly prepared the
Policy Framework Papers (P1P9) under the SAF each year, with active Bank
staff participation in IMF missions.    IMF staff have also participated in
IDA missions on tax policy and financial policy, and assisted in the
preparation of reports on these subjects.
93.      IMf Central  Banking Department  staff  participated  directly in
preparation of the 1987 green cover financial sector report and in the
rreappraisal mission for this  Credit.    The appraisal mission coordinated
closely with the IMF ESAF mission which was in the field concurrently. IMF
staff have commented on the Credit's Initiating Memorandum and this
President's Report.   DMF  technical  assistance  to  BB  (para.  66) is an
integral part of the GOB financial sector reform program. IDA and IMF
staff will continue to coordinate their supervision of both the ESAP and
the proposed FSC.
PART VII : RECOMMENDATION
94.      1 am satisfied  that  the  proposed  credit  would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recoumend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Washington, D.C.
May 14, 1990



-34-                                    ~~~~~~~ANNEX  I
8AIOJJIH - ECMIC  INIVCATM                                        Page  1 of 3
Mid-1988 Population (ofils.)      109
1988 Per cap Ita Gil In US1:      170
A. Shares of Grass OmestIC PrO0.W                 S. Growt Rates(2 per mlm)
(from current pricm data)                      (from coostant Pr ICe data)
1985   1973   1980   1988   198    1988              1965-73IM1913-01980-87   1987   1988
Gross Domesic ProilE  u.p.      100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0                 0.0    5.7    3.8    3.9    1.8
Net lniuirsct Taxes             3,1     2.4    b.2    5.5    5.8    5.3.                         .
Aglr lulture                   52.8   57.9   50.3   48.9   47.3   46.0                 0.4    3.4    2.4    0.1   -1.0
inclatry                       10.7   10.1   14.9   14.3   13.5   13.8                -8.1    11.9    4.7      7.2    5.2
(of Wih MiruffcturIng)          5.4    8.4    9.9    8.1    7.5    7.1                -1.9   13.3    2.4    8.4   -0.2
Services                       36.5   32.0   34.8   38.8   39.2   40.4                  1.5    7.4    5.1      7.4    3.7
Reoi.ace ea lance                -3.7    1.0  -12.9   -9.4   -8.9   -9.1                   .       .
Exports of GWlS                 9.7    6.0    5.7    5.9    6.4    7.7                -1.3    8,8    4.7   10.6    4.8
iqworts Of OIlS                13.4    5.0   18.8   15.3   15.3   18.8                -3.9   14.8    3.0   12.6    8.5
Total ELq)IKltures              100.7   99.0  112.9  109.4  108.9  109.1                -0.3    6.7    3.6    4.8    2.8
Total Cr6ztton                 92.2   90.1   97.9   97.6   98.5   97.3                  0.2    6.3    3.7    5.4    2.9
Private WoAstion             83.2   18.0   91.5   89.8   87.8   88.3..                         .
Gemwal Goverruet              9.1    4.0    8.4    7.7    8.7    9.0                   .       .
Gross Dont Ic Investwent       11.5    8.9   15.1   11.8   12.4   11.8                -5.4   10.5    2.9       1.0    0.6
Fixed Investomt                .       ..    15.1   11.8   12.4   11.8                 .       .
Owigs In Sto~cks                .       .      ..       .      ..       ...
Gross Domestic Saving             5.0    9.9    2.1    2.4    3.5    2.7                   .       ..   12.0   -5.8   -0.4
Net Factor Ium                  0.1    0.3    0.1   -0.8   -0.7   -C.4                   .       .
Net ozrruit Tramfers             ..     0.6    1.8    3.9    4.2    4.1                  .       .
Gross Natinali Savirg              ..    10.8    3.9    5.5    7.0    6.4                  .       ..   13.1    4.8    0.6
In !  II lomof LCUs              1965   1973    1980   1988   1987   1983
(at conatant 19O0Pr 10es)                                         
Grams Domeistic Prod1aet        135    133    198    250    259    284                 0.0    5.7    3.8    3.9    1.8
Capacity to lKoort               13      11      11      15      18     22            -4.7    3.8    8.1   22.9   18.5
Terms of TradeAdjustmunt          8       3       0      -1       1       3              .       .
Gross Domestic I nno.           141    136    198    249    260    287                -0.3     5.5    4.0    4.8    2.8
Grams Natiomiu ProWJo           135    134    198    248    258    263                 0.0    5.7    3.7    4.1    1.8
Gross National Incm             141    137    198    247    259    266                -0.3    5.5    3.9    4.8    2.8
(1980 . 100)                               infl[at Ion Rates(% P.a.)---
C. Pr ice Indilces               1980   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988              198573 1973-10 1980-87   1987   1988
CcmumrPrices(iFS 8)     100.   158.1  175.0  194.3  21i2.7  232.8               -9.9   124    11.1    9.5    9.3
ftlesale Prices (IFS 63             .      .       .        .      .       .               .       .
lipliclt GOP Deflator           100.0  152.1  174.8  185.0  207.8  228.8                 7.3   13.4   11.1   12.3   10.0
Iwlc lit  qWxiitures Oaf I.     100.0  153.7  170.4  185.4  205.6  224.7                 7.7   13.8   10.6   10.9    9.3
D. Other Indilcators:          1965.73 197340 1980-87
Growth Rates(% P.a.):
Population                      2.8    2.7    2.8
LaborForce
GrowsNot I. i cp.c.            -3.0    2.7    1.2
Prilvate Coie.pt Ion p.c.
l.vort Elasticity
li~orts (01S  I SW(s)                   2.6    0.8
Margirml Savirgs Rates:
Gross NatLati SavlIng                          19.8
Cros Domestic Saving                  -18.5   10.6
IOM (perod averags):
sure of Total                    1965   1973   1980   1987   1988
LaborForoe In!                                            
A,griculture                   83.7   79.4   74.8
incksry                         4.8    5.2    8.0
services                       11.4   15.4   19.2
Total                         100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0    100
IEC 11/27/-89



-35-                                                 ANNEX I
Page 2 of !
BAGADESH - ElI-lC INDICATO
Volue Indx                          VYas at ltrrent PrIces (ml I Ions USS)
E. Nordiardle Exports           1980   1984   1985   1988   1987   198   1980   194   1985   1986   1987   1988
X.OAGU.Y                       1.0   96.5   71.6  116.9  113.9   68.3    144   117    151    124    104               81
X.MWiHIOES                     100.0  123.5   98.0   87.6  186.0  142.8         68      85     70      61    135    141
X.FOOD.FISH                    19D.0  323.4  322.4  3966  3M3.3  408.5          37      77     87    113    138    145
X.BEV.TEA                      100.0  128.5  107.4  124.7   89.5  114.9         33      69     81      33      30     38
lAslifactures                  100.0  119.6  129.3  131.9  175.4  203.6    392    388   5C           427    598    735
Residual                       1GO.0  141.8  124.3  130.6  147.8  223.1         50      75     59      61      71     85
Total Exports FOB              198.0  127.5  120.9  134.9  160.9  171.2    722    811    934    819   1074   1231
F. ibrdrls8e Ilports
Food                           100.0  86.8  100.6   53.6   78.3  123.3    691    485    i01    356    388    626
Fuel and emrWy                1G.0   84.8   90.5  106.7  101.6  104.7    383    355    359    342    23D    272
0th. cwnswer gods                 ..      ..      ..     ..      ..      ..     ..      ..     ..
Other Interasd goods
Capital gods                   198.0  109.?  113:3  115:8  147:?  104.?    545    599    618    691   100i3    -4
Total Ilworts CIF              198.0  102.0  117.4  107.0  118.9  129.8   2372   2353   2647   2364   2820   2987
G. Terms of Trade               1980   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988
Merch. EqVorts Price Index      GO0.O   88.1  107.0   84.1   92.5   99.6
March. lirorts Price Irdex    198.0   97.3   95.1   93.1   92.9   97.0
Ibrch. Terms of Trade          198.0   90.6  112.6   90.3   99.5  102.7
US$ sillions (at current prlres):
H. Balance of Payents           1980   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988
Exports of Goods & NFS           885   1033   1162   1043   1301   1488
Merdcindlse (FOB)              722    811    934    819   1074   1231
Non-factor Services            163    222    228    224    227    255
Inworts of Goods &  FS          2545   2543   2864   2587   2876   3253
Mordaerilse (FOB)             2372   2353   2847   2364   2620   2987
Non-Factor Services            173    190    217    223    256    286
Resoue Balance                 -1860  -1510  -1702  -1544  -1576  -1767
Not Factor income                 14    -84    -90   -126   -122   -133
(Interest per ilR)              46      74     SO    107    132    139
Net Current Transfers            210    627    477    586    731    788
(rkers remIttance)             197    527    364    497    617    737
Curr A/C Bal before Off. Transf -1436   -947  -1314  -1084   -986  -1112
Net OfficIal Transfers         592    708    701    546    657    823
Curr A/C Bal after Off. Transf   -844   -239   -614   -538   -309   -289
Lon6TerCapital flow              883    470    546    599    681    652
D rect Investmnt                 0       0      0       2       2      0
Net LT Loans (09S data)        627    448    489    845    764    714
Other LT lnflow (Net)           15      34     79   -248    -54
Total Other Items (net)          -43     124    -10      Bi   -169   -219
Net Short Term Capital          11    161      -5      10   -100   -160
Capltal flows N.E.I.             0       0      0       0       0      0
Errors and OmissIans           -54    -37      -5      57    -49    -59
ans  In Net Reseres              204   -355      77   -128   -203   -145
Net Credit from the IW          21      19     -7    -28    134       13
Other Reserves Chnwes          182   -374      84   -100   -337   -158
As Share of GOP:
Resarce Balance              -13.0  -10.8  -10.6  -10.0   -9.0   -9.1
Interest Paymnts               0.4    0.5    0.6    0.7    0.8    0.7
Current Acount Balamr        -11.2   -6.8   -8.2   -7.0   -5.5   -5.8
Mnorarda Iteos:
Rserves exol. 6oDd (mll. USS)    300    390    337    409    843   1046
Reserves Incl. 3old (ml. USS)    331    406    354    430    889    829
Off Iclal X-Pate (LCsAJS$)     15.45  25.35  28.00  30.41   30.95  31.73
index Real Eff. X-R  ase 1980  100.00 104.37  10B.99  93.01   89.87  87.25
GOP (a II lam of current US$)   12792  14026  16037  15459  17803  19321



-36-
ANNEX I
BAN.AliWI - ECONDeIC INDICATMS                               Page 3 of 3
Shre of DP (2)                                         Growth Rates
1.  4sWt (specify level)        198    1984   1985   1988   1987   1988                    1980-84  1988   1987   1988
Current Receipts                 8.8    8.2    8.6    9.2    9.0    8.8                      13.5   17.7   13.5   11.0
zrrmt  .l iitures                5.5    6.6    6.7    7.5    7.2    8.1                      20.9   29.9   16.8   15.4
Currnt 8udt 8alar                3.3    1.6    1.9    1.7    1.8    0.7                        ..
Capital Reeoipts
Capital E)wlditures            -10.7   -9.2   -7.5   -7.3   -8.6   -6.7                      12.2   20.1   26.8  -12.0
Adjustents                        ..      ..      ..     ..      ..     ..                     ..
Overall Def icit                  ..   -9.2   -7.2   -7.6   -8.4   -7.5                        ..
Official Capital Grants          8.8    8.0    6.9    6.8    7.4    7.3                       14.8    9.9   28.1    9.6
External Borrowing (net)          ..      ..     ..      ..      ..     ..                     ..
Domestic Non-Bai* Financing      0.4      ..    0.6    0.7    0.2    0.4 
Domestic Bark Finaling           1.5    1.2   -0.2   -0.2    0.5
Net Disbursements (US$ ml II os)       Debt Outstanding  Disbursed (US$ mi II ions)
J. Extenwl Capital Flows, Debt
and Debt Burden Ratios       1980   1984   1985             1987   1988   1980   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988
PRl Ic & PLtiIcly Guar. LT       627    448    489    845    764    714   3398   5012   5880   7202   8804   9330
Official Creditors             614    421    495    791    762    741   3340   4869   5732   6992   8580   9139
htittlateral                 284    341    444    545    482    509   1230   2280   2801   3455   4174   4579
of Which IBR                 0       0     -1      -1      -1     -1      55      50     55      61      70     66
of hilch ID                156    241    283    342    332    283    926   1677   2021   2450   2986   3189
Bilateral                    351      79     52    246    279    233   2110   2589   2931   3538   4406   4581
Private Creditors               13      27     -7      55       2    -28      58    144    147    209    224    190
Si4lIiers                      5      30     -3      52      11    -21      24    105    104    158    171    148
Financal Varkets               8      -2     -4       2      -9     -7      35      39     44      52      53     42
Private N-m ranteed                0       0      0       0       0      0       0      0       0       0      0       0
Total LT                         627    448    489    845    764    714   3398   5012   5880   7202   8804   9330
IMf Credit                       136    -70       1    -39    199       41    424    462    520    539    841    840
Net Short-Term Capital            11    161      -5      10   -100   -180    212    133    135    125          74     50
Total Incl. If & Not ST          774    539    485    816    863    595   4035   5607   6S53   7865   9718  10219
Bank and IDA Ratios             1980   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988
Sere of Total Lar-Term DO                                                          Notes:
1. B6RD as S of Total           1.62   0.99   0.93   0.85   0.80   0.71
2. IDA as % of Total           27.25  33.47  34.37  34.01   33.91   34.18          Data on Economic Indicators tables
3. IB80IDA ss% of Total        28.86  34.48  35.30  34.86  34.71  34.88            should follow the definitions and
the concepts of the Standard Tables and
Sare of LT Debt Service                                                            Standard Attacwents. The indicators
1. IBmD as x of Total           3.99   1.96   1.60   2.05    1.75   1.74          should Include data throigh the most
2. IDA as X of Total            7.08   9.91  11.19  11.69  11.94   11.38           recently completed calendar year (or
3. I8RD+IDA as 2 of Total      11.07  11.87  12.84  13.69  13.70  13.09            fiscal year In the case of fiscal year
ccuotrles). Staff estimates may be used
DOD-to-Eqorts Ratlos                                                               If final or preiminary actuals are not
yet available. The use of estimates and
1. Ln-Term Debt/Exports       289.52 310.05 371.27 456.84 450.73 409.54           preliminary fliures should be Indicated
2. IW Credit/Exports           36.14  28.60  32.83  34.17  43.05  36.88           by:
3. Short-Term Debt/Exports     18.08   8.23   8.52   7.93   3.78   2.19
4. LT+i,f+ST DOD/Exports      343.72 346.86 412.62 498.95 497.56 448.58           e = estimated data
p - preliminary data
DOD-to-4P Rat los
1. LaoWerm Debt/GDP            26.57  35.74  38.66  46.59  50.01  48.29
2. IW Credit/Q.P                3.32   3.30   3.24   3.48   4.78   4.35
3. gut-Term Ddbt/GP             1.66   0.95   0.84   0.81    0.42   0.26
4. LT.Ikf+ST OOD/GDP           31.54  39.98  40.75  50.88  55.21   52.89
Debt Service /Emports
1. Pubilc & Guranteed LT        6.62   9.80  12.64  15.20  14.88  13.85
2. Private Non-guranteed LT     0.00   0.00   0.00   o.0o    0.00   0.00
3. Total LWg-Ter  Debt Service  6.62   9.80  12.64  15.20   14.88  13.85
4. Ilf Repurchases+Serv. Chgs.   8.79   8.50   7.84   11.81   10.56   6.10
5. Interest only on ST Debt     1.37   0.93   0.85   0.83   0.61    0.22
6. Total (LT+IW.+ST Int.)      16.78  17.23  21.32  27.84  26.04  20.17
IEC 11/27/89



ANNEX II
-37-                                                 Page 1 of 2
Schedule 0
TSE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPRUATIONS IS BASGLADESH
-------------------------------------,-----------
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOAIS AND tDA CREDITS
(As of Harch 30. 1990)
Amount in US$ mIllion
(less cancellations)
Fiscal                                                                          Undis-
Credit go.       Year     Borrower                 Purpose                  Bank       IDA      bursed
I Loan and 87 credits hav been fully disbursed                              96.9    2522.3
of which SECALs, SALs and Program Credits V
Cr. 0980-3D       80     Bangladesh    Eighth Imports                                50.0
Cr. 1071-BD       81     Bangladesh    Ninth Imports Program                         65.0
Cr. 1194-3D       82     Bangladesh    Tenth Imports Program                        100.0
Cr. 1300-3D       83     Bangladesh    Eleventh Imports Program                     110.0
Cr. 1471-BD       84     Bangladesh    Twelfth Imports Program                      140.0
Cr. 1655-BD       86     Bangladesh    Thirteenth Imports Program                   200.0
Cr. 1S16-BD       87     Bangladesh    Industrial Sector Credit                     190.0
Sub-Total                                                                        855.0
Cr. 1215-BD       82     Bangladesh    Agricultural Extension II                     27.0        13.0
Cr. 1247-BD       82     Bangladesh    Chittagong Port                               46.7        39.4
Cr. 1254-BD       82     Bangladesh    Ashugsnj Power                                92.0         5.3
Cr. 1262-BD       82     Bangladesh   Rural Electrification                          40.0         2.4
Cr. 1287-3D       83     Bangladesh    Deep Tubewells IT                             35.2         7.0
Cr. 1318-BD       83     Bangladesh    Business Management                            7.8         2.7
Cr. 1321-BD       83     Bangladesh    Telecommunications III                        35.0        17.2
Cr. 1349-BD       83     Bangladesh    Public Administration                         10.4         3.1
Cr. 1357-3D       83     Bangladesh    Energy Efficlincy & Ref Rehab                 28.5        16.7
Cr. 1384-BD       83     Bangladesh    Rural Development II                          74.1        45.8
Cr. F022-BD       84     Bangladesh    Textile BMR II                                22.0        22.7
Cr. 1396-BD       84     Bangladesh   Agrlcultural Training Tl                        8.1         5.7
Cr. 1402-BD       84     Bangladesh    Petroleum Exploration                         23.0         8.9
Cr. 1440-BD       84     Bangladesh   T' bnical Assistance V                         25.0        19.3
Cr. 1455-BD       84     Bangladesh    I :icultural Research II                      24.5        19.8
Cr. 1467-BD       84     Bangladesh    AJDB Small 8chemes                            41.5        32.9
Cr. 1477-BD       84     Bangladesh    Textile BMR II                                23.0        14.7
Cr. 1490-BD       84     Bangladesh    Technical Education                           36.0        16.2
Cr. 1574-BD       85     Bangladesh    Primary Education II                          78.0        18.3
Cr. 1586-BD       85     Bangladesh    Second Gas Development                       110.0       102.9
Cr. 1591-BD       85     Bangladesh    Flood Control & Drainage III                  48.0        45.1
Cr. 1633-BD       86     Bangladesh   Rural Electrification II                       79.0        58.8
Cr. 1634-BD       86     Bangladesh    Forestry II                                   28.0        21.1
Cr. 1648-BD       86     Bangladesh    Power Transmission & Dist                     56.0        41.3
Cr. 1649-3D       86     Bangladesh    Population III                                78.0        63.7
Cr. 1651-3D       86     Bangladesh    Shrimp Culture                                22.0        18.1
Cr. 1734-BD       87     Bangladesh    Dhak  WASA III                                30.0        23.8
Cr. 1749-BD       87     Bangladesh    Refinery NodifLcatlon & LPG                   47.0        45.7
Cr. 1784-3D       87     Bangladesh    Flood Control & Draliage rV                   20.0        18.1
Cr. 1827-BD       87     Bangladesh    Road Rehab & Mainten nce                     102.0        84.1
Cr. 1870-BD       88     Bangladesh    Sm Sc FCD S Irrigation II                     81.5        42.8
Cr. 1930-BD       88     Bangladesh    Urban Development I                           47.6        42.2
Cr. 1940-3D       88     Bangladesh    Rural Roads & Markets                         62.3        50.1
Cr. 1942-BD       88     Bangladesh    Industrial Energy Efficiency                  11.4        10.7
CCr. 1999-BD       89     Bangladesh    Energy Sector                                175.0       100.6
Cr. 2000-BD       89     Bangladesh    Export Development                            25.0        22.1
Cr. 2016-BD       89     Bangladesh    Power Distribution (16 Towns)                 87.0        83.6
Cr. 2048-BD       89     B angladesh    Flood RehabilitatLon III                    133.6       107.5
*Cr. 19911-BD      90     Bangladesh    Energy Sector (supplement)                     2.3         0.0
Cr. 2099-BD       90     Bangladesh   BWDB System Rehab                              53.9       52.73
Cr. 2118-BD       90     Bangladesh    General Education                            159.3      155.87



-38-
ANNEX II
Pa8e 2 of 2
Total                                                 56.9   4656.9      1501.9
of which ba ben rep&d                                11.2     46.3
Total now hold by a    d MA                            45.7 4612.
hA_r sold        0.37
Of whch repaId   0.37
Total Undlsbugaod                                             1501.9     1501.9
a  Approvd durtng or after mO.
*  SAL. SECAL or Ptrgram Lom.
B.   STATUMI TfIfC  VINS1' (ENTS(a Of Mrchb 819,00
Investmnt      Flp;al                                          Type of            Loan   Equity   Tot.I
=astb r       Y o        Ob_ _ot                             Busine;n               (US1n million)
::9            19C9       Karnafuli Paper Mills Ltd.           Pulp And Paper n    6.0    0.a6   0.23
483            1979        High ped Shipbuilding and
Heavy Engineering Co., Ltd.         Shipbuilding        1.20    0.36    1.60
626            1960        Industrial proeotion and
Developoent Company of
Bangiadesh, Ltd.                    DFC                0.00    1.05    1.05
76             19t6        Industrial Developmnt
Leasing Company of                  Money s*d Capital
Bangladesh                          Marketo             3.02    0.16    3.18
707/           1986/        eta Shoe Company                   Shoes               4.40    0.61    4.97
67            8s           (Bangladesh) Ltd.
Total Orosn Co_ittents                                            14.28    2.71    16S9
Less Cancellations, terminations9
repaymnt and sales                                                 0.52    0.9      10.51
Total Comitments now Held by IPC                                   4.70    1.72      8.48
Total Undiebursed (lncludng 
partiipnts' Portion                                                 _      0.0       00 ?



-39-                               ANNEX III
BANGLADESH
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Section I:   Timetable of Key Events
Time taken by GOB to prepare the project: Two and a half years
Responsible Agencies                        Ministry of Finance
Bangladesh Bank
Identification Mission                      November 1986
Preappraisal Mission                        September 1987
Appraisal Mission                           August 1989
Negotiations                                Marc* April 1990
Board Presentation                          June 1990
Date of Effectiveness (Planned)             July 1990
Section IIs  Special IDA Implementation Actions
IDA will participate in semi-annual tripartite reviews together
with USAID and GOB to oversee implementation of the USAID
financed technical assistance to the NCBs, BB and BIBM.
Section III: Special Conditions
It is proposed that the proceeds of the credit be eligible for
withdrawal in three tranches. The first tranche of SDR 56.9
million (US$75 million equivalent) would be released when the
proposed credit becomes effective. The second tranche of
SDR 37.9 million (US$50 million equivalent) would be available
by January 1991 subject to IDA being satisfied that GOB is
implementing a sound interest rate policy, and has restructured
the NCBs appropriately, as well as meeting the specific second
tranche conditions listed in the Development Policy Matrix
(Annex V). The third tranche of SDR 37.9 million (US$50
million equivalent) would be released in March 1992 subject to
satisfactory implementation of the interest rate policy, as
well as meeting the specific listed conditions.



-40-
ANN5 IV
Page 1 of 10
Ministry of Finance
Government of the People's
Republic of Bangladesh
Dhaka
M.A. Munim
Minister for Finance and Planning
No. FMIFDIBK-5148/08(Part-2)                        Dates    May 8, 1990
Dear Mr. Conable:
Subject: Financial Sector Credit
Statement of Financial Sector Policy
1.       As part of its overall development programme, the Government of
Bangladesh has undertaken a programme of policy and institutional reforms
within the financial sector. In 1986, a National Commission on Money,
Banking and Credit appointed by the Government completed a major study
which identified a number of problems/issues within the sector.
Subsequently, we formulated a programme of reforms to address these
problems. This letter outlines our objectives for the financial sector and
an Action Programme for implementing these reforms. I hope IDA will come
forward to support our reform programme for the financial sector.
2.       Let me first describe the macro-economic framework for our
adjustment efforts and our recent actions in implementing reforms and the
additional steps we will be taking to implement the adjustment programme
during the next two years.
The Macro-economic Framework
3.       Bangladesh's macro-economic situation came under strain in 1989/90.
In consultation with the IMF, the Government introduced measures to
stabilize the fiscal and monetary position during the second half of the
fiscal year. The Government will continue to implement financial and
structural policies consistent with the adjustment programme outlined in the
Policy Framework Paper for 1990191-1992193 (PFP). We are confident that
such measures will help preserve the stable macro-economic environment
needed for the successful implementation of this Credit. As stated in the
PFP, the macro-economic objectives for 1990/91-1992193 are to sustain
average annual real GDP growth of nearly 5 percent, reduce the annual
inflation rate to 6 percent by the final year of the programme, and make
progress towards balance of payments viability.
4.       Investment is targeted to reach 14 percent of GDP by 1992/93,
compared with about 11 percent in 1989/90. In order to achieve this, the
Government will ensure that adequate resources (including local currency
funds) are provided to high priority projects and allocate additional



-41-
ANN   IV
Page 2 of 10
resources to recurrent activities such as operations and maintenance and
human resource development. Funding for low priority projects and non-
essential current expenditure will be reduced and project implementation
will be improved. The Government also intends to maintain a favorable
investment climate for the private sector, primarily by means of appropriate
macro-economic policies, import liberalization, Institutional support for
investors, and privatization where appropriate.
5.       Budgetary deficits will be maintained at about 7 percent of GDP and
will continue to be financed primarily by external concessional aid.
Improved utilization of project aid is essential in this regard. Monetary
and credit policy will be directed at providing adequate credit to the
private sector while restraining the overall expansion of domestic credit to
levels consistent with the balance of payments and inflation objectives.
The financial sector reforms described below will strengthen the
competitiveness of the banking system, improve the allocation of financial
resources and facilitate the collection of overdue loans and the recycling
of funds. The expansion in private sector credit will also be facilitated
by limited government recourse to bank credit, as well as improvements in
the financial position of public enterprises.
6.       Export volume growth is projected to reach 9 percent by 1992/93.
The projected export growth assumes strengthened competitiveness and
continued open markets for Bangladesh's goods. Import volume growth is
projected to reach 7 percent by 1992/93. Import requirements associated
with the investment drive and trade liberalization will result in a current
account deficit of about 7 percent of GDP during the programme period.
7.       Although reliance on external assistance cannot be reduced
substantially over the next three years, with continued strict control over
commercial borrowing, the external debt service ratio is expected to decline
to below 20 percent of current receipts by 1992/93. The Government plans to
gradually restore gross official reserves to the equivalent of about two-
and-a-half months of imports by the end of 1992/93, which it considers
necessary to support further exchange and trade liberalization, provide a
cushion for contingencies, particularly given the vulnerability of the
economy to severe natural disasters, and ensure the timely servicing of debt
without the need for exceptional financing.
S.       An elaboration of the priority structural and macro-economic
policies are detailed in the PEP. The most important macro-economic actions
to be taken over the coming fiscal year 1990/91 are highlighted below.
9.       As part of tax reform, the Government intends to present to the
Parliament a proposal to introduce a value added tax (VAT) by January 1,
1991 which will replace many existing excise duties and sales taxes.
Measures wvll be taken to improve tax administration and tax compliance in
the areas of both direct and indirect taxation. The above measures, in
conjunction with changes in existing rates of duties and taxes, are designed
to raise revenue in relation to GDP by about 0.5 percent for 1990/91.
10.      In order to ensure that revenue is increased while the structural
tax reforms are being introduced, the Government will also place additional
emphasis on nontax revenue measures, particularly adjustments in public
pricing.



-42-
ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 10
11.      The Government recognizes that higher levels of public investment
are essential to increase growth, improve economic productivity and provide
growth of essential public services. The Government therefore intends to
restrain the growth of current expenditure to no more than 10 percent in
nominal terms above the 1989/90 level and increase revenue mobilization to
provide additional resources to the Annual Development Programme (ADP).
12.      A careful review of the public investment programme is being
carried out to ensure that available resources are concentrated on the
highest priority activities. The Government will designate a core programme
of the highest priority projects accounting for approximately 40-50 percent
of the ADP. These projects will be given adequate and prompt access to
funds required for their implementation. In 1990191, the Government also
intends to reduce the aggregate funding of projects and block grants which
rely exclusively on local financing. This will enable more local resources
to be allocated for donor-assisted projects and thereby raise total
development spending. On this basis, we expect an ADP size of at least Tk
50 billion for 1990191. As indicated in the PFP, total domestic credit
growth will be targeted at about 15 percent and broad money growth is
expected to be 16 percent in 1990/91.
13.      The Government will continue to pursue an active exchange rate
policy to ensure external competitiveness, support the import liberalization
programme, permit the early elimination of cash export subsidies, and
contribute to an overall macro-economic framework that would be more
conducive to strengthened savings and investment and external adjustment.
'We expect that by the second tranche review, in consultation with the IMF,
the real effective exchange rate will have been adjusted to maintain
competitveness at about the average level prevailing in 1988.
Financial Sector Objectives
14.      Our primary objective is to improve the functioning of the banking
system so that it can play an increasingly effective role in supporting our
development programmes and resource mobilization requirements. We plan to
accomplish this by (i) gradually removing the distortions in the interest
rate structure with a view to improving the allocation of resources;
(ii) providing increased market oriented incentives for priority sector
lending; (iii) making subsidies in these sectors more transparent;
(iv) adopting appropriate monetary tools to control inflation; (v) estab-
lishing appropriate accounting policies including recapitalization,
strengthened regulation and supervision, effective management policy, to put
the banking system on a sound financial basis; (vi) improving the debt
recovery environment; and (vii) strengthening the capital markets. We
envision a programme of reforms which will move gradually but steadily
toward a more competitive market-based system, indirect controls, a larger
private sector role, as well as increased autonomy, commercial orientation
and management efficiency for institutions that remain under Government
control.



-43-
ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 10
15.      The gradual implementation of our reform programme has been
calibrated keeping in view the absorptive capacity of institutions. To
ensure that the initial action programme is of manageable dimensions, it
has been necessairy for some important, albeit less urgent, issues to
receive only partial attention at this time. Consequently, these other
issues will form an integral part of ongoing financial sector review and
future reform programmes. Moreover, as the institutional behaviour patterns
and future economic conditions are not entirely predictable, there is a need
for careful monitoring of the programme during implementation. This will
be done by the Finance Division in close association with the Bangladesh
Bank (BB).
16.      Let me now describe below our recent actions in implementing
reforms and the additional steps we will be taking to implement the initial
phase of the adjustment progranmme during the next two years.
Interest Rates
17.      We have changed our interest rate polic- and the structure of
interest rates with a view to allocating resourc is more efficiently through
interest rates that reflect maturity, risk and dministrative cost more
adequately, allow for flexibility in meeting changing conditions, and
encourage price competition. Returns to banks from lending to higher risk
priority sectors should be sufficiently high to provide greater incentive
for such lending and ensure that priority sector lending does not undermine
the financial viability of the Nationalized Commercial Banks (NCBs) and
place additional longer term burdens on the government budget. Interest
rates for deposits should ensure that savers receive consistently positive
real returns while allowing the banks sufficient flexibility to maintain
adequate spreads and satisfactory profitability. Our newly implemented
interest rate policy is as follows.
18.      For deposit interest rates, floors are set by the Bangladesh Bank
every six months at about 0.5 above the inflation rate for fixed term
deposits and 1Z below that level for savings deposits. For the present,
the bands for savings deposits are 8.51-12Z and for fixed deposits
lO.SZ-14.25Z. We have initially set the fixed deposit floor at 1.01 above
the inflation rate to avoid a large drop in rates at one time. Banks are
free to publish rates of interest of their choosing within these bands to
be paid on various maturities. Individual managers will not, however, be
allowed to change rates.
19.      For lending rates, the Bangladesh Bank has published a rate matrix
for 12 lending categories which it will review every six months and make
adjustments as appropriate to reflect changes in cost of funds and other
lending costs. These rates are based on shadow market rates calculated on
the basis of average cost of funds, administrative expense, a portion of bad
debt expense and an increment for profit such that higher risk lending
categories have higher interest rates. Banks are free to publish lending
rates of their choosing within the bands but have no scope to change rates
for individual borrowers; the banks are free to implement new interest rate
policy in accordance with the agreed methodology.



-44-
ANE  IV
Page S of 10
20.      Shadow market rates are well above previous interest rate levels
for priority sector lending categories, namely agriculture, small scale
industry, jute-related exports and a few small special programmes. In line
with its socio-economlc development objectives, Government has initially set
interest rates for these categories below the shadow market rates and will
reimburse the banks annually from the budget for the interest rate subsidy
to borrowers as measured by the difference between the shadow market rate
and the administered interest rate. We will utilize this approach to
increase the incentives for banks to lend in these areas, protect the banks
against large losses for these loans, and reduce the level of subsidy to
borrowers.
21.      It is our intent to gradually adjust this structure over the next
5 years so that a substantially larger share of bank lending is subject to
price competition, bands within which banks can compete will be gradually
widened and the level of interest rate subsidies reduced.
22.      We will have technical assistance in place within the next few
months which, inter alia, will assist the NCBes to improve their capacity in
formulating policies and procedures for setting interest rates.
Monetary Policy
23.      As part of our financial sector liberalization programme, we have
abolished credit ceilings and moved toward indirect, market-oriented
instruments through replacing the previous sector-specific subsidized
refinancing facility for commercial banks with a general non-subsidized BB
rediscount facility. BB has been empowered to issue debt instruments and it
is our intent to develop a tendering mechanism for the BB securities and
commence open market operations by issuing such securities at market
determined yields. We have begun a programme to strengthen BB's capacity
and procedures for monetary programming, policy formulation and review of
interest rates. An IMP-assisted training programme is underway. We will
commence implementation of the new programming policy as soon as possible.
Strengthening Central Bank Supervision
24.      BB's bank supervision functions will be substantially strengthened
so that it can effectively carry out this role.
25.      However, BB will ensure that a careful balance is maintained
between sound and effective banking supervision and avoiding undue
interference in the day-to-day operations of the commercial banks. IMF
technical assistance will be in place shortly to facilitate conversion to a
system of continuous bank supervision based primarily on submitted reports
and peer comparisons, train supervision staff and rationalize and streamline
bank reporting requirements. We have already nearly doubled the number of
bank inspectors and will focus their work more on following-up problems
identified by supervision. BB's Board of Directors has decided that
inspectors will normally be rotated after a period of five years.



-45-
Page 6 of 10
26.      Moreover, we are taking additional measures to strengthen
supervision. We have established a comuittee in the central bank to set
criteria for banks' external audits and review audit reports to enhance the
effectiveness of report based supervision. We vill design a new BB training
programme for supervision and inspection personnel by July 1990 and will
commence in the near future. We also intend to extend effective monitoring
to non-bank financial institutions by establishing a unit for that purpose,
by December 1990.
Improving Debt Recovery
27.      Poor debt recovery by our financial institutions is the most
serious problem currently facing our financial sector. In addition to
undermining the viability of the banking system, it has led to a need for
higher interest rates than would otherwise be necessary and to large
budgetary outflows over time. Therefore, we are implementing several
reforms to directly tackle this problem.
28.      First, BB has changed loan classification procedures to place
primary responsibility for classification on the banks and focus bank
inspection attention on monitoring these classifications. Among a number
of definitional changes, the new procedures require that in addition to all
previously existing qualitative criteria, all loans one or more years
overdue are classified. Horeover, interest will be suspended on all
classified loans and, in all but a few cases, provisions will be taken
rising from 102 for loans one year overdue, to 502 for loans 3 years
overdue and 1002 when loans are 5 years or more overdue. These accounting
policy changes will have a major impact as they will make the cost of bad
debt much more transparent in financial statements, allow better measures of
relative performance of branch managers and senior level management, and
provide stronger incentives for bank managers to enforce loan agreements
and collect debt as it falls due. We have amended the Income Tax Act to
the effect that most BB required provisions for bad debt and suspension of
interest are tax deductible - a measure that will ease the burden of the new
accounting requirements on bank profitability. Following a transitional
period during which banks will improve their staff capability, collection
procedures and portfolios, we plan to review the classification definitions
and accounting policies for provisions and suspension of interest with a
view to making them more stringent.
29.      Second, the Government has enacted the Financial Loan Courts Act,
1990 to address inadequacies in the existing legal framework involving
collections of loans in default. Under this law, we have established and
staffed ten Courts in major cities, including Dhaka, Chittagong and Ehulna.
Depending on experience and needs, we intend to expand the loan court system
further in a second phase.
30.      Third, BB has established a new Credit Information Unit to monitor
loan concentration and collect data on advances of over Taka 300,000 to
delinquent borrowers. We plan to utilize technical assistance to make the
unit effectively operational within the next 18 months. When the unit is
operational, we intend to make data on defaulters available to the banks



-46-
AN=E IV
Page 7 of 10
and will issue a BS Circular prohibiting banks from increasing credit
facilities to defaulters listed by the unit unless they use loan proceeds to
repay loans in default or obtain a letter of no objection from all banks
whose loans are in default.
31.      Finally, all four NCBa have submitted detailed debt recovery
strategies for their 100 largest defaulters. The NCBes have been required to
submit raports to BB quarterly on actual collections against monitorable
targets for each defaulter, as well as for new loans made by the NCB
principal offices. 8B will monitor collections against targets and ask the
banks to take necessary steps to meet collection targets.
Strengthening the Banks
32.      We view strengthening the banks as the most fundamental aspect of
our reform programme as their financial soundness and effective functioning
are vital to the health of the sector and, through their resource
mobilization and allocation efforts, to the health of the overall economy.
Most of the measures mentioned earlier in this letter including, in
particular, reforms related to interest rate changes. loan classification,
accounting policies for provision and suspension of interest, improved bank
supervision, and strengthened debt recovery will hopefully contribute
significantly to strengthen the banks. We are also taking additional
measures as follows.
33.      A new Banking Companies Bill will be submitted to Parliament which
will require the banks to have paid-up capital and reserves not less than
the amount specified in the relevant law or instrument establishing or
constituting it or six percent of its total demand and time liabilities at
the close of the last working day of the respective banks' previous
financial year, whichever is higher, with the proviso that GOB may, by
notification in the official gazette, vary the requirement of paid-up
capital and reserve amount of any such bank fcr a period of not more than
one year to provide time for banks to make necessary adjustments to meet the
new standards. We intend to further increase capital requirements to 8S of
risk adjusted assets over time in line with the banks' ability to do so
without undue burdens. The new Bill will contain other measures to
strengthen the banks, including a requirement that banks can lend no more
than 25Z of capital to a single borrower, and will place further
restrictions on loans to defaulters.
34.      The NCBs have begun the process of reclassifying their December
1989 loan portfolios using the new definitions and accounting policies.
When that process is completed, say by September 1990, they will be required
to revise their accounts to book all provisions and interest suspension
called for under the new policies. They will also be required to write off
any unmatched uncollectable interbranch items and most items in suspense in
accord with generally accepted accounting practices. GOB will, at that
tine, issue special non-negotiable bonds to each NCI sufficient to raise
their capital to 51 of deposits or any higher percentage required by law,
after deduction of the provisions and suspended interest. The bonds will
pay interest annually at the treasury bill rate and will include a balloon
repayment of principal at the end of 15 years.



-47-
ANEX IV
Page 8 of 10
35.      We intend to sign a Project Agreement with USAID before end-June
1990 for financing a technical assistance package designed to assist the
NCBs in adjusting to the new more competitive eavironment and their need to
adop; a more commercial orientation. The TA has been designed to assist the
banks in adapting to the major changes represented by the above measures.
It will commence about January 1991 and will be implemented over a five year
period to ensure that changes are successfully institutionalized. The work
will focus particularly on accounting, performance budgeting, management
information systems, staff incentives and training. Each NCB has been asked
to assign about 10 officers on a full-time basis to support this programme.
36.      Public sector corporation borrowing, some of it in arrears,
represents another problem faced by the NCBs. BB will issue a Circular
within the next 6 months directing that banks report regularly on the status
of loans and debt servicing for each public sector corporation in their
portfolios. Copies of this report will be submitted to the Finance Division
six-monthly. While many of our public sector corporations are servicing
their debt satisfactorily, the Bangladesh Jute Mills Corporation (BJMC) and
Bangladesh Jute Corporation (BJC) are seriously in arrears on substantial
borrowings. The GOB constituted a high powered committee to formulate a
constructive response to the problems of the jute sector and to provide
protection to the banks on these loans. After due consideration of the
recommendations of the said committee, the liabilities of the BJMC on
account of bank loans have been segregated to the extent of the net losses
incurred during the period from 1985/86 to 1988/89, the non-revolving
portions of the liabilities have been rescheduled for liquidation over a
period of 10 years after a grace period of 3 years and the GOB has
undertaken to pay interest on the segregated amounts for the grace period to
the banks.  Likewise it has '-en decided to segregate the liabilities of the
BJC on account of bank loan   at of the value of the existing stock of jute,
to reschedule the segregated amount for repayment over a period of 10 years
after a grace period of 3 years and to pay interest on the segregated amount
for this grace period to the banks from the public exchequer. A committee
has also been constituted by the GOB to examine the overall position of the
BJC and make recommendations with regard to its restructuring. Moreover,
Government may, if needed at some future date, take additional appropriate
steps to protect the banks with respect to their advances to BJC.
37.      We are adopting three additional measures at this time to further
strengthen the NCBs. Personnel policies of the banks will be decided by
respective banks' Board of Directors. They will also decide the duration of
the assignment of their personnel. We will revise the Industrial Policy
1986 by July 1990 so that it will not contain directives to banks as to
terms, conditions and interest rates associated with industrial lending.
The BB interest rate schedule published in November 1989 contains the
guidelines for industrial loans. The NCB Boards of Directors are now
responsible for determining other terms and conditions for such loans. In
order to ensure NCB senior management quality, efforts would be made to
avoid transfer of MDs before three years. A Government task force has
presented a number of recommendations for additional management reforms



-48-
ANNEX IV
Page 9 of 10
within NCBs, the bulk of which have been cleared by Cabinet. We intend to
implement a number of these reforms during 1990. Finally, NCBs will be
permitted to select legal counsel for debt recovery laws from the panels of
legal counsel proposed by them and as approved by the GOB.
38.      In the next few years, after the NCBes have had an opportunity to
absorb these major new changes and the technical assistance has had
meaningful impact in preparing the banks, we intend to institute a number of
additional reforms which will strengthen NCB management and management
systems, improve personnel and reimbursement policies, and significantly
increase the autonomy given to the banks.
39.      Within the next three to five years, we also intend to take ste.s
to privatize one or two of our remaining NCBs and significantly reduce
government's ownership role in the banking system. However, it is essential
that efficient functioning of such privatized institutions is assured. We
view the reforms to be implemented under the Financial Sector Programme as a
necessary precondition in preparing the banks for privatization. It is also
essential that the banking system, after further privatization, retains its
present capacity for delivering credit to priority sectors and also in rural
areas. Therefore, we also intend to conduct a study during the next two
years to analyze the experietsce gained in the privatization of the Uttara,
Pubali and Rupali banks to assist in implementing future privatization in
the most appropriate way to achieve these objectives.
Capital Markets
40.      Another government financial sector priority involves strengthening
the capital markets and improving our industrialists' access to this
long-term source of financing while retaining adequate investor protection.
Therefore, we have established a Capital Market Development Committee under
the auspices of the Ministry of Finance with a mandate to develop a number
of recommendations for developing and promoting the capital markets and
improving the regulatory environment. We intend to implement the accepted
recommendations of the Committee, including, inter alia, adjusting ceilings
on underwriting fees and increasing flexibility in pricing new public
issues.
Conclusion
41.      We believe that the programme of reforms outlined above will be
instrumental in restoring the financial viability of our banking system and
in facilitating more efficient mobilization and allocation of resources and
better monetary management in support of our development objectives. While
these measures should generate beneficial investment and production
response, we recognize that commensurate adjustments will also be required
with respect to trade and incentive policy, public enterprise management,
and the tax regime as well as additional financial sector adjustment
measures over time to realize the potential benefits of these reforms more
fully.



-49-
ANNEX IV
Page 10 of 10
42.       Preliminary estimates of the financial requirements to implement
the principal aspects of the action programe are in the order of US$550
million. This estimate will be revised as the detailed actions are firmed
up and the loan provisioning exercise nears completion. The amount will be
needed to recapitalize the NCBs (including the value of bonds not disbursed
as cash), implement the NCB technical assistance programme, assist with BJMC
and BJC debt service requirements, and reimburse the cost of interest rate
subsidies.
43.       In view of the initiatives taken by Bangladesh in the formulation
and implementation of this initial action programme of financial sector
reforms, the Government requests for extension of a Financial Sector
Adjustment Credit from IDA in the amount of US$175 million.
Yours sincerely,
(M. A. Hunim) 11
Minister for Finance and Planning
Mr. Barber B. Conable
President
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
Washington, D.C. 20433
1/   The original of this letter has been submitted to our Resident Mission
in Bangladesh.



MATI  OF PLI  ACn=
uCy OBtJECTIES                          REC5IT 1E1ARES TAWB                  FURTHElE  ACONIIS WEt CMIRET                  TIlMIN
A.  MACRO'FIIACIAL POIUCY  SSUES
I.  Der,ulat deposit end               Lending Interest rat  policy lopl_-       Impemet nw loeoding intres  ere.             2nd VW 3rd trencb.
loodlwoo nteres re               emented besed on calculated Oshdow        poliy ln accordance with the agreed          releae.
mrket ratasa for eab lnding cgory   mtodology with semi-annual rvwo and
with * 11-5  band wlthl which bak   y    djtme     In structure as ndd.
set th1e lending rates.
Floor end ceIliIng eatebisIhd wlthin      Iplement new deposit Interest rate           2nd and 3rd tranche
which scheduled banks my t ytem           polley n accordance with the aged            relese.
depolt an  saving rates.                  methodology with smi-eanual reviews and
adjusents  In structure as reded.
NC  lnding rate  raised to at least       Raise B   logtoe  Intreet rates for          By 2nd trace rele .
hadow market rates for most cotegries  madliw  end  soeg  scale Industry to at
in tho Initial adjust_mn of Pats,        least shdoew mrket ratee.
Technical unit estbilshed In 8 with       Amnd         intret ate policy to allow      Bly e fecti-e -
rsponlbilty tor Interet  rPate and     banks to chang  lntest rates at lsat
monetary progrmamig analysis  nd          monthly.
recomndelons.
U1. Make Coste of subsidize           Remaining adminietered subsldld          Relburse banks for cot of Intert             Consset of roeiburse-
Interest rats tr_perent          lending rate  have bee sade               rate subsIdie due to some _d.alet.red        mnet mi-lennually ae 2nd
and reisbure coto to banks.    transparent and G1B has ogreed to            rates below shdw mrket rates ftre             nd  rd trench. conititon
rlombur  cost ot subsldy teo banks.      Januory 1, W90.
U!. Protect banks on large loans      government has taken stape  o             Require banks to nport reoularly on           By 2nd trance_ reloes.
to poorly pertorming pore-        rechedule  JC eand BJMC advanes nd to  lons and debt servicing status tot
state Is made at Goernprotect bonks egeinet non-peyment.                    thelr public sector berrece-.
"usst.
rV. Replao  direst credit             IMF has sont an advliory mincion to       Strengthen B8 capaity end proceures           trrlanings uo  -rwy.
coilinge with indirect            *eoist In settino up procedure for        for mey  programIng, pollcy                  I  plent procedure  nd
monetry Instrumet  nd open    imple ting monstary proraming end    formulI I Nd reguar rewie of                          progrmnlog by 2nd traneh
market operations .policy.                                                  inteet rates.                                rel e1.
Existing   finn  prgram replaced
with a geeral rediscount facility at
bank rto for comeratel banks.
B  Act _eded to give Cwtal Bono          88 debt InstrumontetoeIssuedet                by b  1_Byt2nd   neb  ? .
lega  poere to Issu de   Instrumente.  market detrmined yieldeg a tendering
echanim should be developed.
Credit ceilg  have bee  abolied.         Implemet the 1990b9n-199-93 PFP              ay 2d trench. Poisse. d
progrm so a sound macroeconomie                                      30 l
framework io In place.
I-'



POLICY OBJECTrIVS                       RECENT MEASURES TAKEN                 FURTHER ACTIONS UNDER CREDIT                   TIMING
O    STRENGThEN CENTRAL BANK           Central Bank has combined It four          Establisb bank supervision s  *               Satifactory progres  on
SUPERVISION                       supervision functions under two            eontinuous process brad on submltted          design of system *  Srd
deprtments, slmost doubled the nuober   repot.  Inspection and follow-up of             trench  releae
of bank Inspection personnel, and         Identified probles.
*xtendsd their normal rotation period
to five yers.
IW TA arrangsd to *asist with estab-      Rationalie and stremline benk                 Sstiofactory progres  on
Ilthing bank superviston as a             reporting requirement..                       design of system n  * rd
continuous proces and ratlonattling                                                     tranche release.
and streamlning bank reporting
requlerente.
NM system of loen clasification
established which shifts pelrmry
responsibility to the banks.
Ne  accounting policy requtirem
estblied  for proelslon  Nd
sospenon of lterest.
Establish and staff supervision unit for    By 2nd trenche  reless.
non-benk financIel Institutones.
Design and conduct major training effort     Satistory trainitn
for Central Baho  superviston and            program dsign and
Inspection personnel.                        progres  by 2nd tranch.
release.
N_ i  credit information unit estab-    Design credit unit Input "  pert of             Input end TA In place by
1Ished within the superlosio function    regular bank reporting. Provide on-line        Jrd trench. rel_se.
credit reports to banks.
B  Audit Ceomittee establlse  to  et      Establish criteria for bank   ternel          2ed traneho releae.
criterli  for bak oxternal audits  nd     adits end review  of audit reports.
review audit report.
0



POUCY OBJECTrVES                        RECENT MEASURES TAKEN                FURTHER ACTIONS UNDER CREDIT                  TIMINa
C.  STRNTHEN THE MAIOAIZED
COMERCIAL S       One)
I.  Recapitalize the NCB.                                                        Reclossity December 1989 portfolio based     2nd trancho release with
oa nw Be loon claseitieotlon require-        GOB confirmation that it
mnts.                                        be done by September 30.
190.
Make new provisions and  ouspend interet     2nd tranche releose with
In accord with nw accounting policles.       G0B contirmation that It
be done by September 30,
1990.
Issou  special Qovernomnt bond to            2nd trnche, releoe  with
r*capital ze each MCm to a level equal       COB contirmtlon that It
to at least SN of deposita after             be done by September 30.
provisions have be  taken.                    9.
By 3rd tranche release.
Maintain MMt Capitol at St of deposits.
rI.  Stre n  1         gMant ond    USAID technical assistance for NMC  TA       Sign USAID Project Agrement.                 By effectiveness.
eceountIng syste                to strngthen manaoget, accounting
and training progreos was approved.       Technical Asesotance in place.               Oy 2nd trnche, rel_ses.
Establish Tripartite Review process for      2nd trenche  release.
TA.
Make satisfactory progress on imple-         2nd and 3rd tranche
ment;ng NCB TA and computerization,          release.
One NCO has reconciled ito lnterbranch    Reconecle interbranch and write oft or       2nd tranche eoleose with
accounta and the othors are working on    fully provide for unmatched accounte and    QOO conftrmtItIon that It
it. All ICBs havo NMde progtrs In         uncollectible ites, and eliminate            be done by September 30,
identifying unmatebd items.               uspense account nmore than six months        1990.
old in 1999 accounts.
NCBD' Boords of Directors have been
permitted to decide on personnel
pollcy, including rotation of NMC
staff.-
00 has adopted policy that MCM
managing di rectors wi l l noral ly be
appointed for periods of more, than
throe year., subject to satisfactory
performance.
Develop satisfactory NCO copacity to set     By 3rd tranche releae.
interest rates within the *cope allowed.
A 008-established task force has          Implement solected NCII manage t             Statement of Intont.    0 
submitted a report to Cabinet with        reforms  pproved by Covernment (to be                                 z
recomendations for additional NC         identifi ed after Cabinet decisions on                               ' 
management roforms.                       recomandations).
0



POLICY OBJECTIVES                      RECENT MESURES TAMEN                FURTHER ACTIONS UNE1 CR EDIT                 TIMINV
C.  STItEI tME NATINAUZBE
C0URCIAL BANK  QICR)
(COa.)
II. IWrov MM dst rovey.              NM  have intIated special progros         IoetIfy lare borroerereoquiring            By Jrd tre.n    'ease.
for Improving dsb col lection.           restrwc ring.
Maontorablo targete h*o been            009 Wl  tako necessry  _te  to caus          End and 3rd t   he
etbileed ter collectio. *ad             "CB te achleve satloetctry collection        relese1 aond)  *s
reolutlon ot legl coeon  tor 100        pertormnce agin"t monitoreblo targotc
largest dbetulters and for ner leono    tor 100 larpet dotfultere and on n
appro vd by NCO hed ottfc s.             Iears nvor Till  Ieon approvod by NMM
heed offices. Colletlons w11l be
cloooly moitored.
Reuire that boeeo not loed to               By 3rd trench elea_.
deftultere Idontlfled by credit unit
without lottore ot no objoction freo the
lender who holds the dafaulted lon.
Allow NCBS to *eloct l0egl cnownl ae        By 2nd trench. -ele   .
their choosIng tre penel* tor dsbt
reotvery  es.
C



POLICY OBJECTIEA                       REICNT MAStIMES TAMEN              FlTHER ACTIONS UWDERt cUT                    TIMn
D.  MICELLANO  OBJECTIES
I.  Strengthn the legl               Parlia m , has eated a *  Financial   Rvle  with DA lmplemenotio  ot Law            By Srd trencho roleas.
tr    heo  for debt recovery     Loo Court. Let 4nd am be Iseued         Court Low and agree O  ecmeende
etiefactory Pulse and reglotlona for   motion, If any, to Improve, 1ip     -
lmplewmting It.                         ttion of tOhe lW.
aS how le_se direcltv  establishlng
loom recovery cor  In Ohoka,
Chittogog and Khulna effectivt
September 80, 1900 sad coling for
their adequate staff in.
U. IReis Reglation affecting         The Minlisry of Low baa cleared a mw     Enat a etlsetory Banking Ceompanle          By 2d tronch  rel .
ba_s.                           Banklin  Companies Ordinuac.             Ordinanc.
D lat reforences   ationalItrloal    By 2n tnnehe releea.
Polley-19" which I_pos lending
relr _men  on filnancial intlottutie
for rspyent  hebodulee, terms, ate.
U has autoried public ent _pis to
plic up to 405 of their deposit. with
prvte sector anks
Set limit. as pareent of Capitel for       By 2n teanche relese. 
pets book loan to lndlvldvs                                        toS
Prows" and In arepto to their
dlreetore
US ha amene income tax reqiremns
to MAk Central Bank reqired
poIslos and Intrest suspensio ntea
dedctible.
US hee gives, boaks fredo  to  et bank
fee  ldividwally to allow Ine _s
competition.
I   Strength  capital market..        US has estab_lshd a Capitol Markt       Implement Committee  PReeedtieo  with    Stateeot Of latest.
lopmnt Comittee with Minlstry of   respet to adjusing Underwriting too
Finane aN  privat sector                and ineresing flei bility In pricing
partielpetion.                          now public lesses.
00
o 1



-55-                                             ANNEX VI
BANOUDESH
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
A Comoartson of Old and New Interest Rate PollcY
Previous 88       Shadow     New aB          Interest Etilmated Cost
Lending Rate Category      Londing Rats /    Rate /2  Lendng Rate        Subsidy   of Subsidy I!
Agriculture                          16.01        17.11          10.05           1.15        128
Large and Medium Scal-
Industry (Toro)                     18.51        14.61    18.05-17.05
Working Capital (Jute)                9.0X1       1.11            9.01           6.11        841
Working Capital (Other)              14.01X       18.6    12.01-1.01O
Juts Trading                         16.01        16.1          10.01
Jute and Jute Goods Exports           0.01        18.61     8.0X-11.01           2.61         20
Other Exports                         9.01        18.6 e     .0X-11.01          2.61          6S
Other Commercial Lending             17.O1(Max)   18.61          18.011(ax)
Urban HousIng                        16.01        13.6X    12.01-16.01
Special Progras:
Small Industry (Term)              10.01        16.6x          10.01           6.6x        801
Other Special Prorm           S.0-18.01        16.6x     0.01-13.0#           2.6X         108
Others                         14.01-20.01        18.6X    12.0-20.01
Total                                                                                       1,474
Indicative Weighted Averages         18.8X(Est)  16.0X /S        14.81 (Est)/4   1.21
Previous BB                  Ne as
Deposit Rates                                     Required Rate              Rate Schedule
Sovings:
Rural                                                  10.01                8.5S-12.01
Urban                                                   9.01                8.61-12.01
Fixed:
8 months                                               12.0X               10.56-14.251
6 Months                                               12.61               10.CX-14.25S
1 Yosr                                                 18.2CX              10.65-14.25X
2 Years                                                18.756              10.5X-14.25S
8 Y"rs and Above                                       14.2CX              10.5S-14.251
Maximum Yield Curve Spread                                2.25X                    83.75
Other Rates:
Bank Rate                                              10.71X                     9.76X
T-BilI Rat                                              3.6X1                      6.51
Rats on Extra Cash Resrves                              5.01               T-8i I Rate (86.5)
RefinancIng Rates                                 1.5X-10.751              Bank Rate  (9.751)
(4.71 Avg.)
Note: Rat of inflotion used by Bangladesh Bank In formulating schedule was 9O.
/1    Theor are a number of different rates within soe of these categories but the bulk of the
lending to at the rate listed in this column.
/2    As calculated by Bangladesh Bank.
/8    Subsidy cos to at annual rate on most recent balance.  Using sme calculotion base, there
are offsetting Increoas In Income to Bangladesh Bank of about Tk 500 million because of
increase In refinenciog rat to bank rate.
/4    Based eO  NCBs nem Interest rates.
/6 Weighted average oshadow rates is the sm of the average new lending rate and the average
subsidy.



FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
A Compariaon of Old and NM Accounting Policies for Bad and Doubtful Debt
Old Policy                                       New Policy
Substndard
Aging                                      None                                             Must be so classified If overdue bw one
year or more.
Additional Criteris for continuing
advwneso:
- Overdrawn advance                        Nono                                             Must be so clsseltifd if ovwrdrawn by
- Low account actvlity                     None                                             more than 505 for 45 days or more.  MNut
- Expired Facllitien                       None                                             be classifid Itf xpired one yrar or
more.
Qualitative criteria                       Various /1                                       S    a.. as under old policy.
Maximum roecheduling                       None                                             Must be so classified If recheduled over
three times and overdue or Itf scount
turnowvr is lets than 100o In fiacal
y"e.
Eligible security                          Anything accepted by B  as having value          Li-itd te geld or *aleebl- goods held by
benk, fixed d_posit with lin, nd w vlid
diroet 00C or B8 guarantee.
Provision requirement                      None                                             10S of (loan *mnus eligible -*crity)./2
Susp nded interest requirement             SUependw; ;f loan claesified *o                  All uncollecetd inserest Is uaepONsd./1
aubstandard for two yers wlth no peymnt
rectIved or If legal action has been
initiated.
Doubtful
Aglng                                      Nono                                             Must be so clessifted It overduo by three
yers or wore.
Additional crtteria for continuing
advances: 
- Overdrawn advane                        None                                              Must be so classified If overdrawn
^ Low account aettvity                    NO"                                               position, acwimt turnover, or exp1red
- Expired faeilitieo                      None                                             facility conditton defined for
substandard advane continues for thee
yers or meore.
Qualitatlv  Criteria                     Various                                           Same as under old policy.
Legal action                               Must be classified doubtful or bad It            Must be so classifled doubtful or bad If
nitiatod                                       Initiated.
Provision requirement                      SO% of (loan less all valued  collateral)        SOX of (loan less *eIgible b      lst ral).
Suspended lnteret requirement              Usua Iy suspended                                Alwaye *uspended./8
OQ-.
Ct
0



Old Policy                                       Mw Policy
Bd Loans
Aging                                      Non                                              Must bo es claslfied It ovedue     5 yers
of, More.
Additionsi criteria for continuion
advancost
- Overdrw  adv_ne                          Noe                                              Mut bt ob classtfid It overdrn
- Los acount wctivity                     NOn                                               poielien   *o0,cou  turnover, or aspire
-Expired f*ility                          Nor                                               facIlity  conition deftied for
rubstanard loan  coetlus  for five
ye"a or more.
qualltive criteria                        Variou                                           Somem  a  old policy.
Provision requiemet                        loom of loan i.e. Valued collateol               10016 ot loan regrdle  of collatral.
Sueperdd Interest re.Iresat                Fully   nded                                     Fully ps usene .
Legol Action                               Must be clasitfed doubtful or bed it             Must be cloaltied as bed if loal action
Initiated.                                       initiate  more then fIve yars ago,
otherwise dsubtful or bed.
Umflasalfted Loan.
Provioion requrleme                        Nono                                             1 of leons outstanding.
Total Loan Outaetondin
Provislon reqi reme                        Minima 43 by 1989                                Ne requiremn 
Responsibility for loan                    as sonking tnepe_lon Deportomet In               Banks at least annully end preferably
clessiticat1on                             annual or biannual Inspectins.                   continuouly wlth 88 Bnking I p ction
Departmnt chbcking It nd, In the first
year. asisting.
Tax treatment                              Only reileWd bed debt t tax deductiblo.          1001 of d  require  prov'elon  *nd
suspension of Interest are tax deductible,
up to a maxi4m of 4.CO of porttolto
annually.
Coverage                                  All scheduled banks.                              Scheduled benks oxept x O85, RUAJB and
ISa, which emain under old policy
Pning additional *nlyeis.
qual tative criterion are _umearized as follows.  The loan should be claritfed wbenever there Is reaon to bellev  the losses
may not be able to repay the loa due to a cbhngo In the circumetances unde  which the lon was ortginally sanctioned I.e.. on
the basis of qulltativo factor such ass (t) more then a normal risk due to advers finoncial condition (arlsng fre  los of a
port of borrower0o capital); (11) poor financial performance of the borrower (borrower0o cash flow io Irnsfficlent to sweice
debt rquiremente); (ttt) ianuffielency of security (value of security Ic lose then the amount of the lea outstanding) or
(iv) other unfavorable factors. Thio Judgement con ba made regardles of *bhther the loan is overdue or not.
1   ^Loang for purpose of provision is defined ao prncipal plus all accrued lnteret and fes and peonaties lees portion of
interest, fos, and penalties that havo  been suspended. AU>
/8   Term agricultural loans are treated the ese way as all other loans under the old and now pollices.  Other agricultural loans
are treated as a group because of the huge number of mall  loans Involved and erratic repyment *xperience. Under the now
policy, the provision requirement Is 100u of total ovordue for five yers or more and SS of  ill other loan outstanding. As
under old policy, all intor t Is suspended on loans two or more years overdue as experience has shmon mny loans are repaid 
more then one yor late becauss of poor croo yers and floods.



-58-                     ANNEX VIII
BANGLADESH
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
NCB Management and Accounting Systems Reforms
To be ImDlemented Under the Credit
1.       Managing Directors are to be appointed for periods of more than three
years and normally not be rotated before that time to provide
strengthened autonomy and continuity.
2.       NCB Boards of Directors are now permitted to decide on personnel
policies including rotation of NCB staff without outside
restrictions.
3.       Existing overall employee bonus arrangements should be based on
profits before provisions (a change in provisions policy would not be
feasible if it reduced these bonuses which are de facto salary).
4.       A capacity should be developed within NCBs for determining deposit
Interest rates and, within a more narrow scope, lending rates.
5.       Accounting systems should be revised to generate prompt reliable
reports to be used for improved monitoring of performance generally
and debt recovery in particular at the branch and regional level.
6.       Computerization should be implemented for head office accounting,
interbranch reconciliations and some of the largest urban branches.
7.       All interbranch accounts should be reconciled in the December 1989
statements and unmatched and uncollectible items should be written
off. Suspense accounts over six months old should be written off.
8.       NCBEs should instill a more commercial attitude toward lending and
collections by accounting for provisions and suspension of interest
expense at the branch level, implementing performance budgeting and
monitoring against budget for branches, and increasing the use of
incentives for individual performance.
9.       Training programs should be substantially strengthened in the credit
process aspects, i.e., credit analysis, loan administration and debt
recovery, as well as in accounting. BIBM capability to provide
training in these areas should be strengthened.
10.      Selected NCB management reforms approved by GOB should be implemented
based on the August 1989 Task Force on NCB Management Report.
11.      NCBs should select legal counsel of their choosing for debt recovery
cases.



-59-                     ANNEX IX
Page 1 of 2
BANGLADESH
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENS CREDIT
Description of USAID Technical Assistance
1.       USAID has finalized its Project Agreement for providing US$18.2
million in parallel financing for technical assistance (TA) to the four
NCBs and, to a lesser extent, to BB and BIBM. It will be signed upon
notification that IDA's Board has approved this credit. The Deputy
Governor of BB will be the Project Director and BB will have overall
responsibility for implementation. IDA will assist in supervision of the
TA as its successful implementation is essential to the NCBs'
restructuring.
2.       Objectives.  The principal objectives are tot (i) develop the
NCBs' operational efficiency; (ii) assist in developing commercially
oriented banks and branches; (iii) prepare one or more NCBEs for
privatization; (iv) improve training of NCB officers; and (v) strengthen
BB's supervisory and monetary role.
3.       Terms of Reference.  The terms of reference will include the
following support for improving NCB management:
(a) Accounting and management information systems (MIS) with special
emphasis on improving branch ledgers, loan accounting and
monitoring of collections, and interbranch transactions;
(b) Credit, loan administration and debt recovery, including
(i) interest rate determination policies and procedures;
(ii) credit policies and procedures; and (iii) loan administration
policies and procedures;
(c) Performance budgeting, including (i) designing and implementing
improved systems of performance budgeting, especially at branch
level; (ii) systems for monitoring performance of managers against
budget; and (iii) implementing these systems to motivate manager
and staff performance through incentives, promotion policy, etc.;
and
(d) Computerization of NCB head office accounting (especially MIS
related to loan accounting and performance budgeting) and
accounting at selected larger urban branches and regional offices.



-60-                      ANNEX IX
Page 2 of 2
4.       The TA package has also been designed to support (i) upgrading BB
computerization of statistical, bank supervision, accounting and MIS
systems; (ii) assisting the BB Technical Unit with macroeconomic studies,
(iii) setting up the BB Credit Information Unit; (iv) special studies
including lessons to be learned from the privatization of Uttara and Pubali
banks and case studies of labor and other personnel issues at NCBs; and tv)
in-country training through providing staff and developing courses for BIBM
and assisting BB in coordinating the overall banker training effort; and
(vi) overseas training for 60 NCB and BB staff members for a total of 268
person-months.
5.       Organization and Requirements.  A Chief of Party, together with
specified short-term technical specialists as appropriate, will be based in
BB to coordinate overall implementation. An implementation team will be
set up in each of the four NCBs for a period of about four years, including
an expatriate head, a counterpart General Manager, and at least ten
carefully selected staff. Other consultant staff on two year assignments
will include two with the BB technical unit, one at BE to coordinate
training and one at BIBM. Total requirements would include 470 person-
months of expatriate consultants, 290 person-months of Bangladeshi
consultants, several main frame computers, about 100 microcomputers and
related software and other equipment.



#                  #~~~~~~~~~4                it-                        92
gw~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9
j,&x  ,>t~  INDIA   ~                                                  BANGLADESH
A1                                                t w>S; -<           o Upezille Headquws  - Upoz.lh Baioues
/a ^  <   *    <.    *^\vn                     *~~~~~~~~~~~~       ~      ~     ~ Zilha Hea*mtem  Zilie Bondrf
Divis Headquqten      -      Dsin BOimdwgts
f ,4> ti'    a-eq;   h                                            @                           -"-Nwis B_ins
- ~4~-
K            ,I   N    D    I  A
24
2?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
A                                                         X-
22-   j  d.%                                                                                            PAS( + k59 
5.                 2         6    D   4 k      ' o   r                                         jou  4s             2
dV S   -"t "    F tA  N   A
'U  -,/                                                                                                 ,^mfr. cot
0         10    20  30    40  LOMtOS                                        tt       r
/                           621  0 o 20 o   do  n7 aLoma                                                \.2
_      __            _                                                           9r Ik



