Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15027
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 2152-BD)
SEPTEMBER 28, 1995
Private Sector Development & Finance Division
Country Department I
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Bangladesh Taka (Tk.)
Appraisal Year (04/90):    SDR 1 = US$1.2986
US$ 1 = Tk. 33.84
Tk. 1 = US$0.0295
Completion Year (02/94):    SDR 1 = US$1.4475
US$ 1 =  Tk. 39.97
Tk. 1 = US$ 0.025
FISCALYEARS
Government                              July 1 - June 30
Banking Sector                   January 1 - December 31
AB REVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS
BB           -      Bangladesh Bank
BCA          -      Banking Companies Act, 1991
BIBM         -      Bangladesh Institute of Bank Management
CSI          -      Cottage and Small Industries
DFI          -      Development Finance Institution
ESAF         -      IMF Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
FY           -      Fiscal Year
FSAC         -      Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
FSRP         -      Financial Sector Reform Project
GDP          -      Gross Domestic Product
GNP          -      Gross National Product
GOB          -      Government of Bangladesh
ICR          -      Implementation Completion Report
IDA          -      International Development Association
IMF          -      International Monetary Fund
MIS          -      Management Information System
MOF          -      Ministry of Finance
NCMBC        -      National Commission on Money, Banking and Credit
NCB          -      Nationalized Commercial Bank
PFP          -      Policy Framework Paper
SAF          -      IMF Structural Adjustment Facility
SE           -      State owned Enterprise
SEC          -      Securities and Exchange Commission
USAID        -      United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
FINANCALLSECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit 2152-BD)
TABLE OF CONTENTS                                                                         Page No.
Preface .............................................................                                                                                                  i
Evaluation  Summary    ........................                                             .....................................                                     ii
PART I: PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ........                                                                                      ................              1
1.    Project Identity    ......................                                   ..................................                                   1
2.    Project Background   .....................................1................... 
3.    Statement/Evaluation  of Objectives   ...........................                                          ...................                   2
4.    Achievement of Objectives   ........................................................                                                              3
5.    Major  Factors  Affecting  the  Project ...........................                                        ...................                    7
6. Project Sustainability .........................................................                                                                     8
7.    IDA   Performance    .............................                                       ...........................                              9
8.    Borrower Performance   ........................................................                                                                 10
9.    Assessment of Outcome   ........................................................                                                                10
10.   Future  Operation  ...........................                                       .............................                             11
It.   Key  Lessons  Learned    ......................................................                                                  ..            12
PART HI: STATISTICAL ANNEXES .......................................................                                                                                14
1.  Summary of Assessments ........................................................                                                                  14
2. Related IDA Credits .........................................................                                                                      16
3.    Project Timetable  ............................                                        ............................                             17
4. Credit Disbursements .........................................................                                                                     18
5.    Status  of Legal Covenants   ........................................................                                                           18
6.    Bank  Resources:  Staff Inputs  ......................................................                                                          19
7.  Bank Resources: Missions ........................................................                                                                 19
APPENDIXES:
A. ICR Mission's aide-memoire .......................................................                                                                20
B.   Borrower contribution  to  the  ICR   .                             ................................................                            26
C.  USAID's Comments on the ICR  ..................................................                                                                  34
D.   GOB's  Statement of Financial Sector Policy  ..............                                                ......................               35
E. Matrix of Policy Actions ........................................................                                                                 45
F.   Second  Tranche  Release  Memo  ....................................................                                                            50
G. Third Tranche Release Memo ......................................................                                                                  62
H.   Selected  Financial Sector Indicator  .............................                                          ..................                  72
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed widhout World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
FtANIT,SETR  DUSTMN_ CEI
(Credit 2152-BD)
PREFACE
The Financial Sector Adjustment Credit in Bangladesh (2152-BD) in the amount of US$175
million (SDR 132.7 million) equivalent was approved on June 5, 1990, and made effective on June
22, 1990. Two Supplemental IDA Credits amounting to US$3.5 million (SDR 2.5 million) and
US$2.9 million (SDR 2.2 million) were signed on January 16, 1991, and January 15, 1992,
respectively.
The first tranche of the Credit, released upon effectiveness, was fully disbursed by February
1992; the second tranche was released on August 26, 1992, more than eighteen months after the SAR
target date; the third and final tranche was released on December 30, 1993, again after a delay of
twenty months from the targeted date. The Credit, including the supplemental amounts, was fully
disbursed and the Credit Account closed on February 22, 1994, compared with the original Closing
Date of September 30, 1992. Cofinancing for the project was provided by USAID through a parallel
grant of US$19.4 million for technical assistance.
This ICR is based on material in the project file, discussions with GOB, BB and USAID
officials during an ICR mission, and an impact evaluation carried out by the staff of the Bank's
Resident Mission in Bangladesh; the ICR Mission's aide-memoire is attached as Appendix A. The
borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by preparing its own evaluation of the project
(Appendix B).
The ICR was prepared jointly by Shamsuddin Ahmad (SA1BG) and Zamir Hasan (SA1PF);
it was reviewed by Owaise Saadat, Chief, PSD & Finance Unit, SA1BG, and Fred Kilby, Chief,
PSD and Finance Division, all of the Country Department I of South Asia Regional Office. The
USAID essentially agrees with the conclusions of this ICR; its letter on the subject is attached as
Appendix C.



FINANCIAL, SRCTOR ADJUSTMEFNT CREDIT
(Credit 2152-BD)
BANCGLADUSH
EVALUATION SIJMMARY
Introduction
i.           Prior to the approval of this Credit, cumulative Bank Group commitmnents to
Bangladesh totaled US$4,612.7 million equivalent as of March 30, 1990, consisting of 128 credits
and one loan. The FSAC was the first IDA operation to support GOB's financial sector reform
program. It was, however, the third sector adjustment operation in IDA's Bangladesh program.
Proect Objectives
ii.          The Project's objective was to support the Government of Bangladesh's (GOB)
fmancial sector reform program and assist in financial restructuring of the nationalized commercial
banks (NCBs). To assist in the implementation of the program, the USAID provided a parallel grant
of US$19.4 million for a Technical Assistance Project, called the Financial Sector Reform Project
(FSRP), aimed at strengthening the Bangladesh Bank (BB), the NCBs and the Bangladesh Institute of
Bank Management (BIBM). The Credit generally conformed with IDA's Country Assistance
Strategy and was recognized by all parties as important for the development of the financial sector of
Bangladesh.
iii.         The GOB's reform program was outlined in a financial sector policy letter to IDA and
in the matrix of policy actions (Appendixes D and E respectively).  The letter stated that in
undertaking the financial sector reforms, GOB's "primary objective is to improve the functioning of
the banking system so that it can play an increasingly effective role in supporting our development
programs and resource mobilization requirements." The objective was to be accomplished by:
liberalizing interest rates; improving monetary policy; abolishing priority sector lending;
strengthening central bank supervision and regulation; improving the debt recovery environment;
strengthening the NCBs; and strengthening the capital market.
iv.          The reform measures to achieve the objectives included: macro-financial measures
such as liberalizing interest rates, reimbursing the banks from the budget for any interest subsidies,
replacing direct credit ceilings with indirect monetary instruments and initiating open market
operations, providing technical assistance to strengthen central bank supervision and regulation,
enacting legislation to strengthen the legal framework for debt recovery, recapitalizing the NCBs and
providing technical assistance to strengthen their management, and improve debt recovery efforts,
and strengthening the capital market.
Implementation ,xperience and Results
v.           The Project represented the first systematic effort in the country's history to reform
the financial sector. It was conceived of as a broad long term reform process. Its main contribution
is to bring to surface the problems that were afflicting the sector for a long time, and to begin the
reform process. Specific reform measures included removal of rigid administrative controls on



-iii-
interest rates, virtual elimination of directed credit, strengthening of the central bank, establishment
of special courts for debt recovery following the passage of the Loan Courts Act, and recapitalization
of NCBs. However, in terms of having the desired impact within the given time frame, the major
objectives have been only partially achieved: the NCBs did not regain financial viability; the debt
recovery environment did not improve (the proportion of classified loans remains high even under the
present lax requirements); there is lack of effective competition as represented by the absence of
differentiation in loan pricing and accumulation of excess liquidity; and the banks continue to portray
an overly risk averse behavior with no incentive for introducing new financial products. It should be
noted that the reform process is continuing and the Government is currently addressing these and
other problems afflicting the financial sector.   Major specific reform  measures and their
implementation/results are discussed below.
vi.          The interest rate reform was a big step forward in that the GOB as a policy decision
f:-eed the rate-setting mechanism from rigid administrative dictates. What was envisaged under the
Project was essentially achieved. However, interest rate reform now needs to go a step further in that
the rates (lending as well as deposit) are even now not set competitively and their structure is not
entirely rational. On the lending side, the government still has considerable influence because of the
dominance of NCBs in the banking sector and of the treasury bills in an inactive money market.
There is also a restriction not to differentiate rates to borrowers in the same category by more than
two percentage points on the basis of risk; in fact domestic banks simply charge uniform rates
irrespective of differences in risks. To an extent, banks lending rates are also influenced by a deposit
rate floor and prescribed bands for three lending categories (agriculture, exports, and term loans to
small and cottage industries). On the deposit side, not only there is a prescribed floor but there are
several special savings schemes with high prescribed rates, which distort the rate structure.
Moreover, the actual real lending rate was still around 11 % when the Project was completed, high in
the face of low inflation then prevailing and excess liquidity.
vii.   The monetary policy reforms have also been reasonably successful as a new 91-day BB bill
was introduced in December 1990 to institute indirect monetary control. The priority sector
(directed) lending with automatic BB refinance at varying concessional rates has been formally
abolished. Directed lending is now much reduced and is done informally to a few select sectors and
to state enterprises (SEs). While there has been considerable strengthening of the supervisory and
regulatory functions of BB, it is a continuing process and further improvements are needed,
particularly in the area of enforcement.  Improving the debt recovery environment, a major
objective, has not been successful as a large proportion of the banks' portfolios remains non-
performing. Under FSAC, the GOB did set up special financial loan courts and stepped-up loan
recovery efforts, but because of the problems associated with judicial procedures and the deep rooted
"default culture," whose multi-faceted dimensions appear to be more complex than was originally
presumed (including lax enforcement), the bad debt overhang continues.
viii.   A major objective was to turn NCBs into viable commercial banks. Towards this end the
Government recapitalized NCBs in 1990 and 1993, but these banks have continued to lose money on
account of their poorly performing portfolios and continued financing of loss-making SEs. If their
portfolios are properly valued now, they would fail to meet capital adequacy requirements. On the
positive side, considerable improvement in NCBs internal control (through timely production of
various reports as a result of newly installed MIS, lending risk analysis of large loans, etc.) appears to
have been accomplished. While some progress has been made in strengthening the capital market,
much more remains to be done. The impact of the TA Project, which was expected to assist in the



-iv-
strengthening of NCBs, has been reduced by the delay in the initiation of the TA, and by the initial
resistance the consultants faced from both the NCB staff to proposed policy changes. The basic
problem relating to NCBs was that, given the government ownership, there was no incentive for
managements and staff to change.
ix.          A host of factors, both subject to and not subject to government control, affected the
achievement of project objectives. For instance, the GOB could not control the delay in securing a
bank supervision expert, which adversely affected the ability of BB to strengthen. However, the
unwillingness of GOB and BB to reduce the deposit rate floor in line with falling inflation and to
tighten or even enforce the existing lax loan classification and provisioning requirements affected the
interest rate reform objectives. The NCB strengthening was adversely affected by GOB's failure to
implement the politically difficult but necessary NCB management reforms including their
compensation. The improvement in the debt recovery environment was affected by the delay in
amending the Financial Loan Courts Act, 1990, to close the identified loopholes and expand the
courts' jurisdiction. Finally, the initiation of the TA Project was delayed partly due to procedural
delays in getting GOB clearances of individual consultants.
x.           Given the GOB's commitment to financial sector reforms, at least some reforms can
be expected to continue and deepen, particularly the strengthening of BB supervision and regulation
capabilities. The judgment about the sustainability of some of the other reforms is more difficult to
make because of three main reasons.  First, these reforms have not yet reached their logical
conclusion and hence there is a need to renew the commitment for the specific reforms; indeed these
need to be expanded and deepened. Second, the slow progress in strengthening institutional capacity
at NCBs and BB has proved to be a barrier against sustainability of the reforms. Third, the impact of
the TA for the institutional development of the NCBs has been less than hoped for because the state
ownership denies incentives for the managements and staff to change.
xi.          Whereas the performance of IDA in the preparation and implementation of this
project was generally satisfactory, with hindsight it now appears that the design of the Project could
have been given more attention. For instance, the interest rate liberalization should have been
preceded by the introduction of measures to tackle more effectively the structural weaknesses of the
banking sector including: the bad debts and their source; poorly performing NCBs with politicized
Boards, poor quality staff, over-staffing and excessive branches; lack of adequate competition; and a
weak central bank. The performance of GOB and BB was compromised principally because of the
lack of vigorous enforcement (of the classification and provisioning policy, capital adequacy
standards, etc.).
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
xii.         The GOB made important policy decisions in a timely manner and yet their impact
was less than what was envisioned. The key finding of the project implementation experience is that
complex, multi-faceted reforms must extend beyond "stroke of pen" type measures and also address
processes and procedures and be backed by vigorous enforcement and a firm political commitment to
carry them through in their entirety over a medium to long-term.
xiii.        In its continuing efforts to sustain and carry fo-ward the financial sector reforms, the
GOB must attach high priority to: accountability and enforcement; strengthening of BB to improve
its autonomy and capability; further deregulation of interest rates; restructuring of domestic private



banks and privatization of NCBs; restructuring public sector development finance institutions (DFIs);
and improving the legal framework for debt recovery.
xiv.          The implementation experience under this Project has also provided some important
lessons about the design and implementation of financial sector reform programs. Most of these are
not new and have been experienced in other countries as well:
(a)    The sequencing of the reforms is important for the success of the reform program. In
the case of this Project, the inherent rigidities in the banking system undermined the
effectiveness of the interest rate liberalization efforts. It would have been better if the
interest rate liberalization had been preceded by the introduction of measures to tackle
effectively the structural weaknesses of the banking sector such as the bad debts and
their source, poorly performing NCBs with politicized Boards, and lack of
competition.
(b)    It is important to ensure that the regulatory authority (normally the central bank) has
adequate autonomy and equipped with technical skills. Without proper enforcement,
reform measures become ineffective.
(c)    If the legal framework for debt recovery is inadequate, then the debt recovery efforts
and impact of macro-financial reforms would be largely neutralized.
(d)    Government ownership of banks virtually eliminates a proper incentive framework.
Therefore, in environments such as prevails in Bangladesh, serious consideration
should be given to an insistence on privatization.
(e)    The impact of financial sector reforms is closely linked to the successful restructuring
of state enterprises in the real sectors. In the case of Bangladesh, the success of the
financial sector reforms has been adversely affected by the inherent weaknesses of
state enterprises in the real sectors whose continuing losses were (and to some extent
still are being) financed by the nationalized banking sector.
(f)    Reform programs supported under structural adjustment credits which cannot be
completed in one operation should clearly recognize the risk of lack of sustainability.
In such cases only genuine ownership of the program by the government would result
in sustainability.



BANGLADESH
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUISTMENT CREDIT
(Credit 2152-BD!
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMIFNTATION ASSEFSSMENr
1. Project Identit
Name             :Financial Sector Adjustrnent Credit
Credit No.       :Cr. 2152-BD
RVP Unit          South Asia Region
Country           Bangladesh
Sector            Finance
2. Proiect Backgroind
Macroeconomic Persc&tive
2.1          Although per capita GNP increased from US$210 in 1990 (the year this Credit was
approved) to US$224 in 1994, Bangladesh remains one of the poorest countries in the world. Efforts
to utilize the available domestic and foreign resources effectively for faster growth, to implement
devteopment projects and programs rapidly, and to alleviate poverty substantially have been hindered
by a weak public administration, limited economic infrastructure, poorly run public enterprises, and
by an ineffective and weak financial system.
2.2          In late FY89 and early FY90, clear signs of a potentially serious deterioration in the
macroeconomic situation emerged. Due to a surge in imports, attributable in part to commercial food
imports, foreign exchange reserves fell sharply by November 1989, to the equivalent of 1.6 months
coverage of imports.  The fiscal and monetary situation weakened significantly and current
expenditure increased rapidly. Recognizing this deterioration, the Government of Bangladesh (GOB)
initiated a short-term stabilization program in February 1990 in consultation with IDA and IMF.
Early into this program, Bangladesh coped relatively successfully with the impact of the Gulf crisis,
both in terms of a higher petroleum import bill and the repatriation of a large number of workers
from the Gulf. During this period, the GOB also initiated a number of important structural reforms.
Substantial progress was made toward implementing a value added tax (VAT) introduced in July
1991, government consumption was restrained, and price adjustments were made in many public
enterprises. An exercise to set project priorities for the public investment program was also put in
place.
2.3          To establish a sound macroeconomic framework, the GOB  signed a Policy
Framework Paper with IMF that was to be implemented over the period 1990/91 - 1992/93. The
implementation of PFP (included as a second tranche condition under this Credit) resulted in
reversing the trend of the second half of the 1980s. A third-year ESAF program ended successfully
in FY93 and was followed by a one-year successor program under the Enhanced Surveillance
Procedure.



- 2 -
2.4          The March 1991 transition to a democratically elected government constituted an
imnportant national landmark.  Following several bold policy reforms initiated by the new
government, the GDP growth rate moved up to 4.2 percent in FY92. The GDP growth rate
continued in FY93 and FY 94 at around 4 to 5 percent. Readymade garment exports grew
impressively and the balance of payments continiued to strengthen due to the rise in exports and
workers' remittances, and the slow growth in imports. Gross international reserves crossed the $3
billion mark (more than eight months of imports) by the end of November 1994. Inflation, as
measured by CPI, which fell in FY93 to an estimated 1.3 percent per annum due to record low prices
for rice increased only slightly to 1.8% in FY94. Investments, whether public or private, however,
failed to pick up substantially.
2.5         In order to reach a higher level of sustained growth, required to make a dent in the
poverty level, Bangladesh will need to increase its gross domestic investment from the 14 percent of
GDP estimated for FY94, to 17-18 percent in the medium term.  The bulk of the increased
investment in industry and agriculture must come from the private sector operating under an
appropriate enabling environment. A key element in the fulfillment of this macroeconomic objective
would be an efficient and responsive financial sector that can ensure the quality of financial
intermediation and support higher levels of investment.
Financial Sectorackground
2.6          At the time of independence, all financial institutions, except foreign bank branches,
were nationalized along with the major industrial concerns. This policy began to be changed from the
early 1980s as the importance of the private sector for growth and development was realized. Two
banks were denationalized in 1982 and new private banks were allowed to generate competition and
increase efficiency in the sector. Prior to the approval of this Credit, the commercial banking system,
at the end of 1989, included four NCBs, ten domestic private banks, and seven foreign banks. The
NCBs dominated the system with 63% of deposits and 65% of loans. Today the banking system
includes the four NCBs, twelve domestic private banks, and nine foreign banks. Moreover, seven
new banking licenses have recently been issued and most of these new banks are expected to begin
operations this year. Two more foreign banks have also been given permission to set up branches in
the country. The dominance of the NCBs is, therefore, decreasing although as of December 31,
1994, the NCBs still commanded 61 % of bank deposits and 54% of bank lending.
2.7          Future priorities for financial sector reforms include:  improved governance and
effective enforcement; better supervision capabilities at BB; greater competition through privatization
of NCBs and through new bank entry; restoration of all banks' financial health; restructuring of the
DFIs that are more or less moribund; and rationalization of deposit rates on bank savings accounts
and on competing non-bank postal and other GOB savings schemes. The reforms underway in the
sector need to be deepened and extended to DFIs and agricultural credit banks.
3. Statem ntauioo           ties
3.1          Pr!.je   etive: As a structural adjustment credit, the Project was designed to
support GOB's broad, long-term, financial sector reform program. The primary objectives of GOB
were (i) to improve the functioning of the banking system so that it could play an increasingly



-3-
and (ii) to restructure the NCBs. These objective were to be achieved by: liberalizing interest rates;
improving monetary policy; abolishing priority sector lending; strengthening central bank supervision
and regulation; improving the debt recovery environment; strengthening and financial restructuring of
NCBs; and strengthening the capital market. The GOB's broad reform program was outlined in a
financial sector policy letter to IDA (Appendix D) and in the matrix of policy actions (Appendix E)
and is summarized in the following paragraph.
3.2          The interest rate reforms were aimed at replacing the administered rate structure
with market-determined rates so as to improve the banking system's efficiency in allocating resources
and the banks' interest rate spreads, specially those of NCBs. The monetary policy reforms were
aimed at replacing the direct credit controls with market-oriented instruments through the replacement
of the subsector-specific subsidized refinancing facility for banks with a general non-subsidized BB
rediscount facility and the introduction of short-term BB-bills to conduct open market operations.
The abolition of the priority sector lending, refinanced by BB at heavily subsidized rates, was aimed
at reducing the losses of the banks, particularly of NCBs, from lending to these high risk sectors at
low administered rates. The planned improvements in BB's supervision and regulatory functions
were aimed at ensuring a healthy and competitive financial sector with viable banks and other non-
bank financial institutions. The proposed improvements in the debt recovery enviromnent,
including the legal framework, were considered vital to sustain the viability of the commercial banks.
Finally, the NCBs strengthening and fmancial restructuring was aimed at turning them into viable
and efficient banks. The capital market strengthening was aimed at expanding the role of the
capital market in financing new investments to supplement commercial bank and DFI lending.
3.3          The Credit objectives were consistent with IDA's Country Assistance Strategy and the
Project was recognized by all parties as important for the development of the financial sector of
Bangladesh. However, with hindsight it now appears that the reform program did not fully recognize
the need for changing the performance incentives in the nationalized banking sector, underestimated
the imnpact of market structure, and overestimated the capacity for institutional change. The project
turned out to be quite demanding institutionally and politically for GOB and some of the actions
proved to be quite complex as they involved a wide range of policy and institutional changes.
3.4          The Technical Assistance Project , the FSRP, was financed by USAID through a
parallel grant of US$19.4 million for the period from September 1991 to September 1995. It was
principally aimed at providing the necessary assistance for the proper implementation of the reform
program through strengthening of the BB, the NCBs, and the BIBM. The FSRP team, at its peak,
comprised of 19 expatriate consultants and 15 national consultants including a team leader, an
executive administrator, lawyers, and experts in credit, MIS/accounting, planning/budgeting,
training, and macroeconomics. The FSRP project has started to wind down although the USAID has
recently granted a limited extension to June 1996.
4. Achievement of Objectives
4.1          Overall, the Project achieved its objectives only partially.  An evaluation of the
achievement of specific objectives is summarized in Table-l and compliance with tranche conditions
is discussed in the tranche release memos for the second and third tranches of the Credit (Appendixes
F and G). The implementation experience of the reform programn is discussed below.



-4 -
4.2          The Project represented the first systematic effort in the country's history to reform
the financial sector. It was conceived of as a broad long term reform process. Its main contribution
is to bring to surface the problems that were afflicting the sector for a long time, and to begin the
reform process. Specific reform measures included removal of rigid administrative controls on
interest rates, virtual elimination of directed credit, strengthening of the central bank, establishment
of special courts for debt recovery following the passage of the Loan Courts Act, and recapitalization
of NCBs. However, in terms of having the desired impact within the given time frame, the major
objectives have been only partially achieved: the NCBs did not gain the envisioned financial strength;
the debt recovery environment did not improve (the proportion of classified loans remains high even
under the present lax requirements); there is lack of effective competition as represented by the
absence of differentiation in loan pricing and accumulation of excess liquidity; and the banks continue
to portray an overly risk averse behavior with no incentive for introducing new financial products. It
should be noted that the reform process is continuing and the Government is currently addressing
these and other problems afflicting the financial sector. Major specific reform measures and their
implementation/results are discussed below.
4.3           As regards the interest rate reforms, the major change has been the lifting of rigid
administrative controls over interest rates; this was achieved by a policy decision of GOB. What was
envsged under the project was achieved. However, the rates (lending as well as deposit) are even
now not set competitively and their structure is not entirely rational. On the lending side, the
government stll has considerable influence because of the dominance of NCBs in the banking sector
and of the treasury bills in an inactive money market. There is also a restriction not to differentiate
rates to borrowers in the same category by more than two percentage points on the basis of risk; in
fact domestic banks simply charge uniform rates irrespective of differences m risks. To an extent,
banks lending rates are also influenced by a deposit rate floor and prescribed bands for three lending
categories (agriculture, exports, and term loans to small and cottage industries). On the deposit side,
not only there is a prescribed floor but there are several special savings schemes with high prescribed
rates, which distort the rate structure.
4.4           Moreover, the interest rates remained high in real terms. The high real interest rates
following a period of liberalization of rates were perhaps to be expected in a market characterized by:
oligopoly and other imperfections; inadequate prudental regulations and supervision framework; and
weak and inefficient financial institutions. The interest rate reforms did not improve the efficiency in
the allocation of resources; instead, they conLributed to increasing the cost of resources to the
borrowers. The lesson learnt from this experience is that as a first step, measures should have been
introduced to tackle more effectively the structural weaknesses of the banking sector including: the
bad debts and their source, poorly performing NCBs with politicized Boards, and lack of adequate
competition.
4.5          The monetary policy reforms were reasonably successful. The BB introduced, in
December 1990, the auctioning of a new 91-day BB bill, in an attempt to move to indirect monetary
control. However, the volume of these bills is still too small to have a significant impact and since
the bills are essentially returned to BB as reserve requirement by banks, no secondary market has
developed. The reserve requirements should be lowered and an active secondary market developed
by increasing the volume of BB bills and relying more on market operations than on reserve
requirements in conducting monetary policy. The BB is already moving in this direction. There was
more success in reducing the volumes of directed lending. Explicit priority sector lending has been



- 5 -
eliminated by the abolition of BB-adninistered, sector-specific credit ceilings eligible for automatic
BB refinancing at varying concessional rates. At present BB has a single common rediscount window
for emergency lending at the Bank Rate, which is adjusted periodically to reflect market conditions.
Informally, however, directed lending to some sectors and to SEs continues.
4.6          The objective of strengthening the supervion and regulatory functions of BB has
not yet been fully achieved since the process is continuing and a lot more remains to be done.
Achievements to date include: improvements in bank monitoring via the CAMEL rating system that
now covers all banks; establishment of a Credit Information Bureau at BB to provide credit
information on borrowers to the banks and to monitor large loans of all banks; strengthening of on-
site inspection that covers 70% of loans of all banks; introduction of revised loan classification and
provisioning requirements that would reach international standards within 2-5 years; and agreement
with all domestic private banks through Memoranda of Understanding that call for meeting all
standards by end-1997 by the weakest private banks. However, the overall BB supervision of banks
remains lax and the need for substantial fiurther improvements remains urgent. The ability of BB to
enforce regulations is closely linked to its overall strengthening, autonomny and accountability. The
Government is currently addressing these issues.
4.7          The basic step toward improving the debt recovery environment was taken by the
enactment of new legislation called the Financial Loan Courts Act, 1990, which called for setting up
loan courts in each District of the country to deal exclusively with suits filed by the financial
institutions. However, some lacunae discovered later have seriously compromised its effectiveness.
The fact that the financial loan courts are not dealing exclusively with banking and money suits has
not helped. While these courts were awarding over 5,000 decrees a year during 1991, they are now
awarding only around 2,500 decrees a year, resulting in a pile up of 30,000 pending cases involving
about Tk. 24.1 billion (around US$603 million). The decrees issued by these courts cannot, in any
case, be executed without filing execution suits in the civil courts where it still takes ten to fifteen
years to obtain a ruling. Therefore, other than forcing some out-of-court setdtements, almost no legal
suit has led to actual recovery of any portion of the original loan made by the financial institutions up
to now. MOF and BB are drafting amendments to the Act to close the loopholes and make the Act
more effective.
4.8          The monitoring of the hundred largest defaultes and of all new loans of NCBs
from 1990 to inprove loan recovery had the desired results. When account is taken of the
replacement of overdues by the Bangladesh Jute Corporation with GOB's bonds (as agreed under
IDA's Jute Sector Adjustment Credit, collections met the targets. However, a recent analysis of the
quality of NCB's new loans has revealed that the quality has improved only marginally. Because of
the deep-rooted default culture, whose multi-faceted dimensions appear to be more complex than was
originally presumed, the debt overhang has continued.
4.9          Although the reform program originally planned a one-time cleanup based on the
December 1989 NCBs' loan portfolios at the ime of the first classification exercise, that did not
happen in reality. A lack of clear understanding on the part of the domestic commercial banks,
including NCBs, of the reasons for the classification and the manner in which the provision expense
would be dealt with by GOB led to under-reporting of the classified loans. The reported operational
results did not reflect the extent of the needed provisions. As a result, the capital shortfall was
understated and the need to restructure the banks was postponed. The training of NCB staff in



- 6 -
classification and provisioning procedures as well as proper loan evaluation methods did not occur
due to the delay in mobilizing the FSRP consultants as well as initial resistance from within NCBs to
accept the consultants.
4.10         The rmancial restructuring of the NCBs has not achieved the objective of turning
them around into viable and efficient commercial banks. Although GOB recapitalized NCBs by
providing Tk. 17.3 billion, in the form of interest bearing bonds, as of December 30, 1990, the
NCBs kept losing money because of: recognition (though still partial) of past bad debts due to the
classification and provisioning requirements: failure to improve significantly the quality of new
lending because of continued financing of loss-making SEs and bad lending in general; and lack of
any visible efficiency gains. The continued losses eroded their capital below the capital adequacy
requirement under the law. The GOB, therefore, had to recapitalize the NCBs again in November
1993 by providing some cash and issuing interest bearing bonds for a total amount of Tk. 16 billion.
However, if NCB's assets are properly valued now, they would once again have a serious capital
deficiency. Clearly the reform program and the TA Project has failed to change the culture within the
NCBs thereby raising questions about the efficacy of the NCB recapitalization program without first
implementing sustainable institutional and managerial reforms.
4.11         The capital market strengthening has occurred partially with the enactment of the
Securities and Exchange Commission Act in 1993, which set up the Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC) as the regulator of the capital market. The SEC is now drafting a law to allow
the setting up of merchant banks and portfolio managers to speed up the development of the capital
market. Trading in the Dhaka Stock Exchange has increased substantially over the Project period.
Average daily volumes increased from US$37,700 in 1992, to US$50,700 in 1993 and to
US$430,000 in 1994. Total turnover for 1993 was US$14.4 million which increased to US$120
million in 1994. Market capitalization broke the US$1 billion mark in the last quarter of 1994, and
stood at US$1.05 billion as of December 31, 1994. With less than 200 listed securities, the Exchange
suffers from a lack of new scrips and liquidity. Key primary market functions of valuation, issue
structure, underwriting and placement are not yet well developed. Nevertheless, demand for new
issues has been strong and they have been greatly oversubscribed.
4.12         Although the Credit closed in December 1993, the TA Project, which was expected
to end in September 1995, has been extended to June 30, 1996. The initiation of the TA Project by
the international and local consultants was delayed by nine months due to the delay in selecting the
contractors by USAID and subsequently due to the delay in clearing the individual consultants by
GOB. The actual work of the consultants began only in early 1992, a year and a half after the Credit
became effective. Over the last three years, the consultants worked with NCBs to build internal bank
teams to design and develop new management and operational systems/procedures/training materials,
a process that is still continuing. Until recently, the consultants were not permitted by NCB
management to assist in the loan approval and administration process, which remains a key area of
deficiency. An area where positive results have been obtained is in the pricing policy. With the
advice of the FSRP consultants, the NCBs have lately raised fees and other charges for non-loan
services while lowering deposit rates. The earnings on account of pricing changes have been
estimated, by the FSRP team, to be almost US$100 million. The FSRP has also helped in the
computerization of key activities, resulting in better and quicker information availability. A notable
achievement has been staff training in the areas of performance planning, new loan ledgers, credit
procedures, MIS reports, lending risk analysis and other modern banking techniques. According to
FSRP, a total of 31,358 officers of the four NCBs, the BB and BIBM have been trained in the above



- 7 -
mentioned areas during the period November 1992 to December 1994. The full effect of the changes
have been dampened by the resistance to change faced by the consultants from some NCB staff and
trade unions, as well as by the wavering political commitment to some of the harder policy changes.
5. Majr Factors Affecting the Prject
5.1          The Credit became effective within four days of signing on June 22, 1990, and the
first tranche was released promptly. The second tranche release conditions related to interest rates,
monetary policy, banking supervision, training of banking sector personnel, and strengthening of
commercial banks and NCBs in particular. The second tranche release was delayed by over 18
months from its initial anticipated date mainly due to the delays in the implementation of three
important reform measures: collection targets by NCBs in respect of their hundred largest defaulters,
the recapitalization of NCBs, and the initiation of the USAID-financed TA. The release of the third
tranche was also delayed by about 20 months compared to the original schedule mainly due once
again to the delay in the further recapitalization of NCBs. Other conditions for the third tranche
release related to interest rates, further strengthening of BB's supervision and regulation function,
debt recovery environment, and training and upgrading of banking sector personnel. The macro
economic framework remained satisfactory throughout.
5.2          The factors that affected the implementation of the reform program supported by the
Project are given below. It should be noted that in the context of broader scheme of things, these
factors were not decisive for the outcome of the Project.
5.3          Factors not generally sublject to GQB control: The delay in strengthening of the
supervision and regulatory functions of BB was partly due to the delay in securing a bank supervision
expert as envisaged during the negotiation of the Credit. This was partly overcome, after much
delay, by rearranging the FSRP budget to free up resources for hiring an international bank
supervision expert. The expert, who joined in November 1994, has installed an improved bank
supervision system comprising of strengthened on-site and off-site inspection capacity and an early
warning system based on CAMEL reports.
5.4          Factors generally subject to GOR antl/or RR control: Several factors that affected the
outcome of the Project were under the control of GOB and/or BB. For example, the interest rate
floors should have been lowered in line with the drop in the inflation rate. The classification and
provisioning guidelines should have been strictly enforced, which would have eliminated the effect of
the past bad debts on the current real lending rates and broken the past default culture. The
improvement in the debt recovery enviromient suffered because of a lack of political commitment to
deal strictly with willful defaulters and continuation of interest and/or loan remission programs.
Moreover, there was inordinate delay in drafting the necessary amendments to the Financial Loan
Courts Act, 1990, to close the loopholes and to expand the jurisdiction of the Loan Courts to pass
execution decrees as well. The expected strengthening of NCBs could not be achieved since GOB did
not carry through the much needed NCB management reforms that were a prerequisite to a successful
strengthening program. The delay in the initiation of FSRP TA Project was caused by the
inordinately long time taken by GOB to clear each and every expatriate consultant mobilized by FSRP
management. This also affected the NCB strengthening plans.



- 8 -
5.5          Risk Assessm  :  The main risks identified in the SAR were that: (i) political
considerations might interfere in BB's freedom to raise interest rates if inflation were to increase
sharply. In fact, inflation continued to fall over the project period and BB never faced the need to
increase interest rates. Although the fall in inflation dictated a much lower interest rate floor, the BB
was unwilling to drop the floor after a certain level, which partly contributed to high real rates; (ii)
NCBs may take longer than anticipated to classify their portfolio and debt recovery performance and
NCB management may not improve as much as desired. The Project aimed at addressing these risks
through the FSRP Technical Assistance Project. In retrospect, the delay in program initiation, the
initial resistance on the part of NCBs in accepting the TA, and above all, a weak political will to take
strong needed actions, did cause these risks to actually materialize as evidenced by the continued poor
health of NCBs in particular and the banking sector in general. Moreover, the recommendations of
the GOB Task Force for NCB management reforms were never fully implemented and, as a result,
the culture within NCBs did not change.
6. Pr _ctSuinabfl*y
6.1           Financial sector reform is inherently a continuous process, and the full impact of
measures taken at a given point in time take a long time to manifest. While initiating the much
needed reforms of the financial sector, this Project was conceived as a broad based reform process
and was designed to address the highest priority issues identified at that time. It was envisaged
during project preparation that a second Financial Sector Adjustment Credit would build on and
expand the reforms. The need for further reforms is clear as this Project has unmasked the nature
and seriousness of the problems in the financial sector and the importance of solving those problems
for achieving the overall objective of increased growth and poverty alleviation. The Project's
sustinability depends on GOB's commitment to continue with the reform process and undertake the
measures that are now clearly indicated as a result of this Project. The lesson learnt from the
Project's experience is that reform programs supported under structural adjustment credits which only
initiate a process and cannot be completed in one operation should clearly recognize the risk of lack
of sustainability. In such cases only genuine ownership of the program by the government would
result in sustainability. It should be added that GOB is currently working to formulate a new
financial sector reform program, and IDA is assisting in this effort.
6.2          Another risk to sustainability at this stage is the slow progress in strengthening
institutional capacity which has lagged behind the policy reforms. The necessary institutional reforms
(such as overcoming weak governance and enforcement, banking and regulatory skills development,
arms length relationship between the government and its banks and between private bank owners and
borrowers, independence and competence of BB) need to be given urgent attention. A pre-requisite
would also be the creation of the right risk-reward relationship in the banking sector.
6.3          The impact of the technical assistance for institutional development of NCBs is also
mixed. While some substantive changes have been brought about and a sizeable number of staff have
been trained in modern banking techniques, these activities have not yet been successful in changing
the existing culture of waste and inefficiency. The reason is that the overall incentive framework in
which the management and staff operate remains the same. The conclusion on this point is that
fundamental changes in the way NCBs operate would not be possible without their privatization.



- 9 -
7. EDA Perfoanc
7.1          This Credit, the third sector adjustment operation in IDA's Bangladesh program, was
based on a 1986 report by a GOB-initiated National Commission on Money, Banking and Credit
(NCMBC), which diagnosed numerous financial sector problems. IDA, on its own, also came out
with a sector report in 1987 entitled "Bangladesh - A Program for Financial Sector Reform", which
identified several weaknesses in the financial sector which had to be overcome to achieve the overall
objective of higher growth and poverty alleviation. A program of reforms to address the problems
identified by the GOB Commission and IDA financial sector report was then identified and
subsequently supported under the Credit. IDA's performance was, therefore, satisfactory in jointly
identifying this Project to reform the financial sector so that the sector could play an effective role in
complementing and supporting the supply response of firms to ongoing improvements in the
macroeconomic environment. Moreover, this Project initiated the financial sector reforms necessary
for successful IDA lending through financial sector institutions in Bangladesh and led to the approval
of the Private Sector Industrial Credit (Cr. 2340-BD) in April 1992, for financing industrial
investments. The Project was consistent with both IDA's and GOB's development strategy. It
should be noted, however, that the Project was designed on the assumption that it would be followed
by another IDA operation to carry forward the reforms begun under the first Credit.
7.2         IDA  performance in assisting GOB  with project preparation was generally
satisfactory. With hindsight, though, it now appears that the project design should have placed more
emphasis on correcting the incentive framework which would have had the effect of improving the
quality of management and staff of both BB and NCBs. This was not done since GOB had already
set up a Task Force for NCB management reforms. The Task Force recommended a package of
management reforms the bulk of which was subsequently cleared by the Cabinet. However, the
reforms were only partially implemented and they were not enough to change the culture within
NCBs. Perhaps the Task Force recommnendations should have been incorporated in the reform
program supported by the Credit.
7.3         IDA fielded five supervision missions during the three and half years between project
effectiveness and termination (Part II, Table 13). Given the nature of the Project, the supervision
missions should have been more frequent; there were also changes of task managers (at least three
TMs were involved). These factors resulted, at times, in a loss of momentum on GOB's part to
implement the reforms. Since late 1992, more intensive tranche release missions with RMB staff
following-up on the problematic tranche release conditions relating to NCB's loan collection
performance and recapitalization resulted in the release of the tranches, albeit with some delay. RMB
staff also maintained close relationship with the USAID-financed TA team and provided suggestions
and assistance as and when required.
7.4          Relationships under the project were cordial and constructive throughout.  The
GOB/BB, IDA, IMF and USAID cooperated fully in implementing the Project. The implementation
of the TA Project was monitored by a steering committee comprising representatives of BB, MOF,
NCBs, IDA, USAID, IMF, and the TA Consultants, which met quarterly to discuss the problems,
review the progress and consider the future work plan. The steering committee succeeded in
resolving most of the implementation problems of the TA Project and forged a strong relationship
between all the parties concerned. IDA and IMF worked closely in monitoring the financial sector
developments, and key actions were included in the PFP.



- 10-
8. Borrower Performance
8.1          Following the completion of reports by the GOB Commission on Money, Banking
and Credit and IDA in 1986 and 1987 respectively, the following two years were directed to project
preparation in which GOB, and BB in particular, participated actively. The Borrower performance in
project preparation was satisfactory and culminated in the Borrower stating its commitment to the
reform program in the Development Policy Letter (DPL) dated May 8, 1990 (Appendix-C). The new
government that took office in 1991 accepted the entire reform program and proceeded with its
imnplementation. The Borrower's overall performance has been mixed: fully satisfactory during
identification and preparation phases, only partially successful during the implementation phase, and
very successful in so far as the management of macro aspects is concerned.
8.2          The Borrower's performance in achieving and maintaining a stable macroeconomic
environment throughout the project implementation was very good. For the fiscal year ended June
30, 1994, GDP grew at 4.6%; investment reached 14.2 percent of GDP; the budget deficit remained
under 6 percent of GDP; the rate of inflation was less than 2 percent for the second consecutive year;
the external current account deficit fell to 1.6 percent of GDP; and the foreign exchange reserves
grew to eight months of imports.  The macroeconomic performance, overall, has remained
satisfactory since. However, when the Borrower performance is related more directly to Project
specific aspects, it did not produce equally good results as discussed in the following two paras.
8.3          The Borrower's enforcement of capital adequacy requirement and NCB privatization
was not satisfactory. Although GOB stated in the DPL that it intended to further increase capital
requirements to 8 % of risk adjusted assets over time no initiative has yet been taken in this regard. In
fact, the existing capital requirement of six percent of the total demand and time liabilities of the
banks is not being enforced. Similarly, GOB's intention to take steps to privatize one or two NCBs,
as stated in the DPL, has not been acted upon even though IDA, at the request of GOB, carried out a
study on Privatization of Rupali Bank and recommended a strategy for its restructuring and
privatization. Finally, GOB's plan to strengthen NCB management and management systems,
improve personnel and incentive policies, and significantly increase the autonomy given to the NCBs
through additional reforms have met with only marginal success.
8.4          BB's performance was mixed.  Although BB cooperated well during project
preparation, appraisal and supervision, it was not fully equipped to implement effectively some parts
of the reforms due to a lack of resources including a shortage of skilled staff. In addition, the
performance of BB was also affected because of a lack of political support which was needed in the
absence of full autonomy.
9. A
9.1          Although some important and critical reforms envisioned under the Project have been
initiated, the implementation of others has not produced the desired results, at least not yet. As a
result, the impact of the reforms has been limited, so far, and the banking sector is still characterized
as fragile and inefficient: none of the NCBs meets the capital adequacy requirements under the BCA;
the debt recovery environment has not improved and the proportion of classified loans (about one-
third the outstanding portfolio) is high even under the present lax requirements; there is lack of
effective competition as represented by the absence of differentiation in loan pricing and accumulation



of excess liquidity; and the banks portray an overly risk averse behavior with no incentive for
introducing new financial products. It should be added that financial sector reforms normally take a
long time to bear results, and some reforms required other policy measures that were not taken.
9.2          It is apparent that the impact of some of the reforms has been adversely affected by
the poor state of the real sectors, particularly of SEs. The large overdues of SEs, specially in the jute
and textile sectors, had an important bearing on the financial condition of the banks. In the case of
Bangladesh, it now appears that the success of the financial sector reforms could have been enhanced
if they were preceded by a successful restructuring of the real sectors, specially the SEs whose
continuing losses were (and to a large extent still are being) financed by NCBs.
9.3          The outcome of the TA Project has also been less satisfactory than originally
envisioned. Although the NCBs have been strengthened with a more effective MIS, new operational
systems/procedures, pricing policy, and training in modern banking techniques, many of these
changes have not been institutionalized as yet so that the culture within NCBs and its behavior
continues to be almost the same as before the reforms. The reason for this may well lie in the fact
that the overall environment in which NCBs operate has not changed to support and sustain the
changes within NCBs. Thus, a necessary but not sufficient condition for NCB reforms to be
successful is that improvements in the legal framework for debt recovery, debt recovery efforts,
commercialization of objectives and operations, reduction in controls and intervention by the
government, and changes in the way public sector entities operate have to take place simultaneously
or precede the institutional strengthening of NCBs. In retrospect, it appears that fundamental changes
in NCBs' operations cannot be effected without their privatization.
9.4          However, the situation prevailing at the time of loan approval should be factored in to
the assessment of the outcome. The project represented the first attempt at a systematic reform of the
financial sector. Therefore, it was felt that the reform program had to be realistic in relation to what
was judged to be achievable in the first attempt taking into consideration the implementation capacity
of GOB and BB. If the reforms were more ambitious, there was the risk of outright rejection. On
the other hand, even a moderate reform program could set the reform process in motion. Reforms
are a continuing process and indeed this Project, at the least, has initiated this process.
10. Future Operation
10.1         Although no explicit arrangements were made about the Project's future operation,
there was an understanding between GOB and IDA that the financial sector reform process initiated
under the Project would continue and indeed be expanded and deepened. IDA has continued its
active involvement by undertaking considerable sector work and engaging GOB in constructive
dialogue. The GOB on its part has continued to expand the reforms and is currently in the process of
formulating a new program; consultations between GOB and IDA are also continuing on how IDA
might assist in a possible follow up operation. If and when there is a new operation, IDA would
emphasize the following areas:



- 12-
*     Governance/Accountability
*     Banks' Profitability/Attractiveness
*     Privatization of NCBs
*     Restructuring of Domestic Private Banks
*     Improving Debt Collection Environment
1 1.    L
11.1         The GOB made important policy decisions in a timely manner and yet their impact
was less than what was envisioned. The key finding of the project implementation experience is that
complex, multi-faceted reforms must extend beyond "stroke of pen" type measures and also address
processes and procedures and be backed by vigorous enforcement and a firm political commitment to
carry them through in their entirety over a medium to long-term.
11.2         This Project provided the foliowing important lessons about the design and
implementation of financial sector reform programs. Although most of the lessons are not unique and
have been experienced in other countries as well, they nonetheless contribute towards a better
understanding of the factors affecting the impact of financial sector reforms.
(a)    The sequencing of the reforms is important for the success of the reform program. In
the case of this Project, the inherent rigidities in the banking system undermined the
effectiveness of the interest rate liberalization efforts. It would have been better if the
interest rate liberalization had been preceded by the introduction of measures to tackle
effectively the structural weaknesses of the banking sector such as the bad debts and
their source, poorly performing NCBs with politicized Boards, and lack of
competition.
(b)   It is important to ensure that the regulatory authority (normally the central bank) has
adequate autonomy and equipped with technical skills. Without proper enforcement,
reform measures become ineffective.
(c)   If the legal framework for debt recovery is inadequate , then the debt recovery efforts
and impact of macro-financial reforms would be largely neutralized.
(d)    Government ownership of banks virtually eliminates a proper incentive framework.
Therefore, in environments such as prevails in Bangladesh, serious consideration
should be given to an insistence on privatization.
(e)    The impact of financial sector reforms is closely linked to the successful restructuring
of state enterprises in the real sectors. In the case of Bangladesh, the success of the
financial sector reforms has been adversely affected by the inherent weaknesses of
state enterprises in the real sectors whose continuing losses were (and to some extent
still are being) financed by the nationalized banking sector.



- 13 -
(f)    Reform programs supported under structural adjustment credits which cannot be
completed in one operation should clearly recognize the risk of lack of sustainability.
In such cases only genuine ownership of the program by the government would result
in sustainability.



- 14-
PART H. STAISTICAL ANAES
Statistical Tables
Table 1:      Summary of Assessments
Table 2:      Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:      Project Timetable
Table 4:      Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:      Status of Legal Covenants
Table 6:      Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 7:      Bank Resources: Missions
Table 1: Summary of Asseusments
Not
A. Aceymnent of objecties        Sublanul         Psrtial   NgigIhl      a
Macro policies                   ]            0           0             0
Sector policies               0               [1]         0             0
Financial objectives          0               [I]         0             0
Institutional development     0               IV]         D             0
Physical objectives           0               0           0             (v]
Poverty reduction             0               0           0             [/J
Gender issues                 0               0           0             [i]
Other social objectives       0               0           0             [1
Environmental objectives      0               0           0             V]
Public sector management      0               0           0             [v
Private sector development    0               0           0             [1]
Other (specify)               0               0           0             [1



- 15 -
B.   Project sustainability       LikCy         Unlikely             Uncertain
O             O                     [/]
Highly
C.   Bankperfornance               Satifactory   Satisfactory        Deficient
Identification                0              [l/i]                O
Preparation assistance        0              [vi                 0
Appraisal                     0              [v]                 0
Supervision                   0              [v]                  0
Highly
D. Borrower performance         Satisfactory    SatikfLary        Deficient
Preparation                                01                    0 
Implementation                0           [i/]                   0
Covenant compliance           0           [v']                   0
Operation (if applicable)     0            0                     0
Highly
E. Assessment of outcome          gi r          Satiory           Dfiin
0            0                   [1



- 16-
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Creditsl
Loan/credit title            Purpose                  Year of          Status
Approval
Proceeding Operation
1. Industrial Sector Credit          Policy and institutional    June 1987     Closed in March 1990.
improvements to boost
exports
2. Energy Sector Adjustment          Resource development and     April 1989    Closed in December 1991.
investment, rationalization of
pricing and institutional
development
3. Export Development Project        Help boost exports,         April 1989     Disbursements completed
particularly non traditional              and project closed.
Following Operations
1. Private Sector Industrial         Financing of private sector  March 1992    Very slow disbursements
Credit                             investment                                 and unsatisfactory
implementation progress.
2. Second Industrial Sector          Liberalizing regulatory and  October 1992  Progress in achieving
Adjustment                         fiscal policies to encourage               development objectives was
private sector investment                 unsatisfactory. Therefore,
Credit was closed on
12/31/94 without release of
2nd uanche.
Includes projects in the same sector/subsector as this project and adjusmzent operations with related objectives. A
liniit of 10 years is observed when listing preceding operadons.



- 17-
Table 3: Project Timetable
Date actual/
Steps in project cycle                    Date planned2         latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                                            NA
Preparation                                                                         1987-1989
Appraisal                                                                          August 1989
Negotiations                                                                    March-April 1990
Letter of development policy (if applicable)                                      May 8, 1990
Board presentation                                                                 June; 5, 1990
Signing                                                                           June 18, 1990
Effectiveness                                                 July 1990           June 22, 1990
First tranche release (if applicable)                         July 1990            August 1990
Midterm review (if applicable)                                   _
Second tranche release (if applicable)                      January 1991         August 26, 1992
Third tranche release (if applicable)                        March 1992         December 30, 1993
Project completion                                       September 30, 1992     February 22, 1994
Loan closing                                             September 30, 1992     December 31, 1993
2    As provided, for example, in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR).



- 18 -
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY90       FY91      FY92       FY93        FY94
Appraisal estimate        75,000    125,000    178,500    181,400    181,400
Actual                    27,010      81,620     83,630    138,900    190,910
Actual as % of estimate    36%        65%        47%        76%        105%
Date of final disbursement  02/22/1994
Table 5: Status of Legal Covenants3
Agreement    Section      Description of Covenant            Comments
DCA          3.01     Periodic exchange of views   Periodic consultations took place
on progress on the Project.  throughout the Project
implementation. Compliance was
satisfactory.
DCA          3.02     Procedure for procurement.  Compliance was satisfactory.
DCA          3.03     Maintenance of accounts   Overall satifactory but audit
and audit.                reports were submitted late
(althoan all reports were duly
received eventually).
DCA       Schedule 3  Tranche release conditions.   All tranche release conditions were
satisfied although some were
considerably delayed.
This table is based on Annex D5 of OD 13.05, Project Supervision.



-19-
Table 6: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs4
Actual
Staff Weeks
Through appraisal          85.0
Appraisal-Board            23.5
Board-effectiveness         2.0
Supervision                55.8
Completion                 14.6
TOTAL               180.9
Table 7: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of         Month/    Number    Days          Performance
project cycle       year        of         in          rating5
persons     field
Through appraisal      5/20/86       3       7 days
8/29/87       5       19 days
1/29/88      2        14 days
10/18/88      1        3 days
11/14/88      1       14 days
Appraisal through      7/30/89       2        25 days
Board approval
Board approval
through effectiveness
Supervision            11/12/90      2        8 days           2
3/27/91       3        9 days          2
3/10/91       2        9 days          3
2/07/92       3        7 days          2
2/22/93       2       19 days          2
Completion             5/07/94       2        12 days
4 Also includes Bank-financed and trust fiun consultants.
5   Key to status as shown in Supervision Form 590 (in revision).



APPENDIX A
Page I
-20-
Financial Sector Adiu9tme,,St CreXit (MDA Cr. 2152 BD)
1Imcentatign Completion Mission - Aide Memoire
1.    A World Bank (IDA) completion mission comorised of Linda Lowenstein
(loader) and Shamsuddin Ahmad visited Bangladesh from May 7 to 19 to prepare
an implementation completion report (1CR) on the Financial Sector Adjustment
Credit (FSAC). The following comments represenc the preliminary observations
of the mission , which will be confirmed and/or modified in the full ICR. The
mission met with officials in the Ministry of Finance, the Bangladesh Bank
(p3), and the four nationalized commercial banks  BNCBs), as well as with USAID
(the co-financ-ng agency) and the consultants financed by USAID. The mission
informed the Government that the guidelines for the new ICR differed from the
those for the former PCR in two principal ways.  Fixst, the evaluation should
emphasize the sustainability of the project activitLes (policy reforms in the
case of an adjustment crcdit) . and should highlight key future issues on which
subsequent projects (adjustment programs) zhou)d focus. Second, whereas in
the past the Government's contribution to the PCR was normally prepared in
response to IDA's draft assesament, under vlie new ZCR procedures the
Government was expected to draft its own evaluation in advance of or in
parallel with IDA. The mission Save the Government copies of the new
procedures, as well as draft guidelines.for evaluation of adjustment lending
operatiOns. While these were intended for IDA staff's use in drafting its
ICR, the Gover.nment's evaluation was expecred to cover the same material. The
misaion encouraged the Government to be candid in evaluating both its own
performance and that of IDA. The emphasi5 should be on what had been achieved
and what still needed to be accomplished. Wh'Jle chc Government's ICR should
be comprehensive and asscss achievements u.nder Lhe main PSAC policy areas, it
was not expected to exceed ten pages. The Government agreed to submit its
evaluation to IDA no later than June 30, l954.
The Creldit
2.    FSAC was approved by the IDA Executive Directors on 3une 5, 1990 and
became effective  rn Juno 22, 1990 (first tranche release).  The third (final)
tranche was released on December 30, 1993 (20 months atear the planned date),
and the credit was fully disbursed on February 22, 1994. Originally approved
in the amount of SDA 132.7 million, FSAC totalled 5=R 137.4 million following
amendentsa in Sv91 and FY92 to add IDA reflows to the second tranche.  USAID
is financing the complementary UV516.3 million Fir.ancial Sector Reform Program
(FSRP) , a program of technical assistance (TA) for che central ban.k (BB), the
NcBs, and the Bangladesh Ipstitute for Bank Management (USBM).  The TA began
about ninc months behind schcdule in September 1991 and is expected to be
completed by September 30, 1995. Although ?SAC was negotiated and approved
during the last year ot the previous Government, the mission noted that the
currant Government, which was elected in 199l, had viewed the FSAC reform
objectives as an important component of its economic reform program.
Complementary reforms to improve fiscal management, liberalize trade and
industry, and restructure the jute industry were agreed upon in three
subaequent IDA-financed adjustment credits: the Public Resource Management
Adjustment Credit (FY92), tho ntductrial Sector Adjustment Credit (Fy93), and
the uteo 8ector Adjustment credit (FY94). In. addition, the Government
compleced a three year PFP/CSAF program in September 1993. under which IMF and
BanC Staff Jointly concluded that Bangladesh had m-t the performance criteria
and benchmarks.
3.    PSAC supported a program of reforms to liberalize interest rates and
credit allocation, make monetary policy more efrective, improfe debt recovery,
strengthen central bank prudential regulation and supervision, improv- the
operations and capital position of the NCB=, anid a.ssst ln the development of



APPENDIX A
Page 2
-21-
the capital markets.  Prcparation of FSAC  teflecLed a growing recognition
during the 1980s that a healthy and more efficienc financial sector was a
precondition for economic growth.  F.ficien: intermediatior. between savers and
lenders was needed to ensure that Bangladesths scarce resources were channeled
into projects where they could reap the highcst return and hence contribute
the most to economic development and poverty alleviation. The Government's
historical ownership of the dominaact financial institutions and its
intervention in c-edit allocation conctituted a barrier to financial sector
development. The problems of the financial sector were documented in a l986
report of the Government's National Conummission on Money, Banking and Credit
and a 1989 Bank 3ector rcport.  The FSk  program was seen by IDA as a
requirement for resumption of new lending for agricultural and industry, which
had been held up for nine years in view of Lhe weakness of ex' t' ng
institutions and poor credit disciplinary cnvironment. The precarious
condition of the state-owned NC5s was also seen as a threat to the
Government's macrocconomic situation which, while basically stable in the late
19BOs, had come under stress in late PY89 and early FY90 owing to a
deterioratioft i= monetary and fiscal managemenL. Given the scope and severity
of the problems, a second FSAC was planned. YSAC I focused on liberalizing
interest ratez and strenithening the NCBs, which accounced for just over Got
of total banking system deposits and sliqht3y over S0% of cocal advances in
the lace iSSO9. insofar as FSAC addressed Lhe condition of the private banks,
it sought to do so indirectly by strengthening the regulatory framework and
BB's supezvisory capaci.y.  Competition would be introduced into the system
gradually by giving more autonomy to the NCRS and preparing one or more NCPs
for privatization under :the planned PSAC IT.
4.    As indicated by the release or the third tranche, the Government met all
the PSAC conditionality, albeit almost two years late. However, in a number
of cases. fulfillment of the letter of the agreement did not in retrospect
achieve the initended results. There is today a far greater awareness than
there was four years ago of tie importance or financial sector issues in
Bangladesh. However, in part because of PSAC and the extensive FSRP TA, there
is also an appreciation of th* magnitude and complexity of the problems.  Most
yeop2e with whom the mission spoke felc that the financial market
liberalization, debt recovery measures, and introduction of new operational
systems in the NCBs and BB had had a positive impact. However, the mission
was unable to obtain much tangibl* evidence LhtC the financial system has
become more efficient or that the quality of intermediation has improved.
While the mission heard extensive anecdotal evidence of a new ateitude toward
debt repayment and risk analysis, this is difficult to confirm from available
financial data on the NC3Bs. The mission's inability to obtain quantifiable
positive information may reflect in part the fact that many of the reforms
were only recently introduced. However, it also suggests that a number of
serious problems remai2. there is, in addition, a new concern about the
financial health and practices of the private sector banks. This has
underscored the need for effective supervision and institutional strengthening
in Ba.
Fimancial Market Libe-.;i2.aA.LZ
5.    The liberalization of interest rates I* generally viewed as the most
successful achievement under FSAC. Prior to the preparatioft of PSAC. banks
were required to allocate funds to priority secLors at subsidized rates.  The
low rates discouraged spontaneous lending for these sectors, while automatic
BS refinancing for these loans undercut monetary policy. Today 1a specifies
only the floor deposit intcrest rates for savings accounts and fixed depoits
in banks, and establishe; interest rate bands for lending only to agriculture,
exportz, and small and cottage industry (SCI). Only the SCI rata is currently
subsidized, and the banks are rembursed for the subsidy from a finite
transparent facility. 9B now has just otie rediscount window uaing the Bank
Rate which is adjusted in accordance with monetary objectives. However, the



APPENDIX A
-22-                                    Page 3
Government continues to exercise ioral buazioai on rates, as well as to exhort
the banks to meet targeLZ for Li^ustrial and seazonal agricultural lending.
While the NCBs now adjusc their lending rates monthly, they charge all
borrowers the sama rate. without reference to risk/reward considerations.
6.    It is interesting to note that IDA's FSAC President Report for the Board
cited as the main risk to the reform program that political considerations
might interfere with BB's freedom to raise interest rates if inflation were to
increase sharply. As it turned out, irflation has been extremely low in
recent years, in large part a5 a result of the Government's sound
macroeconomic management.  At the same time. interest ratas have been
relatively high, reflecting the oligopolistic nature of the banking industry.
While deposit rates have come down some in recent months, both public and
private seccor banks currently have a spread of about 6% which reflects the
high cost structure of the NCas. including the legacy of bad debt.  The
misvion heard conflicting opinions about the significance of high lending
rates in inhibiting the growth of private investmenc. Most observers felt
higlh interest rates constit;uted one obstacle. a)ong with a number of other
complex Uactors including the overall pace of policy reform and distorcions in
the real sector.  it was also suggested that the reluctance of banks to land.
and resultant eXcess liquidity, reflected tho stiffer rules on eligibility for
credit introduced as part of the FSAC reforms (see para. 12).
7.    One distortion in the financial markeLs which appears to have increased
substantlally since FSAC was approved is that caused by Government investment
bond and savings schemes. Vhese risk frce, long-term, instruments at above
market interest rates are T;heoratically available only in small units at long
maturities, but the volume which is currently being issued suggests that large
investora are taking advatitage of them.  Thc availab4lity of these instruments
diverts funds from both direct investment arid thc stock market.  Non-bank
borrowing is estimated to have incrcased frorn 33% of total Government
borrowing in MY9i to S3% in FY94. The Govcrnment appears to have substituted
high interest non-bank borrowing for borrowina frota the banking system at
lower rates. Another factor contributing to high interesc rates is the
obligation of the NCSs and a majority of the private banks to honor deposit
pension scheme contracts which were 1ocked i  at; high rates in the mid-1980s,
thus increasing the average cost of funids of the ba.ks todayc.
6:rOnathening the MSs
S.     rior to FCAC preparation, the NCMs reported profits each year, although
they would have had negative net worth itf pocential bad debt losses had been
properly reflected in cthcr accounts.  Zncreasz6 in deposits enabled the NC2a
to pay taxes and dividends to the Governmcnt, in effect decapitaliaing the
banks. While estimates of the amount of bad debt had been made prior to
Credit approval, the precise financial condition of the NCBs had not yer been
calculated. Thus FSAC required the NC3e, assisted by BB, to introduce a
system of loan classification and provisioning with a view toward gradually
meeting international atandards.  Based on thic now provisioning, the
Government was required to maintain the capital of each NCB at a level of at
least 5S of deposits. A one-time Government recapitalization of the NCRS was
envisaged. Since none of the banks faced a scrious liquidity problem, no cash
infusion was needed, and teit recapitalization was expected to be achieved
through Government issuance of non-negotiable bonds. The measures to increase
interest rate spreads. strengthen management, and improve debt recovery were
expected to enable the NCBa to maintain adequate capital in 1992 and
thereafter.
9.    As a condition of second t-rnehe re3leace, the Government recapitalized
th- NCRS as of December 30, i990 on the basis of clao4ification and
provisioning at the end of 1989. However, following provisioning on the basis
of the 1992 accounts, additional recapiralizartion was required; and chird



APPENDIX A
Page 4
-23-
tranche release was delayed until it was completed in .ate 1993   kather than
decline, the percentage of tocal NCB loaius lclaszified" as substandard or
worse actually increased from 25% at the and of 1989 to 33% at the end of
1992.  Preliminary data for 1993 suggcst thaL the percentage has remained
roughly the same despite NCB effort3 to increase collections and improve the
quality of new lending.  Since aging wil' automatically cause a number of
loans which were previously rated "substandard" to fall into the "doubetfult or
"bad/los:n category in subsequent years, the provisioning requirement is
expected to increase--thus requiring additionial recapitalization to maintain
the Government's current requirement that capital be maintained at 6s  of
deposits. Moreover, sangladesh's standards for classifying loans are still
considerably more lcnieut than most countries. The Government is rightly
considering further tightening of its classification standards, which will
increase the percentage of classified loans znd hence the provisioning
requirements,
10.   FSAC included a number of measures to improve the maragement and
accounting systems in che NCBs. The objecLive wag to instill in the banks a
more commercial attitude and provide them with greater autonomy with a view
toward eventual privatization. The NCR. appr.&r to have made mixQd progress in
this regard: all the bank managers spoke favorably of the training and
computerizatcion which has been installed under FSAC and FSRP, but only two
banks seem to have done any strategic planning or to have a sense of future
direction.  These two--Agrani and Rupa1i---.pear to be respcnding to market
forces in designing their product mix and fee Rchedulo.  In contrast, the two
larger banks--Sonali and Janata--struck the miruejion as viewing their role in
society as that of claseic state-owned banks of Lhe 1970s. in all four NCBs,
long-tarm planning has been adversely affected by fr'equent changes in senior
management.  The banks are severely hampered by the fact that they remain
public sector inatitutionls, aubzect to all Lhe personnel and other
restrictions this implies. The Government appoints the NC3 boards, including
the chairmen who are normally political figures.  And Government ownership
restricts the ability of the banks to make Lthe roquired reforms to improve
efficiency, including closure of branches and reductions in manpower.  Under
these circumstances, the ICBs are unlikely to be able to make mora than
marg4nal changes in the incentive systee. Conversaly, privatization will not
result in increased efficiency and competition if the banks remain subject to
the same constraints on operational and policy decisions. Thus the two banks
which we-e privatized in the early 1980's are reported to continue to operate
very much Ilike public seccor banks,
Debt Recoverv
11.   There are conflicting views about the success of debt recovery efforts
and the quality of new lpans under FSAC. The Government met the FSAC
conditions requiring strengthening of tno logal  ramework for debt collection,
establishment of a crodit information bureau lCCB) in BB, and NCB action to
meet collection targets with respect to th.o largest defaulters. In the past,
extended delays and appeals in the civil courts effectively prevented the
bano from using the iegal system to recover debt. As a result of FSAC.
twenty-seven special courts were established under the Financial Loan Courts
Act of 1990 to enable the banks to take legal action against defaulters.
While the threat of action has caused some defaulters to kettle with the banks
out of court, the loan courts have not yet proved as effective as had been
expected. The existence of the special loan courts has speeded up issuing of
decrees against defaulters, but execution of the decree remains he
responsibility of the civil courts where cas.: can take five-to-ten years to
setzle.  Even if the necessary amendments are made in the legal procedures, it
la doubtful that the FSAC goals on recovery of old debts will be met. Given
the age of the loans and the environment in which the credit was extended.
there is some question whecher tl%e underlying asceot which were used as
collateral would be of gatfici6nt value to rep&y the loans today. Moreover,



APPENDIX A
Page 5
-24 -
the covernmeat's one-tir'e forgiveness of a large s.iar3 of agricultural loans
in 1992 and a recent iniciative to forgive intcrcst oi small agricultural
loans reinforce a widespread view that defaultert will not be pursued.
12.   A number of measures were taken under VSAC to improve recovery of new
debt.  with the assistance of the FSRP consultants, the NC3s have all
introduced Credit risk analysis, and have upgraded the importance given to
collections. Defaulters identified by the CIB are theoreteically ineligible
for fresh loans until they have settled with their original creditors.  while
the CIB is processing a large volume of anquirier, the banks are not required
to consule with CIB before excendirig credit; and the mission received
anecdotal information that some defaulters wore still receiving new loans.
The NcBs maintain chat repaymenc under new loans is improved, and Che
statistics collected by BB suggest that the rate is over 90t.  However, sinc&
much of the new lending is in the form of credit lines, racher than term
loans, it is not clear whether the principal iz actually being repaid.  It was
also suggested that some po&C-1989 loans have been rescheduled or rolled over
in an effort to make them appear current. It is thus difficult to say to what
extent the continued public perception that a "default culture" exists is
still accurate. A number of additional legal and adminiotracive steps need to
be taken to improve the ability of the banks to collect on both old and new
debt. More importantly, howev*:, strong and perqiatent political leadership
will be required to change public attitudes &nd eliminate the need for
periodic cecapita1iaLi= of the batiks.
The Central Bank
13.   Strengthening of BB was a critical component of ?SAC.  A stronger
central bank was needed to improve banking supervision, as well to liberalize
interest rates and monetary policy. TA from the IMF was planned to design and
introduce a system of conrinuous on-site and off-site bank supervision,
including streamlined reporting requirements. After Credit approval, however,
the IMF backed out of this commitment owing to coumpeting demands from new
countries in Eastern 2urope. While soavm aszistance was subsequently arrarnged
under the FSRP, it was considerably leaz than had been planned; and it is only
this year that a long-term expert has boen provided with ISR funding. BB has
made some improvements, but it has a long ways to go before it can
satisfactorily pe-form the role of a central bank in conducting monetary
policy and safeguarding and promoting the growth of a healthy banking system,
especially one in which private banks are dominant. Efforts to improve BB are
likely to be limited by the same public sector institutional constraints which
affect the rest of the Government, including the NCBs.
The Futuree
14.   While ZDA is not currently considering a sccond FSAC, the Government
recognizes the need for continued financial sector reforms to maintain macro-
financial stability and increase investment levels. Financial sector icsues
remain high on the Government's economic agenda as a result of a number of
overlapping recent developments, including: (a) an increased awareness, as a
result of FSAC/FS2P, of the deep-seated problems in the NC3s; (b) similar
problems in the private banks and the public sector development banks; and (e)
a focus on financial sector issues in discussions between the Government and
the Bank and IMF regarding a possible new PTP.
IS.   Although FSAC featured efforts to strengthen the NCBs, it was envisaged
that they would gradually be privatized and/or decline in relative importance.
as a result of entry and growth of private banks. Today, the iScaw account for
virtually the same share of total banking system deposits and advances as they
did four years ago when FSAC was approved. Despite the existence of problems
in the private banks, the mission believes that PSAC was correct in viewing
private sector growth as the key to a dynamic and healthy financial system.



APPENDIX A
Page 6
-25%
Tba mission's preliminary conclusion is that the chief goals of PSAC remain
valid today. With the benefit of greater information, the task wAy appeax
greater and mre complex than it did in 1989, but the basic analysis and
solutions proposed under FSAC are still cesentially appropriate. The m4ssicn
and the Governmenc are in full agreeinnt on the importance of maintaining the
momentum of reform begun under PSAC, whaLher or not there is an FSAC II. The
Ls0ion would add that financial sector rerorms will not be successful unless
they are "-eked up by strong measures to correct the problems in the real
sector, especially in the public enterprisC3.
Atta1hme, 9
May 19, 1994



APPENDIX B
- 26 -                            Page I
BANGLADESH
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(IDA Cr. 2152-BD)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(Prepared by GOB)
Background:
1.   By the turn of 1980s, the banking sector in Bangladesh had lost much of its
efficacy in supporting development efforts owing to a number of deep-seated structural
problems. This was manifest in the misallocation of credit and inefficient utilization
of resources, widespread loan defaults and delinquencies, poor and defective credit
delivery and recovery system, non-existence of modern monetary policy instruments
and inadequate bank supervision. This had, in effect, the resulting consequence of
less than optimal utilization of resources, lower real economic growth and reduced
employment opportunities. These inadequacies of the financial sector had thus
inhibited it from performing its due role in economic development of the country. In
this background the Government constituted a National Commission on Money,
Banking and Credit (NCMBC) in 1984 to examine the problems and recommend
corrective measures. The NCMBC in its report released in 1986 identified a number
of problem areas and made recommendations for their resolution. Subsequently, IDA
carried out a more comprehensive study on the subject highlighting the areas of
problems and prescribing major reformative measures. Recognizing the magnitude
and severity of the problems, the Government decided to undertake and implement a
comprehensive programme of policy actions for reformation and restructuring of the
banking sector. The Government's strategy for a comprehensive financial sector
reform programme (FSRP) was seen by IDA as a necessary condition for
Bangladesh's economic development and showed interest in its implementation.



- 27-                         APPENDIX B
Page 2
Accordingly, the Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (FSAC) was drawn jointly by
IDA and the Government of Bangladesh (GOB).
The Credit:
2.   FSAC (Credit No. 2152-BD) was approved by the IDA Executive Board on
June 5, 1990 and became effective with the release of the first tranche on June 22,
1990. Originally approved in the amount of SDR 132.7 million, total flows to FSAC
stood at SDR 137.4 million as a result of additional IDA reflows of SDR 4.7 million
to the second tranche following amendment in FY1991 and FY1992. USAID is
providing the complementary US$16.3 million for financing the technical assistance
(TA) component. The TA is intended to provide necessary assistance in proper
implementation of FSRP through strengthening of the Central Bank (BB), the NCBs
and the Bangladesh Institute of Bank Management (BIBM). Although FSAC became
fully operative in January 1991, the TA could not be put in place until September,
1991 - nine months behind the schedule - owing to delay in selection of contracting
firms by USAID. Disbursements under FSAC was completed on February 22, 1994
while the TA which was expected to be completed in September, 1995 has been
extended upto December 31, 1996.
3.   The main objectives under FSAC included Liberalization of interest rates and
credit allocation; introduction of indirect monetary control and making the monetary
policy more effective; improving debt recovery; strengthening BB's prudential
regulation and supervision; improving the operation and capital position of NCBs; and
assisting in the development of capital market. Although achievemnc ts of the reform
programme have not been quite even in all the above areas, GOB views the overall
outcome as a big step toward establishment of a competitive and dynamic financial
system in the country.



- 28 -                        APPENDIX B
Page 3
Liberalization of Financial Market:
4.   The most outstanding success achieved under FSAC is liberalization of the
financial market. Form a centrally controlled and widely subsidized financial market
which existed prior to FSAC, we have now moved to an almost fully deregulated
financial system. In pre-FSAC period, sector-specific credit ceilings were given to
banks and interest rates were centrally fixed by BB. Banks were required to make
advances to priority sectors at subsidized rates with automatic refinance from BB at
varying concessional rates. At present, BB prescribes interest rate bands only in the
case of three priority sectors, namely agriculture; exports and small & cottage industry
(SCI). SCI is the lone sector eligible for subsidy from Government budget. BB has a
single common rediscount window admissible at the Bank Rate which is adjusted from
time to time based on market conditions and objectives of monetary policy. BB does
not prescribe any interest rate bands for deposits. However, floor interest rates for
savings and fixed deposits are specific keeping in view the inflation rate and the need
for safeguarding interest of depositors. In the case of lending rates, banks are allowed
to discriminate as between borrowers on the basis of risks as well as terms of loans.
While interest rate discrimination based on term of loans has been applied by all banks
including the NCBs, the NCBs have not yet done so on the basis of risk partly owing
to difficulty in making precise assessment of risk differentials involved and partly on
consideration of its adverse impact on borrowers' psychology leading to diversion of
customers to other banks. This seems to have worked in a situation in which banks
have been suffering from the burden of excess liquidity in the face of depressed credit
demand. Meanwhile, NCBs have developed techniques of credit risk analysis with the
assistance of SRP-TA consultants. With the picking up of credit demand and
substantial depletion of excess liquidity, NCBs are expected to get gradually
accustomed to risk discrimination among borrowers.



-29 -                         APPENDIX B
Page 4
5.   In line with the monetary objective and movement in inflation rate, the Bank
Rate as well as the deposit floor rates have been adjusted downward on a number of
occasions. Responding to this, NCBs have made some downward adjustments in their
lending rates despite increase in their cost of provision against classified loans. A
substantial reduction in the cost of provision against classified loans would have
enabled NCBs to lower their lending rates further. Nevertheless, the existing lending
rates structure in Bangladesh is still lower compared to that in India and Pakistan. In
view of cheaper availability of labour in Bangladesh, the existing level of lending rates
cannot be taken as a barrier to growth of private investment.
6.   GOB is aware of the impact of relatively high rates of interest on various
savings instruments and Deposit Pension Scheme (DPS) on the formal financial
market. GOB has already taken some rationalization measures in this regard. The 3-
year Sanchaya Patra Scheme has been discontinued. The rates of interest and modus
operandi of other types of savings instruments have been revised together with a
ban/limit on institutional investment in these instruments. The Government has a plan
to examine the scope and areas of further rationalization in this regard.
Reform of the NCBs:
7.   Another important objective under FSAC was to restructure and strengthen the
NCBs. As a first measure to streamline financial position of NCBs, new system and
procedures of loan classification and provisioning have been introduced. The Banking
Companies Act, 1991 was enacted which, among other things, provided for capital
adequacy requirements including maximum credit limit to single credit risk as well as
to bank directors. NCBs have completed their December, 1989 and December, 1991
Portfolio reclassification as per the new system and procedures. This entailed
additional capital for the NCBs to meet their provisioning and capital adequacy



APPENDIX B
Page 5
requirement. The Government issued Taka 1729 crores worth of recapitalization
bonds in favour of NCBs to meet their shortfall in capital and provisioning on the
basis of 1989 accounts. As the classified loans of NCBs on the basis of 1991 accounts
increased, due mainly to aging of the loans previously classified as sub-standard and
subsequently classified as doubtful or bad/loss implying higher provisioning, additional
capital was needed to meet their provisioning and capital adequacy requirements, and
the Government had to issue additional recapitalization bonds in favour of NCBs. The
NCB classified loans as percent of their total loans which showed an increase from
25% at the end of 1989 to 33% at the end of 1992 reflected, in part, omission in
classification of the 1989 portfolio on account of confusion/ambiguity about the status
of a number of loan cases and lack of experience in making classification, which were
subsequently classified in the 1991 portfolio classification.
8.   A number of reformative measures have been taken under FSAC to improve
management and operational efficiency of NCBs. Accounting and auditing system of
NCBs have been rationalized. Standard criteria for selection of external auditors have
been formulated. Special cell has been set up in each of the NCBs. The RSRP-TA
consultants in association with these cells are providing necessary technical assistance
in bringing about an improvement in the financial base and operational efficiency of
NCBs. Necessary assistance and technical guidelines have been provided to NCBs in
respect of loan classification as per new rules and procedures, fixation of interest rates
under the new atmosphere of free and competitive market, improving portfolio
management, and performance budgeting and planning. The TA consultants have also
conducted studies in identifying specific problems of the respective NCBs and the
ways for resolving them. Satisfactory progress has been achieved in NCB
computerization programme. Large loan accounts of NCBs have been brought under
the computerization system. An MIS has been introduced in each of the NCBs.
Measures have been taken for reorganizing and rationalizing the training facilities for



31 -                        APPENDIX B
Page 6
bank officials. BIBM has been provided with necessary technical guidelines and
equipments in modernizing and upgrading its training system and facilities. Apart
from domestic training at BIBM, a number of NCB officials received overseas training
under FSRP-TA.
Recovery of NCBs Debt:
9.   In order to improve debt collection by banks, Government took measures for
strengthening the administrative and legal environment. Apart from enforcement of
stricter discipline by BB for sanction of new loans by NCBs to defaulter borrowers,
GOB enacted the Financial Loan Courts Act, 1990, made subsequent amendments to it
and set up additional Financial Loan Courts to expedite loan recovery efforts. NCBs
fulfilled the collection targets from their hundred largest defaulter borrowers as well
as in respect of new loans. A Credit Information Bureau (CIB) has been set up in BB
to provide ready infornation on defaulter borrowers to banks. The strengthening of
overall legal framework together with credit discipline introduced under FSAC appear
to have yielded a positive impact on loan recovery situation insofaras there has been a
greater awareness in the minds of both lenders and borrowers, and a dent seems to
have been made in the so-called perception about existence of a default culture among
borrowers. The Government maintains strong determination to eliminate delinquency
from the banking sector and take further necessary measures to improve the local and
administrative environment.
Strengthening the Bangladesh Bank:
10.  With a view to accelerating the pace of reform, particularly in liberalization of
interest rates, introducing a dynamic monetary policy and improving prudential
supervision of banks and financial institutions, strengthening of BB was taken as a



-32 -                        APPENDIX B
Page 7
crucial element in FSAC. But, TA constraint stood as a barrier in attaining desired
progress in this regard. As a result of non-availability of TA from the IMF which
was originally included in the FSAC, major part of work under this element remains
largely unattended. Although, subsequently an arrangement has been made to
accommodate a TA within the on-going FSRP-TA Project, it is far less than what is
required for the task. Despite shortcoming of TA, some progress has been achieved
in this regard. BB has introduced a report-based system of bank supervision as a
continuous process. Some changes and rationalization have been made in the
reporting format for improving off-site supervision of BB. The supervision and
inspection departments of BB have been reorganized and strengthened with adequate
number of staff. A large number of BB officials have been imparted training on bank
supervision. A cell has been opened in BB to supervise and monitor large loan cases
of NCBs. A separate cell has been sat up in BB to oversee activities of non-bank
fimancial institutions. BB has been pursuing a monetary policy consistent with the
market-oriented financial system. The 91-Day Bangladesh Bank Bill has been
introduced to facilitate indirect monetary control by BB.
Future Course of Action and Requirement:
11.  Although FSAC was negotiated and approved during the terminal year of
previous Government, the present democratically elected Government had viewed the
reform objectives as crucially important in its strategy for sustained economic
development and alleviation of poverty in the country, and devoted all-out-support to
translate the reform measures into a success. To reap the benefit from reform
measures initiated in the financial sector, Government felt the need for reform of the
real sector and initiated complementary reforms in fiscal management as well as in
trade and industry. Consequently, three IDA-financed adjustment credits, namely, the
Public Resource Management Adjustment Credit (FY 1992), the Industrial Sector



33.-                        APPENDIX B
Page 8
Adjustment Credit (FY 1993) and the Jute Sector Adjustment Credit (FY 1994) were
negotiated and approved. The Government also completed a three-year ESAF
programme of the IMF and successfully met the performance criteria and benchmarks
set under the programme.
12.  GOB recognizes the need for continued reform of the financial sector in order
to maintain macro-financial stability and enhance the pace of investment activity. The
reform measures initiated in the real sector cannot be expected to yield desired result
unless these are synchronized with further necessary reform and policy changes in the
financial sector. While the broad objectives of the financial sector reform set under
FSAC are essentially valid, the Government feels the need for further in-depth
examination of the issues based on experiences gathered under FSAC and find out
appropriate and pragmatic solutions to the problems. Apart from NCBs, problems in
private sector banks as well as in public sector development banks need to be
examined and necessary policy measures taken. The Government recognizes the need
for gradual upgrading of loan classification by banks to international standard. The
objective of privatizing one or more NCBs cannot be materialized unless ways and
means are found to enable them arrive at a positive net-worth. The issue relating to
development of capital market is also critically important for establishment of a
dynamic and healthy financial system. Although some preliminary measures have
been taken in this regard, much remains yet to be done. In fine, the Government is
determined to carry on the momentum of reform programme initiated under FSAC and
keen to keep the financial sector issues in discussion with the Bank and the IMF for a
possible new PFP.



-34 -
APPENDIX C
USAID'S COMMENTS ON THE ICR
UN4ITED STATES OF AMIERICA
-_____            AagNCY FOR, INTUANATIONAL DEVELOPMINT
Dhqak. Eangiads4h
July ZO,' 1993
Mr. Owaiu.S aadat
Chief, P50 and Finance Unit                          ]          CXor
The World lank Resi.dent Mission Bangladesh         A1Nom_
3A Paribagh
Dhaka-100
subject.  Comments on Financial. ^Sctor Adjustmant Credit.
Implementation Campletion Report (2CR)
Dear Mr. Saadatx
Thin is in response to your letter of July 6, 1935. I have read
the draft report on the abovb mubjaot which Lo well done, Whole
I have no recommended changes, ,I offor the following comments for
your consideration.
Your report has captured many of the same major findings an a
recently-completed USAID evaiuation of the V nazncial Sector
Roform Program-Teohnical Assistance (FBRP-TA) project. ln line
with taAMD thinking, your report undesaowe. poli tical and
bureaucratic constrainto in the achievement of the financial
reform objctivtes.  We all know tho heart of the banking problem
is associated with loan recover, and the related issue of bank
superviuion. An mentioned in Ze report, we agroe that UDO did-.
not do much to improve loan re,overy by eliminating loopholes
with loan courts Among others, problems, the Firancial Sector
Adjustment Credit (FIAC) program suffers from the lack of
Qovernmint of vanqladonh (BDG) commitment to reinforce bank
accountability aAd  raatar autonomy for Bangladoeh Bank (BR), to
further deregulate Interest ra;es, and restructure and prLvatiLe
the NCBI. Additionally, the UMAID evaluator of FARP ham
!mphasired tho importance of developing bank.tn  and a conducive
loan culture by providing further training to lankers and bank
executives.
The copies of Appendix A and Appendix B provided are very
difficult to read; therefore, I have not been able to read and
provide commeunts on those piacCs.!
Regards.                        *                              .
Auizur Rba
Program Specialist
Offila of sconomics & Untezpriie



35 -                            APPENDIX D
Page 1
Ministry of Finance
Government of the People's
Republic of Bangladesh
Dhaka
M.A. Munim
Minister for Finance and Planning
No. FM/FD/BK-5/48/08(Part-2)                        Date:    May 8, 1990
Dear Mr. Conable:
Subject: Financial Sector Credit
Statement of Financial Sector Policy
1.       As part of its overall development programme, the Government of
Bangladesh has undertaken a programme of policy and institutional reforms
within the financial sector. In 1986, a National Commission on Money,
Banking and Credit appointed by the Government completed a major study
which identified a number of problems/issues within the sector.
Subsequently, we formulated a programme of reforms to address these
problems. This letter outlines our objectives for the financial sector and
an Action Programme for implementing these reforms. I hope IDA will come
forward to support our reform programme for the financial sector.
2.       Let me first describe the macro-economic framework for our
adjustment efforts and our recent actions in implementing reforms and the
additional steps we will be taking to implement the adjustment programme
during the next two years.
The Macro-economic Framework
3.       Bangladesh's macro-economic situation came under strain in 1989/90.
In consultation with the IMF, the Government introduced measures to
stabilize the fiscal and monetary position during the second half of the
fiscal year. The Government will continue to implement financial and
structural policies consistent with the adjustment programme outlined in the
Policy Framework Paper for 1990(91-1992/93 (PFP). We are confident that
such measures will help preserve the stable macro-economic environment
needed for the successful implementation of this Credit. As stated in the
PFP, the macro-economic objectives for 1990191-1992/93 are to sustain
average annual real GDP growth of nearly 5 percent, reduce the annual
inflation rate to 6 percent by the final year of the programme, and make
progress towards balance of payments viability.
4.       Investment is targeted to reach 14 percent of GDP by 1992/93,
compared with about 11 percent in 1989/90. In order to achieve this, the
Government will ensure that adequate resources (including local currency
funds) are provided to high priority projects and allocate additional



-36-                             APPENDIX D
Page 2
resources to recurrent activities such as operations and maintenance and
human resource development. Funding for low priority projects and non-
essential current expenditure will be reduced and project implementation
will be improved. The Government also intends to maintain a favorable
investment climate for the private sector, primarily by means of appropriate
macro-economic policies, import liberalization, institutional support for
investors, and privatization where appropriate.
5.       Budgetary deficits will be maintained at about 7 percent of GDP and
will continue to be financed primarily by external concessional aid.
Improved utilization of project aid is essential in this regard. Monetary
and credit policy will be directed at providing adequate credit to the
private sector while restraining the overall expansion of domestic credit to
levels consistent with the balance of payments and inflation objectives.
The financial sector reforms described below will strengthen the
competitiveness of the banking system, improve the allocation of financial
resources and facilitate the collection of overdue loans and the recycling
of funds. The expansion in private sector credit will also be facilitated
by limited government recourse to bank credit, as well as improvements in
the financial position of public enterprises.
6.       Export volume growth is projected to reach 9 percent by 1992193.
The projected export growth assumes strengthened competitiveness and
continued open markets for Bangladesh's goods. Import volume growth is
projected to reach 7 percent by 1992/93. Import requirements associated
with the investment drive and trade liberalization will result in a current
account deficit of about 7 percent of GDP during the programme period.
7.       Although reliance on external assistance cannot be reduced
substantially over the next three years, with continued strict control over
commrcial borrowing, the external debt service ratio is expected to decline
to below 20 percent of current receipts by 1992/93. The Government plans to
gradually restore gross official reserves to the equivalent of about two-
and-a-half months of imports by the end of 1992/93, which it considers
necessary to support further exchange and trade liberalization, provide a
cushion for contingencies, particularly given the vulnerability of the
economy to severe natural disasters, and ensure the timely servicing of debt
without the need for exceptional financing.
8.       An elaboration of the priority structural and macro-economic
policies are detailed in the PFP. The most important macro-economic actions
to be taken over the coming fiscal year 1990/91 are highlighted below.
9.       As part of tax reform, the Government intends to present to the
Parliament a proposal to introduce a value added tax (VAT) by January 1,
1991 which will replace many existing excise duties and sales taxes.
Measures will bo taken to improve tax administration and taz compliance in
the areas of both direct and indirect taxation. The above measures, in
conjunction with changes in existing rates of duties and taxes, are designed
to raise revenue in relation to GDP by about 0.5 percent for 1990/91.
10.      In order to ensure that revenue is increased while the structural
tax reforms are being introduced, the Goverment will also place additional
emphasis on nontax revenue measures, particularly adjustments in public
pricing.



37.-                          APPENDIX D
Page 3
11.      The Government recognizes that higher levels of public investment
are essential to increase growth, improve economic productivity and provide
growth of essential public services. The Government therefore intends to
restrain the growth of current expenditure to no more than 10 percent in
nominal terms above the 1989/90 level and increase revenue mobilization to
provide additional resources to the Annual Development Programme (ADP).
12.      A careful review of the public investment programme is being
carried out to ensure that available resources are concentrated on the
highest priority activities. The Government will designate a core programme
of the highest priority projects accounting for approximately 40-SO percent
of the ADP. These projects will be given adequate and prompt access to
funds required for their implementation. In 1990/91, the Government also
intends to reduce the aggregate funding of projects and block grants which
rely exclusively on local financing. This will enable more local resources
to be allocated for donor-assisted projects and thereby raise total
development spending. On this basis, we expect an ADP size of at least Tk
50 billion for 1990/91. As indicated in the PFP, total domestic credit
growth will be targeted at about 15 percent and broad money growth is
expected to be 16 percent in 1990/91.
13.      The Government will continue to pursue an active exchange rate
policy to ensure external competitiveness, support the import liberalization
programme, permit the early elimination of cash export subsidies, and
contribute to an overall macro-economic framework that would be more
conducive to strengthened savings and investment and external adjustment.
We expect that by the second tranche review, in consultation with the IW,
the real effective exchange rate will have been adjusted to maintain
competitveness at about the average level prevailing in 1988
Financial Sector Obiectives
14.      Our primary objective is to improve the functioning of the banking
system so that it can play an increasingly effective role in supporting our
development programmes and resource mobilization requirements. We plan to
accomplish this by (i) gradually removing the distortions in the interest
rate structure with a view to improving the allocation of resources;
(ii) providing increased market oriented incentives for priority sector
lending; (iii) making subsidies in these sectors more transparent;
(iv) adopting appropriate monetary tools to control inflation; (v) estab-
lishing appropriate accounting policies including recapitalization.
strengthened regulation and supervision, effective management policy, to put
the banking system on a sound financial basis; (vi) improving the debt
recovery environment; and (vii) strengthening the capital markets. We
envision a programme of reforms which will move gradually but steadily
toward a more competitive market-based system, indirect controls, a larger
private sector role, as well as increased autonomy, commercial orientation
and management efficiency for institutions that remain under Government
control.



-38-
APPENDIX D
Page 4
15.      The gradual implementation of our reform programme has been
calibrated keeping in view the absorptive capacity of institutions.  To
ensure that the initial action progranmme is of manageable dimensions, it
has been necessary for some important, albeit less urgent, issues to
receive only partial attention at this time. Consequently, these other
issues will form an integral part of ongoing financial sector review and
future reform programmes. Moreover, as the institutional behaviour patterns
and future economic conditions are not entirely predictable, there is a need
for careful monitoring of the programme during implementation. This will
be done by the Finance Division in close association with the Bangladesh
Bank (BB).
16.      Let me now describe below our recent actions in implementing
reforms and the additional steps we will be taking to implement the initial
phase of the adjustment programme during the next two years.
Interest Rates
17.      We have changed our interest rate policy and the structure of
interest rates with a view to allocating resources more efficiently thrbugh
interest rates that reflect maturity, risk and administrative cost more
adequately, allow for flexibility in meeting changing conditions, and
encourage price competition. Returns to banks from lending to higher risk
priority sectors should be sufficiently high to provide greater incentive
for such lending and ensure that priority sector lending does not undermine
the financial viability of the Nationalized Commercial Banks (NCBs) and
place additional longer term burdens on the government budget. Interest
rates for deposits should ensure that savers receive consistently positive
real returns while allowing the banks sufficient flexibility to maintain
adequate spreads and satisfactory profitability. Our newly implemented
interest rate policy is as follows.
18.      For deposit interest rates, floors are set by the Bangladesh Bank
every six months at about O.5Z above the inflation rate for fixed term
deposits and 1Z below that level for savings deposits. For the present,
the bands for savings deposits are 8.5Z-12Z and for fixed deposits
10.5Z-14.25Z.  We have initially set the fixed deposit floor at 1.0Z above
the inflation rate to avoid a large drop in rates at one time. Banks are
free to publish rates of interest of their choosing within these bands to
be paid on various maturities. Individual managers will not, however, be
allowed to change rates.
19.      For lending rates, the Bangladesh Bank has published a rate matrix
for 12 lending categories which it will review every six months and make
adjustments as appropriate to reflect changes in cost of funds and other
lending costs. These rates are based on shadow market rates calculated on
the basis of average cost of funds, administrative expense, a portion of bad
debt expense and an increment for profit such that higher risk lending
categories have higher interest rates. Banks are free to publish lending
rates of their choosing within the bands but have no scope to change rates
for individual borrowers; the banks are free to implement new interest rate
policy in accordance with the agreed methodology.



-39-                         APPENDIX D
20.      Shadow market rates are well above previous interest rate levels
for priority sector lending categories, namely agriculture, small scale
industry, jute-related exports and a few small special programmes. In line
with its socio-economic development objectives, Government has initially set
interest rates for these categories below the shadow market rates and will
reimburse the banks annually from the budget for the interest rate subsidy
to borrowers as measured by the difference between the shadow market rate
and the administered interest rate. We will utilize this approach to
increase the incentives for banks to lend in these areas, protect the banks
against large losses for these loans, and reduce the level of subsidy to
borrowers.
21.      It is our intent to gradually adjust this structure over the next
5 years so that a substantially larger share of bank lending is subject to
price competition, bands within which banks can compete will be gradually
widened and the level of interest rate subsidies reduced.
22.      We will have technical assistance in place within the next few
months which, inter alia, will assist the NCBs to improve their capacity in
formulating policies and procedures for setting interest rates.
Monetary Policy
23.      As part of our financial sector liberalization programme, we have
abolished credit ceilings and moved toward indirect, market-oriented
instruments through replacing the previous sector-specific subsidized
refinancing facility for commercial banks with a general non-subsidized BB
rediscount facility. BB has been empowered to issue debt instruments and it
is our intent to develop a tendering mechanism for the BB securities and
comence open market operations by issuing such securities at market
determined yields. We have begun a programme to strengthen BB's capacity
and procedures for monetary programing, policy formulation and review of
interest rates. An IMF-assisted training programme is underway. We will
commence implementation of the new programing policy as soon as possible.
Strengthening Central Bank Supervision
24.      BB's bank supervision functions will be substantially strengthened
so that it can effectively carry out this role.
25.      However, BB will ensure that a careful balance is maintained
between sound and effective banking supervision and avoiding undue
interference in the day-to-day operations of the commercial banks.  IM
technical assistance will be in place shortly to facilitate conversion to a
system of continuous bank supervision based primarily on submitted reports
and peer comparisons, train supervision staff and rationalize and streamline
bank reporting requirements. We have already nearly doubled the number of
bank inspectors and will focus their work more on following-up problems
identified by supervision. BB's Board of Directors has decided that
inspectors will normally be rotated after a period of five years.



APPENDIX D
-40-                            Page6
26.      Moreover, we are taking additional measures to strengthen
supervision. We have established a committee in the central bank to set
criteria for banks' external audits and review audit reports to enhance the
effectiveness of report based supervision. We will design a new BB training
programme for supervision and inspection personnel by July 1990 and will
commence in the near future. We also intend to extend effective monitoring
to non-bank financial institutions by establishing a unit for that purpose,
by December 1990.
Improving Debt Recovery
27.      Poor debt recovery by our financial institutions is the most
serious problem currently facing our financial sector. In addition to
undermining the viability of the banking system, it has led to a need for
higher interest rates than would otherwise be necessary and to large
budgetary outflows over time. Therefore, we are implementing several
reforms to directly tackle this problem.
28.      First, BB has changed loan classification procedures to place
primary responsibility for classification on the banks and focus bank
inspection attention on monitoring these classifications. Among a number
of definitional changes, the new procedures require that in addition to all
previously existing qualitative criteria, all loans one or more years
overdue are classified. Moreover, interest will be suspended on all
classified loans and, in all but a few cases, provisions will be taken
rising from 1OZ for loans one year overdue, to 50Z for loans 3 years
overdue and 100Z when loans are 5 years or more overdue. These accounting
policy changes will have a major impact as they will make the cost of bad
debt much more transparent in financial statements, allow better measures of
relative performance of branch managers and senior level management, and
provide stronger incentives for bank managers to enforce loan agreements
and collect debt as it falls due. We have amended the Income Tax Act to
the effect that most BB required provisions for bad debt and suspension of
interest are tax deductible - a measure that will ease the burden of the new
accounting requirements on bank profitability. Following a transitional
period during which banks will improve their staff capability, collection
procedures and portfolios, we plan to review the classification definitions
and accounting policies for provisions and suspension of interest with a
view to making them more stringent.
29.      Second, the Government has enacted the Financial Loan Courts Act,
1990 to address inadequacies in the existing legal framework involving
collections of loans in default. Under this law, we have established and
staffed ten Courts in major cities, including Dhaka, Chittagong and Xhulna.
Depending on experience and needs, we intend to expand the loan court system
further in a second phase.
30.      Third, BB has established a new Credit Information Unit to monitor
loan concentration and collect data on advances of over Taka 300,000 to
delinquent borrowers. We plan to utilize technical assistance to make the
unit effectively operational within the next 18 months. When the unit is
operational, we intend to make data on defaulters available to the banks



-41 -                        APPENDIX D
Page 7
and will issue a BB Circular prohibiting banks from increasing credit
facilities to defaulters listed by the unit unless they use loan proceeds to
repay loans in default or obtain a letter of no objection from all banks
whose loans are in default.
31.      Finally, all four NCBs have submitted detailed debt recovery
strategies for their 100 largest defaulters. The NCBs have been required to
submit reports to BB quarterly on actual collections against monitorable
targets for each defaulter, as well as for new loans made by the NCB
principal offices. BB will monitor collections against targets and ask the
banks to take necessary steps to meet collection targets.
Strengthening the Banks
32.      We view strengthening the banks as the most fundamental aspect of
our reform programme as their financial soundness and effective functioning
are vital to the health of the sector and, through their resource
mobilization and allocation efforts, to the health of the overall economy.
Most of the measures mentioned earlier in this letter including, in
particular, reforms related to interest rate changes, loan classification,
accounting policies for provision and suspension of interest, improved bank
supervision, and strengthened debt recovery will hopefully contribute
significantly to strengthen the banks. We are also taking additional
measures as follows.
33.      A new Banking Companies Bill will be submitted to Parliament which
will require the banks to have paid-up capital and reserves not less than
the amount specified in the relevant law or instrument establishing or
constituting it or six percent of its total demand and time liabilities at
the close of the last working day of the respective banks' previous
financial year, whichever is higher, with the proviso that GOB may, by
notification in the official gazette, vary the requirement of paid-up
capital and reserve amount of any such bank for a period of not more than
one year to provide time for banks to make necessary adjustments to meet the
new standards. We intend to further increase capital requirements to 8a of
risk adjusted assets over time in line with the banks' ability to do so
without undue burdens. The new Bill will contain other measures to
strengthen the banks, including a requirement that banks can lend no more
than 252 of capital to a single borrower, and will place further
restrictions on loans to defaulters.
34.      The NCBs have begun the process of reclassifying their December
1989 loan portfolios using the new definitions and accounting policies.
When that process is completed, say by September 1990, they will be required
to revise their accounts to book all provisions and interest suspension
called for under the new policies. They will also be required to write off
any unmatched uncollectable interbranch items and most items in suspense in
accord with generally accepted accounting practices. GOB will, at that
time, issue special non-negotiable bonds to each NCB sufficient to raise
their capital to 5S of deposits or any higher percentage required by law,
after deduction of the provisions and suspended interest. The bonds will
pay interest annually at the treasury bill rate and will include a balloon
repayment of principal at the end of 15 years.



APPENDIX D
Page 8
- 42-
35.      We intend to sign a Project Agreement with USAID before end-June
1990 for financing a technical assistance package designed to assist the
NCBs in adjusting to the new more competitive environment and their need to
adopt a more commercial orientation. The TA has been designed to assist the
banks in adapting to the major changes represented by the above measures.
It will commence about January 1991 and will be implemented over a five year
period to ensure that changes are successfully institutionalized. The work
will focus particularly on accounting, performance budgeting, management
information systems, staff incentives and training. Each NCB has been asked
to assign about 10 officers on a full-time basis to support this programme.
36.      Public sector corporation borrowing, some of it in arrears,
represents another problem faced by the NCBs. BB will issue a Circular
within the next 6 months directing that banks report regularly on the status
of loans and debt servicing for each public sector corporation in their
portfolios. Copies of this report will be submitted to the Finance Division
six-monthly. While many of our public sector corporations are servicing
their debt satisfactorily, the Bangladesh Jute Mills Corporation (BJMC) and
Bangladesh Jute Corporation (BJC) are seriously in arrears on substantial
borrowings.  The GOB constituted a high powered committee to formulate a
constructive response to the problems of the jute sector and to provide
protection to the banks on these loans. After due consideration of the
recommendations of the said committee, the liabilities of the BJMC on
account of bank loans have been segregated to the extent of the net losses
incurred during the period from 1985186 to 1988189, the non-revolving
portions of the liabilities have been rescheduled for liquidation over a
period of 10 years after a grace period of 3 years and the GOB has
undertaken to pay interest on the segregated amounts for the grace period to
the banks. Likewise it has been decided to segregate the liabilities of the
BJC on account of bank loans net of the value of the existing stock of jute,
to reschedule the segregated amount for repayment over a period of 10 years
after a grace period of 3 years and to pay interest on the segregated amount
for this grace period to the banks from the public exchequer. A committee
has also been constituted by the GOB to examine the overall position of the
BJC and make recommendations with regard to its restructuring. Moreover,
Government may, if needed at some future date, take additional appropriate
steps to protect the banks with respect to their advances to BJC.
37.      We are adopting three additional measures at this time to further
strengthen the NCBs. Personnel policies of the banks will be decided by
respective banks' Board of Directors. They will also decide the duration of
the assignment of their personnel. We will revise the Industrial Policy
1986 by July 1990 so that it will not contain directives to banks as to
terms, conditions and interest rates associated wiih industrial lending.
The BB interest rate schedule published in November 1989 contains the
guidelines for industrial loans. The NCB Boards of Directors are now
responsible for determining other terms and conditions for such loans. In
order to ensure NCB senior management quality, efforts would be made to
avoid transfer of MDs before three years. A Government task force has
presented a number of recommendations for additional management reforms



APPENDIX D
43                             Page 9
within NCBs, the bulk of which have been cleared by Cabinet. We intend to
implement a number of these reforms during 1990. Finally, NCBs will be
permitted to select legal counsel for debt recovery laws from the panels of
legal counsel proposed by them and as approved by the GOB.
38.      In the next few years, after the NCBs have had an opportunity to
absorb these major new changes and the technical assistance has had
meaningful impact in preparing the banks, we intend to institute a number of
additional reforms which will strengthen NCB management and management
systems, improve personnel and reimbursement policies, and significantly
increase the autonomy given to the banks.
39.      Within the next three to five years, we also intend to take steps
to privatize one or two of our remaining NCBs and significantly reduce
government's ownership-role in the banking system. However, it is essential
that efficient functioning of such privatized institutions is assured. We
view the reforms to be implemented under the Financial Sector Programme as a
necessary precondition in preparing the banks for privatization. It is also
essential that the banking system, after further privatization, retains its
present capacity for delivering credit to priority sectors and also in rural
areas. Therefore, we also intend to conduct a study during the next two
years to analyze the experience gained in the privatization of the Uttara,
Pubali and Rupali banks to assist in implementing future privatization in
the most appropriate way to achieve these objectives.
Capital Markets
40.      Another government financial sector priority involves strengthening
the capital markets and improving our industrialists' access to this
long-term source of financing while retaining adequate investor protection.
Therefore, we have established a Capital Market Development Committee under
the auspices of the Ministry of Finance with a mandate to develop a number
of recommendations for developing and promoting the capital markets and
improving the regulatory environment. We intend to implement the accepted
recommendations of the Committee, including, inter alia, adjusting ceilings
on underwriting fees and increasing flexibility in pricing new public
issues.
Conclusion
41.      We believe that the programme of reforms outlined above will be
instrumental in restoring the financial viability of our banking system and
in facilitating more efficient mobilization and allocation of resources and
better monetary management in support of our development objectives. While
these measures should generate beneficial investment and production
response, we recognize that commensurate adjustments will also be required
with respect to trade and incentive policy, public enterprise management,
and the tax regime as well as additional financial sector adjustment
measures over time to realize the potential benefits of these reforms more
fully.



APPENDIX D
44-                            Page 10
42.       Preliminary estimates of the financial requirements to implement
the principal aspects of the action programme are in the order of US$550
million. This estimate will be revised as the detailed actions are firmed
up and the loan provisioning exercise nears completion. The amount will be
needed to recapitalize the NCBs (including the value of bonds not disbursed
as cash), implement the NCB technical assistance programme, assist with BJHC
and BJC debt service requirements, and reimburse the cost of interest rate
subsidies.
43.        In view of the initiatives taken by Bangladesh in the formulation
and implementation of this initial action programme of financial sector
reforms, the Government requests for extension of a Financial Sector
Adjustment Credit from IDA in the amount of US$175 million.
Yours sincerely,
(M. A. Munim) I/
Minister for Finance and Planning
Mr. Barber B. Conable
President
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
Washington, D.C. 20433
I/   The original of this letter has been submitted to our Resident Hission
in Bangladesh.



BANCLAD{S
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJWSTWENT aRtEIT
MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS
POLICY OBJECTIVES                         RECENT MEASWRES TAKEN                  FURTHER ACTIONS UNDER CREDIT                     TIMING
A.   MACRO-FINANCIAL POLICY ISSUES
1.   D-regulue deposit and             Lending Interest rato policy imple-         Ipl ement new lending Interost rato             2nd and Ird tranche
Inding  Interest rates             omented based on calculated 'Ohadow         policy In accordance with the ogreed            reloose.
market rates' for eoch lending category   methodology with somI-annual reviews and
with a 3-SX bond within which banks may   adjuotments In structure an noeded.
met their lending rates.
Floor and ceiling established within        Implement now deposit Interest rate             2nd and 3rd troncho
which scheduled beaks may mot term          policy In accordane- with tho agreed            r-l-oos.
deposit and saving rates.                   methodology with wo-l-annual reviews and
adjuattenta In structuro as noeded.
NCO lending rateo raised to at least        Raise 8S8 long-torm interost rates for          By 2nd troncho release.
shadow market rateo for most cetegorles   medlum and large scale Industry to at
In the Initial adjustment of rates.         looet shadow morket rates.
Technical unit established In BB with       Amend now interoot rate policy to allow         By *ffectivenove.
responsibility for Interest rate and        banks to change Interost rates at least
monetary programming analysis and           monthly.
recommendations.
II.  Make cost, of subsidized            Remaining administered subsidihed            iomburse banks for cost of Interest            Comence-mnt of reimburse-
Interost rates transparent         lending rotes have ben mode                  rate subsidies due to some adoIinistered        ment semi-annually so 2nd           ti
and relabursc costs to banks.      transparent and eoe has agreed to            rates below shadow market rates from            and trd tranch. conditions
relmburoe coat of subsidy to banks.         January 1, 1990.
111. Protect bonks on lorge loans       Overn-mnt has taken stepo to                 Require banks to report regularly on            By 2nd tranche rolaoos.
to poorly performing pars-          reschedule OJC and BJUC advances and to   loans and debt servieing status for
stotals made at Government         protoect banks against non-payment,          their public sector borrowors.
requeot.
IV.  Replac  direct credit               ILF hbo sent an advisory nlosion to         Strongthon BB capacity and proceduros           Training Is underway.
ceilings with indirect             assist In setting up procedures for          for monetary programoing, policy                lmplement proe dures and
monetary Instrum_nts *nd open       implemonting monetary progroamIng and       formulation and regular review of               prograoingIn  by 2nd tranche
market op.ratlons.                 policy,                                      Intoreot rote.o                                 release.
Exuisting roefInnce program replaced
with a general rediecount facility at
benk rato for commercial banks.
BO Act amonded to givo Central Bank         BB debt Instrumonts to be Issued at             By 2nd tranche release.
legal powers to lnue  debt Inotruments,   mrket dotermined yields; a tendoring
mechanslm should be developed.
Credit ceilings havo been abolished.
Implement the 190/91-1992-93 PFP               By 2nd tranche relonsv o .
program so as ound macroeconomic                                                   aIZ
fraomeork is In place.                                                              C



POLICY OIJECTIVES                         RECENT MEASURES TAKEN                  FURTHER ACTIONS UNDER CREDIT                     TIMING
S    STRENGTHEN CENTRAL SANW             Central Bank has combined Its four           Establish bank supervioion as a                 Satisfactory progreos on
SUiERVISION                         supervislon functions under two             continuous proeeon bo.ed on submitted           deoign of oystem as ard
departments, almost doubled tho n_tbr    reports.  Inspection and follow-up of              tranche release.
of bank Inspection personnol, and           Identified problems.
extended thelr normal rotation period
to five years.
IW TA arranged to asslat with estab-        Rationalize and atraomllne bank                 Satisfactory progrese on
lishing bank supervislon as a               reporting requirements.                         design of nyot_ ae 3rd
continuous proceose and retionallzing                                                       tranche release.
and streamilning bank reporting
requlreento.
Ne system of losn closelfication
setablished which shifts prhimry
reepoasibility to the bens.
NW aecounting policy reuirements
"etbliohe  for previsions and
suspension of Inotreet.
Eatabl la  and staff supervision unit for       By 2nd tronche release.
non-bonk financiol Institutions.
Design and conduct major training effort        Satlfactory tralning
for Centrol lank supervision and                program d-eign and
Inspection personnel.                          progreas by 2nd trenche
release.
Nem U  credit infrmation unit *atab-        Doeign credit unit Input as port of             Input and TA In place by
llshed within the supervision function.   reoular bank reporting.  Provide on-line          Ard tronche release.
credit reports to banks.
as Audit Co_mittee estoblIshed to set       Establlah criteria for bonk *xternsl            2nd tronche relsooe.
criterl  far beoo  externol audito and     audits and review of audit reports.
re.w. audit reports.
rr



POLICY OBJECTIVES                         RECENT MEASURES TAKEN                   FURTHER ACTIONS UNDER CtEDIT                      TIMING
C.   STRENGTHEN THE NATIONALIZED
CONMERCZAL iANKS (NCD.)
I    R ecpitmIlla  the NC8s.                                                          Reclaesify Decembe*r 1989 portfolio basod        2nd trench, reloeos  with
on now BB loan classlfication require-          GOB confirmation that It
sento.                                          be done by Soptember 30,
1990.
Make now proveisone and suspend intereot        2nd tranche rolease with
In accord with now accounting policies.         GOB confirmation thot it
be done by September 30,
1990.
l1suo special Government bond to                2nd trencho release with
r,eapitalit e each NCB to a level equol         GOB confirmatlon that it
to at least ii of deposits after                be dono by September 30,
provilions have been takon.                     1990.
by 3rd brancho, r-l-soo
Maintai  NCil capital at 6% of depoilts.
II.  Strengthen NCD management and       USAID technical assistance for NCO TA        Sign USAID Proj et Agreement.                    By effctiveness.
accounting system                   to strengthen management, accounting
and training progress was approved.         Technical Assistance In place.                   By 2nd tranche releaso.
Establish Tripartite Revlew process for         2nd tronche reloase.
TA.
Make satisfactory progroes  on lmple-            2nd and 3rd tronche
m*nting NCB TA and computerization,              release.
One MCi has reconciled its lnterbranch    Reconcilo interbranch and write off or             2nd tranche relaseo with
*ccounts and the othoro aro working on    fully provide for unmatched accounts and           GOB confirmation that It
it.  All NCBe have  ado progress In         uncollectiblo Items, and ellinteo               be done by September *0,
identifying unmatched Items.                suspense accounte more than six months           1990.
old In 19B9 accounts.
NC8s' Boards of Directore have been
permitted to decide on personnel
policy, Including rotation of MCB
staff.
C08 has adopted policy that WCS
managing directors will normally be
appointed for periods of more than
thr- years, subject to satisfactory
performance.
Develop satisfactory NCB capacity to set        By 3rd tranche roleaoe.
interest ratoo within the scopo ollowed.                                           D
A COB-established task forco has            Implement soelectd NCO management                Statement of Intent.            Cb
submitted a report to Cabinet with           reforms approved by Governmont (to be
recommendations for additional MC8           identified sfter Cabinet docisions on
management reforms,                          rocommendations).



PWUCT OBJECTVES                         tECENT MEAStUR  TAIE                  FURTHER ACTION  WER CREDIT                     TIMING
C.  STIEENOTEN Tff ATIONAUZED
CORCEIAL LAWS (NCR.)
(Coat.)
III. Improve NMC debt recovery.        NCJe have lnititetd speciel preoram        Identify lerg  borrowers requiring            By lrd trench     neae.
for lmpreving debt collection.            restructurlnog.
M"eItorabio targets have been             cON *111 take nec-esery stops to cause        2nd and 3rd t    he
*etbllehed for collections and            NCBe to achleve eatieftctory collection       release condi    .
reeolutien of logal sea" for 100          performance against m.nitorablo targote
larget doefultore and for new loans       for 100 larogest default-re and oe  now
approved by NCO hoad offices.             loans over Tk 1 million approved by NCO
hoed offices. Collections will be
closely monitored.
Req"lr that banks not lend to                 By led trench   olese.
d4teflt re identified by credit unit
without letters of no ojection free the
loader who helds the defaulted loan.
Allow "CBS to select legal counsel of        By 2ad trench. -leee
their choesing from panle for debt
recovery ea.s.
:E



POLICY OBJECTIVES                       RECEhT NfASURES TAKN                  FtRTHER ACTIONS tNER CREDIT                     TIINIO
D. MISCEL.ANEOIX OBJECTIVES
I.  Strength. the legal                Parliamet has enacted a mom Finaelal    Review with IDA lmpl ma  tation of Law          by ard treache relese.
fra_eork for debt recovery        Loea  C*urts Act *ad GOB has lesuod        Court Low and agree en,recemeeded
satisfactory rule  *ad regulations for    actions, It any, to lmpreve Implemen-
impleme_tin  It.                          tattoo of the law.
O  has leed directive  stablishing
loan recovery ceurts In DShak,
Chittegen and Rheims effective
September 50, 1900 and calling for
thir adeq"ate  tafflog.
11. Revise Rgletien  affecting         The MiNlstry of Low he* cleared a nerw     Enact a satisfactory $ashing Ceep'oles         by tnd trench. release.
beaei.                            Bankiln  Copealee Ordinace.                Ordinnec.
eoist. rfofrescee in nationa  lndestrial     By 2rd trench. relese.
Pelicy-19B  which IWOs  lending
reuiremente on financial lnstltulions
for repayment schdulee, ter, Stc.
U has authorized public enterprises to
place up to 401 *f thir depelte with
prlvate sctor henh*
Sot limits as percent of capital for          By 2nd trancho release.
privete ban leans to individual
orreoer. and Is aggregte to their
directers.
GOB has amended Income tax requiremet.
to mkh Central Bask reuired
provisions *nd interest *sepenslir tax
deductible.
GOB has give banks freedom to set beok
fee Individually to allow increased
ceeptitlie.
III. Strengthen capltol merhet.        GOB bha  setablihewd a Capital Market      Implemnt coemittee recommendatlens with        Statment of Intent.
Development Comeittee with Mlnistry of    respect to ndjustilg underwrlting fee.
Finance and private sctor                 and Increasing flexibility In pricing
participatien.                            new public leuoe.
M~r



International Development Association
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
APPENDIX F
-50-                               Page 1
IDA/SecM92-331
FROMs The President                                             August 27, 1992
BANGLADESH: FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTIM   CREDIT
(CREDIT NO 2152 bD)-RELEASE OF THE SECOND TRANCSE
1.          on June 5, 1990, the Ezecutive Directors approved the Financial
Sector Adjustment Credit (FSC--Credit 2152 BD) of SDR 132.7 million for
Bangladesh. It was to be disbursed in three tranches, SDR 56.9 million at
effectivenes. SDR 37.9 million upon release of the second tranche initially
scheduled for January 1991, and SDR 37.9 million upon release of the third
tranche originally scheduled for March 1992. The initial amounts of the first
and second -tranches have been increased by two  u-dments, due to IDA reflows,
by the amounts of SDR 2.5 million an January 16, 1991, and SDR 2.2 million on
January 15, 1992 respectively. The total amount of the first tranche thus
increased -to SDR 59.4 million and the total second tranche to be released is
SDR 40.1 million and the amended credit totals S9D 137.4 million. The PSAC
vas signed an June 18, 1990 and becam effective on June 22, 1990. The first
tranche has been fully disbursed.
2.          In addition to the IDA credit, USAID has provided US$16.3 million
In parallel financing for a large technical assistance program for the
nationalized commercial banks (NCBs), Bangladesh Bank (BB) which is the
central bank of the country, and Bangladesh Institute of Bank Management
(BIM). Thb USAID financing began to disburse in September 1991, about 9
months behind schedule, and will take four years to complete.
3.          As provided for in Section 3.01 of the Development Credit
Agreement, discussions have been periodically held in Dhaka on the progress
achieved in carrying out the financial sector adjustment program (the Program)
supported by the Credit. On the basis of its last review, held in May 1992,
the Association considers that progress in carrying out the Program is
satisfactory and that the specific conditions for the release of the second
tranche have been satisfied
Distribution
Ezecutive Directors and Alternates                Questions on this document
Office of the President                           may be referred to
Executive Vice Presidents, IFC and MIGA           Mr. Zamir Hasan
Vice Presidents, Bank, nC and HIGA                (Ext. 80424)
Directors and Department Heads, Bank,
IPC and MIGA
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only ih the performance
of their olficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-51 -                         APPENDIX F
Page 2
.4.          The conditions for the release of the second tranche are set forth
in Schedule 3 of the Development Credit Agreement. They consist of
satisfactory progress in carrying out the Program (Schedule 1, paragraph
4(a)(i)), the establishment of a sound macroeconomic framework, to be achieved
by the implementation of the 1990/91 - 1992-93 Policy Framework Paper
(Schedule 3, paragraph 19), and 22 sectoral conditions (Schedule 3, paragraphs
1-18 and 20-23). The second tranche release has been delayed by about
eighteen months from its initial anticipated date due to delays in
implementing specific conditions (recapitalizing one NCB, meeting collection
targets for the largest defaulters and initiating the USAID financed technical
assistance), although many key reforms were implemented before schedule.
1. Macroeconomic Framework
5.          The Goverrment of Bangladesh (GOB) is currently implementing a
macroeconomic and structural adjustment program supported by several
adjustment credits from IDA and an arrangement under the IMP's ESAF program.
The medium-term framework for the program is set out in the PFP, 1991-92/1993-
94 (Sec.M91-1033) and Sec. 91-1033/1) which was reviewed by the Committee of
the Whole on September 26, 1991. IDA staff reviews have concluded that,
overall, the government's macroeconomic performance continues to be adequate
and progress continues under several structural adjustment programs. A third
year PEP, 1992-93/1994-95, and an IMF third year ESAF program are at an
advanced stage of negotiation with GOB.
6.          Largely as a result of exogenous shocks, the growth rate of the
Bangladesh economy dropped to about 3.3Z in 1990/91, from over 6Z in the
preceding year. This slowdown has persisted in 1991/92. Real GDP growth rate
is estimated at 3.2? in 1991/92, about 12 less than the PYP/ESAF program
target. Severe flooding in August/September 1991 damaged agriculture and
impoverished the northern region of the country. Industrial production in the
first half of 1991/92 remained at depressed levels.
7.          Both private and public investment remained sluggish in the first
half of the fiscal year, although some improvements were registered in early
1992. This resulted from the adoption of remedial measures from
November/December 1991. Several monetary measures have been instituted to
stimulate private sector activity, including reductions in the central bank
discount rate, most interest rate ceilings on loans and in commercial bank
cash reserve requirements. GOB intensified the implementation of public
sector projects and introduced improvements in approval procedures for donor-
financed projects. Nevertheless, public sector investment is expected to fall
short of the program targets.
8.          Among the budgetary developments, most noteworthy is the
introduction of the value added tax (VAT) on July 1, 1991. This, together
with improved administration in other areas of taxation, shows promising
reaults, and revenue performance has improved. Current expenditures are being
held in check. The incremental cost of public servants salary increases (Tk.
3.9 billion for. 1991/92) has been contained within the original estimates and
adequately covered by additional revenue and expenditure measures. The



-52-                             APPENDIX F
Page 3
overall fiscal deficit for the year 1991/92 is within the program target of
7.42 of GDP. Aided by a good foodgrain harvest, inflation moderated further,
to between 51 and 6C, compared with the 6.5Z program target.
9.          Export earnings and workers remittances continued to rise in
1991/92. Import growth (8.01) however is less than targeted (13.8Z)
reflecting largely the continued slowdown of the economy. Gross official
reserves reached $1.6 billion at the end of June 1992, equivalent to five
months' of the depressed level of imports. GOB unified Bangladesh's official
and secondary exchange market rates into a single rate, effective January 1,
1992. The Government has also reaffirmed its comitment to maintain a
flexible exchange rate policy as an instrument for promoting external
competitiveness.
io.         To meet donor concerns about the need to improve aid utilization,
GOB, in 1990/91, initiated a public investment prioritization exercise and
formulated a three-year public investment program. This aimed at improving
the quality of the public investment program, and dealing vith problems of
over-programing that had slowed down aid utilization due to shortage of local
counterpart funds. This shortage is now being relieved with improved revenue
collections in the current year and a surplus anticipated in the recurrent
budget. GOB project processing, approval and implementation procedures are
also being reviewed in consultation with donors.
11.         In the area of structural adjustment, modest improvements continue
to be made in several areas. GOB eli-4n-ted all restrictions on the import,
distribution and siting of irrigation equipment and power tillers to sustain
the progress in agriculture. The private sector role has progressively
expanded in fertilizer distribution and marketing. Liberalization is being
pursued also in the industrial sector, vhich is targeted for a relatively high
rate of growth. Under the new Industrial Policy of 1991, the intention is to
gradually privatize all public enterprises, with only the airways, railways,
production and distribution of electricity, telecommunications, and minting
and security printing being reserved for the public sector; these reservations
are now being further reviewed. So far, GOB has identified 42 enterprises for
privatization and has initiated divestment of 17 enterprises. One hundred
percent of the shares in government-owned industries are to be sold wherever
appropriate. Foreigners can invest in shares through the stock exchange, and
1002 foreign ownership of enterprises is allowed. Private business has been
progressively deregulated, import controls are being liberalized and the
tariff reforms are underway.
12.         Under a public resource management adjustment program, GOB has
embarked on a tax reform to increase revenue collections and improve tax
system efficiency and progressivity. The centerpiece of this structural
reform is the value added tax. In public expenditure reform, the rolling
three-year prioritized public investment program gives emphasis to high
priority projects in agriculture, rural development, education, population and
health.  The Government has reiterated its commitment to limit the growth of
current. expenditures, while protecting targeted programs for the poor. Plans
are also under way to reduce the financial burden of the public enterprises on
the budget and improve enterprise efficiency.



-53-                              APPENDIX F
Page 4
II. The Financial Sector Adiustment Program
13.         The principal objectives of the financial sector adjustment
program (the Program) were to: (A) introduce more market-oriented interest
rate policies; (B) enhance the effectiveness of monetary policy and banking
supervision of Bangladesh Bank (the central bank, BB); and (C) strengthening
commercial banks, especially the nationalized commercial banks (NCBs). The
Program was to be carried out within the framework of a stabilized economy;
hence there was a specific condition (number 19 in Schedule 3 of the Credit
Agreement) for the Borrower's continued adherence to 1990/91 - 1992/93 PFP. -
The performance of GOB in this regard has been satisfactory (see also para.--
5). Progress on the specific financial sector adjustment measures is
summarized below.
A. Interest Rate Policies
14.         A principal aim of FSAC was to remove the comprehensive system of
controls on interest rate levels and structure which was in force until
November 1989. There had been a high degree of rigidity and stickiness in
interest rate levels (e.g. the nominal rates on fixed deposits changed only
once during 1980-89, by less than 11, although the annual inflation rate
varied widely during this period). The Association and GOB and BB therefore
agreed on the following four conditions:
Conditions
15.   (a)   The Borrower shall cause Bangladesh Bank to implement the new
interest rate policy in accordance with Bangladesh Bank Circular
No. 33 of November 16, 1989 and methodology agreed with the
Association which includes semi-annual revime of the interest
rate and adjustments in interest rate structure as necessary to
reflect changes in inflation rates and the cost of lending of
Scheduled Banks.
(b)   The Borrower shall reimburse the Scheduled Banks for their cost of
interest rate subsidies covering the period January 1 to June 30,
1990.
(c)   The Borrower shall cause Bangladesh Shilpa Bank to raise its
medium and large scale term industrial rates to at least the
shadow market rate.
(d)   The Borrower shall delete from its Industrial Policy - 1986 all
references as to terms, conditions and interest rates associated
with industrial lending by banks.
Compliance
16..        In pursuance of the interest rate liberalization objective, the RB
introduced a new flexible market-oriented interest rate policy in January,
1990, abolishing the previous centrally administered interest rate structure.
The new policy also replaced the sector-specific concessional refinance



-54 -APPENDIX F
Page 5
facility with transparent reimbursement from the budget for subsidies
commercial banks were required to extend to borrowers in the remaining
admi-nstered interest rate levels. The new policy prescribed interest rate
bands for different categories of loans and advances as vell as for deposits;
the banks were free to fix their own rates within these bands. These interest
rate bands were determined by first calculating 'shadow interest rates  on the
basis of cost of funds, bad debt provisions, atministrative expenses, and a
reasonable margin of profit for banks. Interest rates to certain priority
sectors were fixed below the shadow lending rates (with GOB providing
subsidies to the banks from the budget to offset their losses incurred for
lending to these sectors). Interest rate bands for deposits were determined
taking into consideration the prevailing rate of inflation and the need for
providing a positive real return to savers who keep their money in term
deposits.
17.         Since introduction in January 1990, several reviews and
adjustments of the interest rate bands were undertaken such that an
increasingly larger share of bank lending became subject to price competition.
Constraints on bank freedom to set interest rates have been steadily lessened,
and the level of subsidy has been gradually reduced. In January 1992, the
interest rate bands for all lending (except for two subsidized categories
mentioned later in this paragraph) were abolished as no longer needed. Banks
are now allowed to differentiate interest rates for individual borrowers based
on their assessment of credit risk, and may change their rates on a monthly
basis. The concessional refinance facility for agricultural lending has been
discontinued so that BB now has only one common re-discounting window, using
the bank rate which is adjusted from time to time in accord with monetary
policy objectives. The number of subsidized sectors as well as the rates of
subsidy have been reduced substantially. Only loans for exports (including
jute and jute goods) and term lending to small and cottage industry are now
eligible for subsidy, the rate of subsidy being l.OZ and 3.5Z respectively.
The subsidy is also now reimbursed directly by GOB from the budget. This is
transparent and also does not result in the distortion of the overall interest
rate structure. Quarterly subsidy claims through March 1992 have already been
paid to the banks and claims up to June 1992 are currently being processed. In
respect of interest rates on deposits, ceilings have been removed, but floor
rates remain prescribed to ensure positive returns to depositors.
18.         Concurrently with the requirement for the commercial banks'
interest rates to be market oriented, the Credit also required that the
lending rates of the state owned DFI, Bangladesh Shilpa Bank, should be
adjusted to more realistic levels, i.e., at least equal to the shadow rate.
This condition was complied with when the lending rate of BSB was raised to
14.5Z, above the shadow market rate, and while now moot because interest rate
bands have been abolished, the BSB rates is still above the last calculated
shadow market rate. The final condition relating to interest rates (c above)
has also been complied with; the Industrial Policy - 1991 issued recently does
not make any reference to banks' lending rates. In effect, the banks now
determine their own lending rates subject only to central bank requirements.



APPENDIX F
55                             Page 6
B. Bangladesh Bank
19.         The overall aim of the conditions relating to BB was to strengthen
it institutionally to enable it to perform its functions more effectively.
More specifically the conditions aimed to improve (i) BB's conduct of monetary
policies, (ii) its supervision of banks, and (iii) training and upgrading of
banking sector staff.
20.         In the monetary policy area, in addition to converting refinance
into a monetary policy tool (para. 17 above), there were two specific
conditions as follows:
(a)   The Borrower shall cause Bangladesh Bank to implement the
procedures for monetary programing, policy formulation and
regular review of interest rates.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause Bangladesh Bank to issue debt instruments
at market determ4ned yields and establish a tendering mechanism
for such issues.
Compliance
21.         The BB, through its Technical Unit and supported by the USAID
financed technical assistance, formulates its monetary and credit policies
keeping in view the need for financed technical assistance, increasing
production and employment, maintaining price stability and achieving a
satisfactory balance of payments. Accordingly, annual monetary programs are
prepared taking into consideration: (i) the expected GDP growth; (ii)
acceptable rate of inflation; and (iii) anticipated balance of payments
outcome. The programs are finalized in consultation with IMP and phased into
quarterly targets comensurate with the performance criteria set under the
Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facilities (ESAP). Actual developments in
money and credit are regularly monitored. Money and credit have so far
remained within the programed levels.
22.         To move to more indirect control in monetary management, a new
security, the 91-Day Bangladesh Bank bill was introduced in December, 1990.
It was also intended to provide banks/financial institutions and others
(including individuals, firms, companies and corporate bodies) an instrument
to invest their excess funds at market related yields. The bills are issued
in denominations of Taka one million or multiples thereof through a tendering
mechanism. The bills do not carry a fixed yield or price, but are issued at a
discount from a par value of Tk. 100. A comittee, headed by BB's Deputy - -
Governor, decides the amount and cut-off price of the bills to be issued in a
particular tender prior to its commencement. A separate comittee called the
Auction Committee, also headed by the Deputy Governor, deals with matters-
relating to the conduct of auction and issuance of bills.
23.         Since introduction of the BB bill in December, 1990 through
February, 1992, fifteen monthly auctions have been held. Total face value of
the bids received in these auctions during the period from December, 1990 to



APPENDIX F
-56-                             Page 7
February, 1992 amounted to Tk. 7.4 billion, wLile face value of the bids
accepted (i.e., face value of the bills issued) by BB totalled Tk. 3 billion.
The weighted average annual rate of return on the bills issued ranged between
8.07Z - 9.72Z per annum. The outstanding amount of the bill as at the end of
February, 1992 stood at Tk. 1,000 million.
24.         The introduction of BB bills is a positive step in the development
of monetary policy tools. It should be noted, however, that at present there
is no secondary market in the bills; the bills are typically purchased by
comnercial banks, used by them to satisfy reserve requirements and nor-lly
held to maturity. In addition, there is no system yet for non-competitive
bidding, and the minimum amount is too high for most individual investors.
Despite these shortcomings, the introduction of a short term government paper
is a positive step in the continuing process of financial sector reforms.
25.         In the bank supervision area, there were four specific conditions
as follows:
(a)   The Borrower shall cause Bangladesh Bank to establish and
implement a system by which the Scheduled Banks are required to
report regularly to Bangladesh Bank on loans and debt servicing
status of their public sector borrowers.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause Bangladesh Bank to establish and staff a
supervision unit for non-bank financial institutions.
5C)   The Borrower shall cause Bangladesh Bank to design and commence a
training program for its supervision and inspection personnel,
acceptable to the Association.
(d)   The Borrower shall cause the Accounting and Auditing Committee of
Bangladesh Bank to establish criteria, acceptable to the
Association, for selection of auditors, external audits, and
review of audit reports for financial institutions for which
Bangladesh Bank has supervisory responsibility.
Compliance
26.         Improvement in central bank supervision of banks is a continuing
process and the BB still has a long way to go. At the time the Credit was
made, monitoring of overdues by public sector enterprises, supervision of non-
bank financial institutions and training facilities for supervisory staff were
particularly poor. Hence the specific conditions mentioned above.
27.         Compliance has been satisfactory.  The BB has set up a system for
regular reporting and monitoring of the loans and debt servicing status of
scheduled banks, public sector borrowers. New reporting forms/monitoring
formats have been designed in consultation with the Association and are now in
use. Scheduled banks are regularly reporting to BB using the new format. As
a result, not only is the infor-mtion on public enterprises' arrears more
complete but also more up to date.



-57 -                        APPENDIX F
Page 8
28.         As regards the second condition, a separate unit has been set up
in the Banking Control Department of BB in December, 1990. Since then, the
unit has been functioning with the responsibility of supervising activities of
the non-bank financial institutions operating in the country. Although the
condition has been complied with in that a new supervision unit has been set.
up, the effectiveness of the new unit has recently been questioned in the wake
of the failure of an investment bank. The Association intends to follow up on
this in the course of its normal supervision of the Credit. Finally, the BB
has taken steps to improve the training for its supervisory and inspection
staff. Several short and medium term courses have been arranged through its
training arm, the Bangladesh Institute of Bank Management; between January
1990 and February 1992, a total of 270 bank staff received training through
these courses. A number of banking inspectors received training on portfolio
valuation relating to new guidelines. It is recognized at the same time that
training and staff improvement is a continuous process; the IDA staff intends
to keep a close eye on this aspect through its normal supervision.
29.         In so far as the condition relating to accounting and auditing is
concerned, the BB Accounting and Audit Committee has formulated standard
criteria for selection of external auditors of banks and financial
institutions. There is a Standing Comittee for review of inspection reports
submitted by banks and financial institutions. Inspection reports are
discussed in the meetings presided over by the BB Deputy Governor.  The
Committee also examines annual reports of banks/financial institutions. These
arrangements are satisfactory to the Association and the condition is
considered as complied with.
30.         In the area of training and upgrading of banking sector personnel,
the two specific conditions were as follows:
(a)   The Borrower shall take all actions required for satisfactorily
initiating implementation of the Project Agreement with the United
States Agency for International Development (USAID) for technical
assistance, including establishment of procedures by the Borrower
and USAID for the review of the technical assistance in
consultation with the Association.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause Bangladesh Bank and the NCBs to carry out
the USAID financed technical assistance in a manner acceptable to
the Association.
Compliance
31.         The large technical assistance program being funded by $18.2
million USAID grant started late, but is now firmly in place, with 19
positions (66Z of total) already filled and persons in place by the end of
April 1992. The initial output and benefits are already visible, particularly-
at the NCBs' level. This is very positive since it is generating enthusiasm
and willing acceptance of the technical assistance.
32.         The role of the Association as the technical advisor and
supervisor of the TA program is accepted by GOB, BB, USAID and the contractor



- 58 -                      APPENDIX F
Page 9
for the program. The Association on its part recognizes the critical role of
the TA program for the achievement of the obj ectives of the IDA Credit. The
IDA staff is, therefore, devoting a lot of time to supervising the USAID
funded TA program. Procedures have been established for regular review of the
TA program's progress; these are satisfactory. The responsibility for
supervising the implementation of the TA has been entrusted to a Standing
Oversight Committee which meets at regular intervals. IDA staff has attended
a number of meetings of this Comiatte, which includes representatives of MOF,
BB, USAID and IMF as well as of IDA. The BB and the NCB's are carrying out
the TA program satisfactorily; the implementation of the program is now well
entrenched and the conditions in this regard are considered to have been
complied with.
C. StrenRthening Commercial Banks
33.         The reform measures focused both on strengthening the commercial
banking system as a whole and on the NCBs in particular, (i.e. Sonali Bank,
Janata Bank, Agrani Bank and Rupali Bank). Overall banking system objectives
related to the legal and regulatory infrastructure, giving particular
attention to aspects associated with bad debts; the specific conditions were
as follows:
(a)   The Borrower shall enact a Banking Companies Law that will, inter
alia, establish sound minimum capitalization requirements for all
banks, prudent limitations on m4i    bank loan sizes to
individual borrowers, prudent maximum aggregate loans to
directors, and significant further restrictions on loans to
defaulters.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause Bangladesh Bank to set the following
limits for the Scheduled Banks: (a) for loans to individual
borrowers, a limit of 25Z of the Scheduled Bank's capital; and (b)
for loans to directors of Scheduled Banks, an aggregate limit of
102 of the Scheduled Bank's outstanding loans.
Compliance
34.         A new Banking Companies Act was enacted in May 1991 which included
the required provisions. Subsequently, the BB issued the implementing
circular in January 1992, which sets the maximum exposure limit for a single
borrower at 25 of the bank's capital. The limit on loans to directors is 10
of total loans.
35.         It should also be noted that BB had already implemented, in early
1990, strengthened bank accounting requirements related to loan
classification, provision and suspension of interest as a Board condition.
Banking supervision and inspection by BB has been doing a satisfactory job in
ensuring that each bank (private, foreign and NCBs) implemented these
requirements properly. It should also be pointed out that GOB had also
enacted, in 1990, a Loan Courts Act in response to another Board condition and
pursuant to a third tranche release requirement to implement this Act
satisfactorily, has established and fully staffed 21 special debt recovery
courts which, in the first .13 months of operation awarded 9700 decrees in an
amount of about US$68 million equivalent.



APPENDIX F
-59-                             Page 10
36.        -As regards the NCBs, the principal objectives of the reform
measures were to (i) improve their collection of loans and its monitoring,
(ii) improve provisioning and portfolio classification, and (iii) capitalize
them adequately. The specific conditions were as follows:
(a)   The Borrower shall cause the NCBs to take all steps necessary to
achieve satisfactory collection performance in accordance with the
targets agreed with the Association for the NCBs' one hundred
largest defaulters.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause the NCBs to design and implement a
monitoring system satisfactory to the Association for recording
and comparing collections with new amounts of principal and
interest falling due on new loans made by NCB principal offices
after June 30, 1990. The Borrower shall cause the NCBs to take
all steps necessary to achieve satisfactory collection performance
in accordance with targets agreed with the Association with
respect to these new loans.
(c)   The Borrower shall enable the NCBs to select legal counsel for
debt recovery cases from the panel of legal counsels proposed by
the NCBs and as approved by the Borrower.
(d)   The Borrower shall cause the NCBs to reclassify their December
1989 portfolio in accordance with the requirements set forth in
Bangladesh Bank Circular No. 34 of November 16. 1989.
(e)   The Borrower shall cause the NCBs to make new provisions and
deduct from income for possible. bad debt and suspend interest in
accordance with (d) above and the requirements set forth in
Bangladesh Bank Circular No. 34 of November 16, 1989.
(f)   The Borrower shall cause the NCBs to reconcile all inter-branch
accounts and write off or fully provide for uncollectible and
unmatched uncollectible items in their 1989 accounts.
(g)   The Borrower shall cause the NCBs, in accordance vith generally
accepted accounting principles, not to have items in suspense
accounts remain as such for a period of more than six months in
their 1989 accounts.
(h)   The Borrower shall issue bonds to recapitalize each NCB to a level
equal to five percent, or such higher percentage as the Borrower's
law may require, of deposits after provisions and interest
suspensions have been entered into the accounts in accordance with
paragraphs (d) and (e) above.
Compliance
37.         The Credit agreement contained three conditions relating to the
NCBs' collection performance (a,b,c above); all three have been complied with.
The actual collections up to December 31, 1991 against NCBs' one hundred



APPENDIX F
-60-                                Page II
largest loan dEfaulters have in fact exceeded the targets for the second
tranche release by a substantial margin, albeit behind the original schedule.
(The actuals were 148Z of the target for private sector borrowers, lllZ for
public sector borrowers, and 1282 over all.) For recording and reporting on
new NCt loans (i.e. loans made after June 30, 1990) a new format satisfactory
to the Association is now in place. Actual collections up to December 31,
1991 against new loans amounted to Tk 43 million or 91Z of the amounts
becoming due, slightly above the target. Finally, the NCBs have now drawn up
the panels of legal counsels from which they are free to choose the counsels
to try their debt recovery cases.
38.         As regards proper classification of accounts and provisioning,
there were four conditions (e-h, above). The reclassification exercise was
duly completed before the end of 1989, as required by BB. The required
provisions were also made by the NCBs before the end of 1989 except that in
the case of one NCB (partially privatized) the provision was raised to the
required level in 1990. (Agreement with the private shareholders on new
capital could not be reached in time to be reflected in 1989 accounts. The
capital was strengthened in 1990 and then the required provision was duly
made.) The Association considers this adequate. As regards reconciliation of
inter-branch accounts, two NCBs, while making very substantial progress, have
fallen slightly short of completing the exercise. In the case of one, an
amount of Tk 20 million (out of total assets of Tk 5,755 million as of
December 31, 1989) still remained unreconciled; in the case of the other bank,
the unreconciled amount was Tk 4 million (against total assets of Tk 6,707
million). The Association has been assured that *strong surveillance is going
on' to complete the reconciliation. In view of the small amounts of the
unreconciled balances, the Association considers that the Credit condition in
this respect has been substantially comlied with. Similarly, the condition
regarding amounts in suspense accounts is also considered as having been
complied with although some small amounts still remain beyond the prescribed
six month period.
39.         The final condition (h above) was meant to strengthen NCBs'
capital base. The NCBes were required to be recapitalized to a level equal to
62 of their deposits as prescribed by the Banking Companies Act. Given
monetary impact considerations, GOB's cash budget situation and the
undesirability of providing NCBs with substantial additional cash, the
Association had agreed that the capital could be paid in kind, i.e, GOB's
bonds. There was considerable delay in recapitalization of one NCB which is
partially privately owned. The private shareholders were slow in paying in
their share of the increased capital, as stated in pars. 38. But the
recapitalization has now been duly completed and auditors' certificate on the
balance sheet showing the new capital has been obtained. The Credit condition
has, therefore, been satisfactorily complied with.
III. Summary
40.         GOB's performance in implementing the agreed financial sector
adjustment program has been satisfactory. There were 23 specific conditions
for the release of the second tranche of the Credit. Most of these were
complied with in a timely fashion; the recapitalization of NCBes was a
principal condition which was delayed, thus delaying the second tranche



APPENDIX F
Page 12
-61-
release until now. All conditions have now been complied with as explained in
this memorandum (indeed progress has substantially exceeded the requirement in
some important areas e.g. interest rate reform). The GOB has been advised of
the availability of the second tranche amounting to SDR 40.1 million.
Levis T. Preston
President



International Development Association                       APPENDIX G
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                             Page 1
IDA/SecM93-399
-62 -
December 28, 1993
FROM: The President
BANGIADESH: FINANCIAL SECTOR ADaCSTMZNT CREDIT
(CREDIT NO. 2152-BD) - RELEASE OF THE THIRD TRANCES
1.          On June 5, 1990, the Executive Directors approved the Financial
Sector Adjustment Credit (FSAC--Credit 2152 BD) of SDR 132.7 million for
Bangladesh. Jt was to be disbursed in three tranches: SDR 56.9 million at
effectiveness, SDR 37.9 million upon release of the second tranche initially
scheduled for January 1991, and SDR 37.9 million upon release of the third
tranche originally scheduled for March 1992. The initial amount of the second
tranche was increased twice by amendment, as a result of IDA reflows, by the
amounts of SDR 2.5 million on January 16, 1991, and SDR 2.2 million on January
15, 1992 such that the total second tranche amounted to SDR 42.6 million and
the amended Credit totals SDR 137.4 million. The FSAC was signed on June 18,
1990 and became effective on June 22, 1990. The first and second tranches
have been fully disbursed. This memorandum reviews the macro-economic
framework and the Government's compliance with the conditions of the third
tranche release. It concludes that the Government's performance has been
satisfactory and the tranche release conditions have been complied with. The
Government has therefore been notified of the authorization to draw the third
tranche amounting to SDR 37.9 million.
2.          In addition to the IDA Credit, USAID has provided US$16.3 million
in parallel financing for a large multi-year technical assistance program,
called the Financial Sector Reform Program (FSRP), for Bangladesh Bank (BB)
which is the central bank of the country, the nationalized commercial banks
(NCBs), and the Bangladesh Institute of Bank Management (BIBM). The USAID
financing began to disburse in September 1991, about 9 months behind schedule,
and is now expected to complete by September 30, 1995.
3.          As provided for in Section 3.01 of the Development Credit
Agreement (DCA), discussions have been held periodically in Dhaka on the
progress achieved in carrying out the financial sector adjustment program (the
Program) supported by the Credit. On the basis of its last review, held in
November 1993, IDA considers that progress in carrying out the Program has
been satisfactory and that the objectives of the specific conditions for the
release of the third tranche have been achieved.
Distribution
Executive Directors and Alternates                 Questions on this document
Office of the President                            may be referred to
Executive Vice Presidents, IFC and MIGA            Mr. Zamir Xasan
Vice Presidents, Bank, IFC and MIGA                (Ext. 80424)
Directors and Department Heads, Bank,
IFC and MIGA
This document has a restrictcd distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfrmance
Of their official duties. Its conttnts may not otherwise bt disclosed without World Bank IL:horization.



-63-                            APPENDIX G
Page 2
4.          The conditions for the release of the second and third tranches
are set forth in Schedule 3 of the Credit Agreement. While the second tranche
conditions sought to establish a sound macroeconomic framework through the
implementation of the 1990/91 - 1992/93 Policy Framework Paper (Schedule 3,
paragraph 19) and addressed some of the basic problems facing BB and the NCBs
(Schedule 3, paragraphs 1-18 and 20-23), the third tranche conditions
basically sought to continue the reforms by repeating some of the second
tranche conditions while introducing some new ones also. Specifically, the
third tranche conditions consisted of strengthening certain areas in BB and
the NCBs and the sector as a whole (Schedule 3, paragraphs 1, 14, 15, 16, and
24 to 31). The third tranche release has been delayed by about twenty months
from its initial anticipated date, first, due to the eighteen-month delay
carried over from the second tranche release authorization, and second, due to
delays in implementing the specific condition relating to recapitalization of
the NCBs. Many key reforms were implemented before schedule and some reforms
have progressed well beyond the Program requirements.
I.  Macroeconomic Framework
5.          The Government of Bangladesh (GOB) is currently implementing a
macroeconomic and structural adjustment program supported by several
adjustment credits from IDA and an arrangement under the IMF's enhanced
surveillance procedure. The PFP/ESAF program covering a three year period
ending in September 1993; was successfully implemented; a joint IMF and IRA
staff review concluded that Bangladesh met the program's performance criteria
and benchmarks.
6.          Bangladesh's macroeconomic management has been impressive.  On the
fiscal side, the Government has succeeded in reversing the trend of the second
half of the 1980s of stagnating government revenues, increasing current
spending and declining public investment. Monetary policy has also been
sound, leading to a sharp decline in inflation. Sound fiscal and monetary
policies are reflected in good balance of payments outcomes, and a rise in
Bangladesh's external reserves. Success in achieving macroeconomic
stabilization provides GOB with an excellent opportunity to accelerate
structural reforms aimed at achieving faster growth.
7.          Public Savincr and Investment.  Fiscal policy has improved steadily
since FY91. Government revenue, which had stagnated at around 9t of GDP
between 1985 and 1990, rose to 9.6% of GDP in FY91, 10.9% in FY92 and 11.6% in
FY93. The introduction of a value added tax (VAT), was the centerpiece of - :
GOB's tax reform. VAT, together with trade-neutral supplementary duties which
were also part of the reform, now accounts for about 40% of tax revenues,
giving Bangladesh a more efficient and faster growing tax base than its larger
neighbors. The FY94 budget includes cuts in import tariffs and reductions in
personal income and corporate tax rates, with a view to liberalizing trade and
encouraging private sector activity. Nevertheless, government revenue is
expected to rise to around 12% of GDP, due to the expanding tax base and
improved tax administration.



APPENDIX G
Page 3
-64 -
8.          Current expenditures had risen from 6.51 of GDP in FY85 to 8.8  in
FY90. Since then, as required under PRMAC, this ceiling has been maintained--
current expenditures were 8.6% of GDP in FY93. Rising revenues and control of
current spending have led to a rapid increase in government savings, which
should enable GOB to finance a much needed expansion in public investment in
the social sectors and physical infrastructure. Although the higher ADP
realizations achieved in FY92 and FY93 were consistent with PRMAC
requirements, as noted above, the potential increases have not yet fully
materialized owing to institutional and procedural weaknesses. Thus, fiscal
reforms have led initially to a sharp decline in the budget deficit from 7-8%
of GDP in the late 1980s to around 5 of GDP in FY92 and FY93.
9.          Money Growth and Inflation.  Fiscal stabilization was accompanied
by a reduction in the rate of growth of money supply from an annual rate of
16;9% in FY90 to 11.4% in FY93. The rate of growth of domestic credit
declined from 18.9% in FY90 to 4.4% in FY93, mainly reflecting a sharp fall in
the public sector's credit needs. Inflation declined steadily, reaching an
annual rate of less than 2t by the end of June 1993. This lower rate of
inflation partly reflects sound monetary policies, but is also due to a fall
in domestic rice prices caused by bumper crops and high government food
stocks.
10.         External Balance.  Tighter macro-policies, together with some
depreciation of the Taka, led to an improvement in Bangladesh's external
position. The current account deficit fell from 6.9% of GDP in FY90 to 1.8%
in FY93. Lower domestic demand caused a decline in imports from 16.8% of GDP
in FY90 to 15.9% in FY93. The current account was also helped by a more than
doubling of garments exports from US $609 million in FY90 to US $1,241 million
in FY93, and by continued steady growth in worker remittances from US $761
million in FY90 to US $946 million in FY93. Although foreign aid
disbursements fell from 8t of GDP in FY90 to 6.4% in FY93, this was more than
offset by the improvement in the current account, resulting in an increase in
foreign reserves from 1.7 months of imports in 1990 to 6.5 months (US $2.1
billion) in June 1993.
11.         Economic Growth.  Real GDP growth is estimated at 4.3% in FY93,
broadly the same as in FY92. Agricultural output grew by 2.1%, reflecting the
record rice harvest.  Industry and services grew at 6.9% and 5.2%,
respectively. Gross investment rose slightly from 12.4t of GDP in FY92 to
12.7% in FY93. Thus, it remains well below the 17-20t range, needed to
achieve sustainable growth of 6-7% and a significant reduction in poverty.
The Government recognizes that successful macroeconomic stabilization provides
the foundation for structural reforms to boost investment and growth. It
intends to redouble its effort to increase efficient public investment,
enhance external competitiveness, and promote private sector development.
II. The Financial Sector Adiuxtment Procram
12.         The principal objectives of the Program were to: (A) introduce
more market-oriented interest rate policies; (B) enhance the effectiveness of
BB, specially in the field of monetary policy and banking supervision; (C)



APPENDIX G
-65-                          Page4
improve the environment for debt recovery; and (D) strengthen the commercial
banks, especially the NCBs.  The Program was to be carried out within the
framework of a stabilized economy; hence the-e-r was a specific condition
(number 19 in Schedule 3 of the Credit Agrea.ment) for the Borrower's continued
adherence to 1990/91 - 1992/93 PFP. Given the nature of financial sector
reforms as being a continuous process, some of the third tranche conditions
reflect a continuation of the policy changes initiated when the Credit was
made in 1990. Consequently, the actions relating to interest rate
liberalization, loan recoveries and technical assistance to BB and the NCBs,
initiated earlier, were expected to continue over the period of the three
tranches. Overall, the reforms as envisaged under the Credit have been
satisfactorily implemented. However, the financial sector reforms continue to
have high priority for the Government, shared by both IDA and IMF, and the
reform process is still continuing. Both IDA and IMF are actively assisting
the authorities in carrying the reforms to their next logical stage. The
emphasis now is two-fold; (i) on enabling BB to conduct monetary policy and
bank supervision more effectively and (ii) improving the operational
efficiency and financial health of the commercial banking sector.
A.  Interest Rate Policies
13.         A principal aim of FSAC was to remove the comprehensive system of
controls on interest rate levels and structure which was in force until
November 1989. Until then, interest rates, both lending and deposit, were
prescribed by GOB, and there was a high degree of rigidity and stickiness in
the structure of interest rates. The result was that interest rates were not
responsive to market conditions and severely limited the development of the
financial sector.
14.         To remove the GOB controls on interest rates, IDA, GOB and BB
agreed on the following two conditions for both the second and third tranches:
(a)   The Borrower shall cause Bangladesh Bank to implement the new
interest rate policy in accordance with Bangladesh Bank Circular
No. 33 of November 16, 1989 and methodology agreed with the
Association which includes semi-annual reviews of the interest
rate and adjustments in interest rate structure as necessary to
reflect changes in inflation rates and the cost of lending of
Scheduled Banks.
(b)   The Borrower shall reimburse the Scheduled Banks for their cost of
interest rate subsidies during each of the following six month
periods: July 1 to December 31, 1990; January 1 to June 30, 1991;
and July 1 to December 31, 1991.
15.         Compliance.  In pursuance of the interest rate liberalization
objective, the BB introduced a new flexible market-oriented interest rate
policy in January, 1990, abolishing the previous centrally administered
interest rate structure. The new policy prescribed interest rate bands for
different categories of loans and advances as well as for deposits; the banks
were free to fix their own rates within these bands. These interest rate
bands were determined by first calculating "shadow interest rates" on the



APPENDIX G
-66-                            Page 5
basis of cost of funds, bad debt provisions, administrative expenses, and a
reasonable margin of profit for banks. Interest rates to certain priority
sectors were fixed below the shadow lending rates (with GOB providing
subsidies to the banks from the budget to offset their losses incurred for
lending to these sectors). Interest rate bands for deposits were determined
taking into consideration the prevailing rate of inflation and the need for
providing a positive real return to savers who keep their money in term
deposits.
16.         Since introduction in January 1990, several reviews and
adjustments of the interest rate bands were undertaken such that an
increasingly larger share of bank lending became subject to price competition.
Constraints on bank freedom to set interest rates have been steadily lessened,
and the level of subsidy has been gradually reduced. From January 1991, banks
were allowed to change interest rates on a monthly basis instead of only every
six months previously, to quicken the response to market changes. In April
1992, the deposit rate ceilings were abolished, and lending rate bands were
also abolished except for agriculture, export and small and cottage
industries. As a result of the more recent reviews, the floor rates for
savings and fixed deposits have been adjusted downwards several times in
response to moderation in inflation. At present, the floor rates for savings
and fixed deposits are 5% and 5.5% respectively, which still yield a positive
real return to depositors. The lending rates have also come down and have
been liberalized to allow banks to take risk factors into account in loan
pricing. The general concessional refinance facility offered by BB has also
been replaced by a regular rediscount window. In addition, refinance for
agriculture lending by the Bangladesh Krishi Bank (BKB) and Rajshahi Krishi
Unnayan Bank (RAKUB) has been discontinued, so that BB now has only one re-
discount window, using the Bank Rate which is adjusted from time to time in
accordance with monetary policy objectives. The impact of these changes
together with the decline in inflation has been a substantial realignment in
the level and structure of interest rates of the banks. The condition (a)
above relating to interest rate liberalization has been met.
17.         Although GOB has retained the interest rate bands for three
priority sectors, viz., agriculture, exports, and small scale and cottage
industries, they have been adjusted such that the subsidy element has been
totally eliminated from two of the three sectors. Subsidy is now allowed, at
3%, only in the case of lending to the small scale and cottage industries
sector. This subsidy is reimbursed directly by GOB from the budget every six
months, in a transparent manner; this arrangement is, therefore, satisfactory,
in that it does not result in the distortion of the overall interest rate
structure. Although the specific condition required GOB to reimburse the
banks for the cost of subsidies up to the end of December 1991, subsidy
reimbursement has been made up to the end of June 1992 and authorization for
reimbursement for the period ending December 1992 is under process. The
condition (b) above has thus also been met.
18.         While both conditions related to interest rates have been met as
discussed above, it should be added that interest rate reforms need to be
carried further. One problem is that the real interest rates (both lending as
well as deposit) are now very high. One reason for this is that inflation has



APPENDIX G
-67 -
Page 6
come down very rapidly (particularly this year) to about 2% level (annualized)
and rates have not adjusted quickly enough despite several revisions in the
Bank Rate and lowering of floor deposit rates. The Government has been
reluctant so far to abolish floor deposit rates to continue to guarantee
positive returns to savers. On the lending side, rates remain high not only
because of the cost of funds but also because of large overhang of bad debts.
These problems will take some time before they are fully resolved. A second
problem is that the structure of rates on savings is not rational in that the
yields on various savings schemes do not always reflect risk and maturity
characteristics. Another problem is that the government- owned banks dominate
the system and follow similar if not the same policies, with the result that
important policies, including interest rate setting, are not determined in a
truly competitive manner. As stated in para 12, financial sector reforms is
an on-going process, and IDA is addressing these and other related problems
through continuing sector work.
B. Banoladesh Bank
19.         The main purpose of the conditions relating to BB was to
strengthen it institutionally to enable it to perform its functions more
effectively. While the second tranche conditions aimed at improving BB's
conduct of monetary policies, its supervision of banks, and training and
upgrading of banking sector staff, the third tranche conditions aimed at
ensuring that the institutional strengthening process continued.
20.         More specifically, in the bank supervision area, there were two
conditions:
(a)   The Borrower shall cause Bangladesh Bank, with technical
assistance from the International Monetary Fund (IMF), to design
and thereafter introduce a system for continuous bank supervision.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause Bangladesh Bank, with technical
assistance from IMF, to design and thereafter introduce a system
to rationalize and streamline bank reporting requirements.
21.         Compliance.  Continuous bank supervision or off-site surveillance
is based on periodic reports submitted by the banks being supervised.  At the
time the Credit was made, it was envisaged that IMF would provide TA to BB to
rationalize and streamline the then existing bank reporting requirements.
However, soon after Credit effectiveness, the IMF advised BB about its
inability to mobilize the TA at that time and BB had to identify new sources
for the TA. In consultation with the Government and USAID, some of the
resources under FSRP were reallocated to BB, to be used for redesigning and
upgrading the off-site surveillance system. The emphasis was on (i)
introducing an Early Warning System (EWS), (ii) institutionalizing the CAMEL
bank rating system, (iii) training of senior staff (both external and in-
house), and (iv) more recently, establishing a Large Loan Review Cell to
concentrate on monitoring of new large loans. With these measures and the
rationalization of the reporting system (see the following para), the



APPENDIX G
-68 -                          Page 7
technical capability of BB's continuous supervision system has substantially
improved. Condition (a) above has thus been met.
22.         Since the system of continuous supervision system is based on the
reports received by BB, urgent attention was given to this. The FSRP team
carried out a detailed review of the existing BB internal as well as reporting
requirements of the commercial banks. The review resulted in the elimination
of more than 100 internal bank reports that were either redundant or had been
replaced by new reports. The SBS-1,2 and 3 forms that report on the scheduled
banks, operations have been simplified and made more effective. A PC-based
data base has also been developed. More recently, a revision of The Exchange
Control Manual and the Banking Control Manual issued by BB has been undertaken
to reflect the liberalizations that have occurred and to streamline the
reporting reauirements. BB is also managing satisfactorily the new system for
regular loan reporting and monitoring of the debt servicing status of
scheduled banks' public sector borrowers using the new reporting
forms/monitoring formats designed in consultation with IDA. The resulting up-
to-date information on public enterprises' arrears has been useful in
focussing attention on the magnitude of the public enterprises debt and its
budgetary implications. Based on the progress already made, the above-
mentioned condition (b) has also been satisfied.
23.         While considerable progress has been made in the area of
supervision and regulation, it is also recognized that improving banking
supervision and regulation is a continuing and long term phenomenon.
Substantial improvements in a technical sense have been made but BB still
remains a weak institution when it comes to taking difficult decisions. It is
important that the progress already made is not dissipated and further
progress continues to be made. Accordingly, firm arrangements have been made
under FSRP for an expatriate expert to join BB for a two year period starting
in January 1994; the expert has been selected. The IMF has also been able to
restore budget for providing TA to BB and an expert is now being recruited to
join BB in April/May 1994.
24.          In the area of training and upgrading of bankina sector personnel,
the following second tranche condition was repeated:
(a)   The Borrower shall cause Bangladesh Bank and the NCBs to carry out
the USAID financed technical assistance in a manner acceptable to
the Association.
25.         Compliance.  Although the large (US$18.2 million) technical
assistance program (called FSRP) being funded by USAID grant started late, it
is now firmly in place with most of the local and expatriate positions already
filled and persons in place. The team includes: an international macro-
economist; an international bank supervision expert; an international computer
specialist; a training specialist; experts for the Credit Bureau,
accounting/MIS, and planning/budgeting; international advisors for each of the
NCBs; and local experts for each of the international consultants. The
initial output and benefits are already visible as the NCBs are showing
improvements in accounting and MIS, computerization, performance budgeting,



APPENDIX G
-69-                             Page 8
staff training, etc. It should be recognized, however, that changing the
banking culture of a country is a longer term phenomenon.
26.         The supportive role of IDA in the execution of the TA program is
generally accepted by GOB, BB, USAID and the contractor for the program. IDA
on its part recognizes the critical role of the TA program for re-establishing
the integrity of the financial sector and achieving the specific reform
objectives of the IDA Credit. The IDA staff together with the Resident
Mission are, therefore, devoting considerable time to monitor che progress of
the USAID funded TA program. The implementation of the program is now well
entrenched and the conditions in this regard are considered to have been
complied with.
C. Debt Recovery Environment
27.         The poor debt recovery performance of the NCBs reflected in part
the breakdown of credit discipline throughout the country. This was aided by
an inadequate legal and judicial framework for loan recovery and ccotract
enforcement which gave borrowers sufficient loopholes to abuse and delay legal
process.
28.         The Credit sought to improve the debt recovery environment through
the following three specific conditions:
(a)   The Borrower shall cause Bangladesh Bank to make operatonal its
Credit Information Unit so as to provide credit reports to banks.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause Bangladesh Bank to require the Scheduled
Banks not to lend to defaulters identified by its Credit
Information Unit without prior receipt of a letter of r,o objection
from the lender holding the defaulted loan.
(c)   The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensu2re
satisfactory implementation of the Financial Loan Courts Act,
1990.
29.         Compliance.  The credit information unit that was established in
BB within its supervision function has been converted into a Credit
Information Bureau (CIB), headed by a General Manager. The Bureau processes
information on all borrowers that have obtained credit facilities in excess of
US$25,000 from any scheduled bank. This information is available to the ba'aks
to augment their credit decision making process. At present, CIB is
processing 700-800 credit enquiries from the banks every month. To impose
credit discipline by ensuring that defaulters identified by CIB are not
provided with fresh loans before reaching agreement on their defaulting loans,
BB issued a circular (BCD Circular No.15) on May 20, 1991, restricting further
bank lending to defaulters. Conditions (a) and (b) have therefore, been
complied with.
30.         The Financial Loan Courts Act was enacted in 1990 in response to
one of the Credit conditions. At present, 27 special debt recovery courts in



APPENDIX G
-70-                             Page 9
20 Districts of the country, including four courts at Dhaka, are functioning
under the Act. These courts are disposing of 350-400 cases every month
involving an amount of about US$5 million equivalent in decrees. Although the
actual execution of the decrees is being delayed at present due to the
requirement that it be filed in the regular courts, MOF is actively
considering amendments to the Act to bring execution suits within the purview
of the Financial Loan Courts. The last condition (c) is also considered to
have been met.
31.         To further improve the legal framework for debt recovery, suitable
amendments to the existing Bankruptcy Act has been drafted by an international
attorney under the FSRP. The amended law will be placed before the current
session of Parliament for approval. The new law will provide for an orderly
exit of bankrupt firms, similar to Chapter 11 liquidations in the US.
D.  Strengthening the Nationalized Commercial Banks
32.         The four NCBs continue to dominate the banking sector by holding
60S of deposits and 50% of the loans in the scheduled banking system.
However, the poor quality of their portfolio is causing a serious strain on
their profitability and depleting their capital. The reform measures,
therefore, focussed on strengthening the NCBs by: (i) improving their
collection of defaulting loans; (ii) monitoring more closely their new loans
to maintain the quality of their portfolio; (iii) restructuring their large
defaulting borrowers to improve past portfolio; and (iv) capitalizing them
adequately to improve their financial health.
33.         The specific conditions were as follows:
(a)   The Borrower shall cause the NCBs to take all steps necessary to
achieve satisfactory collection performance in accordance with the
targets agreed with the Association for the NCBs' one hundred
largest defaulters.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause the NCBs to design and implement a
monitoring system satisfactory to the Association for recording-
and comparing collections with new amounts of principal and
interest falling due on new loans made by NCB principal offices
after June 30, 1990. The Borrower shall cause the NCBs to take
all steps necessary to achieve satisfactory collection performance
in accordance with targets agreed with the association with
respect to these new loans.
(c)   The Borrower shall cause the NCBs to identify large borrowers
needing financial or management restructuring or rehabilitation.
(d)   The Borrower shall take all actions required to maintain the
capital of the NCBs at five percent of deposits, or such higher
percentage as the Borrower's law may require, as of December 31,
1991.



- 71 -                      APPENDIX G
Page 10
34.         Comoliance.  The two conditions (a and b above) relating to the
NCBs' collection performance (a continuation of the second tranche condition)
have been complied with. The actual collections up to June 30, 1993 against
NCBs' one hundred largest loan defaulters have reached 99.24'k including the
loans overdue from Bangladesh Jute Corporation (BJC). GOB has agreed to
replace the BJC debt with interest-earning bonds under the proposed Jute
Sector Adjustment Credit. Excluding BJC loans, the NCBs have exceeded the
targets (125% collection), albeit behind the original schedule. For recording
and reporting on new NCB loans (i.e. loans made after June 30, 1990) a new
format satisfactory to the Association is being used. Actual collections up
to June 30, 1993, against new loans amounted to Tk 794 million or 91%, .
slightly above the target.
35.         The NCBs have identified a total number of 209 large borrowers for
restructuring and/or rescheduling. With the help of the FSRP consultants, the
NCBs have already restructured and/or rescheduled at least 133 borrowers and
are working on the other cases. Hence, condition "c" is also considered to be
met.
36.         Since the Credit was made, the capital adequacy requirement has
been tightened; it is now six percent of deposit liabilities. It is the
compliance with this condition that was delayed considerably, thus delaying
the release of the third tranche so far. The main cause of the delay was that
provisioning requirements had to be determined first before the amount of
capital could be accurately calculated. Then, because recapitalization as
required was delayed, IDA insisted that the capital adequacy had to be
calculated on the basis of deposit liabilities as of December 31, 1992 rather
than as of December 21, 1991 as stated in the DCA. The provisioning exercise
was finally completed in September-October 1993. The recapitalization
requirements were then calculated, and the Government completed the
recapitalization of all the four NCBs in November-December 1993. The final
condition for the release of the third tranche has thus been met.
III.  Suarv
37.         Overall, the GOB's performance in implementing the agreed
financial sector adjustment program has been satisfactory. There were 12
conditions for the release of the third tranche of the Credit (four of them
repeated from the second tranche.) Most of these were complied with in a
timely fashion; the recapitalization of NCBs was a principal condition which
was delayed, thus delaying the third tranche release until now. All
conditions having been complied with as explained in this memorandum, the
Government of Bangladesh has been notified of the authorization to draw the
third tranche amounting to SDR 37.9 million.
Lewis T. Preston
President



- 72 -
APPENDIX H
BANGLADESH
BANGLADESH: FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (CR 2152-BD)
SELECTED FINANCIAL SECTOR INDICATORS
89-90       90-91       91-92       92-93       93-94
MACROECONOMIC INDICATORS
Intlation                                                         9.30%       8.91%       5.09%       1.33%       1.83%
Government budget deficitVGNP                                     7.50%       6.62%       4.78%       5.33%       0.00'/o
GNP Growth (real)                                                 1.91%       4.03%       3.94%       3.55%       6.92%
Exchange rate (Tk/US$)                                           32.92%      35.68%      38.15%      39.14%      40.00%
Currency devaluation                                              2.43%       8.38%       6.92%       2.60%       2.20%
FINANCIAL SECTORAL INDICATORS
LeveL of financial assets: MI/GNP                                 8.38%       8.37%       8.78%       9.18%       10.400/e
Level of financial assets: M2,GNP                                25.11%      25.90%      26.59%      28.91%      29.36%
Gross National Savings/GNP                                        5.75%       7.28%       9.59%      10.89%       0.000/%
Financial sector contribution to GDP                              2.05%       1.95%       1.96%       2.07%       2.07/o
Assets in private banks/total bank assets                        39.52%      40.92%      40.86%      39.17%      38.88%
Assets ir. state banks/total bank assets                         60.48%      59.08%      59.14%      60.83%      61.12%
Interbank deposits/total bank assets                              1.000/%     1.01%       1.02%       1.29%       1.66%
Interbank oorrowings/total bank assets                            0.56%       0.45%       0.26%       0.12%       0.63%
Borrowing from BB/total bank assets                              11.45%      10.85%       8.23%       6.01%       5.19%
Govemnment securities (banking sector)/total bank assets          3.30%       4.08%       9.05%       9.25%      10.05%
Total deposits (Tk million)                                     203,671     228,180     261,816     279,454      308,374
Increase in depsotis                                             16.08%      11.95%      14.31%      10.64%      14.53%
Demand deposits/total deposits                                   16.64%      16.79%      17.11%      16.94%      18.56%
I ime deposits/total deposits                                    83.36%      83.21%      62.89%      83.06%      81.44%
Short-term savings/total savings                                63.44%      64.02%       66.39%      65.05%      67.700/o
Long-term savings/total savings                                 36.56%       35.98%      33.61%      34.95%      32.30%
Total lending (Tk million)                                      199,094     213,872     235,696     268,294      282,134
Increase in lending                                             21.67%        7.42%      10.20%      13.83%       5.16%
INTEREST RATE INDICATORS
Deposit rates (weighted average)                                  9.06%       9.11%       8.11%       6.51%       6.07/o
Lending rates (weighted average)                                 14.83%      14.990!o    15.12%      14.390/o    13.23%
Interest rate margin                                              5.77%       5.88%       7.01%       7.88%       7.16%
Real deposit rates                                               -0.22%       0.18%       2.87%       5.11%       4.16%
Real lending rates                                                5.06%       5.58%       9.54%      12.89%      11.20%
Real interest rate margin                                         5.28%       5.40%       6.67%       7.78%       7.03%
Bank rate                                                         9.75%       9.75%       8.50%       6.50%       5.50%
Deposit floor (Savings)                                           8.50%!,     8.00%       8.00%       6.00%       4.50%
Deposit floor (Fixed)                                            12.000/o    10.00%       9.00%       7.50%       5.000/c
DIRECTED CREDIT INDICATORS
Credit to government sector/total bank assets                    9.45%       10.26%      13.34%      13.30%      13.52%
Private credit/total credit                                     81.400/a    81.27%      80.12%       80.09%      84.58%
Public credit/total credit                                       18.600/%    18.73%      19.88%      19.91%      15.42%
Credit share ot sectors haveing (at present) government determined interest rate bands
Agriculture credit/total private sector credit                  26.43%      25.26%       20.090%,    20.12%      20.05%
Export financing/total private sector credit                      5.05%       5.25%       4.67%       5.10%       5.93%
Small and cottage industries/total private sector credit         2.53%       2.49%/,      3.10%       2.92%       3.04%
SECTORAL F[NANCIAL SOUNDNESS INDICATORS
Return on assets of banking industry                              0.13%      -0.04%      -0.44%      -0.27%      -0.30%
Non-performing loans/total loans in private banks                25.29%      24.41%      24.47%      31.23%      44.16%
Non-performing loans/total loans in state banks                  28.56%      27.54%      26.67%      31.86%      32.23%
mr:\soon\pending\appnx.xls                                                                                     12-Jun-95



I M1 A r-' 1 N a,
Heport No:            150I'I'27
Trype : ICE






