Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2152 BD
(Second Amendment)
(Financial Sector Adjustment Credit)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated January 15, 1992
CREDIT NUMBER 2152 BD
(Second Amendment)
SECOND AGREEMENT AMENDING
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 15, 1992, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
       WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a Development 
Credit Agreement (Financial Sector Adjustment Credit), dated June 18, 1990, (the 
Development Credit Agreement) for the purpose of assisting in the financing of the 
program referred to in Recital (B) of the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement 
(the Program);
       (B)   the Borrower and the Association have entered into an Agreement Amending 
Development Credit Agreement (Financial Sector Adjustment Credit), dated January 16, 
1991 (Amending Agreement), for the purpose of providing additional assistance in the 
financing of the Program; and
       (C)   the Borrower has requested the Association to provide additional 
Page  2
assistance towards the financing of the Program by increasing the amount made 
available under the Development Credit Agreement; and
       WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to provide such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Agreement;
       NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Amendments of the Development
Credit Agreement
       Section 1.01. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended by 
deleting the "and" at the end of Subsection (g); substituting "; and" for "." at the 
end of Subsection (h); and adding a new Subsection (i) as follows:
             "(i) 'Second Amending Agreement' means the Second Agreement Amending 
this Agreement." 
       Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows:
"Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit 
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred thirty 
seven million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 137,400,000) 
(the Credit), which includes an original amount in various currencies 
equivalent to one hundred thirty two million seven hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 132,700,000), an additional amount in various currencies 
equivalent to two million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
2,500,000) (the Additional Financing) and a further additional amount in 
various currencies equivalent to two million two hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 2,200,000) (the Second Additional Financing)."
       Section 1.03. A further proviso is added at the end of Section 2.04 (b) of the 
Development Credit Agreement reading as follows:
"and that any commitment charge on the Second Additional Financing shall 
accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the Second Amending 
Agreement."
       Section 1.04. Paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement is 
hereby amended by replacing the words and figures "SDR 37,900,000" with the following 
words and figures:
"SDR 99,500,000 which represents an amount of SDR 40,100,000 in addition 
to the amount of SDR 59,400,000 in subparagraph (a) above of this paragraph,"
       Section 1.05. The following paragraph is added at the end of Schedule 1 to the 
Development Credit Agreement:
"6.  After a date twelve months from the date of this Second Amending 
Agreement, no withdrawals shall be made and no commitment shall be entered 
into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of 
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Second Additional 
Financing. At any time after such date, the Association may, by notice to the 
Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Second Additional Financing 
from the Credit Account or any part thereof."
ARTICLE II
Effective Date; Termination
       Section 2.01. This Second Amending Agreement shall not become effective until 
evidence satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association 
that the execution and delivery of this Second Amending Agreement on behalf of the 
Borrower have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action.
       Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 2.01 
of this Second Amending Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an 
Page  3
opinion or opinions satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the 
Association showing, on behalf of the Borrower, that this Second Amending Agreement 
has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the 
Borrower and is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms. 
       Section 2.03. This Second Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect 
on the date upon which the Association dispatches to the Borrower notice of its 
acceptance of the evidence required by Section 2.01 of this Second Amending Agreement.
       Section 2.04. If this Second Amending Agreement shall not have come into force 
and effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of this Second Amending 
Agreement, this Second Amending Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder 
shall terminate, unless the Association establishes a later date for the purposes of 
this Section. If this Second Amending Agreement shall terminate under the provisions 
of this Section, the Development Credit Agreement shall continue
in full force and effect, as if this Amending Agreement had not been executed.
       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Second Amending Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written.
                  PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
                  By /s/ Abul Ahsan
Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ J. Kraske
Acting Regional Vice President
South Asia
