                                                                E2625
                 Royal Thai Government
         Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives




   Thailand Methyl Bromide Phase-out Project

                 Pest Management Plan




                            Prepared By
                   The Project Management Unit
                 Office of Agricultural Regulation
                     Department of Agriculture
              Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives


Submitted for Compliance with World Bank Operational Policy on Pest
                      Management (OP 4.09)




                                 1
                                       TABLE OF CONTENT
                       Pest Management Plan (PMP) for Methyl Bromide


Executive Summary

I.      Introduction

II.     Pest Management Plan (PMP) for Methyl Bromide

II.1    Pest Management Approaches
        II.1.1 Current and anticipated problems, relevant to the use of fumigant
        II.1.2 Current and proposed pest management practices
        II.1. 3 Relevant IPM experience within project area, country, region
        II.1.4 Recommendation for adjustment of proposed pest management approaches where
               necessary

II.2    Pesticide Use and Management
        II.2.1 Present, proposed and/ or envisage pesticide use
        II.2.2 Type and quantity of pesticides envisaged to be financed by the project:
        II.2.3 Circumstance of pesticide use and the ability of end ­ users to handle products
               within acceptable risk margin: the end-user of pesticides may be divided into three
               groups
        II.2.4 Assessment of risk
        II.2.5 Pre-requisites and/ or measures required to reduce specific risks associated with
               envisaged pesticide use under the project

II.3    Policy, Regulatory Framework and Institutional Capacity
        II.3.1 Policy on pesticides and fumigant
        II.3.2 Countrys regulatory framework for control of the distribution and use of pesticide
        II.3.3 Describe and assess all policy related to the restrictions of MB
        II.3.4 Institutional capacity for implementing IPM

II.4.   Strengthening of National Capacities

II.5.   Monitoring and Evaluation

II.6.   Public Consultation and Disclosure -




                                                 2
                                     LIST OF ANNEXES
                   Pest Management Plan (PMP) for Methyl Bromide


Annex 1      Management Plan
      1-A.   Mitigation
      1-B.   Monitoring
      1-C.   Institutional Strengthening and Training for Implementation
      1-D.   Scheduling and Reporting

Annex 2      Code of Good Practice for Fumigation with Phosphine

      2-A.   Contents List for the "Code of Good Practice for Fumigation with
             Phosphine" (translated)
      2-B.   Best Practice for Fumigation with Phosphine
      2-C.   Safety Rules for Fumigators Using Phosphine

Annex 3      Relevant Legal Documents
      3-A.   Hazardous Substances Act B.E. 2535
      3-B.   Notification of Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives On the Determination of
             Criteria, Procedures and Conditions For Manufacturing, Importation, Exportation
             and Having in Possession of Hazardous Substance under the Responsibility of the
             Department of Agriculture B.E. 2547 (2004)
      3-C.   Notification of Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives Entitled Registration,
             Issuance and Extension of Hazardous Substance Registration Certificate Under
             Responsibility of Department of Agriculture B.E. 2551(2008)
      3-D.   Notification of the Ministry of Interior - Re: Working Safety in Respect to
             Environmental Condition (Chemical)*

Annex 4      Emergency Response Plan

Annex 5:     Public Consultation and Disclosure




                                             3
                                     Executive Summary

Thailand is a Party to the Montreal Protocol and is obliged to phase-out consumption of ozone
depleting substances (ODS). Major ODSs used in Thailand are CFCs, which are used in
manufacturing industries and serving of equipment such as refrigeration and air-conditioning. In
addition to CFCs, ODS namely "methyl bromide (MB)" has been used in agricultural sector to
control insects in the storage and soil fumigation. According to the Montreal Protocol, Thailand
must phase-out consumption of MB for non-quarantine and pre-shipment (non-QPS) applications
by the end of 2014.

To enable Thailand to phase-out MB, the Royal Thai Government (RTG) received a grant of
US$ 2,901,600 from the Multilateral Fund through the World Bank to completely phase out
consumption of MB in all non-QPS applications under the project called National Methyl
Bromide Phase-out Plan (NMBPP). The implementation of NMBPP would enable Thailand to
accelerate the phase-out of MB by the end of 2012, which is earlier than the original deadline.
The NMBPP is a part of the ODS Phase-out project, Ozone Project Trust Fund (OTF-21926-
TH). The Department of Agriculture (DoA) is a national implementing agency for the NMBPP.

Given that phosphine is commercially available alternative to MB in Thailand, the NMBPP is
promoting its use to replace MB. However, phosphine is a hazardous chemical, of which the use
must be handled properly to ensure efficacy to prevent insect resistance, ensure safety of the
workers, and to protect environment. In addition, the Integrated Pest Management (IPM)
technique will be introduced to reduce the dependence on chemical and to promote hygienic
standard for commodity management. The NMBPP will not finance the cost of phosphine, but
will finance the capacity building activities of government and enterprise and the capital cost
required to acquire the enterprises with equipment for fumigation and IPM in effective and safe
manner.

This PMP document specifies detail assessment of risks, recommendations to reduce risks, and
actions taken by the government to ensure the safe and effective application of phosphine.
Actions taken by the government can be classified into 3 categories i.e (i) regulatory, (ii)
capacity building for DoA and users, and (iii) acquisition of equipment. The regulatory
component is mainly governed by the Hazardous Substances Act 1992 to manage licensing
system of fumigants and also certification system for users. The capacity building component,
which aims to strengthen capacity of users to perform fumigation effectively and safely as well
as educating users on IPM program, will be implemented through a series of training workshops
nation-wide. DoA has developed training modules and VDO documentary on good practices for
fumigation, which have been distributed to the users. In addition, DoA has established the insect
resistance control unit to monitor potential resistance to phosphine. The last component assists
owners of storage facilities and fumigation service providers through the sub-project to acquire
fumigation and safety equipment including IPM equipment.

This PMP has been prepared and incorporated all aspects that need to be taken into account for
the effective and safe fumigation. This is to ensure that the phase-out of MB consumption in
Thailand would be accomplished in the sustainable manner.




                                               4
                     Pest Management Plan (PMP) for Methyl Bromide

I. Introduction: Despite Methyl Bromide (MB) is an Ozone Depleting substance (ODS)
controlled under Annex E of the Montreal Protocol, it has been contributing to the protection
against many pests including insects, weeds, bacteria, nematodes, and etc. To assist the Royal
Thai Government (RTG) to completely phase out its consumption of methyl bromide in all non-
QPS applications in accordance with the phase ­ out schedule stipulated in the Montreal
Protocol, the World Bank agreed to assist Thailand to implement its MB Phase-out Plan with
financial support of US$ 2,901,600 provided by the Multilateral Fund for Implementation of the
Montreal Protocol. Since MB is highly effective in controlling pests, proposed alternatives need
to be very effective to enable the achievement of MB phase-out objectives without
compromising pest control standards in Thailand. To address this concern, the RTG will need to
find alternative pest control measures that are effective, practically feasible, economically
affordable and environmentally sound. These alternative pest control measures will need to be in
compliance with the World Bank Operational Policies on Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01)
and on Pest Management (OP 4.09 and BP 4.01 Annex C).

To meet the safeguard requirements of the Bank, the project is preparing a Pest Management
Plan (PMP) to meet OP 4.09 Policy Objectives. This comprehensive PMP outlines various
elements and actions to be taken in order to adequately address the above concerns during the
project implementation.

II. Pest Management Plan (PMP) for Methyl Bromide: The PMP includes 5 major sections:
(1) pest management approaches; (2) pesticide use and management; (3) policy, regulatory
framework and institutional capacity; (4) monitoring and evaluation; and (5) cost estimates

II.1. Pest Management Approaches

II.1.1. Current and anticipated problems, relevant to the use of fumigant

Fumigation in Thailand could be classified in three major applications: (i) post-harvest
applications (stack fumigation and silo fumigation); (ii) structural fumigation; and (iii)
Quarantine and Pre-Shipment applications. At the moment, two available fumigants that have
been registered with the Department of Agriculture through the Hazardous Substances Act 1992
in Thailand are Methyl Bromide and Phosphine. Given that the NMBPP focuses on only non-
QPS applications, the PMP therefore does not address any methyl bromide use and its alternative
for QPS applications.

i. Problems related to Post-Harvest applications of MB and Phosphine

Users of MB in non-QPS applications are divided into two groups (i) by enterprises doing their
own fumigations, with in-house capacity to use MB and (ii) by fumigation servicing companies
that are outsourced by enterprises to do their fumigation needs. Normally, companies with in-
house capacity to do their own fumigation were large and medium size MB users, while the
remaining enterprises outsourced fumigation servicing companies as previously mentioned.
Fumigation servicing companies are one of the primary MB user group in Thailand. In addition
to its ozone depleting property, improper practice of MB fumigation can lead to occupational
health and safety.


                                               5
Similar to MB, phosphine is used by two groups of stakeholder (i) the enterprise with in-house
fumigation team, and (ii) fumigation servicing companies. In the past, due to the ease of
phosphine utilization, it was found that a number of enterprises do fumigation with phosphine on
their own without proper fumigation practice. The improper practice has several adverse impacts
to environment, workers, and fumigation effectiveness. Firstly, improper practice may harm
occupational health of the workers. Secondly, improper practice can lead to insect resistance to
phosphine, which undermines the phase-out of MB in Thailand.

In Thailand, phosphine is the solely alternative to MB for the post-harvest applications.
Strategies under NMBPP to phase-out MB will comprise of adoption of phosphine as alternative
to MB and other non-chemical approaches such as Integrated Pest Management (IPM), Nitrogen
treatment technology, etc.

The uses of MB and phosphine in Thailand are in rice, maize, cassava, rice flour, coffee, bean,
pea, sorghum and animal feed. Those commodities may be stored in bulks, in silos of various
sizes, or in bags. The storage time is generally about 3-6 months depending on the products. At
present, there are 20 major species of stored pests detected in Thailand. These species are shown
in Table 1 below. Although the damage caused by storage insects is considerable, there has been
a little systematic surveillance in loss of each commodity. It is estimated that about 20% product
loss due to damage of insect is incurred during storage on an annual basis.

Table 1. List of storage insect pests permanently causing damage related to MB use at post
                                           harvest

       ID                Species                       ID               Species
        1    Lasioderma sericorne                      11    Latheticus oryzae
        2    Stegobium paniceum                        12    Tribolium cataneum
        3    Rhyzopertha dominica                      13    Lophocaters pusillus
        4    Cryptolestes pusillus                     14    Liposcelis spp
        5    Sitophilus zeamais                        15    Callosobruchus maculatus
        6    S. oryzae                                 16    C. chinensis
        7    Ahasverus advena                          17    Areacerus fasciculatus
        8    Oryzaephilus surinamensis                 18    Dermestes spp.
        9    O. mercator                               19    Sitotroga cereallela
       10    Cryptolestes pusillus                     20    Corcyra cephalonica

ii. Problems related to structural fumigation with MB.

Structural fumigation is fumigation of building or empty silos/bins prior to loading the stored
products. In Thailand, such the fumigation uses only MB as fumigant and the fumigation is
seldom conducted given that the enterprise has to shut down the processing plant. Quantity of
MB used can be varied depending on the size of the plant. However, it is estimated that average
annual share of structural fumigation is about 1-2% of total fumigation. The adoption of IPM
and heat treatment are alternatives to MB structural fumigation.

                                                6
iii. Potential change in pest problems that can be anticipated as a result of the project's
     activities

In Thailand, MB and phosphine are effective fumigants that have been adopted by the enterprises
and fumigation servicing companies. As aforementioned, the ease of phosphine utilization has
led to the fact that a number of enterprises including small enterprises do fumigation with
phosphine on their own without proper fumigation practice. However, given that phosphine is
the only alternative fumigant to MB at the moment. The NMBPP therefore proposes to convert
to phosphine with an integration of pest management approaches.

The potential problem that could be anticipated from the implementation of NMBPP is insect
pest resistance. This is unlikely for MB fumigation. For phosphine fumigation, poor practice
leads to insect resistance problem, which is caused by leakage of phosphine gas so that
concentration of phosphine does not meet the effective dose, As a result, all stages of insect pest
are not killed and the resistance starts to develop.

Therefore, the NMBPP will address this potential problem by strengthening capacity of
enterprises and fumigation servicing companies through the training program and acquisition of
fumigation equipment to ensure that phosphine fumigation is carried out effectively and to
promote best fumigation practices. In addition, insect resistance control unit is established to
monitor the level of phosphine resistance across the country and to develop effective strategies to
combat resistance. The NMBPP will adopt a uniform phosphine resistance management plan
that will prevent the onset of resistance by reducing the selection pressure i.e. (i) monitoring of
insect resistance to phosphine and the recommended dosage of phosphine by the Post Harvest
Research and Development Office, (ii) suggestion on minimum insect population that need
fumigation, (iii) the promotion of IPM to reduce the reliance on phosphine for disinfestations,
(iv) the promotion of Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) and Hazardous Analysis and Critical
Control Point (HACCP), and (v) the Accreditation Scheme on Manufacturing Process for Issuance
of Phytosanitary Certificate for Processed Commodities.

With regard to safety concern, the NMBPP also provides the enterprises with safety equipment
such as faced gas mask, phosphine monitoring device, and provide safety training..

II.1.2. Current and Proposed Pest Management Practices:

i. Post-Harvest Applications

a. Current practices: The existing practices for post-harvest application are chemical approach
and non-chemical approach. The chemical approach is a practice that uses pesticides for
disinfestations of insect pests. At the moment, there are two groups of chemicals used for insect
control in storage in Thailand. They are: (1) chemicals for spraying such as: Malathion,
Sumithion, Actellic which are applied to the structure such as wall, floor of the building and (2)
Fumigants including MB and Phosphine. Due to its penetration property, fumigants are used
when there is need to disinfest insect pests living in the commodities before delivery to the
customers to reduce complaints.




                                                7
The non-chemical approach is used to minimize the density and damage of storage insects
including: (1) storage hygiene before being filled with commodities by physical treatment; (2)
regular surveillance for monitoring purposes; (3) controlled atmosphere: cold treatment, heat
disinfection treatment, adjusting CO2 concentration; and (4) Insect removal during the
processing. Due to the concern on residues that may contaminate in the products, the non-
chemical approach has been widely used in Thailand.

Carbon dioxide fumigation: Carbon dioxide (CO2) has been used to disinfest stacks of
processed grain in Thailand. This process takes 7 to 21 days on average, but it is difficult to
achieve high mortality under the best conditions. CO2 is potentially more dangerous to use and
requires specialized equipment for detection and monitoring. Special nylon sheeting and sealing
technique is required to hold the inert gas during the long fumigation periods.

Carbon dioxide a level of 380 ppm is listed as an approved organic technique for fumigating
bagged commodities. Carbon dioxide has a specific gravity of 44, which means it is light and
can penetrate readily into a mass of commodity like bagged grain. It is highly toxic at
concentrations of 40-60% (400,000 - 600,000 ppm). CO2 dehydrates insects and causes death by
desiccation.

Cost of proposed practices for store treatment: The cost for current storage treatment practices
depends on technologies. Excluding carbon dioxide, it may range from 15-30 / m3 as
summarized in Table 2.

Environmental impacts: The most important impact of current practices is ozone layer depletion
caused by MB. For phosphine, no evidence of impact, except the trouble when collecting
phosphine tablets that are not completely decomposed since it is easy to generate flames and
potentially explosions. Moreover, Phosphine may corrode copper and electronic equipments and
cause pest resistance (Table 2).




                                               8
                  Table 2: Summary of current pest management practices

                      Cost                                                    Negative impacts to
   Measure                           Advantages and disadvantages
                     (Baht)                                                      environment
                                           Store Treatment
Temperature      Higher cost       To preserve quality of products and to
                                                                          None
Adjustment       than MB use       inhibit insect development.
                                   High efficacy to control pests for
                 15-22 Baht/ m3                                            No evident, but may cause
                                   durable commodities. Need longer
Fumigation       depending on                                              spontaneous combustion if
                                   exposure period and may cause
with Phosphine   source of                                                 the concentration exceeds
                                   resistance of insects if not properly
                 Phosphine                                                 the flammable limit
                                   done.
Fumigation                         High efficacy to control pests for
                 25-30 Baht/ m3                                            Depleting ozone layer
with MB                            durable commodities
                 12,500 Baht /
Carbon dioxide                     High efficacy to control pests during
                 21 tones                                                  None
fumigation                         living period for durable commodities
                 (servicing fee)
                                        Structure Treatment
Store hygiene                                                           Insignificant due to
                                   Routine process and low cost. Can be
with systemic                                                           infrequent application such
                 N/A               widely applied for any store before
chemical                                                                as Malathion, Sumithion,
                                   filling product
pesticides                                                              and Actellic
Fumigation
                 25-30 Baht/ m3
construction                       High efficacy and broad spectrum        Depleting ozone layer
                 of structure
with MB



b. Proposed practices: For alternative of MB use, a series of techniques including current and
new ones have been determined. They include: Aluminum phosphide fumigation with
recirculation system; Magnesium phosphide fumigation with recirculation system, Carbon
dioxide fumigation; nitrogen treatment and integrated pest management.

Generally, cost of magnesium phosphide fumigation is much higher than aluminium phosphine
fumigation. The Carbon dioxide fumigation is also costly comparing with aluminium phosphine
fumigation and need longer fumigation period. Nitrogen treatment has comparative advantage
for fumigation of premium products as this is chemical-free treatment. Therefore, the most
appropriate method is aluminum phosphide fumigation and nitrogen treatment.

Aluminum/magnesium phosphide fumigation with recirculation system: Given that the
recirculation system has not been widely used in the current practice for phosphine fumigation,
the NMBPP aims to improve efficacy and safety of phosphine fumigation through the
installation of recirculation system. This is to ensure that phosphine will be well penetrated
through commodity, evenly distributed in the enclosure, and to ensure that phosphine
concentration will not exceed the explosion level.




                                                   9
Nitrogen treatment: Nitrogen treatment is a method to control insects in all stages of
development in post harvest commodities without using toxic chemicals and without negative
effect on the quality of the products. Nitrogen treatment is based on the establishment of a low-
oxygen environment which kills insects by means of establishing a nitrogen generator. The low-
oxygen atmosphere is applied in airtight environments which range from 1 to 1000 m3 or in
climate controlled rooms. The nitrogen treatment takes 3-5 days depending on the type of
product and type of insect. With the nitrogen treatment, there will be no need for the enterprise
to fumigate with MB or phosphine. As a result, this treatment will be able to reduce the reliance
on the use of fumigation through both MB and phosphine.

Environment impacts: The impacts of proposed practices are referred in Table 3. Except impacts
of phosphine as mentioned above, there are no impacts caused by other proposed practices to
environment.

                            Table 3: Summary of proposed practices

                         Cost                                                   Negative impacts to
    Measure                            Advantages and disadvantages
                        (Baht)                                                     environment
                                          Store Treatment
Aluminum                             High efficacy to control pests for
                    15-22 Baht/ m3                                           No evident, but may cause
phosphide                            durable commodities. Need longer
                    depending on                                             spontaneous combustion if
fumigation with                      exposure period and may cause
                    source of                                                the concentration exceeds
recirculation                        resistance of insects if not properly
                    Phosphine                                                the flammable limit.
system                               done.
Magnesium
phosphide
fumigation with     25 Baht/ m3      As above                                As above
recirculation
system
                                     Nitrogen treatment has comparative
                    High capital
Nitrogen                             advantage for fumigation of
                    cost, but low                                            None
treatment                            premium products as this is
                    operating cost
                                     chemical-free treatment.
Integrated pest     Higher cost      Can be used alternatively with
management          compared to      fumigation method in case of            None
(IPM) package1      MB               necessary/ or losing of efficacy
                                        Structure Treatment
                    More
                    expensive than   Safe. Less sealing is needed.
                    combined         Resistance is not a problem. Insect
Heat treatment                                                               None
                    heat-            are susceptible to extreme
                    phosphine        temperatures.
                    fumigation due

1
  Including screens, insect trapping, rodent and bird control, vacuuming, insect resistance monitoring,
residual insecticide application and inspection



                                                  10
                         Cost                                                Negative impacts to
    Measure                          Advantages and disadvantages
                        (Baht)                                                  environment
                   to the need to
                   reach higher
                   temperature

                   Typically        High efficacy to control insects.     No evident, but may cause
Combined heat-
                                    Can be widely applied for any store   spontaneous combustion if
phosphine          0.5-0.7          before filling product but need to    the concentration exceeds
fumigation         USD/m3           control resistance.                   the flammable limit.

ii. Pest Control for Structure

a. Current practices: The practices of pest management for structure are chemical approach and
non-chemical approach. The chemical approach is a practice that uses pesticides for
disinfestations of insect pests. At the moment, there are two groups of chemicals used for insect
control in stores in Thailand. They are: (1) chemicals for spraying such as: Malathion,
Sumithion, Actellic which are applied to the structure such as wall, floor of the building and (2)
Fumigants with MB. The non-chemical approach is used to minimize the density and damage of
storage insects including: (1) storage hygiene before being filled with commodities by physical
treatment and inventory management and (2) regular surveillance for monitoring purposes.

Cost of current practices: The cost of current practices is highly dependent on the treatment
materials and sites as summarized in table 2.

Environmental impacts: Both MB and chemicals used for structure treatment may cause
negative impact to environment. The impact of MB has been referred to before. For other
treatment with pesticides, beside the consequence of pest resistance, pesticides may all cause
pollution and contamination if it is leached. However, given that (i) all of operators normally
follow recommendations (dosage, procedure, safety) from the manufacturer, (ii) the frequency of
treatment with pesticide is low (2 times a year) and (iii) it is the spot treatment inside the
structure, it is anticipated that the impact is not significant.

b. Proposed practices: The project proposes to replace the use of MB in structural fumigation
with either heat treatment or the combined heat-phosphine fumigation method. Experimental
and full-scale fumigations of flour mills and food processing plants have shown this method to
be highly effective against all stages of insect life.

iii. National service aimed at providing fumigation management advices/ service:

a. Hazardous Substances Act 1992

Fumigation takes an important role especially in storage and structural treatment. To undertake
this action, the Hazardous Substances Act 1992 has been used to control import, export, and
having in possession of MB in Thailand (see Annex 3-A). The Pesticide Regulatory Sub-
division is assigned by DoA to manage licensing system of MB import and also certification
system for MB users. To facilitate and manage the activities, various regulations and legal
documents have been promulgated such as the Notification of Ministry of Agriculture and


                                                11
Cooperatives on the Determination of Criteria, Procedures, and Conditions for Manufacturing,
Importation, Exportation and Having in Possession of Hazardous Substances under the
Responsibility of DoA (see Annex 3-B), and the Notification of Ministry of Agriculture and
Cooperatives Entitled Registration, Issuance and Extension of Hazardous substances Registration
Certificate under the Responsibility of DoA (see Annex 3-C).

To date, there are 7 importers of MB namely Kemfac, Muroh International, OMIC, Asia Pest
Control and Inspection, M C Solvent, SGS (Thailand), and Ampa Intertrade. These importers
then sell MB to MB users. At present, there are about 70 companies registered with DoA as
having MB in possession, of which 22 companies are fumigation servicing companies. All 22
fumigation servicing companies can supply any fumigation service. The rest are in-house
fumigation enterprises, who use MB to meet their own disinfestation need.

b.   Accreditation Scheme on Manufacturing Process for Issuance of Phytosanitary Certificate
     for Processed Commodities

In addition, DoA has issued a Notification regarding Accreditation Scheme on Manufacturing
Process for Issuance of Phytosanitary Certificate for Processed Commodities in March 2008. The
Notification does not recommend the use of fumigants (including methyl bromide) in processed
commodities comprised of: (i) flour, starch and their by-products such as rice paper, tapioca
pearl; (ii) dehydrated fruits; (iii) foodstuffs, and food ingredients; and (iv) manufactured
agricultural commodities such as natural rubber, wood base and engineered wood base products.
Frozen fruits and vegetables are also included in this Notification as they are free from pests.
Wood packaging material under International Standard on Phytosanitary Measures No. 15
(ISPM15) is not included in this Notification.

Given that there is a very low risk that these processed commodities have any pests given that
pests would be eliminated during manufacturing process. Following Good Manufacturing
Practice (GMP) and Hazardous Analysis and Critical Control Point (HACCP) would result in
processed commodities that are pest-free, according to DOA requirements. In this regard, GMP
and HACCP are used for issuance phytosanitary certification of these commodities when
exported to other countries. In addition, an accreditation scheme for manufacturing process of
these commodities is an incentive for exporters to obtain phytosanitary certificates, without the
need for individual inspection and evaluation of treatment by DOA officers. Interested
manufacturers of these processed commodities can apply for this accreditation scheme. The
working groups established by the Office of Agricultural Regulation will inspect and evaluate
the manufacturer qualifications and methodology. If requirements are fulfilled, a two-year
certificate will be issued to the enterprise. Periodically random inspections will be made to
ensure the good manufacturing process throughout the validity of certificate. When requested
from exporters, DOA would issue phytosanitary certificate for said exported commodity that was
produced by manufacturer holding valid certificate without the need to re-conduct inspection and
evaluation. With the regulation, considerable quantity of fumigant can be reduced.

c.   Working Safety in Respect to Environmental Condition

The Ministry of Interior has issued the Notification regarding working safety in respect to
environmental condition from chemical, which prescribes welfare on health and safety of the



                                               12
employees. Working safety from the use of MB and phosphine are also included in the
Notification (see Annex 3-D).

For MB, the Notification requires that the average quantity of MB density in the atmosphere
shall not exceed 20 ppm (80 mg/m3) throughout normal working period within the place of
operation where the employee works. For phosphine, the Notification specifies that, no matter at
any time of the normal working period, the employer shall not let the employee work in the place
where the phosphine density in the atmosphere exceeds 0.3 ppm(0.4 mg/m3).

The Notification also requires that, within the place of operation where chemicals specified in
the Notification are used, and the conditions of use may be harmful to the user or to those
nearby, the employer shall prepare a specific room or building for the use of such chemicals.
Air filter to cover the nose and mouth to protect against chemical shall be capable of reducing
the density of chemical not to exceed the specified level accordingly (see Annex). In addition,
the regulation also requires that the respirator used to protect against fume, gas or chemical vapor
shall be the full-face type which is self-contained with air cylinder, or be the type which the air
hose is connected from other source of supply

II.1.3. Relevant IPM experience within project area, country, region:

IPM program was introduced into Thailand through the implementation of Demonstration
Project, which was approved by the Multilateral Fund in 1998 and implemented through the
UNIDO. Normally, the beneficiaries under the NMBPP are enterprise related to the processing
and manufacturing of foods for human and animal feeds, which have to be certified to the Good
Manufacturing Practice (GMP), Hazardous Analysis and Critical Control Point (HACCP), and
ISO standard. Under this certification, the principle similar to IPM has been adopted as part of
the certification process. Therefore, these enterprises would be able to adopt IPM technique to
reduce the loss by insect pests under the NMBPP.

II.1.4. Recommendation for adjustment of proposed pest management approaches where
        necessary

It is believed that techniques selected as alternatives, have been successfully applied in Thailand
or other countries, the predictable risks of pest control is only in cases pests resistance to
phosphine. To avoid this problem, the project has proposed to provide training and proper
fumigation equipment with phosphine. The training will be organized by the authorized training
centers of DoA located across the country, which have been established under the NMBPP. The
objective of the training is to strengthen capacity of the enterprise in how to fumigate with
phosphine effectively and safely and how to integrate the IPM concept for their pest management
program to reduce the reliance on fumigation. Equipment provided to the enterprise would
enable them to monitor concentration of the phosphine during the fumigation period to ensure
that concentration is maintained at appropriate level (250 ppm) and there is no leakage of
phosphine throughout the fumigation period. The effective fumigation can prevent insect
resistance to phosphine.

In addition, the NMBPP has established an insect resistance control unit within DoA, which will
be responsible for monitoring situation of insect resistance to phosphine across the country.
Roles and responsibility of the insect resistance control unit is to (i) periodically collect insect


                                                13
sampling from all locations across the country and test for resistance in the laboratory, (ii)
conduct an experiment to determine recommended dose that could effectively kill each insect at
all stages. In case of any suspicious on the insect resistance to phosphine, the enterprise can also
notify the insect resistance control unit to collect sample of suspected insect and test in the
laboratory. The insect resistance control unit is critical component for the sustainable phase-out
of MB and adoption of alternative. If any potential insect resistance is detected, the insect
resistance control unit will recommend action to address the issue, which would be disseminated
to key stakeholders to prevent further development of resistance.

II.2. Pesticide Use and Management

II.2.1. Present, proposed and/ or envisage pesticide use

There are various methods of pests control for post harvest and structure treatment, which can be
classified into 2 main categories that are chemical approach and non-chemical approach. Under
the NMBPP, the following alternatives are proposed:

       For storage treatment: For post-harvest application, fumigation is still considered as the
       most widely used method by the enterprises due to the ease and effectiveness of
       applications in killing insect pests. The project proposes to replace MB in storage
       fumigation with phosphine (aluminum phosphide or magnesium phosphide) or nitrogen
       treatment. In addition, IPM program will be integrated in the pest management under the
       NMBPP.

       For structure treatment: Pesticides are mainly used for store hygiene before storing
       commodities. In this case, it is often integrated with other methods such as physical
       cleaning, screening or ventilation. The use of MB for structural fumigation in Thailand is
       low (only 1-2%). The project proposed to replace MB structural fumigation with heat
       treatment or combined heat-phosphine fumigation.

                               Table 4: Proposed Alternatives to MB

                Applications                             Technique
                                    Aluminum Phosphide / Magnesium Phosphine
           Storage Fumigation       Nitrogen Treatment
                                    IPM
                                    Heat Treatment
           Structural Fumigation
                                    Combined heat-phosphine fumigation

For the conversion associating with phosphine, the NMBPP will finance the enterprise to acquire
fumigation equipment and safety equipment, which can be varied from one enterprise to another
depending on their baseline. These equipment are (i) phosphine monitoring device (low range
and high range), (ii) faced gas mask and canister, (iii) explosion-proof portable ventilator, and
(iv) fumigation sheet.




                                                 14
For the conversion associating with nitrogen treatment, the NMBPP will finance some
enterprises with in-house fumigation team to acquire nitrogen generating system as one of
alternatives. IPM is an approach that can help to reduce the reliance on fumigants, which can
avoid risks associated with occupational health of the workers during the operation. NMBPP has
incorporated IPM component to minimize the use of fumigations (MB and phosphine).
Activities under IPM include storage hygiene, monitoring of the warehouse, and physical
control. Training on IPM and basic equipment for IPM will be provided to all enterprises as part
of the assistance.

It is, however, noted that the enterprise will receive funding up to the maximum funding level
established for the enterprise classified in each type. The rest will be borne by the enterprise as
counterpart funding.

II.2.2. Type and quantity of pesticides envisaged to be financed by the project:

The NMBPP aims to phase-out consumption of MB for non-QPS application in 2002, which was
about 403 tons (241.8 ODP tons), through the phased reduction and will completely phase-out
consumption of MB by 2015. As mentioned earlier, about 98-99% of total consumption of MB
is used for post-harvest application in stack fumigation and silo/bin fumigation. Only 1-2% is
used for the structure fumigation. Therefore, about 398 tons of MB was used in post-harvest
application and the remaining 5 tons was used for structural fumigation. With an average dosage
of MB 32 gram/m3 of fumigated product, 398 tons of MB in 2002 was used for fumigation of
12,437,500 m3 of products annually. With the dosage rate of phosphine of 1 gram/m3 of
fumigated product, about 12,437.5 kg (12.4 tones) of phosphine is needed. Nitrogen is not
applicable in this case as it is not the pesticide.

The NMBPP will not finance the cost of phosphine, but will finance the capacity building
activities of government and enterprise and the capital cost required to acquire the enterprises
with equipment for fumigation and IPM in effective and safe manner.

II.2.3. Circumstance of pesticide use and the ability of end ­ users to handle products within
acceptable risk margin: the end-user of pesticides may be divided into three groups:

       Fumigation servicing companies and in-house fumigation enterprises: In accordance
       with requirement of DoA, all workers from 70 companies registered with DoA as having
       MB in possession (of which 22 companies are fumigation servicing companies) have
       been trained with fumigation techniques. With regard to phosphine, the training provided
       under the NMBPP would enable these stakeholders to properly utilize phosphine as
       alternative to MB. The financial assistance under NMBPP for acquisition of fumigation
       equipment (type I for in-house fumigation enterprises and type 3 for fumigation servicing
       companies) would supplement these enterprises to apply fumigants in accordance with
       the required safety measures during treatment of store commodity and structure.

       Pesticides suppliers: This group may access with pesticide through commercial process.
       This activity now is under strict control of the Office of Agricultural Regulation of DoA.
       According to the regulation, suppliers of pesticides must undergo training provided by
       the Office of Agricultural Regulation on how to handling, store and use protective gears
       when contact with pesticides. In addition, the pesticide suppliers have been regularly

                                                15
       monitored through mechanism conducted by the Agricultural Inspection Officer.
       Therefore, there will be almost no risk with this group during accessing and purchasing
       pesticides.

       Farmers and small end-users: Through IPM and other training program provided by
       pesticide companies on proper and safe use of pesticide, knowledge of farmers and small
       end-users on safe use of pesticides has been improved. Thus they can handle and use
       pesticides with minimum risk to their health and environment. Under the NMBPP, these
       stakeholders are considered as type 2 beneficiaries and will be trained on the use of
       phosphine through the nation-wide training. Basic equipment for phosphine fumigation
       and IPM (including insecticide application) will be provided to the enterprises that have
       participated in the project.

II.2.4. Assessment of risk:

The actual potential risk of alternatives may come from storage, transportation and usage of all
chemical pesticides, including phosphine. It should carefully select the suitable equipment for
transportation, storage, and avoid or protect the equipment contained copper to expose to
phosphine when conducting fumigation. The risk of using phosphine for fumigation can be
classified into 4 stages from start to the end as follows:

       Phosphine is also a flammable and explosion fumigant if concentration exceeds
       flammable limit, it is essential that the enterprises carefully inspect conditions of area to
       be fumigated prior to the commencement of phosphine fumigation. In addition, after
       applying phosphine to the product, it is essential that the enterprises monitor
       concentration of phosphine gas in the enclosure for the efficacy and not to exceed the
       flammable limit.

       Another potential risk of phosphine fumigation is gas leakage from the enclosure.
       Normally, enclosure must be completely sealed in order to prevent leakage of phosphine
       gas throughout the fumigation period. However, if the fumigation sheet is worn out or
       not properly enclosed or the silo/bin is not airtight, the workers may expose themselves to
       the phosphine gas.

       Phosphine fumigation needs ventilation of phosphine gas from the enclosure and silo/bin
       at the end of the process. During the ventilation, the concentration of phosphine released
       to the adjacent area may exceed the Threshold Limit Value designated by the Ministry of
       Interior (0.3 ppm.) if there is no equipment to draw phosphine gas from the enclosure.
       The phosphine gas will slowly release around the risk area and can harm the workers. In
       addition, equipment to draw must be explosion-proof to ensure that there will be no
       electricity spark during the ventilation of phosphine gas from the enclosure.

       The collection and disposal of residual after fumigation also need to be carefully done to
       avoid fire potential. However, this potential risk is applicable only when the chemical
       reaction between the phosphine tablet and moisture in the air is incomplete. In addition,
       the residual must be properly disposed of in open and well ventilated waste bin or
       according to the manufacturer recommendation to avoid environmental pollution.


                                                16
II.2.5. Pre-requisites and/ or measures required to reduce specific risks associated with
envisaged pesticide use under the project:

In order to reduce specific risk associated with envisaged pesticide use under the project as
mentioned above, a detailed training program has been designed under the NMBPP to improve
capacity of phosphine end-users at all levels (in-house fumigation enterprises, fumigation
servicing companies, and small enterprises). The potential risks as mentioned above will be
addressed during the training under the NMBPP. Scope of training will cover both efficiency
and safety aspects to ensure that there is no adverse impact from the use of phosphine to replace
MB and that the phase-out of MB can be achieved in the sustained manner. The IPM program
has been proposed under the NMBPP to reduce reliance on fumigant. Scope of training would
comprise of, but not limit to, the followings:
       Knowledge about regulations related to fumigation;
       Code of good practice for phosphine fumigations (fumigation techniques and safe use of
       pesticide);
       Fumigation and personal protective equipment
       Symptoms and Poisoning caused by fumigants
       Emergency and first aid treatments.

The training will be conducted by the authorized training centers of DoA and comprise of
theoretical and practical training. Fumigation and personal protective equipment will be
demonstrated to the participants during the training to ensure that the enterprises have
understanding on the use of equipment effectively and safely.

The Project Management Unit has developed several training manual as follows:
       Training on MB alternatives. Content of the training manual are similar to the scope of
       training as mentioned above plus IPM program;
       Code of good practice for MB and phosphine fumigation: The manual focus on the
       fumigation technique as well as precaution and safety.
       VDO documentary: This tool demonstrates how to conduct fumigation with phosphine.

Apart from the training, the financial assistance through the sub-projects for acquisition of
fumigation and safety equipment would assist the enterprises to properly follow the code of good
practice for fumigation, which can reduce adverse impacts from the use of phosphine as follows.

       In case of silo fumigation, the NMBPP will assist the enterprise to identify potential
       leakage of fumigant from the silo that may be found in the joints. If need be, the
       modification to fix the leakage of silo bins will be incorporated in the sub-project.

       Phosphine monitoring device will be used to examine that concentration of phosphine in
       the enclosure are not less than 250 ppm and are not over the flammable limit throughout
       the fumigation period.



                                               17
       Phosphine monitoring device will be used for monitoring any leakage of phosphine gas in
       the working area. If so, evacuation of the workers from the contaminated area is essential
       and immediate actions should be made to dilute concentration of the phosphine gas to the
       safety level and to fix the contaminated area.

       At the end of fumigation process, phosphine gas will be ventilated using explosion-proof
       portable ventilator. The explosion-proof ventilator would draw phosphine gas from
       enclosure/silo to the well ventilated area through flexible duct. The enterprise will also
       use phosphine monitoring device to monitor concentration at the working area and
       ventilated area to check whether it exceeds the Threshold Limit Value designated by the
       Ministry of Interior. The use of such device would enable fumigators / workers to access
       to and work in a safety manner.

       During the operation, the enterprise will use faced gas mask with proper canister, which
       can prevent fumigators / workers to inhale toxic fumigant gas during the working time
       including time necessary to enter the contaminated area if an emergency situation
       develops in which worker may be exposed.

A Code of Good Practice for phosphine fumigation has been prepared by DoA (in Thai) and it
will be published in November 2010. Personal protection and safety regulations for phosphine
fumigation are an important part of the Code of Good Practice (see a translated List of Contents
for the Code of Good Practice in Annex 2-A).

The Best Practices for Phosphine Fumigation and Safety Rules for Fumigators Using Phosphine
for phosphine fumigation is the basis for developing the Code of Good Practice for Fumigation
(in Thai) is shown in Annex 2-B and Annex 2-C respectively.

II.3. Policy, regulatory framework and institutional capacity

II.3.1. Policy on pesticides and fumigant:

In Thailand, MB and phosphine, and pesticide are strictly controlled and regulated by the DoA
under the Hazardous Substances Act 1992. Under the Hazardous Substance Act 1992, MB and
phosphine are classified as type III hazardous substances. Pesticides are classified as either
hazardous substances type III or type IV depending on the chemical. If the pesticide is classified
as type III, the same provisions with MB and phosphine are applied. If the pesticide is classified
as type IV substances, it cannot be produced, imported, exported or having in possession in
Thailand.

The Hazardous Substances Act 1992 requires that any production, import, export and having in
possession of type III hazardous substances are controlled by the designated authority. For MB,
phosphine and pesticides, Pesticide Regulatory Sub-division, the Office of Agricultural
Regulation, DoA is assigned as authority to responsible for the requirement according to the
Hazardous Substances Act 1992. Registration of Pesticides and Fumigants

Any pesticides to be introduced in Thailand must seek approval from DoA through the
registration with the Pesticide Regulatory Sub-division. As part of the registration process,


                                               18
efficacy data, analysis procedures and safety issues of the active ingredient must be approved by
the Toxicological Working Group. Once the registration process is completed, that chemical
would be able to be marketed in Thailand. Registration Certificates for hazardous substances are
valid for 6 years.

Import/Export of Pesticides and Fumigants

According to the Hazardous Substances Act 1992, DoA has established a licensing system for
import and export of MB, phosphine, and pesticide. Any enterprises wishing to import or export
the pesticide and fumigants need to obtain import/export license from the Pesticide Regulatory
Sub-division. The import/export license is mandatory for importer/exporter to furnish to the
Customs Department in clearing the shipment entering to Thailand or leaving from Thailand.

Having in Possession Pesticides and Fumigants

In addition, according to the current legislation, fumigation servicing companies and in-house
fumigation enterprises must register with the Pesticide Regulatory Sub-division for their MB
usages. According to the Regulation of the Ministry of Agriculture, it is mandatory for any
parties having MB in possession to be licensed by the DoA. The enterprise must designate at
least one employee to be trained by DoA. Training to be provided to the enterprise comprising of
i) knowledge about regulations related to MB and fumigation; ii) Stored Product Pests: iii)
Fumigation Techniques and safe use of pesticide; iv) personal protective equipment such as face
gas mask with the right type of canister, self-contained breathing apparatus. v) Symptoms and
Poisoning caused by fumigants; and vi) First Aid Treatments.

It is noted that the above provisions are applied to the case of having pesticide in possession.
Any parties having pesticide in possession must be licensed by the DoA. The enterprise must
designate at least one employee to be trained by DoA. The certificate of training is valid for 5
years. The license of possession will be given to enterprise fulfilling DoA requirement and is
valid for 1 years. However, license must be extended on the annual basis and the enterprise must
fulfill the conditions set forth in the procedure for the extension. Site inspection at the premises
to inspect all the safety is mandatory to get the license.

II.3.2. Country's regulatory framework for control of the distribution and use of pesticide:

   1. Availability of trained inspector for pesticide control: To enforce the Hazardous
      Substances Act 1992, the Office of Agricultural Regulation has established its inspection
      network from the center to locals. The inspection officer are responsible for undertaking
      regular and extraordinary inspection of the conditions of production facilities and the
      whole processes related to production, formulation, distribution and usage to ensure
      pesticide quality and proper use. To undertake this task, these inspectors have been well
      trained on knowledge of professional inspection. During the inspection, inspectors may
      take samples for quality check which will be done by the Office of Agricultural
      Production, Science Research and Development.

   2. Control of pesticide package and label: The Hazardous Substances Act 1992 empowered
      the Minister to define quantity, composition, qualifications and mixtures, containers,
      methods of examining and testing the containers, labels, productions, imports, exports,


                                                19
       sales, transports, storage, disposals, destruction and treatment of hazardous substance
       containers.    Notification of Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives on the
       Determination of Criteria, Procedures, and Conditions for Manufacturing, Importation,
       Exportation and Having in Possession of Hazardous Substances stipulates that the
       manufacturer of hazardous substance shall provide label which is large enough attached
       to the package for transportation with the statement identifying common name of
       hazardous substance, the quantity of main ingredients or the rates of main ingredients,
       hazardous substance symbols such as corrosive substance, flammable substance and toxic
       substance, etc., and the warning signs, for example, no tossing and no hooking, such
       mark and letter must be obviously clear. The format and content of label is also
       controlled by DoA and must be in Thai. Therefore, all pesticides are properly packaged
       and labeled before and during distribution to the market.

   3. List of Controlled Pesticides and Fumigants: The list of pesticides and fumigant
      permitted for production, import, export and having in possession in Thailand is reviewed
      and revised periodically by the Hazardous Substances Committee, which is chaired by
      the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Industry.

   4. Quality Control: To strengthen capacities for enabling the monitoring of pesticide
      quality, the Agricultural Production Sciences Research and Development Office of DoA
      has established the laboratory as the facility for pesticide testing. The inspection officers
      can send sample of suspected pesticide collected during the monitoring process to the
      laboratory for examining its composition.

   5. Capacity of medical staff to recognize and treat pesticide poisoning: According to the
      labeling requirement of pesticide, it is mandatory that the guideline on first aid of
      pesticide poisoning is presented on the pesticide label. Training provided to stakeholders
      having in possession of pesticides and fumigants as part of certification process includes
      a session related to first aid of pesticide poisoning. The NMBPP reiterates this issue by
      including the first aide treatment in the training agenda. For further information, the
      stakeholders are advised to contact the Toxicology Center of Mahidol University.

   6. Disposal of Unwanted Hazardous Substances: Disposal of hazardous substances must
      follow guidelines of the Notification of Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives on the
      Determination of Criteria, Procedures, and Conditions for Manufacturing, Importation,
      Exportation and Having in Possession of Hazardous Substances. The Notification
      stipulated that segregation of the disposal of toxic substance and containers out of the
      general containers is needed prior to destruction under the special incinerator with the
      temperature over 1,000 degrees Celsius or delivery for destruction at the incinerator of
      the industrial estate or the custom-hired company of such disposal.


II.3.3. Describe and assess all policy related to the restrictions of MB

MB is classified as hazardous substances type III under the Hazardous Substances Act 1992.
The regulation regarding registration, importation and having in possession of MB has been
described earlier. Other policies related to restriction of MB are elaborated below:



                                                20
MB Quota for non-QPS Application

Licenses Certificates for importing of the hazardous substances are valid for three years.
However, License Certificates for importing MB are considered special cases among Type III
substances, and they are valid for two months after being issued. This expiration deadline has
been effective since the beginning of the year 2005. Each license can be used for only one
shipment (one 20 feet container or 16 metric tonnes). In addition, import of MB against issued
licenses must be done in that calendar year and cannot be carried over to be imported in the next
year.

At present, there are 7 importers of MB in Thailand. Given that MB is controlled substances
under the Montreal Protocol whose non-QPS consumption must be gradually reduced, the DoA
has set up the quota system to importers of MB. The quota allocated to each importer is based
on quota given in the previous year taking into account reduction schedule of the year that the
quota is issued. Total quota issued to all importers must not exceed allowable consumption as
allowed under the agreement between the ExCom and the RTG.

It is, however, noted that quota means the amount of MB that has been used for non-QPS
applications. There is no restriction on the import of MB that has been used for OPS application,
which is currently exempted under the Montreal Protocol. During the application of new import
license, the importers of MB must submit a report of MB usage of the previous shipment to the
Pesticide Regulatory Sub-division. The report contains information regarding type of product
for MB application, date of application, quantity, and importing countries. The Pesticide
Regulatory Sub-division will then review the report and calculate the amount of MB in the
previous shipment that has been used for non-QPS applications. Such the amount will be
deducted from the quota allocated to that particular importer.

Management Information System (MIS)

To ensure that MB that have been claimed against QPS applications are in line with the QPS
definition under the Montreal Protocol, the DoA has set up the Management Information System
(MIS) as part of the NMBPP. The MIS includes information regarding NMBPP-related
information, registration, licensing, imports, consumption, monitoring and enforcement. This
database will also contain names of users, importers, quantities of MB used for QPS and non-
QPS consumption.

MIS is a decentralized design that will allow related users of the MIS (Plant Quarantine Stations
across Thailand) to enter information into the database from various points (multiple
information-entry points). With security system, related users of MIS will have different
accessibility to the MIS to ensure that confidential information is not accessed by unauthorized
parties.
According to the MIS design, the Phytosanitary Certificate Issuance Offices, the Office of
Agricultural Regulation will enter related information of fumigation (i.e. name of exporters, type
and amount of product, amount of MB used, date of fumigation, country of destination etc.) into
the MIS database. Plant Quarantine Stations throughout the country will access such database



                                               21
and enter information to confirm that the commodity has been already treated and exported from
Thailand.

In the meantime, importers of methyl bromide will also be required to enter information
regarding MB used for QPS and non-QPS applications of each import license into the MIS
database. Information to be entered includes type and amount of product, amount of methyl
bromide used, date of fumigation, country of destination, name of exporters/enterprises etc. Prior
to issuing a new import license, the Pesticide Regulatory Sub-division would access information
entered by the Plant Quarantine Stations and by that particular importer. Information from two
sources will be verified for any consistencies and investigated, if any. In addition, the Pesticide
Regulatory Sub-division will also verify information entered by importer as to whether it fulfills
definitions of QPS as defined under the Montreal Protocol in order to determine the amount of
methyl bromide used for QPS and non-QPS applications for previous import license.

The MIS has been fully in operation since 2009 and regularly monitored by the Project
Management Unit of the NMBPP.

II.3.4. Institutional capacity for implementing IPM:

Normally, the beneficiaries under the NMBPP are enterprise related to the processing and
manufacturing of foods for human and animal feeds, which have to be certified to the Good
Manufacturing Practice (GMP), Hazardous Analysis and Critical Control Point (HACCP), and
ISO standard. Under this certification, the principle similar to IPM has been adopted as part of
the certification process. Therefore, these enterprises would be able to adopt IPM technique for
prevention of insect pests under the NMBPP.

With regard to the institutional capacity, the NMBPP has included IPM program as an alternative
to MB. IPM program is the component that encourages owners of storage facilities to adopt
hygiene sanitation technique to avoid insect infestation and therefore alleviate the need for
chemical dosing to destroy them. Hygiene sanitation technique includes screening, insect
trapping, rodent and bird control, vacuuming, insect resistance monitoring, residual insecticide
application, inventory management (first-in first-out) and inspection. Under the NMBPP, the
IPM program will be taught to end-users of fumigants during the training workshops to be
organized by the authorized training centers. The authorized training centers have capacity to
undertake the nation-wide training workshop as they are attached to the Office of Agricultural
Research and Development (OARD) located across Thailand and to the Port of Bangkok Plant
Quarantine Station.

II.4. Strengthening of national capacities: All activities and components requiring funding
from the project are delineated in the project proposal. However, for a successful and sustainable
deployment of feasible MB alternatives, the project will need a strong support and commitment
of Government to keep developing more effective and environmentally sound IPM technologies
through research projects. This may be the best way to ensure the future success in phasing out
MB beyond this project. Moreover, it is also necessary to facilitate pesticide and fumigation
companies/ enterprises adopting new advance technologies for alternative of MB by giving them
priority during accessing registration procedure and through financial encouragement policy
(lower or free of tax etc.).



                                                22
II.5. Monitoring and evaluation:

Monitoring and evaluation is shown in Annex 1-B of the PMP.

II.6 Public Consultation and Disclosure:

Public consultations have been held during the past three years through a series of six workshops
(see details in Annex 5) which have addressed the key issues in the use of Methyl Bromide and
its alternatives (principally Phosphine) as a fumigant. The workshops provided training and
discussion forums to consult with owner of storage facilities, fumigation servicing companies,
concerned government agencies and associations, importers, and suppliers and trainers to consult
and discuss the Training Manual produced by the ODS project team and published as an official
Department of Agriculture document. The issues addressed included the use of Methyl Bromide
and Phosphine, testing for leaks, associated safeguards, health considerations, IPM alternatives,
etc. A video was also produced on DVD in mid-2009 to accompany the Training Manual and
illustrate the typical equipment and procedures involved with fumigation as well as the proper
handling and use of fumigation chemicals. This is a summary of the consultation workshops
conducted so far where the Manuals and DVD are provided to all participants. More
consultation and training events are currently being planned for early-2011:
   December 2007 - Consultation on finalization of the Training Manual with stakeholders
   which used the feedback to improve the text. The revised version of the "Training Manual
   on the Methodology for Methyl Bromide and its Alternatives" was published early in 2008
   and officially endorsed by DOA. In addition to fumigation practices for insect control, it also
   includes sections on IPM, Rodent and Bird Control, Safety and Safeguards and Health.
   13-14 May 2008 - Train-the-Trainers Workshop by the project PMU in DOA for 35 people
   to discuss the preparation of training modules based on the MeBr Training Manual.
   11-12 March 2009 - Brain Storming consultation session on the Fumigation Publication for
   172 people. The first day was a broad presentation, the second day was a technical
   discussion on best practice and procedures for 30 government and industry specialists.
   6 May 2009 - Training Workshop for Fumigators for 70 people, representing 30 fumigation
   servicing companies and DoA to discuss techniques for phosphine fumigation and first aid
   for patient exposing to phosphine, etc.
   16 September 2009 - Training Workshop for Fumigators as the follow-up workshop to the
   workshop in May 2009 with the focus on practical session. There were 50 people
   representing 20 fumigation servicing companies and DoA to discuss and undergo practical
   training on code of good practice for fumigation and use of fumigation and safety equipment.
   4 February 2010 - Training Workshop on the safe use of Fumigation Equipment, repeated
   due to high demand. There were 35 people representing 14 fumigation servicing companies
   and DoA to discuss and undergo practical training on code of good practice for fumigation
   and use of fumigation and safety equipment.
   Future ­ Alternatives to the MeBr controlled atmosphere approach.




                                               23
As a result of these consultation events, the DOA has developed a set of solid training materials
and has succeeded in disseminating details of fumigation procedures, best practice, licensing
issues, alternatives and safeguards to all of the major actors in the industry in Thailand.




                                               24
                                                                                Annex 1
                                                                         Management Plan
        1-A. Mitigation

                        Potential                                                                              Institutional
                                                                                                                                      Cost
                      Environmental                    Proposed Mitigation Measure(s)                        Responsibilities
  Project Activity                                                                                                                  Estimates           Remarks
                       and Health                       (incl. legislation & regulations)                  (incl. enforcement &
                                                                                                                                     (USD)
                         Impacts                                                                               coordination)
                     Improve efficiency of    Development of pest control standards for storage                    PMU               55,000               Goods
                       fumigation and         facilities
                        worker safety
Regulations
                      Reduce the reliance     Development and implementation of accreditation                      PMU               55,000             Workshop
                         on MB use            program for storage facilities (through the Accreditation
                                                                                                                                                           IOC
                                              Scheme on Manufacturing Process for Issuance of
                                              Phytosanitary Certificate for Processed Commodities)

                      Strengthen capacity     Local and oversea training of DOA officers that are not       PMU, DOA officers,       42,900              Training
                        of DOA officers       the trainers of authorized training centers (ATC) (7             physicians
                                                                                                                                                        Workshop
                       related to MB and      activities carried out up to date)
                           alternatives                                                                                                                    IOC

                     Improve efficiency of    Development of training modules                              PMU, DOA officers,         5,500               Goods
                       fumigation and                                                                      Toxicology Center of
                        worker safety                                                                       Ramathibodi, DIW
Capacity Building
                          Monitor insect      Building Capacity on Insect Resistance Control               PMU, the Post Harvest                          Goods,
                          resistance to            Insect Resistance Control unit costs for 8 years       Technology Research and
                                                                                                                                     99,000             Workshop,
                           phosphine                                                                        Development Office,
                                                      Laboratory unit and equipment                                                  43,000             Training,
                                                   Insect bioassays for research for 8 years                                         17,600
                                                                                                                                                           IOC
                                                   Training of staff at international centers                                        17,600
                                                   Domestic travel costs for collecting samples                                      34,000

                      Strengthen capacity     Type 1: Enterprise with in-house fumigation team             PMU, the Government       603,720    1. Sub-project
Conversion Sub-      of enterprise to adopt                                                                 Saving Banks, type 1
project                                                Modification of fumigation enclosure                 enterprises, 8 ATCs
                                                                                                                                                2. Enterprises
                     alternatives to MB in                                                                                                      counterpart funding to
                     an efficient and safe             Acquisition of fumigation and safety                                                     cover capital cost that are

                                                                                    25
                     Potential                                                                Institutional
                                                                                                                    Cost
                   Environmental           Proposed Mitigation Measure(s)                   Responsibilities
Project Activity                                                                                                  Estimates           Remarks
                    and Health              (incl. legislation & regulations)             (incl. enforcement &
                                                                                                                   (USD)
                      Impacts                                                                 coordination)
                      manner               equipment comprising of                                                            not financed by the sub-
                                                                                                                              project (at least. 20%).
                                           o Phosphine monitoring device
                                                                                                                              3. Operation and
                                           o Explosion-proof portable ventilator /
                                                                                                                              maintenance cost of
                                             blower
                                                                                                                              equipment and storage
                                           o Faced gas mask and phosphine canister                                            facility to be borne by
                                                                                                                              enterprise
                                           o Nitrogen generating system
                                           Acquisition of IPM comprising of
                                           o Light trap
                                           o Industrial vacuum cleaner
                                           o Insecticide knapsack sprayer
                                           Training to enterprise conducted by ATCs

                                   Type 2: Enterprise without in-house fumigation team    PMU, the Government      375,925    1. Sub-project
                                                                                           Saving Banks, type 2
                                           Acquisition of fumigation and safety            enterprises, 8 ATCs
                                                                                                                              2. Enterprises
                                           equipment comprising of                                                            counterpart funding to
                                                                                                                              cover capital cost that are
                                           o Monitoring pump and consumable tubes                                             not financed by the sub-
                                             (high and low range)                                                             project (at least 20%).
                                           o Faced gas mask with replacement canisters                                        3. Operation and
                                           Acquisition of IPM comprising of                                                   maintenance cost of
                                                                                                                              equipment and storage
                                           o Light trap                                                                       facility to be borne by
                                           o Industrial vacuum cleaner                                                        enterprise

                                           o Insecticide knapsack sprayer
                                           Training to enterprise conducted by ATC

                                   Type 3: Fumigation Servicing Companies                PMU, the Government       102,260    1. Sub-project
                                                                                         Saving Banks, type 3
                                           Acquisition of fumigation and safety          enterprises, ATC
                                                                                                                              2. Enterprises
                                           equipment comprising of                                                            counterpart funding to
                                                                                                                              cover capital cost that are

                                                                      26
                          Potential                                                                       Institutional
                                                                                                                                 Cost
                        Environmental                   Proposed Mitigation Measure(s)                  Responsibilities
 Project Activity                                                                                                              Estimates          Remarks
                         and Health                      (incl. legislation & regulations)            (incl. enforcement &
                                                                                                                                (USD)
                           Impacts                                                                        coordination)
                                                        o Phosphine monitoring device                                                      not financed by the sub-
                                                                                                                                           project (at least 20%).
                                                        o Faced gas mask and phosphine canister
                                                                                                                                           3. Operation and
                                                        Training to enterprise conducted by ATC                                            maintenance cost of
                                                                                                                                           equipment to be borne by
                                                                                                                                           enterprise

                       1. Establish 8 ATCs      Train-the-trainer Program                             PMU, trainers from 8      259,826             Goods,
                       fully equipped with                                                           ATCs, Toxicology Center
                       training equipment               Development of training modules                  of Ramathibodi,
                                                                                                                                                  Workshop,
                       for fumigation and               o Training on MB alternatives                Vibhavadi Hospital, DIW                         IOC
                       IPM                              o Code of good practice for MB fumigation
                                                        o Code of good practice for phosphine
                       2. Strengthen                        fumigation
                       capacity of DOA                  o VDO documentary:
                       trainers                         Training of trainers Workshop
                                                        Equipment package for 8 ATCs, each package
                                                        comprising of
                                                        o Electronic Phosphine Monitoring Device
                                                           and Aspirating Pump and Detector Tube
Technical Assistance                                    o Explosion-proof Portable Ventilator and
   and Training                                            Industrial Fan
                                                        o Self-contained      Breathing  Apparatus
                                                           (SCBA), Faced Gas Mask, Personal
                                                           Protection Device
                                                        o Phosphine Generator
                                                        o Grain Probe
                                                        o Fumigation Sheet and Sand Snake and
                                                           Fumigation Accessories
                                                        o Vacuum Cleaner
                                                        o Light Trap and Rodent Trap

                        Strengthen capacity     Training of MB Users and Training Updates             PMU, type 1, 2, and 3     321,984           Workshop
                       of enterprise to adopt                                                          enterprises, 8 ATCs
                       alternatives to MB in            Train-the-trainer workshop                                                                   IOC


                                                                                     27
                      Potential                                                     Institutional
                                                                                                         Cost
                    Environmental          Proposed Mitigation Measure(s)         Responsibilities
Project Activity                                                                                       Estimates   Remarks
                     and Health             (incl. legislation & regulations)   (incl. enforcement &
                                                                                                        (USD)
                       Impacts                                                      coordination)
                   an efficient and safe
                          manner

                                                                                       Total           2,033,315




                                                                    28
                                                                         Pest Management Plan
         1-B. Monitoring

    Proposed                                                                       Data and/or                                                                  Cost
                            Parameters To be                                                                 Frequency of        Responsibilities (incl.
    Mitigation                                               Location          Measurements (incl.                                                           (Equipment
                               Monitored                                                                     Measurement         review and reporting)
    Measure                                                                    methods & equipment)                                                           & Labor)
Regulation

Pest control standards   Number of COP published              Thailand            Review record of              Annually                  PMU                 5,500 USD
for storage facilities   and distributed                                            distribution

Capacity Building

Local and oversea               No. of training         Thailand and oversea               -               In 2008, 2010 and              PMU                Under PMU
training of DOA                                                                                                  2012                                          budget

Development of           Training module published            Thailand            Review record of              Annually                  PMU                 5,500 USD
training modules         and distributed                                            distribution

Building Capacity on     1. Insect Resistance            Post Harvest            Result of the testing   Parameter 1: One tine    PMU and Post Harvest       193,600 USD
Insect Resistance        Control Unit established        Technology Research                                                     Technology Research and
                                                                                                         Parameter 2 and 3:
Control                  and fully equipped with         and Development                                                           Development Office
                                                                                                         Annually
                         laboratory equipment            Office
                         2. Number of domestic
                         travelling to collect insect
                         3. Result of testing for
                         insect resistance to            Warehouses
                         phosphine                       throughout Thailand

Conversion Sub-project

Type I Sub-project       1. Number of participating           Thailand            Site visit and data           Annually         PMU and GSB:                 5,000 USD
                         enterprises                                               reporting from                                Parameter 1-3
                                                                                    questionnaire
                         2. Use of equipment                                                                                     Pesticide Regulatory Sub-
                                                                                                                                 division: Parameter 3
                         3. Quantity of MB and
                         phosphine used by the
                         enterprise (QPS and non-

                                                                                  29
    Proposed                                                       Data and/or                                                       Cost
                          Parameters To be                                             Frequency of   Responsibilities (incl.
    Mitigation                                      Location   Measurements (incl.                                                (Equipment
                             Monitored                                                 Measurement    review and reporting)
    Measure                                                    methods & equipment)                                                & Labor)
                       QPS)

Type II Sub-project    1. Number of participating   Thailand     Site visit and data     Annually      PMU, GSB, and Group        25,000 USD
                       enterprises                                reporting from                          Coordinator
                                                                   questionnaire
                       2. Use of equipment
                       3. Quantity of phosphine
                       used by the enterprise

Type III Sub-project   1. Number of participating   Thailand     Site visit and data     Annually     PMU and GSB:                5,000 USD
                       enterprises                                reporting from                      Parameter 1-3
                                                                   questionnaire
                       2. Use of equipment                                                            Pesticide Regulatory Sub-
                                                                                                      division: Parameter 3
                       3. Quantity of MB and
                       phosphine used by the
                       enterprise (QPS and non-
                       QPS)
                                                                                                                                   239,600
                                                                                                                                    USD




                                                                 30
                                                                Pest Management Plan
        1-C. Institutional Strengthening and Training for Implementation

                               Position(s)
    Institutional
                           (Institutions, PIUs,                                                                     Cost Estimates
   Strengthening                                    Scheduling                   Responsibility(ies)
                        contractors, construction                                                                       (USD)
      Activity
                        supervision consultants)
Mitigation                        PIU               2007 - 2013      PMU, Plant Quarantine Station, Pesticide         2,033,315
                                                                        Regulatory Subdivision, physicians,
                                                                    Toxicology Center of Ramathibodi, DIW, the
                                                                      Post Harvest Technology Research and
                                                                    Development Office, the Government Saving
                                                                        Banks, enterprises type 1-3, 8 ATCs

Monitoring (incl.                 PIU               2007 onwards      PMU, OARD, Pesticide Regulatory Sub-             239,600
compliance)                                                          division, 10 Plant Quarantine Stations, Post
                                                                          Harvest Technology Research and
                                                                       Development Office, GSB, and Group
                                                                                     Coordinator


                                                     Types of
 Training Activity            Participants                                     Content (modules, etc.)               Scheduling      Cost Estimates
                                                     Training
Training on                   DOA officers           Training       Montreal Protocol and MB phase-out              Once a year in     9,900 USD
regulation to control                                Workshop       obligation                                      2008, 2010 and
MB and adoption of                                                                                                      2012
phosphine                                                           Government policy to phase-out MB
                                                                    Existing licensing system related to MB
                                                                    Alternative to MB
                                                                    Accreditation Scheme on Manufacturing
                                                                    Process for Issuance of Phytosanitary
                                                                    Certificate for Processed Commodities
                                                                    NMBPP and status update


                                                                          31
                                                 Types of
 Training Activity          Participants                                  Content (modules, etc.)            Scheduling     Cost Estimates
                                                 Training
Oversea Training on         DOA officers         Study visit    Fumigation technique                        2010 and 2011    33,000 USD
fumigation
                                                                Recapture technique
                                                                Control of MB
                                                                Export phytosanitary certification system
                                                                Safeguard of MB use
                                                                Heat treatment
                                                                Phosphine fumigation in kiwi fruit

Training on insect     Post Harvest Technology    Oversea       Phosphine assay                             2008 and 2009    17,600 USD
resistance control    Research and Development    Training
unit                            Office                          Assessment of resistance insect
                                                                Insect receivable culturing
                                                                Insect resist control
                                                                Dosing technique
                                                                Statistical analysis

Train-the-trainer                                Training       Montreal Protocol and MB phase-out              2008          5,500 USD
Program                                          Workshop       obligation
                                                                Government policy to phase-out MB
                                                                Knowledge about regulations related to
                                                                fumigation;
                                                                Code of good practice for phosphine
                                                                fumigations (fumigation techniques and
                                                                safe use of pesticide);
                                                                Fumigation and personal protective
                                                                equipment
                                                                IPM program
                                                                Symptoms and Poisoning caused by
                          Trainers of ATCs
                                                                fumigants and first aid treatments.

                                                                     32
                                   Types of
Training Activity   Participants                         Content (modules, etc.)        Scheduling   Cost Estimates
                                   Training
Training of MB      Users of MB    Training    Montreal Protocol and MB phase-out       2009-2012     321,984 USD
Users@8 ATCs                       Workshop    obligation
                                               Government policy to phase-out MB
                                               Knowledge about regulations related to
                                               fumigation;
                                               Code of good practice for phosphine
                                               fumigations (fumigation techniques and
                                               safe use of pesticide);
                                               Fumigation and personal protective
                                               equipment
                                               IPM program
                                               Symptoms and Poisoning caused by
                                               fumigants and first aid treatments.




                                                    33
                                                          Pest Management Plan

   1-D. Scheduling and Reporting

                                                                            2010                2011              2012
                            Activities
                                                                      Q1   Q2 Q3     Q4   Q1   Q2 Q3   Q4   Q1   Q2 Q3   Q4
Mitigation Measure
 Regulation
       Development of Management Information System (MIS)

                                                                      X
       Development of pest control standards for storage facilities   X    X     X
       Development and implementation of accreditation program
                                                                       X                  X                 X
      for storage facilities
 Capacity Building
      Local and oversea training of DOA officers                                     X                               X
      Development of training modules
      Building Capacity on Insect Resistance Control                  X    X     X   X    X    X   X   X    X    X   X   X
 Conversion Sub-project
      Type I Sub-project                                              X    X     X   X    X    X   X   X
      Type II Sub-project                                                            X    X    X   X   X    X    X   X   X
      Type III Sub-project                                            X    X     X
 Technical Assistance and Training
      Train-the-trainer Program                                       X    X     X   X
      Training of MB Users and Training Updates                                      X         X       X         X       X
 Project Implementation Support
      Establishment of PMU
      Project Support                                                 X    X     X   X    X    X   X   X    X    X   X   X
      Outreach Program                                                X          X        X        X        X        X
      Monitoring                                                                     X                 X                 X
Monitoring

                                                                      34
                                                                         2010              2011              2012
                              Activities
                                                                   Q1   Q2 Q3   Q4   Q1   Q2 Q3   Q4   Q1   Q2 Q3   Q4
  Regulation
      Management information system (MIS)                               X   X   X    X    X   X   X    X    X   X   X
      Pest control standards for storage facilities                                  X                 X
      Accreditation program for storage facilities                              X                 X                 X
  Capacity Building
      Local and oversea training of DOA                                              X                              X
      Development of training modules                                           X                 X                 X
      Building Capacity on Insect Resistance Control                            X                 X                 X
  Conversion Sub-project
      Type I Sub-project                                                        X                 X                 X
       Type II Sub-project                                                                        X                 X
       Type III Sub-project                                                     X                 X                 X
  Technical Assistance and Training
       Train-the-trainer Program                                                     X    X
       Training of MB Users and Training Updates                                X                 X                 X
  Project Implementation Support
       Project Support                                                          X                 X                 X
       Outreach Program                                                         X                 X                 X
       Monitoring                                                               X                 X                 X
Institutional Strengthening
  Mitigation Measure
  Monitoring
Training
  Training on regulation to control MB and adoption of phosphine                X                               X
  Oversea Training on fumigation                                        X                         X
  Training on insect resistance control unit
  Train-the-trainer Program
  Training of MB Users@8 ATCs                                                   X         X       X         X       X

                                                                   35
                                       Annex 2
                 Code of Good Practice for Fumigation with Phosphine
                                      Annex 2-A

Contents List for the "Code of Good Practice for Fumigation with Phosphine" (translated)




                                          36
37
                                                  Annex 2-B

                               Best Practice for Fumigation with Phosphine


                      BEST PRACTICE FOR FUMIGATION WITH PHOSPHINE


Best fumigation practice is the result of a practical combination of all procedures required during a
fumigation treatment to ensure that:
     the people doing the fumigation remain safe and are not harmed
     all people in the area around the fumigation treatment area remain safe and are not harmed
     the environment is not harmed
     all life stages of all target pests are killed to prevent the development of resistance
     the commodity, or product, or equipment being treated inside the fumigation enclosure is not
        damaged in any way.
Each of these five goals that make up a successful fumigation will be reached when best fumigation practice
is followed.

Best fumigation practice as described in this here may ask for conditions, requirements and resources that
may be unavailable to the fumigator.

Even so, in some cases, it may still be possible for a fumigator to do a fumigation.

However, as the technique moves further away from best fumigation practice:

 the risk of harming people increases

                the chances of killing target pests decreases

                        until, at a certain minimum point

                                       fumigation is worthless

                                                      BECAUSE IT WILL FAIL


The risk of failure is greatly increased because very many fumigators consider fumigation with phosphine to
be easy - because:
       phosphine is generated from solid metal phosphide preparations (pellets, tablets, plates, sachets,
       chains blankets etc.)
       these preparations are easy to introduce into an enclosure.



                                                      38
Fumigators must not be misled by the apparent simplicity of this process. In fact, the requirements for doing
a fully successful fumigation with phosphine are very much more demanding than those for methyl bromide.

The extra demands of phosphine fumigation arise because (in most cases) the applied concentrations when
used with short exposuresmainly kill the larval and adult life stages of insects. These stages are called the
'susceptible life stages'.

The eggs and pupae are not killed. These are called the 'tolerant life stages'. Increasing the dosage will not
kill these life stages. These life stages can only be killed by allowing them to grow and develop into the next
susceptible life stage - eggs to larvae, and pupae to adults - while they are inside the fumigation enclosure.

This is why long exposure periods extending up to 7days or more are required when fumigation treatments
are done with phosphine.

In fumigation practice this means that:
       the concentration of phosphine inside the enclosure must be held at a poisonous level long enough to
       allow eggs and pupae to develop through to larvae and adults
       enclosures made with fumigation sheets must be sufficiently gastight to allow phosphine to be held at
       these concentrations for up to 8 days at 25C ­ and even longer with resistant strains of insects
       fumigation treatments where most gas is lost by about the fifth day will fail, leaving some live
       tolerant stages.
Repeated fumigation failures (treatments where eggs and pupae have not been killed) have already led to the
development of resistance to phosphine in some insects, in some countries.

There is a very real likelihood that this could lead to loss of phosphine as an effective fumigant if this
process continues.

When fumigations that do not follow best fumigation practice are done repeatedly, there is an unacceptable
likelihood:
       of harming people in and around the fumigation area
       that insects will develop resistance to the fumigant used in such treatments.

This is because core parts of the fumigation technique essential for a successful result are not applied.

The table below lists some examples of conditions for best fumigation practice and those which are essential
for safety during a fumigation.

If any of the conditions essential for safety cannot be met then fumigators and other people will be
endangered.




                                                       39
                                                                    Conditions     Essential
                                                                     for best     conditions
                                                                     practice     for safety
       Trained personnel available                                                     
       (licensed or registered where required)
       Enclosure can be made gastight                                                  
       Personal protection equipment available                                         
       Availability of equipment for accurately measuring the
       concentration of phosphine inside:                                              
              the enclosure                                                            
              the workspace concentration
       People can be excluded from area close to fumigation                            
       No connection (pipes, drains, ducts) between                                    
       fumigation enclosure and a non-target area
       Sufficient time available for both the                                          
              exposure period
              post-exposure ventilation
       Fumigant allowed under local legislation                                       --
       Fumigant acceptable to product end user                                        --
       Commodity not damaged by fumigant                                              --
       Adequate supply of fumigant available                                          --
       For phosphine: temperatures above 15 °C.                                       --
       Meteorological conditions acceptable e.g. minimal                              --
       wind

There are many conditions that make up best fumigation practice for phosphine and it is not possible to list
them all in the table above. However, if any of the points listed are not met, then the fumigation will not
reach the highest standards of efficacy and may not kill all life stages of all target pests. This in turn can
encourage development of resistance.

Many of the requirements of best fumigation practice for phosphine result from the ,,science behind
fumigation.

However, there is also a very practical aspect to best fumigation practice that applies to the materials,
equipment, and tools that fumigators use during a fumigation treatment.

Fumigators must remember that they are working with poisonous gases. This means that they have a duty of
care.




                                                     40
For this reason they must always make sure that they are properly equipped. Fumigators must:
       have proper respiratory protective equipment available, either (i) self-contained breathing apparatus,
       or (ii) a respirator with filter canisters appropriate for the fumigant being applied
       always maintain fumigation monitoring equipment in good-as new condition, because if you fail to
       have gas-monitoring equipment calibrated regularly (and in accordance with the manufacturers
       instructions) this may be the cause of (i) a fumigation failure or (ii) a fatal accident.
       never make a temporary repair, because it will almost always continue to be used, and could be a
       cause of reduced standards in your fumigation work.




                                                     41
                                                  Annex 2-C

                               Safety Rules for Fumigators Using Phosphine

                     SAFETY RULES FOR FUMIGATORS USING PHOSPHINE


Fumigation with phosphine is a precise operation requiring considerable expertise, and cannot be undertaken
without proper preparation. It is important that management and their Fumigators-in-Charge understand this,
and ensure that proper planning is carried out before a fumigation treatment is done.
   1. Are you allowed to do a fumigation with phosphine in your country?
           Have you been trained to do fumigations with phosphine?
           Can you recognise a fumigation failure?
           Do you have the practical experience needed to do a treatment without supervision?
   2. Check all national and local government rules and regulations telling you how to do fumigations in
      your country. Make sure you understand them.
   3. Check all national and local government rules and regulations about use of phosphine in your
      country. Make sure you understand them.
   4. Do you know and understand when to apply the dosage rates for phosphine recommended in your
      country?
   5. Can you recognise the symptoms of phosphine poisoning?
   6. Check all equipment before you use it. Make sure it is all in good working condition.
           Examine all gas proof sheets by suspending them over a lighted doorway. Repair even the
              smallest holes that could cause gas leaks, since these leaks could result in human injury or
              insufficient gas concentration to control the target pest.
           Make sure you have enough phosphine generating product to do the treatment.
           Make sure there are enough sand snakes to seal the enclosure. There must be enough to go around
             the enclosure twice.
           Make sure enough trays are available to put tablets (or pellets) on.
           Make sure a fully equipped tool kit is available.
   7. Go and inspect the place where the fumigation will be done.
           Is the stack sheltered from strong wind? If not, can it be moved and rebuilt?
           Is the stack built on a gas proof floor?
           Are you sure there is no drain under the stack?
           Can the enclosure be sealed properly?
           Has the stack been built around a pillar? If so, rebuild the stack.
           Is there enough space between the stack and the walls?
           Are there any connecting godowns?



                                                       42
       Identify all houses around the danger area where people live. Will the people who live in them be
          safe during the exposure period?
       Identify any items that could be damaged by phosphine and make sure they are removed before
          the fumigation starts.
8. If it is possible to do a fumigation:
       is there enough time to do the fumigation properly?
       can the fumigation be done at a time when workers are not present?
       can the enclosure be aerated at a time when workers are not present?
       is it possible to close off the danger area?
       is it possible to safely aerate the enclosure at the end of the exposure period?
       is electricity available so that fans can be used to aerate the enclosure at the end of the exposure
           period? - If not, a portable generator will be required.
9. Emergency Actions
       Look for and identify all safe ways to get out of the fumigation area in an emergency.
       Identify emergency doors, connecting godowns, a water supply,
       Identify the nearest telephone, the nearest hospital, the nearest doctor, the nearest fire brigade.
       Find the quickest way to the nearest hospital.
       Make sure two trained persons are present at all times during the fumigation.
10. Develop a Fumigation plan.
       Tell all fumigation staff:
               how the fumigation will be done
               how to leave the fumigation area safely in case of emergency
               what to do if any person breathes in phosphine gas
               what to do if any person breathes in or comes into contact with dust produced by
                  phosphine-generating product
               who will monitor gas concentrations in the workspace.
       All people involved with the fumigation must be shown around the fumigation site. If there is a
           safer way to do anything, revise the fumigation plan.
11. Make sure all fumigation staff:
       know what first aid action to take in case anyone is injured
       are equipped with, and know how to use personal-protection equipment appropriate for
           fumigation with phosphine (self-contained breathing apparatus, gas masks)
       understand that gloves must be worn while i) opening and handling containers of generating
          product, and ii) dispensing the product by hand.
12. Before a fumigation is started, be sure that the nearest doctor (or hospital) has instructions on how
    treat injuries caused by phosphine.



                                                      43
13. Where necessary, the fumigator-in-charge must make sure that all national and local government
    agencies (for example, the police, the fire brigade, the nearest hospital, etc.) that might be involved
    with the fumigation treatment, have been told where and when the fumigation treatment will be done.
14. Check weather conditions before fumigation.
       If it is possible that wind will damage fumigation sheets, delay the fumigation until the treatment
            can be done safely or take other precautions.
15. Fumigators must not consume alcohol less than 24 hours before the start of a fumigation treatment.
16. Warning signs
       Always put warning signs (in appropriate languages) around the danger area at a fumigation site.
          Include an emergency phone contact number on the signs.
       The signs must be at places where people are most likely to see them.
       Guards must be used if required by government (or other) regulation.
17. Containers (tins, canisters) of phosphine generating products must always be opened in the open air
    because concentrations of gas may build up in them.
       To avoid inhaling the gas, fumigators must make sure that containers are pointed away from them
          when they open such containers.
18. Do not eat, drink or smoke at any time when doing a fumigation with phosphine, especially while
    handling and distributing phosphine-generating products.
19. To prevent spontaneous ignition of phosphine-generating products (tablets, pellets, sachets, etc.):
       do not place phosphine-generating products on wet grain
       do not place phosphine-generating products on wet surfaces or surfaces that may get wet
       do not heap tablets or pellets when distributing them for a fumigation.
20. To prevent contamination:
       do not allow phosphine generating products or their breakdown products (spent residues) to come
          into contact with any food or feed commodity.
21. Monitoring
       Always use leak detection equipment to check that the workspace is safe and the enclosure is
          well-sealed.
22. Repeated small exposures to phosphine can be dangerous. Always plan ways to minimise unprotected
    exposure to phosphine.
23. If anyone gets sick during fumigation, with symptoms of or similar to phosphine poisoning, don't
    take chances. Take the person to a doctor and let the doctor decide the cause of the illness.
24. Clothing.
       After a fumigation, fumigators must wash thoroughly and change their clothes immediately.
       Clothing contaminated with dust produced by generating compounds must be aired in a open area
          before they are washed.
       Do not leave contaminated clothing, shoes and other equipment in confined areas, such as motor
          cars, cupboards or rooms.


                                                  44
          Dirty clothing worn by fumigators must be washed separately from other clothes, especially
              infants clothes.
   25. Aeration
          Aeration must be done in stages to avoid sudden release of large amounts of fumigant.
   26. Disposal of spent residues.
          Spent residues must be disposed of according to local regulations in your country or, in the
             absence of such regulations, in accordance with the manufacturers instructions.
          Do not flush residues into sewers or septic tanks.
   27. Disposal of empty containers.
          Containers in which phosphine-generating products are supplied must be disposed of so that they
             cannot be re-used. This must be done in accordance with local regulations in your country or,
             in their absence, in accordance with the manufacturers instructions.
   28. Clearance
          Clearance after aeration must be issued only when monitoring instruments show that gas
             concentrations have fallen to, or are below, the TLV set for phosphine in your country.
   29. The fumigator-in-charge must make sure that all national and local government agencies (for
       example, the police, the fire brigade, the nearest hospital, etc.), that might be involved with the
       fumigation treatment, have been told that the fumigation has ended.
   30. Warning signs.
          After clearance has been given at the end of the aeration period, remove all warning signs.
          If signs are not removed, people will ignore them during the next fumigation.
   31. Promptly return all empty phosphine cylinders to the supplier.
ined persons.
      NEVER GIVE OR SELL PHOSPHINE PREPARATIONS TO UNTRAINED PERSONS




                                                       45
                                                  Annex 3

                                        Relevant Legal Documents


                                                 Annex 3-A

                              HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE ACT B.E. 2535
                                  (Unofficial English Translation)

                                  BHUMIBHOL ADULYADEJ REX.
                               Given on the 29th day of March, B.E. 2535;
                                Being the 47th year of the Present Reign.


His Majesty King Bhumibhol Adulyadej has been graciously pleased to Proclaim that:

Whereas it is expedient to revise the law on hazardous substances.
BE IT THEREFORE ENACTED BY THE KING, by and with the advice and consent of the National

Legislative Assembly acting as the Parliament, as follows:

Section 1 This Act shall be called the "Hazardous Substance Act, B.E. 2535"

Section 2 This Act shall come into force as from the day following the date of its publication in the
Government Gazette.

Section 3 The following Acts shall be repealed:
  (1) The Toxic Substance Act, B.E. 2510.
  (2) The Toxic Substance Act (No. 2), B.E. 2510.

Section 4 In this Act,
"Hazardous Substance" means the following substance.
  (1) Explosives.
  (2) Flammable substance.
  (3) Oxidizing agent and peroxide.
  (4) Toxic substance.
  (5) Substance causing diseases.
  (6) Radioactive substance.
  (7) Mutant causing substance.
  (8) Corrosive substance.
  (9) Irritating substance.
  (10) Other substance either chemicals or otherwise which may cause injury to the persons, animals, plants,
property, or environments.

"Produce" means to make, culture, blend, mix, alter, modify, contain separately or contain collectively.
"Import" means to bring or order into the Kingdom or to transit.


                                                      46
"Export" means to send or undertake to send out of the Kingdom.
 "Sale" means a disposal, dispensation, or distribution for commercial purposes and also includes having in
possession for sale.
 "Having in possession" means having in possession whether for oneself or for others and regardless of
whether having in possession for sale, for transport or for use or for other purposes and also includes leaving
or existing in the area under possession.
 "Label" means a picture, logo, or any statement shown on the hazardous substance, containers, or packages,
or inserted or included in the hazardous substance or containers, or packages and also included a document
or manual for the hazardous substance.
 "Committee" means the Committee on Hazardous Substance.
 "Authority" means a person appointed by the Responsible Minister for the execution of this Act.
 "Responsible Minister" means the line Minister of any agency assigned to take charge of the control of
hazardous substance under Section 19.

Section 5 The Minister of Defence, the Minister Of Agriculture and Cooperatives, the Minister of Interior,
the Minister of Public Health, the Minister of Science, Technology and Environment, and the Minister of
Industry shall control, promote, and oversee the work of the Secretary and the Assistant Secretaries of the
Committee on Hazardous Substance for the execution of this.
The Minister of Industry shall have the power to prescribe the ministerial rules fixing the fees of not higher
than the rates attached herewith and exempting the fees as well as adopting other requirements and to
prescribe the announcements for the execution of this Act.
The Responsible Minister shall have the power to appoint the authorities and to prescribe the announcements
for the execution of this Act.
Such ministerial rules or announcements, upon publication in the Government Gazette, shall become
enforceable.


                                               Chapter I
                                    Committee on Hazardous Substance

Section 6 There shall be the Committee on Hazardous Substance consisting of the Permanent Secretary of
the Ministry of Industry as the chairman, the Director-General of the Department of Internal Trade, the
Director-General of the Department of Medical Service, the Director-General of the Department of Public
Works, the Director-General of the Police Department, the Director-General of the Department of
Agriculture, the Director-General of the Department of Agricultural Extension, the Secretary-General of the
National Environment Board, the Secretary-General of the Food and Drug Administration, the Secretary-
General of the Office of Atomic Energy for Peace, the Secretary-General of the Office of Industrial
Standards Institute and a representative from the Ministry of Defence and not more than seven scholars
appointed by the Cabinet as the members; the Director-General of the Industrial Works Department as a
member and the secretary; a representative from the Department of Public Works, a representative from the
Department of Industrial Works, a representative from the Department of Agriculture, a representative from
the Office of Atomic Energy for Peace and        a representative from the Food and Drug Administration as
the assistant secretaries.
The member scholars appointed by the Cabinet must be the experts having expertise, works and experiences
relating to the branches of chemistry, science, engineering, agricultural science, or law and at least two of
them shall be appointed from the scholars working in an organ of public interest for the protection of health
or environment.


                                                      47
Section 7 The Committee shall have the following powers and duties.
   (1) To give Opinions to the Minister of Industry regarding the prescription of the announcements pursuant
to Section 18 paragraph two and Section 36 paragraph one.
   (2) To give Opinions to the Responsible Ministers regarding the prescription of the announcements
pursuant to Section 20, Section 36 paragraph three, Section 37 paragraph two, Section 44, and Section 47
(5)
   (3) To give advice to the authority regarding the registration or revocation of the register of hazardous
substance.
   (4) To give advice or opinions to the Responsible Minister, the Minister of Industry, responsible agencies
and the authority regarding any matter relating to hazardous substance.
   (5) To consider the grievances from persons sustaining troubles or injuries for hazardous substance.
   (6) To inform of or publicize the information relating to hazardous substance to the public. In this respect,
the list of hazardous substance or of relevant persons engaging in a business may be designated.
   (7) To oversee, give advice, and expedite the authority, Government bodies or agencies taking charge of
various hazardous substance in the exercise of their power and in the performance of their duties as provided
by law.
   (8) To propose opinions to the Minister of Industry for recommendation to the Cabinet regarding the
control of hazardous substance and the protection of and remedies for damage caused by hazardous
substance as the operation guidelines for various Government agencies.
   (9) To perform such other acts as provided by law to be the powers and duties of the Committee.
Section 8 The member scholars shall remain in their office for a term of two years. Any retiring member
scholar may be reappointed.

Section 9 Apart from the vacancy upon expiration of the term of office under Section 8, the member scholars
may vacate the office upon:
   (1) Death;
   (2) resignation;
   (3) removal by the Cabinet on account of deficiency, dishonesty to the duties, disgraceful behavior or
incapacity;
   (4) being a bankrupt;
   (5) being incompetent or quasi-incompetent person; or
   (6) punishment of imprisonment by a final judgement to that effect except the punishment for an offence
committed recklessly or a petty offence.

Section 10 In case where an appointment of a member scholar is made during the term of office of the
member scholars already appointed, either as an additional appointment or for filling the vacancy, the person
so appointed shall retain his/her office for the term equal to that remaining for the member scholars already
appointed.
Section 11 In case where the member scholars have completed their term of office but no new member
scholars have been appointed, the retiring member scholars shall, for the time being, perform their duties
until new appointment of the member scholar is made.

Section 12 Not less than half of the total number of members must be present at the meeting of the
Committee in order to form a quorum. If the chairman is not present at the meeting, the members present
shall select one of the members to be the chairman of the meeting.
Decisions of the meeting shall be made by a majority of votes. Each member shall have one vote. In case of
an equality of votes, the chairman of the meeting shall have a casting vote. Any member having a private
interest in any matter, such member shall have no right to vote on such matter.

                                                       48
Section 13 The Committee shall have the power to appoint a Sub-committee to consider or to perform any
act as assigned by the Committee.
The Committee shall fix the quorum and procedures of the Sub-committee as it thinks fit.

Section 14 In performing its duties, the Committee or Sub-committee assigned by the Committee shall have
the power to give a written order summoning any person to testify or to submit any document or substance
for consideration as is necessary.


                                                 Chapter 2
                                    Control of the Hazardous Substance

Section 15 In case where there exists the law on any subject having any specific provisions, such provisions
of the law shall apply. However, in case where it is appropriate, the Committee, upon approval of the
Ministry taking charge of the law on such subject, may adopt a resolution applying the provisions of this Act
in addition to or in lieu of the law on such subject provided that any period or condition may be provided in
such resolution.
The resolution under paragraph one, upon publication in the Government Gazette by the Minister taking
charge of the law on such subject, shall become enforceable.

Section 16 In case of necessity for the prevention of danger to be inflicted upon the persons, animals, plants,
property, or environments, a decree may be prescribed designating the area for prohibition of possession,
disposal or use of any hazardous substance.

Section 17 The Information Center for Hazardous Substance shall be established in the Ministry of Industry
as a coordinating center with respect to information on hazardous substance for various government agencies
including private sectors for the collections and services of all kinds of information relating to hazardous
substance since their existence in foreign countries, importation or domestic production, moving, uses,
destruction, and any other relevant matters.

Section 18 The hazardous substance is classified according to the needs for control as follows:
  (1) Type 1 hazardous substance is that of which the production, import, export, or having in possession
must comply with the specified criteria and procedures.
  (2) Type 2 hazardous substance is that of which the production, import, export, or having in possession
must first be notified to the authority and must also comply with the specified criteria and procedures.
  (3) Type 3 hazardous substance is that of which the production, import, export, or having in possession
must obtain a permit.
  (4) Type 4 hazardous substance is that of which the production, import, export, or having in possession is
prohibited.

For the purpose of prevention and stop of danger that may be inflicted upon the persons, animals, plants,
property, or environments, the Minister of Industry with the opinions of the Committee, shall have the power
to publish in the Government Gazette designating the names or qualifications of hazardous substance, types
of hazardous substance, period of application and responsible agencies for the control of the said hazardous
substance.

Section 19 When any agency of the Ministry or Bureaus of the Central Administration has requested to be
the agency responsible for the control of any hazardous substance for the execution of this Act, the

                                                      49
committees shall consider and submit its opinions to the Ministry of Industry in order to prescribe the
announcement under Section 18 paragraph two designating such agency as the agency having the powers and
duties to execute all part with respect to such hazardous substance provided that specialized expertise,
number of personnel, relationship with the principal tasks and work load under its responsibilities shall be
primary taken into consideration.
In case where the Committee has viewed otherwise, the Minister of the requesting agency shall be
responsible for confirmation to the Committee within thirty days. In this case, it shall be proposed to the
Ministry of Industry for submission to the Cabinet for consideration.
Section 20 The responsible Minister, with the opinions of the Committee shall have to publish in the
Government Gazette,
   (1) adopting the composition, qualifications and mixtures, containers, methods of examining and testing
the containers, labels, productions, imports, exports, sales, transports, storage, disposals, destruction,
treatments of hazardous substance containers, notification of facts, submission of specimens or any other
matters relation, or stop of the substance for the control, prevention, mitigation, or stop of the danger to be
inflicted upon the persons, animals, plants, property, or environments by taking into consideration
international conventions and covenants,
   (2) requiring to have the specialized experts or personnel responsible for any execution under (1),
   (3) adopting the error criteria from the required quantity of the essential substance in the hazardous
substance,
   (4) adopting the procedures for registration of the said hazardous substance,
   (5) designating the names and qualifications of the hazardous substance and exemption under Section 36,

Section 21 A producer, importer, exporter of a person having possession of the type 1 hazardous substance
must comply with announcements of the Responsible Minister prescribed pursuant to Section 20(1) (2) and
(3).

Section 22 Subject to the provisions of Section 36, no person shall be allowed to produce, import, or have in
possession the type 2 hazardous substance unless the desire to so undertake has been first notified to the
authority.
Upon prescription of an announcement designating any substance to be the type 2 hazardous substance, the
producer, importer, exporter, or the person having possession of such substance shall notify the authority of
his/her undertaking then within the period specified in the said announcement.
The producer, importer, exporter or the person having possession of the type 2 hazardous substance must
also comply with the announcement of the Responsible Minister prescribed pursuant to Section 20(1) (2) and
(3).

Section 23 Subject to the provisions of Section 36, no producer shall be allowed to import, export, or have in
his/her possession of the type 3 hazardous substance unless permitted by the authority.
The application for permission and the permission thereof shall be in accordance with the criteria and
procedures provided for in the ministerial rules, provide that such ministerial rule shall provide as clearly as
possible for the cases to be allowed or not to be allowed except in case of an unforeseen necessity and the
period for consideration for permission shall also be clearly specified.
The producer, importer or the person having possession of the type 3 hazardous substance must also comply
with the announcement of the Responsible Ministry prescribed pursuant to Section 20(1) (2) and (3).

Section 24 Upon prescription of an announcement designating the substance to be the type 3 hazardous
substance, the producer, importer, exporter, or the person having possession of such hazardous substance
shall apply for a permit under Section 23 within the period specified in the said announcement and during the

                                                       50
said period, such person shall engage in the business for the time being until the authority shall deny the
permission as applied.

Section 25 A permit already issued, if subsequently the law or circumstance has changed or there is a
substantial ground for the protection of safety, the authority having the power to issue the permits shall have
the power to order an amendment of the conditions for permission as is necessary.

Section 26 A permit issued under this Act shall be valid for the period specified therein but shall mot exceed
three years as from the date of issuance of the permit.

Section 27 The recipient of a permit wishing to renew the permit shall apply therefore before the expiration
of the permit. Upon submission of the application, such person shall be deemed as if he/she were the
recipient and shall continue the business until the authority shall deny the renewal of such permit.
The application for renewal of a permit of a permit and the renewal thereof shall be in accordance with the
criteria and procedures provided for in the ministerial rules.

Section 28 In case where the authority denies the issuance or renewal of a permit, the applicant for a permit
or a renewal thereof has the right to appeal to the Responsible Minister within thirty days as from the date of
receipt of the notice denying the issuance or the renewal of a permit. The decision of the Responsible
Minister shall be final.

Section 29 If the authority denies the renewal of the permit of the Responsible Minister orders the dismissal
of the appeal for renewal of the permit, the applicant for the renewal of the permit may sell the hazardous
substance in his/her possession within the period of three months as from the date of receipt of the order
denying the renewal of the permit or of receipt of the order of the Responsible Minister dismissing the appeal
as the case may be. Upon expiration of the said period, Section 52 paragraph two, paragraph three and
paragraph four shall apply mutatis mutandis.

Section 30 If a permit or a certificate of registration of the hazardous substance is lost, erased or substantially
defected, the recipient of the permit shall apply for a substitute of the permit or of the certificate of
registration of the hazardous substance to the authority within fifteen days as from the date of knowledge of
the loss, erasure or defect.

Section 31 The recipient of a permit which is valid for more than three months must present the permit or the
substantially thereof at the open and noticeable place at the place of business specified in the such permit.

Section 32 When it appears to the authority that any recipient of a permit violates or fails to comply with this
Act, the authority shall have the power to consider and to order a suspension of the permit for such a period
as the authority think fit but shall not exceed one year and if it is a serious case, the authority may order a
revocation of the permit.

Section 33 The person whose permit has been suspended or revoked under Section 32 has the right to appeal
to the Responsible Minister within thirty days as from the date of receipt the order. The decision of the
Responsible Minister shall be final.
The appeal under paragraph one shall not ease the enforcement of the order suspending or revoking the
permit.



                                                        51
Section 34 The person whose permit has been suspended or revoked under Section 32 may sell the
hazardous substance in his/her possession within the period of three months as from the date of receipt of the
order revoking the permit or of receipt of the order of the Responsible Minister dismissing the appeal as the
case may be. Upon expiration of the said period, Section 52 paragraph two, paragraph three, and paragraph
four shall apply mutatis mutandis.

Section 35 The person whose permit has been revoked may not apply for a new permit until the expiration of
five years as from the date of revocation of the permit.

Section 36 The Minister of Industry, with the opinion of the Committee shall publish in the Government
Gazette, publicizing clearly the list of hazardous substance in of which its production process and nature are
likely to cause injury.
The production, import of type 2 or type 3 hazardous substance excluding from the list in the announcement
under paragraph one must be registered first with the authority and upon receipt of the certificate of
registration, the production or import shall be undertaken under Section 22 or a permit for production or
import under Section 23 shall be issued unless the announcement of the Responsible Minister shall exempt
such registration in case where the same hazardous substance have been submitted for registration or
otherwise on a reasonable ground.
The application for registration of the hazardous substance and the issuance of a certificate of registration of
the hazardous substance shall be in accordance with the criteria and procedures provided for by the
Responsible Minister with the opinions of the Committee upon publication in the Government gazette.

Section 37 In case where the registration of the hazardous substance require the production or import of the
specimens thereof for registration or there hazardous substance must be imported for use in the production of
hazardous substance to be submitted for registration and such hazardous substance are required by law to be
produced or imported upon prior permission or registration, the applicant for registration may apply for
permission to the authority for the production or import of such hazardous substance under this Act upon
exemption from complying with the steps and procedures provided for
in the law on such subject.
The production and import under paragraph one must conform to the criteria and procedures provided for by
the Responsible Minister with opinions of the Committee upon publication in the Government Gazette.

Section 38 No authority shall register the hazardous substance when the Committee regards that:
   (1) the hazardous substance as applied for registration is not reliable as to its benefits as applied or if used
is likely to cause injury to the persons, animals, plants, property, or environments without a reasonably
normal means for prevention;
   (2) the hazardous substance as applied for registration uses the name in such a manner as to show off, to
be impolite or likely to create a misrepresentation, or
   (3) the hazardous substance as applied for registration is fake or that of which its register has already been
revoked by the authority.
The order of the authority denying registration shall be final.

Section 39 For the purpose of protection of the persons, animals, plants, property, or environments, the
authority with recommendation of the Committee shall have the power to amend the particulars in the
register of hazardous substance as is necessary.

Section 40 For the any hazardous substance already registered which later appears to lack the benefits as
registration or if used is likely to cause injury to the persons, animals, plants, property, or environments,

                                                        52
without a reasonably normal means for prevention, the authority with the recommendations of the
Committee shall have the power to revoke the register shall be final.
Upon revocation of the register of any hazardous substance, the right of production, import, export, of or
having possession of such hazardous substance shall be extinct.

Section 41 The owner of hazardous substance of which its register has been revoked must undertake to
destroy or deal with his/her hazardous substance in such a manner as ordered by the authority within the
period specified by the authority and Section 52 paragraph two, paragraph three, paragraph four shall apply
mutatis mutandis.

Section 42 The producer for commerce, importer for commerce, exporter for commerce, keeper for
commerce or seller of type 2 or type 3 hazardous substance must pay the annual fees in accordance with the
criteria and procedures provided for in the ministerial rules but the rates of such fees shall not exceed those
attached herewith.
Failure to pay the fees within the specified period shall result in an additional payment of five percent per
month. In case where the payment of the fees is in arrears without reasonable grounds and if it is the case of
a permit for operation, the authority may suspend or revoke the permit as is appropriate.

Section 43 No person shall be allowed to produce, import or have in his/her possession the type 4 hazardous
substance.
Upon announcement of the Responsible Minister designating and substance as the type 4 hazardous
substance, the producer, importer, person having possession of such substance shall comply with the other of
the authority and Section 41 shall apply mutatis mutandis.

Section 44 The Responsible Minister with the opinions of the Committee shall have the power to announce
that the following hazardous substance are exempted from complying with this Act wholly or partially as the
Responsible Minister think fit.
(1) The hazardous substance which by its nature or quality may cause minor injury or against which the
enforcement of various measures under this Act will incur unreasonable burden.
(2) The hazardous substance of the ministries, bureaus, departments, local administrations, state enterprises,
government agencies, Thai Red Cross Society or other agencies as to be appropriately designated.

Section 45 No person shall be allowed to produce, import, export or have in the possession type 1, type 2, or
type 3 hazardous substance as follows:
   (1) Fake hazardous substance.
   (2) Sub-standard hazardous substance.
   (3) Hazardous substance of deteriorating quality.
   (4) Hazardous substance that must be registered but has not been registered.
   (5) Hazardous substance of which its register is revoked.
The having in possession under paragraph one does not include possession for destruction or for submission
to the authority or possession for other purposes under the duty provided by law.

Section 46 Any person knowing that the hazardous substance in his/her possession is the hazardous
substance under Section 45 must destroy it, must notify the authority or must submit it to the authority in
accordance with the criteria and procedures provided for in the announcement prescribed pursuant to Section
20(1).



                                                       53
Section 47 The following hazardous substance or property shall be regarded as the fake hazardous
substance.
   (1) Property artificially made to duplicate the genuine hazardous substance either wholly or partially.
   (2) Hazardous substance designated as other hazardous substance or of which their expiry date is
exaggerated.
   (3) Hazardous substance of which the illustration of the name or trademark of the producer or the location
of the producing place is falsified.
   (4) Hazardous substance represented as the registered hazardous substance, which is falsified.
   (5) Hazardous substance produced with less or more essential substance than the error criteria under
Section 20(3) at the level specified by the Responsible Minister with the opinions of the Committee upon
publication in the Government Gazette.

Section 48 The following hazardous substance shall be regarded as the Sub-standard hazardous substance.
   (1) Hazardous substance produced with less or more essential substance than the error criteria under
Section 20(3) but not reaching the level specified under Section 47(5).
   (2) Hazardous substance produced with the purity, mixtures or other characteristics essential to the quality
of hazardous substance different from the criteria specified or registered.
Section 49 The following hazardous substance is regarded as the hazardous substance of deteriorating
quality.
   (1) Expiring hazardous substance as shown on the label.
   (2) Hazardous substance so attached as to have the same characteristics as the fake hazardous substance
under Section 47(5) or sub-standard importer to disuse the said label or to undertake to correct such label.

Section 50 When the Committee regards any label as incompatible with Section 20(1), the Committee shall
have the power to order the producer or importer to disuse the said label or to undertake to correct such
label.

Section 51 The control of advertising of the hazardous substance shall be in accordance with the law on
consumers protection and for the purpose of the control of adverting, the hazardous substance of which the
labels are adopted under Section 20(1) shall be deemed to be the merchandises of which their labels are
controlled by the committee on the control of labels under the said law mutatis mutandis.

Section 52 When it appears to the authority that any producer, importer, exporter or any person having the
possession of the hazardous substance violates or fails to comply with this Act, the authority shall have the
power to order such person to stop the violating acts or to correct or modify or rectify. In this respect, if there
is a reasonable ground, the authority may allow such person to export such hazardous substance in order to
return the same to the producer or shipper of such hazardous substance or otherwise as the authority deems
appropriate by complying with the criteria, procedures and conditions provided for by the authority.

In the case of paragraph one, if it appears that the producer, importer, exporter or the person having the
possession of the said hazardous substance cannot rectify whether due to lack of capacity or otherwise, the
authority shall have the power to order such person to submit such hazardous substance to the authority at
the specified place in order to destroy or deal with it as is appropriate by taking into consideration the
dangers to be inflicted by the said hazardous substance.

In case where such hazardous substance may be sold, the authority shall undertake to auction or to sell to the
government agencies within three months as from the date of submission. The proceeds after express for
storage, sale and relevant charges shall be kept in order to return to the owner but after the expiration of the

                                                        54
said three months, the hazardous substance has not yet been sold, if the authority regards that further
extension of the said period shall cause harm or create unreasonable burden, the authority shall have the
power to give the order destroying or dealing with it as is appropriate.

In case where the hazardous substance must be destroyed or dealt with as is appropriate, if the expenses are
incurred, the owner of hazardous substance shall have the duty to pay or to reimburse to the Government.

Section 53 When it appears that any person has committed an offence under this Act or there is a reasonable
ground to suspect that such offence has been committed, the authority shall have the power to arrest such
person in order to hand over to the inquiry official for further legal action.

Section 54 In performing the duties, the authority shall have the following powers.
   (1) To enter the place engaging in a business relating to the hazardous substance, place of production of
the hazardous substance, place of storage of the hazardous substance, or place suspected to be such a place
during the period from, sunrise to sunset or during the working hours of the said place or to enter the vehicle
carrying the hazardous substance or suspected to carry the hazardous substance in order to inspect the
hazardous substance, containers of hazardous substance, book accounts, document or other articles relating
to the hazardous substance.
   (2) To take the hazardous substance or substance suspected to be the hazardous substance in a reasonable
quantity as specimens for inspection.
   (3) To search, detain, seize, or attach the hazardous substance, the containers of the hazardous substance,
book accounts, documents or any relevant articles in case where there is a reasonable ground to suspect
that an offence under this Act has been committed.
   (4) To summon in writing any person to testify or to submit any document or substance for consideration.

Section 55 For the hazardous substance, containers of the hazardous substance, book accounts, documents
and any article seized or attached under Section 54(3), if the articles seized or attached are perishable or if
kept, will be risky of causing injury or harm or the expenses thereof will exceed the value of such articles,
the authority shall have the power to destroy or deal with it as is appropriate by taking into consideration the
harm that may be caused by the said hazardous substance and Section 52 paragraph three four shall apply
mutatis mutandis.

If authority considers that the articles seized or attached are not the property to be forfeited under Section 88
or the Public Prosecutor has the final order not prosecute, the authority shall withdraw the attachment or
return the hazardous substance, containers of the hazardous substance, book accounts, documents and such
articles to the person deserved of such return immediately.

In case of the return of the articles seized or attached or the proceeds thereof, such return shall be notified by
a registered reply mail to the domicile of the person deserved of such return. In case where a person
deserved of such return is unknown or if know, his/her domicile is unknown, if publicized in a local
newspaper circulated in the areas in which such articles have been seized or attached, or such publicity in a
newspaper shall not cover the value of the articles to be returned, if posted at the District Office of such area
not less than fifteen days, it shall be deemed to have been notified upon expiration of seven days as from the
date of publicity in the newspaper or the expiry date of the period of notice posted at the District Office as
the case may be.




                                                        55
A person applying for a return shall be liable to pay the charges of the Government incurred by such
publicity in the newspaper together with an additional payment of twenty percent of the said amount.

In case where the return cannot be done because a person deserved of such return is not found, the articles
seized or the proceeds to be returned as the case may be shall be kept. If within one year from notification to
the person deserved of a return no such person applies thereof, the articles or the proceeds shall devolve on
the State.

Section 56 In performing the duties, the authority must present the identify card to the persons involved.

The identity card if the authority shall be in accordance with the form specified by the Responsible Minister.


                                                  Chapter 3
                                          Duties and Civil Liabilities

Section 57 The provisions in this Chapter shall not abrogate or limit the duties and civil liabilities of a person
under the provisions in other chapter or laws.

Section 58 For the purpose of fixing the duties and liabilities under this Chapter, the Minister of Industry
shall have the power to publish in the Government Gazette designating the substance to be regarded as the
hazardous substance under the provisions in this Chapter.

Section 59 The producer of hazardous substance must be careful in procuring the substance for production,
adopting the procedures and reliable steps of production, providing the containers which are strong and safe
for uses, moving, transporting, providing the labels showing the hazardous nature of such articles which is
adequately distinct, storing properly, and examining the reliability of the person accepting the delivery of
hazardous substance from the producer or a person who may be expected to accept delivery of the said
hazardous substance.

Section 60 The importer of the hazardous substance must be careful in selecting the producers, examining
the quality of hazardous substance, examining the correctness of containers and labels, selecting the modes
of transport and carriers, storing properly and examining the reliability of the person accepting the delivery
of hazardous substance from the importer or a person who may be expected to accept the delivery of the said
hazardous substance.

Section 61 The carrier must be careful in examining the articles used in transportation or vehicles and
equipment, correctness of container and labels, propriety of the modes of transport, correctness of loading on
the vehicles and reliability of the employees or the persons working for with the carrier.

Section 62 The person having possession of the hazardous substance must be careful in examining the
creditability of the producer or importer or supplier of such hazardous substance, correctness of containers
and labels, propriety of storage, and reliability of the person accepting the delivery of hazardous substance
from him/her or a person who may be expected to accept the delivery of the said hazardous substance.

Section 63 The producer, importer, carrier or the person having possession of the hazardous substance must
be liable for injury caused by the hazardous substance is his/her possession unless it is proved that such
injury is caused by force majeure or fault of the injured person.

                                                       56
Section 64 The seller or deliverer of hazardous substance to any person must be liable to such person for the
injury caused by such hazardous substance unless it is proved that such injury is caused by force majeure or
fault of the injured person.

Section 65 The employer, principal, hirer or owner of a business must be jointly liable for the consequence
of the wrongful act committed by the persons under Section 63 or Section 64 in the course of their
employment for him/her but is entitled to the reimbursement from the said persons unless he/she is also at
fault in giving an order, selecting a person, controlling or otherwise which directly results in such wrongful
act.

Section 66 The producer, importer, wholesaler, retailer, middle-man and the person taking part in the
disposal at every interval from the producer to the person liable while the wrongful acts under Section 63 os
Section 64 occur must also be jointly liable for the consequences of the wrongful act.

Section 67 The claim for harms arising out of the hazardous substance under this Act shall be barred by
prescription after the expiration of three years as from the date injured person learns of the injury, the state of
being the hazardous substance and the person liable or compensation.
If negotiation is undertaken with respect to the compensation to be paid between the person understood to be
liable for such compensation and the person entitled thereof, the prescription shall be interrupted until it
appears that such negotiation cannot reach settlement.

Section 68 The persons to be liable under Section 63, Section 64, Section 65 or Section 66 who have already
paid the compensation to the injured person shall have the right of recourse against a person delivering the
hazardous substance to him/her or to a person working for him/her and from person or persons taking part in
every stage of delivery of the said hazardous substance up to the producer provided that the right of such
recourse shall be exercised within three years as from the date of payment of the compensation. However, if
the person exercising the right of a recourse is the person intentionally or negligently committing the
wrongful act, such person shall have the right of a recourse only for the part beyond his/her own liability

Section 69 In case where the hazardous substance causes injury to the persons, animals, plant, or
environments if the State suffers injury on account of expenses paid in order to rescue, move, treat, mitigate
or get rid of the injury and to restore to the original or nearly original condition or if it is the injury to the res
nullius, or natural resource, or injury to state property, upon request from the agency assigned to be
responsible for the said hazardous substance, the Public Prosecutor shall have the power to institute the claim
of compensation for the said injury to the State.



                                                    Chapter 4
                                                    Penalties

Section 70 Any person failing to testify or to submit any document or object as ordered by the Committee or
Sub-Committee under Section 14 or as summoned in writing by the authority under Section 54(4) shall be
subject to an imprisonment not exceeding one month or a fine not exceeding ten thousand Baht or both.




                                                         57
Section 71 Any person failing to comply with Section 21, Section 22 paragraph three, Section 41, Section 43
paragraph two shall be subject to an imprisonment not exceeding six months or a fine not exceeding fifty
thousand Baht or both.

Section 72 Any person violating Section 22 paragraph one or failing to comply with Section 22 paragraph
two or Section 23 paragraph three shall be subject to an imprisonment not exceeding one year or a fine not
exceeding one hundred thousand Baht or both.

Section 73 Any person violating Section 23 paragraph one shall be subject to an imprisonment not exceeding
two years or a fine not exceeding two hundred thousand Baht or both.

Section 74 Any person violating Section 43 paragraph one shall be subject to an imprisonment not exceeding
ten years or a fine not exceeding one million Baht or both.
If the offence under paragraph one is committed recklessly by importer, exporter, the person having
possession of the said hazardous substance, such offender shall be subject to a fine not exceeding eight
hundred thousand Baht.

Section 75 Any person violating Section 45(1) or Section 45(5) in the case of revocation of the register due
to the likelihood to cause injury without any reasonable normal means for prevention, if the offence is
committed with respect to type 3 hazardous substance, shall be subject to an imprisonment not exceeding
seven year or a fine not exceeding seven hundred thousand Baht or both.

If the offence under paragraph one is committed recklessly by importer, exporter, the person having
possession of the said hazardous substance, such offender shall be subject to a fine not exceeding five
hundred thousand Baht.

Section 76 Any person violating Section 45(2) or Section 45(5) in the case of revocation of the register due
to lack of benefits as registered, if the offence is committed with respect to type 3 hazardous substance, shall
be subject to an imprisonment not exceeding five years or a fine not exceeding five hundred thousand Baht
or both.

If the offence under paragraph one is committed recklessly by importer, exporter, the person having
possession of the said hazardous substance, such offender shall be subject to a fine not exceeding four
hundred thousand Baht.

Section 77 Any person violating Section 45(3), if the offence is committed with respect to type 3 hazardous
substance, shall be subject to an imprisonment not exceeding one year or a fine not exceeding one hundred
thousand Baht or both.
If the offence under paragraph one is committed recklessly, such offender shall be subject to a fine not
exceeding eight hundred thousand Baht.

Section 78 Any person violating Section 45(4), if the offence is committed with respect to type 3 hazardous
substance, shall be subject to an imprisonment not exceeding three years or a fine not exceeding three
hundred thousand Baht or both.

Section 79 If the offence under Section 75, Section 76, Section 77, or Section 78 is committed with respect
to type 2 hazardous substance, such offender shall be subject to two-thirds of the penalty provided for in the
said Section.

                                                       58
Section 80 If the offence under Section 75, Section 76, Section 77, or Section 78 is committed with respect
to type 1 hazardous substance, such offender shall be subject to one-half of the penalty provided for in the
said Section.

Section 81 Any recipient of a permit failing to comply with Section 30 or Section 31 shall be subject to a
fine not exceeding ten thousand Baht.

Section 82 Any person intentionally creating a misunderstanding with respect to the origin, nature, quality,
or other essences relating to the hazardous substance belonging either to such person or to other persons,
making or using the labels of false statements or statement known or ought to be known to cause such
misunderstandings shall be subject to an imprisonment not exceeding one year or a fine not exceeding one
hundred thousand Baht or both.

If the offence under paragraph one repeating the commission of the same offence within six months as from
the date of previous commission, such offender shall be subject to an imprisonment not exceeding two years
or a fine not exceeding two hundred thousand Baht.

Section 83 Any person selling hazardous substance without a label or if there is a label, such label or
representation thereof is not correct or selling the hazardous substance with a label of which its use has been
revoked or rectified by the order of the Committee under Section 50 shall be subject to an imprisonment not
exceeding six months or a fine not exceeding fifty thousand Baht or both.

If the offence under paragraph one is committed recklessly, such offender shall be subject to a fine not
exceeding forty thousand Baht.

If the offence under paragraph one is committed by the producer or importer, such offender shall be subject
to an imprisonment not exceeding one year or a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand Baht.

Section 84 Any person intentionally or recklessly rendering a service of making illegal labels or attaching
illegal labels or destroying the essential part of legal labels for any of the hazardous substance under the
provisions in Chapter 2 shall be subject to an imprisonment not exceeding six months or a fine not exceeding
fifty thousand Baht or both.

Section 85 Any person failing to comply with Section 52 paragraph one shall be subject to an imprisonment
not exceeding three months or a fine not exceeding thirty thousand Baht or both.

Section 86 Any person failing to facilitate reasonably the authority undertaking the execution of Section 54
shall be subject to an imprisonment not exceeding one month or a fine not exceeding ten thousand Baht.

Section 87 In case where the Court renders a judgement punishing any person for the offence under Section
71 or Section 72 and which is the case where a permit is exempted, if the circumstances indicate that such
person may repeat the commission of such offence, the Court may order in the judgement prohibiting the
engagement with respect to the hazardous substance for a period not exceeding five years as from the date of
passing over of the punishment.

Section 88 The hazardous substance produced, imported, exported or had in possession illegally under this
Act, the containers of the said hazardous substance, tools and relevant equipment or any property forfeited

                                                      59
by a judgement of the Court shall be submitted to the agency responsible for the control of the said
hazardous substance in order to destroy or deal with it as is appropriate.

In case of the destruction thereof, the Court may also order in the judgement directing the owner to pay for
the expense incurred therefrom to the Government.

Section 89 The offence under this Act, which are punishable by an imprisonment not exceeding one year or
by a fine only, the Committee or Sub-committee or authority assigned by the Committee shall have the
power to effect the fine
In case of the seizure or attachment of the exhibits relating to the commission of an offence under this Act,
the person having the power to effect the fine under paragraph one shall effect a fine only when
   (1) in case where the exhibits can be rectified, the offender has agreed and rectified the exhibits;
   (2) in case where the exhibits cannot be rectified, the offender allows the exhibits seized or attached to
devolve on the agency responsible for the control of the said hazardous substance
In case where the person agreeing to such effect of the fine has rectified the exhibits, the authority shall
withdraw the attachment of such exhibits.
The articles devolved on the agency responsible for the control of the said hazardous substance shall be dealt
with in accordance with the regulations prescribed by the Responsible Minister.



                                             Provisional Chapter

Section 90 Any application for permission field in accordance with the law on toxic substance and pending
the consideration shall be deemed to be the application for permission under this Act mutatis mutandis. In
case where such application has different particulars from those of the application under this Act, the person
having the power to grant a permission shall order the modification thereof as is necessary for the
compliance with this Act.

Section 91 A permit and certificate of registration issued to any person in accordance with law on toxic
substance prior to the date of coming into force of this Act shall remain valid until expiration of the specified
period.

Section 92 The substance or any other articles designated by the announcement as ordinary toxic substance
and serious toxic substance pursuant to the law on toxic substance shall be revised and the prescription of the
announcement designating them as type 1, type 2, type 3, or type 4 hazardous substance shall be completed
within six months as from the date of coming into force of this Act.

During the period of unfinished execution under paragraph one, the provisions of the law on toxic substance
shall remain in force except that the provisions relating to the Committee on Toxic Substance shall be
replaced by the provisions of this Act relating to the Committee on Hazardous Substance and the provisions
of this Act shall immediately come into force insofar as they do not conflict or contradict with those of the
law on toxic substance.

Section 93 The ministerial rules and announcements prescribed pursuant to the law on toxic substance shall
remain in force insofar as they do not conflict or contradict with those of the law on toxic substance.



                                                       60
                                             Countersigned by
                                            Anand Panyarachun
                                              Prime Minister


Rates of Fees

  (1) Certificate of Registration of Hazardous Substance 5,000 Baht each
  (2) Permit for Production of Hazardous Substance 3,000 Baht each.
  (3) Permit for Import of Hazardous Substance 3,000 Baht each.
  (4) Permit for Export of Hazardous Substance 3,000 Baht each.
  (5) Permit for having Possession of Hazardous Substance 3,000 Baht each.
  (6) Permit for Import of Specimens of Hazardous Substance 1,000 Baht each.
  (7) Substitute for a Certificate of Registration of Hazardous Substance     1,000 Baht each.
  (8) Substitute for a Permit     1,000 Baht each.
  (9) Producer of Hazardous Substance 1,000 Baht each annually
  (10) Importer of Hazardous Substance 5,000 Baht each annually
  (11) Exporter of Hazardous Substance 5,000 Baht each annually
  (12) Keeper for Commerce of Hazardous Substance 10,000 Baht each annually
  (13) Seller of Hazardous Substance           10,000 Baht each annually
  (14) Renewal fees of a Permit each time are equal to those fixed for each category of the permits.

N.B. The reason for the proclamation of this Act is that at present a great number of hazardous substance
have been used in various business and some of them have caused serious injury to the persons, animals,
plants, property, and environments. Although at present there exist some laws which are applicable to the
hazardous substance, there are so many of them which are under the powers of several ministries, bureaus,
departments as a result of different proclamations made in different periods of time entailing discrepancies
and incomprehensive-ness of their provisions, It is therefore expedient to revise the law on toxic substance
by expanding the scope of application to cover every kind of hazardous substance as well as to adopt the
criteria and procedures for an even more suitable control of the hazardous substance and to agencyize the
administrative system to promote coordinations among various agencies involved in the supervision of the
said hazardous substance. It is therefore necessary to enact this Act.

(Published in the Government Gazette, Volume 109, Part 39, dated 6th April, B.E. 2535)




                                                      61
                                                   Annex 3-B

                                       Unofficial Translation
                      Notification of Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives
                    On the Determination of Criteria, Procedures and Conditions
 For Manufacturing, Importation, Exportation and Having in Possession of Hazardous Substance under
                        the Responsibility of the Department of Agriculture
                                           B.E. 2547 (2004)
                                          .....................

         By virtue of the power vested in accordance with the provisions referred to in Section 5 paragraph 3 and
Section 20(1) and (2) of the Hazardous Substance Act B.E. 2535, This Act provides some legislative sections
that may limit the constitutional rights and freedom of citizens under Section 29. In conjunction with Section 31,
Section 35, Section 48 and Section 50 of the Constitution of the Kingdom of Thailand provide contents to be
able to enact under the Constitution. The Minister of the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives hereby with
the approval of the Committee on Hazardous Substance promulgates the Notification on the determination of
criteria, procedures and condition for manufacturing, importation, exportation and having in possession of
hazardous substance as follows:

       1. Repeal:
             (1)      the Notification of the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives on the determination of
                      criteria, procedures and conditions for manufacturing, importation, exportation and
                      having in possession of hazardous substance overseen by the Responsible Agency of the
                      Department of Agriculture B.E. 2538;
               (2)    the Notification of the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives on the approval of place
                      for having in possession of the type-3 hazardous substance overseen by the Responsible
                      Agency of the Department of Agriculture B.E. 2539

       2. In this Notification, the hazardous substance means the hazardous substance overseen by the
Responsible Agency of the Department of Agriculture issued in accordance with the Notification of the Ministry
of Industry referred to in Section 18 paragraph 2 of the Hazardous Substance Act B.E. 2535.

                                                 Chapter 1
                                          Application for a Permit

       3. The application for a permit of manufacturing, importation, exportation or having in possession of the
type-3 hazardous substance, the applicant shall file an application at the Office of Agricultural Regulatory,
Department of Agriculture. The application for having in possession of hazardous substance for sale outside the
municipal areas of Bangkok, the applicant shall file an application at the Regional Offices of the Office of
Agricultural and Development.

       4. Necessary documents for each type of hazardous substance regarding to the material safety data sheets
must be the requisite qualifications of such hazardous substance and be attached for its consideration of a permit
in accordance with the form HS/MOAC 3.

       5. The manufacturing location of the type-2 or type-3 hazardous substance must be in the vicinity away
from the seacoast or large reservoir at the peak water level in the normal flood season at least 1,000 meters, in
exception with the protective measures from the runoff and leak and must not be in the vicinity stipulated

                                                    62
referred to in item 5(1), (2), (3) and (4) of the Ministerial Order (B.E. 2537) issued in accordance with the
provisions of the Hazardous Substance Act B.E. 2535.

                                                 Chapter 2
                                    Criteria and Operational Procedures
                               Concerning Place of Manufacturing and Storage

       6. In addition to the required course referred to the Ministerial Order (B.E. 2537) issued in accordance
with the provisions of the Hazardous Substance Act B.E. 2535, the manufacturer of the type-2 or type-3
hazardous substance must abide by the rules as the following criteria and operational procedures:

       6.1 Handling tools, appliance, equipment and materials and system as follows:
       6.1.1 Must provide protective measures from the leaking of hazardous substance during packaging that
             may be harmful to the workers;
       6.1.2 Must clean tools, appliance, equipment and materials after finishing each of the hazardous
             substance operation for the protection of contamination or inappropriate chemical reaction and for
             the purpose of the next hazardous substance manufacturing;
       6.1.3 The place of manufacturing, storage and adjacent area in the time of operation, must place a
              signboard displaying the name of hazardous substance (common name) and warning board that
              can be clearly seen at the distance of 50 meters with the statements and various kinds of symbols
              in accordance with the form HS/MOAC 4;
       6.1.4 Within the manufacturing building or storage of hazardous substance, must segregate areas
              between manufacturing and storage of each type of hazardous substance for the protection of
              contamination among hazardous substance. The qualifications of the floor at the manufacturing
              section must have the property of not absorbing or holding up any chemical substance. In case
              where it is necessary to specifically keep some kinds of hazardous substance, such hazardous
              substance must be separately provided with a special storage room and not place with other
              hazardous substance;
       6.1.5 Place of manufacturing which is not within the scope of factory under the Industry Act must be a
              substantial and solid building providing with the standard of electrical system inspected and
              certified by the certified engineer who engages in engineering professional;
       6.1.6 Provide adequate light to such working places
       6.1.7 The container of hazardous substance must be firm and strong, no leaking sign, convenient to
              handle and transport, no chemical reaction which is inappropriate to the hazardous substance
              contained in the container and able to prevent light, heat or moisture, wherever the case may be in
              accordance with the property of such hazardous substance.

       6.2 Provide measures and equipment and materials for the safety of workers as follows:
       6.2.1 The entrance area of the building or parts of the manufacturing or storage building of hazardous
              substance shall provide a signboard with the wording "HAZARDOUS SUSTANCE" in red on a
              white background. The signboard shall have a size of 20x50 centimeters with the thickness of the
              letter not less than 2 centimeters and the height not less than 15 centimeters;
       6.2.2 Provide a signboard with the phase "NO SMOKING, DRINKING, DINING OR KEEPING
              FOOD IN THE WORKING AREA";
       6.2.3 Provide appropriate equipment and materials for the safety of the workers as follows:
              (1)     work clothes;
              (2)     gloves, shoes and cap;
              (3)     gas mask by type of manufactured hazardous substance;

                                                     63
               (4)     protective device from hazardous substance coming in contact with the body;
               (5)     glasses wherever it is necessary.
       6.2.4   Provide place of wash basins for hands and feet before dining, drinking or smoking;
       6.2.5   Provide dining room or smoking area by separating from the place of working area;
       6.2.6   Provide training programs to the workers on the understanding of danger from hazardous
               substance during the work operation, precautionary protective procedures and methods of
               counteracting the effect of a poison;
       6.2.7   Provide a health checkup for the workers every six months for the prevention of toxic of
               hazardous substance accumulated in the body and in case where the work relating to the
               hazardous substance referred to as organophosphate or carbamate, must have a physical
               examination check on the level of serumcholinesterase as well, the health checkup shall include
               the establishment of each of worker health records. In case where the check of hazardous
               substance accumulated in the body of a worker up to the threshold level, such worker shall be
               received intention with appropriate treatment or transfer to other appropriate work;
       6.2.8   Provide periodic training programs on the prevention of emergency response and also provide
               telephone numbers of the hospital, fire station, site manager or place of manufacturing and
               security officers at a conspicuous place that can be easily and clearly seen.

       6.3 Provide supervisor at all times during manufacturing, the supervisor shall have the qualifications in
the degrees of science or engineering or other degrees stipulated by the Minister and promulgated in the
Government Gazette;

       6.4 Provide record of the manufactured hazardous substance for every manufacturing product, the
supervisor shall sign up the record book to certify at least the information on the quantity of production, rates of
main ingredients, formulation or qualification of the product, date of manufacturing in accordance with the form
HS/MOAC 6 annexed to this Notification. The record must be kept for a period of 2 years subject to be
inspected by the official.

         The manufacturer shall make a duplicate copy referred to paragraph 1 and send to the official at the end
of each month via registered postal delivery and the date stamped by the post office shall be the reference of
receipt;

       6.5 The manufacturer of hazardous substance shall provide the following matters:
       6.5.1 Examine on the accuracy of the rate of concentration of main ingredients and other ingredients
              before packaging, the analytical result shall be kept for a period of two years from the date of
              manufacturing and subject to be inspected by the official;
       6.5.2 Examine container to be in good condition for use before and after filling of hazardous substance
              accordance with item 6.1.7;
       6.5.3 Examine label to be relevant with each type of manufactured hazardous substance, well-stuck to
              the immediate container and not easily getting loose from misclassification of label referred to the
              Notification of the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives on label issued in accordance with
              Section 20(1) of the Hazardous Substance Act B.E. 2535.

       6.6 The manufacturer of hazardous substance shall provide label which is large enough attached to the
package for transportation with the statement identifying common name of hazardous substance, the quantity of
main ingredients or the rates of main ingredients, hazardous substance symbols such as corrosive substance,
flammable substance and toxic substance, etc., and the warning signs, for example, no tossing and no hooking,
such mark and letter must be obviously clear;

                                                     64
       6.7 Document demonstrated manufacturing procedures includes the following:
       (1) The starting procedure of taking raw materials in the form of concentrated ingredients mixed with
            ingredients for transforming the composition of such concentrated substance into a usable form;
       (2) Types of ingredients consist of:
            (2.1) Carrier;
            (2.2) Diluent;
            (2.3) Solvent;
            (2.4) Other ingredients.

       6.8 The manufacturer of hazardous substance shall provide the report on used container during the
calendar year (January - December) submitted to the official within January of every year. The report shall
include the information on type, size, quantity or number of packages, the procedures on delivery, place and
method of destruction.

       7. The manufacturer shall provide measures on environment protection and sewage management with the
following procedures:

      7.1 Provide appropriate and enough area for rubbish disposal, the area shall be managed in the orderly
manner for the convenience of operation and safety;

       7.2 Segregate the disposal of toxic substance and containers out of the general containers prior to
destruction under the special incinerator with the temperature over 1,000 degrees Celsius or delivery for
destruction at the incinerator of the industrial estate or the custom-hired company of such disposal;

       7.3 In case where the manufacturing of hazardous substance is liquid, there shall be a system of
elimination of such liquid hazardous substance from leaking or spilling such as the use of saw dust as absorbent
then burn or destroy by any appropriate means of destruction;

        7.4 Provide a reservoir supplying its water to mop up the floor or sweep away water contaminated with
toxic substance with an effective sewage disposal treatment system before draining into a staining pool or a
detaining pond and releasing out the treated water. The size of the reservoir must be relevant to the size and
place of manufacturing;

        7.5 The waste water from washing and taking bath must be treated before draining into a staining pool or
a detaining pond;

        7.6 In case of the release of treated water to the outside of factory, the manufacturer must examine in
accordance with the Notification of the Ministry of Industry on the determination of the qualifications of waste
water treatment from draining out of the factory as well;

       7.7    The manufacturer must provide a preventive system of waste water leakage within the factory
from draining out of the place of manufacturing, for example, ditch around the factory or reservoir for retaining
floodwater.

                                                 Chapter 3
                            Criteria and Operational Procedures for Importation


                                                    65
        8. The importation of the type-2 or type-3 hazardous substance must import via the office and customs
offices of point of entry as follows:
        8.1 The customs office at Bangkok seaport;
        8.2 The customs office at Bangkok airport;
        8.3 The customs postal office;
        8.4 The customs airport point of entry at Had Yai;
        8.5 The customs seaport point of entry at Song Kla;
        8.6 The customs point of entry at Sa Dao;
        8.7 The customs point of entry at Padangbazar;
        8.8 The customs office at Lamchabang seaport;
        8.9 The customs point of entry at Bangkok railway station;
        8.10 The Office of Commodity Inspection Dock 1, Commodity Tariff Exemption Warehouse, Lad
              Krabang , State Railway Station.

       9. The licensee of importation of hazardous substance must notify the official of the arrival of such
hazardous substance at the customs office or the customs point of entry and at the time of the release from
customs formalities in accordance with the form HS/MOAC 7 annexed herewith.

                                                 Chapter 4
                            Criteria and Operational Procedures for Exportation

        10. The exporter must notify quantity of hazardous substance for each of the exportation to the official of
the Department of Agriculture at the customs office or the customs point of entry for such exportation through
the customs office or the customs point of entry in accordance with the form HS/MOAC 7 annexed herewith.

                                                 Chapter 5
                        Criteria and Operational Procedures for Having in Possession

       11. The person who has in possession of the type-2 or type-3 hazardous substance for sale shall comply
with the following criteria and operational procedures:

       11.1 Provide sale supervisor who has attended the training programs on hazardous substance trained
by the Department of Agriculture, the sale supervisor shall be trained every 5 years and any sale supervisor who
has been trained for more than 5 years must attend a training course within 2 years from the date of this
Notification entering into force;

       11.2    Provide segregation shelves of hazardous substance from other products;

       11.3    Provide separation of sale hazardous substance by type and outreach from children;
       11.4    The hazardous substance on shelf shall be in the original container of the manufacturer;

       11.5 Provide materials with the absorbing property, for example, saw dust for the purpose of covering
the broken container or leaking container and take the said absorbent for destruction as specified on the label;

       11.6    Provide washing gears as soap and water for the person who contacts with the hazardous
substance;



                                                    66
       11.7 Provide protective system on odor, dust or vaporized mist of the hazardous substance from being
troublesome, annoyed or harmful to person or property in the neighborhood of the selling place.

        12. The person who has in possession of the type-2 or type-3 hazardous substance in case of
transportation in accordance with the resolutions promulgated by the Committee on Hazardous Substance on
land transportation of hazardous substance B.E. 2545 and if the transportation of any hazardous substance is
exceeding 1,000 liters or 1,000 kilograms must accompany document of the materials safety data sheet with the
vehicle.

        13. The person who has in possession of the type-2 or type-3 hazardous substance for the purposes of
service controls on termites, rodents (i.e. mouse and mole), plant pests, storage and silo pests, insect and animal
pest and aerial spraying for plant pest must have the following qualifications:

       13.1 The holder for service control must have age not less than 20 years of age;

        13.2 Provide appropriate and effective equipment and materials in accordance with the service and take
care of equipment and materials in good order for operation;

        13.3 Must provide name of the service holder and permit number on the side of operating vehicle. The
size of the letter shall not be less than 4 centimeters in height;

        13.4 Provide record of the employees whose works are related to the hazardous substance by identifying
their responsible positions and subject to health examination at least once a year in accordance with job
description and type of hazardous substance. The record shall be kept for a period not less than two years and
ready to be inspected by the official;
        13.5 Provide documents demonstrating the method of use of the hazardous substance, the danger of
hazardous substance that may cause injury to human, animals, plants, property and environment, including
protective measures, preliminary aid assistance to the victim and other details concerning hazardous substance as
deemed appropriate by the official;

        13.6 Must keep the hazardous substance in the original and sealed container without being troublesome
to others, and keep in the place that can be protected from strangers. The entrance to the storage shall provide
with a warning signboard "HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE" that can be clearly seen;

       13.7    Provide the employees with sufficient gears during the operation concerning hazardous substance;

       13.8 Provide medical tools as necessary to the employees including first-aid instruction for such
incident;

       13.9 Provide supervisor for the control of the use of hazardous substance who has attended the training
programs on hazardous substance provided by the Department of Agriculture, such supervisor shall be trained
every 5 years;

       13.10 Contract of services to the customer must provide in writing by given details concerning the usage
of hazardous substance including toxicological symptoms, method of medical treatment and warning;

       13.11 Must eliminate the waste materials and used containers as instructed on the label of container;


                                                     67
       13.12 In case where it contained waste water of hazardous substance from washing scrap or
contaminated equipment, such waste water shall not be drained to public water courses and shall not make any
troublesome problem to others. The waste water shall be treated in accordance with the Notification of the
Ministry of Industry on the determination of the qualifications of drainage waste water out of the factory;

      13.13 Provide record for the service of hazardous substance in accordance with the form HS/MOAC 8
annexed herewith;

        13.14 Provide large and easily seen signboards with the phases "DANGER, NO ENTRY" and "PLACE
FOR USING HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE" placing in the vicinity of the entrance of the office, building area,
freight container, storage facility and silo as the place for using hazardous substance for service;

       13.15 Prudent use of hazardous substance in accordance with the law, label and purposes of such
hazardous substance.

       14. This Notification shall be effective the date after its publication in the Government Gazette.

                                       Promulgated on 26 February B.E. 2547
                                                  Somsak Thepsutin
                                 Minister of Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives




                                                    68
                                                 Annex 3-C

                                      [Unofficial English Translation]

                       Notification of Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives
    Entitled Registration, Issuance and Extension of Hazardous Substance Registration Certificate
                          Under Responsibility of Department of Agriculture
                                            B.E. 2551(2008)


        By virtue of Section 5 Paragraph three, Section 20(1) and (4), Section 36 Paragraph three and Section
37 of the Hazardous Substance Act B.E. 2535 (1992) amended by the Hazardous Substance Act B.E. (No. 3)
B.E. 2551 (2008) which is the law that has some provisions relating to limitation of rights and freedom of a
person under Section 29 in complement with Section 32, Section 33, Section 41, Section 43 and Section 45
of the Constitution of the Kingdom of Thailand provided contents to be able to enact a notification by virtue
of the provisions of the Law , the Minister of Agricultural and Cooperatives with the opinions of the
Hazardous Substance Committee made the notification as followed.

       No. 1 Repeal Notification of Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives on Registration of Hazardous
Substance under Responsibility of Department of Agriculture B.E. 2538 dated 3 May B.E. 2538 (1995).

        No. 2 Hazardous substance in this notification means type 2 or type 3 hazardous substance under
responsible of the Department of Agriculture according to Notification of Ministry of Industry entitled List
of Hazardous Substances issued under Section 18 paragraph two which is excluded from the list of
hazardous substance issued under Section 36 paragraph one of the Hazardous Substance Act B.E. 2535
(1992).

        No.3 Whoever wishes to produce or import type 2 or type 3 hazardous substances, shall submit the
application for registration using form HS./AC/AG 1 annexed to this notification, together with documents
and testimony specified in the said form to the Department of Agriculture or the agency determined by the
Department of Agriculture.
        In case the submitted application referred to in paragraph one has the trade secret according to the
regulation of the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives on the Overseeing Trade Secret of Agricultural
Chemical B.E. 2547 (2004), the applicant shall inform the authority of such secret.

       No. 4 Registration of hazardous substance shall consists of 3 phases as followed.
                Phase 1 - Trials Clearance for knowing the efficacy and information on acute toxicity. In this
respect, production or importation of hazardous substance sample in a limited quantity is allowed for the
efficacy or residue test, as the case may be.
               Phase 2 - Provisional Clearance for demonstrating the usage and knowing information on
sub-acute toxicity, chronic toxicity related to teratogenicity, reproductive effect, mutagenicity, toxicity to
nervous system, oncogenicity and carcinogenicity (if any) and toxic residues. In this respect, production or
importation of hazardous substance sample in limited quantity for demonstration of usage in the limited area
is allowed.




                                                   69
                 Phase 3 - Final evaluation for full registration by evaluating the results of experiments and
various information so that efficacy and safety to human and the environment would be sufficiently known
if it is for usage, including long term chronic toxicity (2 years) to testing animal.
      The applicant may not apply for phase 2 (Provisional Clearance) in the case that he/she has the
complete information required for phase 3 (Full registration).

        No. 5 In processing phase 1- Trials Clearance, the applicant for registration must submit the
technical documents, data requirement for hazardous substance registration, information on acute toxicity,
experimental plan for efficacy test and/or experimental plan residue test, as the case may be, which is
stipulated by the Department of Agriculture and published in the Government Gazette according to the data
requirement for hazardous substance registration which is stipulated that the information relating to toxicity
of technical grade material and finished product must be generated by the GLP Certified Laboratory
according to OECD Standard and the registration certificate in the manufacturing country. All the documents
must be certified by the authority, representative the country and shall be recognized as an international
document.

        No. 6 Upon considered on No. 3 and 5 by the authority and deemed it appropriate to give a license,
the authority shall determine the quantity of hazardous substance samples to be produced or imported into
the Kingdom, method for controlling, usage of the hazardous substance in the experiment, specify the
prohibition on using or consuming the product obtained from experiment, surrender or dispose hazardous
substance left over from experiment, including the time period for submitting the report on the result of
efficacy test, and inform the applicant for registration.
        After the applicant has accomplished the efficacy trials result or due date for trial clearance as
specified by the authority has been met, the applicant for registration should inform the authority as specified
by the Department of Agriculture and published in the Government Gazette.

        No. 7 In case that the experiment in phase 1, trials clearance, needs to produce or import samples of
hazardous substance which is applied for registration or needs to import other hazardous substances for
producing the hazardous substance applied for registration, the applicant for registration should submit the
application for production or import hazardous substance samples to the authority using the form
HS./AC./DOA 12 annexed to this notification.
        Upon considered by the authority and deemed it appropriate to give a license, the authority shall issue
the license certificate for production of hazard substance sample using form HS./AC./DOA 13 or the license
certificate for import of hazard substance sample using form HS./AC./DOA 14 annexed to this notification.
        The license referred to in paragraph two shall be made upon each application.

       The recipient of the license referred to in paragraph two would be exempted from having the license
for have in possession of that hazardous substance.

        No. 8 Hazardous substance samples permitted to produce or import for experiment must post the
label on which at least shows the following information that can be obviously seen.
               (1) Trade name or code of the product.
               (2) Common name according to ISO system (if any) or common name in other system.
               (3) Scientific name of active ingredient. In case of chemical, specify the chemical name
according to IUPAC system.
               (4) Proportion of the mixture and nature of product.
               (5) Usage type and plant, animal, crop or animal pest.


                                                    70
               (6) Caution or warning.
               (7) Producer and source of production plant of the product.
               (8) Statement "hazardous substance samples used specifically for particular experiment
only".

        No. 9 In case that the applicant for registration wishes to process into phase 2 -provisional clearance,
the applicant for registration should submit the technical document required for registration of hazardous
substance, identify the location at which provisional clearance will take place and experimental plan as
specified by Department of Agriculture and published in the Government Gazette.

        No. 10 When the authority considers technical document, location, and experimental plan for
provisional clearance referred to in No. 9 and decides to give the permission, the authority should specify the
quantity of hazardous substance which will be produced or imported into the kingdom, method in controlling
usage of hazardous substance for provisional clearance, create the list of hazardous substance and its
produced or imported quantity, applied and left over quantity, names of person conducting experiment,
location for which hazardous substance will be used, schedule to use product obtained from the experiment,
surrender or dispose the hazardous substance left over from experiment, time period to notify the result of
provisional clearance, method of curing the plaintiffs affected by this experiment and inform the applicant
for registration.
                When the result of the provisional clearance comes out or when the time period for this
experiment ends as specified by the authority, the applicant for registration should inform the authority as
specified by the Department of Agriculture and published in the Government Gazette.

       No. 11 In case that the provisional clearance according to phase 2 needs to produce or import
hazardous substance sample for Provisional Clearance or it needs to import other hazardous substance for
producing hazardous substance for Provisional Clearance, the provisions of No. 7 shall apply mutatis
mutandis.

       No. 12 Hazardous substance samples permitted to be produced or imported for the experiment should
have the label posted which at least contain the following information that can be seen obviously.
                (1) Trade name or code number of the product.
                (2) Common name according to ISO system (if any) or common name according to other
system.
                (3) Scientific name of active ingredient. In case of chemical, it should be specified by
chemical name according to IUPAC system.
                (4) Formulation and appearance of the product.
                (5) Name and address of the business of the applicant for registration.
                (6) Name of the product owner in case that the applicant for registration is not the product
owner.
                (7) Packing size
                (8) The statement concerning to the benefit, application method, storage method with
warning, symptom of poisoning, first aid treatment, and the recommendation to take the patient to the
physician immediately with the label or container.
                (9) The statement "Not for Sale"
              (10) The statement "hazardous substance sample used specifically for provisional clearance in
the specified area"



                                                    71
       No. 13 Any person who is listed and reported to the authority as the experimenter in the provisional
clearance is exempted from getting the permission to have in possession of that hazardous substance.

       No. 14 In case that the applicant for registration already completed phase 1 ­trials clearance and
phase 2- provisional clearance and wished to receive the registration certificate of hazardous substance, he
should do the followings.
                (1) Submit the technical document according to the data required for registration of hazardous
substance as specified by the Department of Agriculture and published in the Government Gazette.
                (2) Submit the analysis result of hazardous substance sample according to its specification
issued by the laboratory of the Department of Agriculture or other government laboratories and private
laboratories as specified by the Department of Agriculture and published in the Government Gazette.
                (3) Submit the sample or document or photograph showing the container.

       No. 15 Application for registration of mixed hazardous substance, the applicant for registration
should do the same as application for registration of hazardous substance which has only one hazardous
substance. The applicant for registration must submit the technical document of each hazardous substance
and the technical document of hazardous substance mixture according the data required for registration of
hazardous substance as specified by the Department of Agriculture and published in the Government
Gazette.

        No. 16 When authority considers and evaluates at the stage of trial clearance and result of provisional
clearance, the technical document according to data required for registration of hazardous substance, result
of analysis in accordance with specification of hazardous substance, appearance of container, if decide to
give the permission for registration of hazardous substance, the authority should issue the registration
certificate using Form HS./AG/DOA 2 annexed to this announcement.           The registration certificate shall
be valid in six years commencing from the date issued.

        No. 17 In considering the application for registration of hazardous substance, the authority may ask
the applicant for registration to submit any information other than the data required for registration of
hazardous substance or to submit any details of that hazardous substance or arrange for conducting further
studies. This must be specified by the Department of Agriculture and published in the Government Gazette.

         No.18 In case of the application for registration of hazardous substance which is used to be registered
or is licensed for production or import by any law, it is required to do the same process including not
required to submit the complete set of dossiers according to the regulation and it is not allowed to use the
letter of authorization as the substitution for submission of toxicological data.

        Application for import registration is required to carry out the process following this new regulation.
The existing registration which is registered under the Hazardous Substances Act B.E. 2535 shall be
effective until the next 3 years commencing from the date the Hazardous Substances Act (No. 3) B.E. 2551
(2008) enters into force.

       No. 19 If the recipient of the registration certificate of hazardous substance wishes to amend some
items in the registration certificate, he or she should submit the application for amendment using the Form
HS/AC/DOA 15 annexed to this notification to the Department of Agriculture or the agency specified by the
Department of Agriculture. In this regard, the authority may notify the applicant to perform testing or
something else as it deemed appropriate. And if the authority considered that the request for amendment is


                                                    72
reasonable and suitable, the amendment of the items in the registration certificate will be done and notified to
the applicant respectively.

        No. 20 Any person wishes to extend validity of the hazardous substance certificate shall submit the
application using Form HS/AC/DOA 3 annexed to this notification to the Department of Agriculture or the
agency specified by the Department of Agriculture within one hundred and eighty days prior to the expiry
date of the hazardous substance certificate.
        In perusal of the application for extension of the hazardous substance certificate, the criteria and
procedure for issuance of the hazardous substance certificate shall apply mutatis mutandis.

        No. 21 Permission for extension of the hazardous substance shall be done by indication at the back of
the registration certificate or by issuance of the new registration certificate.

       This Notification is effective one day after it is announced in the Government Gazette onward.


                                   Announced on Date 1 December B.E. 2551 (2008)

                                         ..........................................(Signature)
                                               (Mr. Theerachai Saengkaew)
                                     Deputy Minister of Agriculture and Cooperatives




                                                      73
                                                  Annex 3-D

                                    Notification of The Ministry of Interior

                           Re: Working Safety in Respect to Environmental Condition
                                                 (Chemical)*
                                          _____________________

       By virtue of the provisions of clause 2(7) of the Announcement of the Revolutionary Party No.103, dated
16 March 2515, the Ministry of Interior hereby prescribes welfare on health and safety of the employees as
follows:-

                                                    General

         Clause 1. In this Notification :

        " Fibre" means matter having the characteristic of being strong and lengthy similar to thread ,
originated from mineral, plant, animal or synthetic fibre.

         "Dust" means the atom of solid capable of being dispersed, spread, carried away or floated in the air.

         "Spray" means the atom of liquid capable of floating in the air.

        "Fume" means the atom of solid derived from the collection of vapor of matter and capable of
floating in the air.

       "Gas" means fluid having uncertain volume or shape which is capable of being dispersed, spread and
change into solid or liquid by increasing the pressure or decreasing the temperature.

         "Chemical Vapor" means vapor derived from chemical which is liquid or solid in its normal form.

         "Employer" means the person who agrees to accept the employee for employment by paying wages,
and shall also include the person assigned by the employer to act on his behalf. In the case that the employer
is a juristic person, it means the person authorized to act on behalf of such juristic person, and shall also
include the person assigned to act on behalf of the authorized person of said juristic person.

        "Employee" means the person who agrees to work for an employer for a return in wages, regardless
of the fact whether he receives the wages himself or not, and shall include permanent employee and
temporary employee but not including an employee who performs domestic service.

         "Permanent Employee" means an employee whom the employer agrees to employ on a permanent
basis.

      "Temporary Employee" means an employee whom the employer agrees to employ not on
permanent basis, but for the employment of which the nature is occasional, temporary or seasonal.

      ___________________________________________________________________________
Government Gazette Vol. 94, Part 64, dated 12 July 2520

                                                     74
                                                CHAPTER 1
                                                CHEMICALS

       Clause 2. Throughout normal working period within the place of operation where the employee
works, the average quantity of chemical density in the atmosphere shall not exceed the volume specified in
Table 1 annexed to this Notification.

       Clause 3. No matter at any time of the normal working period, the employer shall not let the
employee work in the place where the chemical density in the atmosphere exceeds the volume specified in
Table 2 annexed to this Notification.

        Clause 4. The employer shall not let employee work in the place where the chemical density exceeds
the volume specified in Table 3 annexed to this Notification.

      Clause 5. The employer shall not let employee work in the place where there is mineral dust in the
atmosphere, throughout the normal working period, on average to exceed the volume specified in Table 4
annexed to this Notification.

       Clause 6. Within the place of operation where chemicals specified in Table 1, 2, 3, or 4 are used, and
the conditions of use may be harmful to the user or to those nearby, the employer shall prepare a specific
room or building for the use of such chemicals.

        Clause 7. Within the place of operation where there are chemicals or mineral dust dispersed in the
atmosphere in excess of those specified in Table 1, 2, 3 or 4, the employer shall make remedy or
improvement to reduce the density of the chemicals or quantity of mineral dust not to exceed those specified
in said Tables. If such remedy or improvement cannot be made, the employer shall have the employees wear
personal safety equipment according to the standard prescribed in Chapter 2, throughout the period of time
that the employees are working with chemicals having the nature or quantity which may be harmful to the
health or body of the employees, as follows:-

        (1) Suitable air filter or respirator shall be worn for dust spray, fume, gas or chemical vapor;
        (2) Rubber gloves, shin-covering rubber boots, transparent face shield, and protective equipment
against chemicals that are poisonous;

       (3) Rubber gloves and rubber shoes shall be worn for chemical in solid form which is poisonous.


                                        CHAPTER 2
                          STANDARD OF PERSONAL SAFETY EQUIPMENT

        Clause 8. Rubber gloves shall be made of rubber or similar material, having the length up to the
wrist and covering all fingers, and shall be strong not easily torn, being water proof and chemical resistant.

        Clause 9. The rubber shoes shall be made of rubber or rubber compounded material, covering shin
length at least when put on, and be not easily torn, being waterproof and chemical resistant.


                                                     75
        Clause 10. Transparent face shield shall have the shield made of clear transparent plastic or other
similar material, and shall be capable of preventing harm from spilled chemicals and impact resistant. The
frame shall be light weight and not flamable.

       Clause 11. Air filter to cover the nose and mouth to protect against chemical shall be capable of
reducing the density of chemical not to exceed those specified in Table 1, 2 and 3.

       Clause 12. Air filter to cover the nose and mouth to protect against mineral dust shall be capable of
reducing the quantity of mineral dust not to exceed those specified in Table 4.

        Clause 13. Respirator used to protect against fume, gas or chemical vapor shall be the full-face type
which is self-contained with air cylinder, or be the type which the air hose is connected from other source of
supply.

       Clause 14. Protective equipment against spill of chemical shall be made of fabric, plastic, leather,
synthetic leather or other material capable of f resisting chemical.


                                           CHAPTER 3
                                    MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

       Clause 15. Prescriptions on health and safety in this Notification are only the minimum basis
requirements which must be adhered to.

         Clause 16. The employer may, for work of any nature for which the employee cannot conveniently
utilize the protective personal safety equipment as prescribed in this Notification, allow the employee to
suspend the use of such protective equipment temporarily for such specific work.

        Clause 17. In case the competent official finds that the chemicals in the place of operation are not as
specified in this Notification, the competent official shall make recommendation in writing, warning the
employer to carry out proper action within the specified time.

      Clause 18. This Notification of the Ministry of Interior shall become effective after the lapse of one
hundred and eighty days from the date of publication in the Government Gazette.


                                                     Given on the 30 May B.E. 2520


                                                        KANUNG LUECHAI
                                                      Deputy Minister of Interior,
                                                     acting for Minister of Interior.



                              Annex : Notification of The Ministry of Interior

                   Re: Working Safety in Respect to Environmental Condition (Chemical)

                                                    76
                                                      Table 1

                                                                              Amount of chemical

    Item    Chemical name                                                     ppm by
                                                                              volume      mg/M3

       1    Aldrin                                                               -         0.25
       2.   Azinphos-methyl                                                      -          0.2
       3.   Chlordane                                                            -          0.5
       4.   DDT                                                                  -           1
       5.   DDVP                                                                 -           1
       6.   Dichlorvos                                                           -           1
       7.   Dieldrin                                                             -         0.25
       8.   Dimethyl 1, 2 Dimethyl 1,2-dibromo 2, 2 dichloroethyl (Dibrom )      -           3
       9.   Endrin                                                               -          0.1
      10.   Guthion                                                              -          0.2
      11.   Lead arsenate                                                        -         0.15
      12.   Lindane                                                              -          0.5
      13.   Malathion                                                            -          15
      14.   Nicotine                                                             -          15
      15.   Methoxychlor                                                         -          0.5
      16.   Systox                                                               -          0.1
      17.   Thallium(Soluble compound s TI)                                      -          0.1
      18.   Tiram                                                                -           5
      19.   Toxaphene                                                            -          0.5
      20.   Parathion                                                            -         0.11
      21.   Phosdrin                                                             -          0.1
      22.   Pyrehrum                                                             -           5
      23.   Warfarin                                                             -          0.1
      24.   Carbaryl                                                             -           5
      25.   2, 4 ­ D                                                             -          10
      26.   Paraquat                                                             -          0.5
      27.   2, 4, 5 T                                                            -          10
      28.   Acetic acid                                                         10          25
      29.   Ammonia                                                             50          35
      30.   Arsenic and compounds as As                                          -          0.5
      31.   Arsine                                                             0.05         0.2
      32.   Biphenyl                                                            0.2          1
      33.   Bisphenol A                                                         0.5         2.8
      34.   Carbon dioxide                                                     5000        9000



E

      35.   Carbon monoxide                                                     50          55

                                                      77
                                                            Amount of chemical

Item    Chemical name                                       ppm by
                                                            volume      mg/M3

  36.   Chlorine                                               1            3
  37.   Chlorine dioxide                                     0.1           0.3
  38.   Chromium and compounds                                 -            1
  39.   Copper Fume                                            -           0.1
  40.   Dust or spray of copper                                -            1
  41.   Cotton dust (raw)                                      -            1
  42.   Cyanide as CN                                          -            5
  43.   Ethyl alcohol (Ethanol)                             1000         1900
  44.   Fluoride (as F)                                        -           2.5
  45.   Fluorine                                             0.1           0.2
  46.   Hydrogen cyanide                                      10           11
  47.   Iron Oxide Fume                                        -           10
  48.   Methyl alcohol (Methanol)                            200          260
  49.   Nickel carbonyl                                     0.001        0.007
  50.   Nickel, Metal and soluble compounds , as Ni            -            1
  51.   Nitric acid                                            2            5
  52.   Nitric oxide                                          25           30
  53.   Nitrogen dioxide                                       5            9
  54.   Nitroglycerine                                       0.2            2
  55.   Sodium hydroxide                                       -            2
  56.   Sulfur dioxide                                         5           13
  57.   Sulfuric acid                                          -            1
  58.   Tetra ethyl lead (as Pb)                               -         0.075
  59.   Tetra methyl lead (as Pb)                              -          0.07
  60.   Stannum and inorganic compounds, as Sn                 -            2
  61.   Stannum and organic compounds, as Sn                   -           0.1
  62.   Phenol                                                 5           19
  63.   Phosgene (Carbonyl chloride)                         0.1           0.4
  64.   Phosphine                                            0.3           0.4
  65.   Phosphoric acid                                        -            1
  66.   Phosphorus (yellow)                                    -           0.1
  67.   Phosphorus pentachloride                               -            1
  68.   Phosphorus pentasulfide                                -            1
  69.   Phosphorus trichloride                               0.5            3
  70.   Xylene (Xylol)                                       100          435
  71.   Zinc chloride fume                                     -            1
  72.   Zinc oxide fume                                        -            5



                                                  Table 2



                                                  78
                                                            Amount of chemical
Item    Chemical name                                       ppm by
                                                                        mg/M3
                                                            volume
   1.   Allyl glycidyl ether (AGE)                             10         45
   2.   Boron Trifluoride                                       1          3
   3.   Butylamine                                              5         15
   4.   Tert-Butyl chromate (as CrO3)                           -         0.1
   5.   Chlorine trifluoride                                  0.1         0.4
   6.   Chloroacetaldehyde                                      1          3
   7.   Chloroform (trichloromethane)                          50        240
   8.   o- Dichlorobenzene                                     50        300
   9.   Dichloroethyl ether                                    15         90
  10.   1,1- Dichloro-1-nitroethane                            10         60
  11.   Diglycidyl ether (DGE)                                0.5         2.8
  12.   Ethyl mercaptan                                        10         25
  13.   Ethylene glycol dinitrate and / or Nitroglycerine     0.2          1
  14.   Hydrogen chloride                                       5          7
  15.   Iodine                                                0.1          1
  16.   Manganese                                               -          5
  17.   Methyl bromide                                         20         80
  18.   Methyl mercaptan                                       10         20
  19.    Methyl styrene                                       100        480
  20.   Methylene bisphenyl isocyanate (MDI)                 0.02         0.2
  21.   Monomethyl hydrazine                                  0.2        0.35
  22.   Terphenyls                                              1          9
  23.   Toluene -2,4-Diisocyanate                            0.02        0.14
  24.   Vinyl chloride                                          1         2.8




                                                     79
                                                   Annex 4

                                         Emergency Response Plan

Emergency response plans should be in place for all pesticides in use, in storage, in transport or at disposal
sites. While the emergency response plans can vary for each situation and each type of pesticide, the
principal elements of an emergency response are always clearly spelled out in the pesticide label. Those
include:
      (a)     Identifying all potential hazards, risks and accident events;
      (b)     Identifying of relevant local and national legislation governing emergency response plans;
      (c)     Planning for anticipated emergency situations and possible responses;
      (d)     Identifying flammable and explosive chemicals on site;
      (e)    Training of personnel in response activities, including simulated response exercises and first-
             aid;
      (f)    Maintaining mobile spill response capabilities or retaining the services of a specialized firm for
             spill response;
      (g)    Notifying fire services, police and other government emergency response agencies of the
             location of hazardous chemicals and the routes of transport;
      (h)    Installing mitigation measures, such as fire suppression systems, spill containment equipment,
             fire-fighting water containment, spill and fire alarms and firewalls;
      (i)    Installing emergency communication systems including signs indicating emergency exits,
             telephone numbers, alarm locations and response instructions;
      (j)    Installing and maintaining emergency response kits containing sorbents, personal protective
             equipment, portable fire extinguishers and first aid supplies;
      (k)    Integrating facility plans with local, regional, national and global emergency plans, if
             appropriate; and
      (l)    Regular testing of emergency response equipment and review of emergency response plan.

Emergency response plans should be prepared jointly by interdisciplinary teams that include emergency
response, medical, chemical and technical personnel as well as representatives of labor and management.
When applicable, representatives of potentially impacted communities should also be included.




                                            Annex 5
                   Thailand National Methyl Bromide Phase-out Plan (NMBPP)
        Summary of Consultation Process on Code of Good Practice for Phosphine Fumigation


                                                     80
Summary of the Consultation Process

The consultation process on phosphine fumigation was conducted as part of the training workshops (train-
the-trainer workshop and series of training workshop for fumigators). During the workshops, the training
modules were distributed to participants. Code of good practice and safety rules on phosphine fumigation
were educated to trainees in both theoretical and practical session. During the workshop, experiences and
feedbacks from stakeholders were exchanged to make the code of good practice being more practical in light
of Thailands conditions.

In addition to the above, the Brain Storming Workshop on Methyl Bromide Phase-out and Phosphine
Fumigation was also organized to present the proposed good practices (as shown in Annex 2-B) and
safeguard procedures (as shown in Annex 2-C) for phosphine fumigation and to seek feedback from 172
participants. The plenary session was conducted on 11 March 2009, while the specific group session was
conducted on 12 March 2009. The draft translated code pf good practice for phosphine fumigation was
discussed during the specific group session. Comments from stakeholders have been incorporated into the
translated code of good practice for phosphine fumigation (Annex 2-A). During the workshop, the training
modules were also distributed to participants.

Detail of each workshop can be found at the later session.

Feedback from the Consultation Process

1.      All stakeholders are aware of potential risks and the need to follows the code of good practice in
adopting phosphine. However, the main concern on the use of phosphine is the difficulties of using
phosphine as alternative due to its longer exposure time than that of methyl bromide. In this regard, the
participants were advised that work flows of the enterprise, starting from the sale department, procurement
department till logistic and inventory management, have to be adjusted to cope with longer required
exposure times in warehouse of raw materials and of packaged products. Adjustment of these processes
needs times as it involves everyone in the enterprise. Given that the enterprises have about 3 years to phase-
out consumption of methyl bromide in non-QPS applications, the enterprise should use the remaining period
to adjust its management to accommodate phosphine fumigation.

2.      Training from the DoA regarding code of good practice for phosphine fumigation, safety rules for
phosphine fumigation, IPM, and monitoring of insect resistance to phoshine is critical for the sustain
adoption of phosphine. The participants were suggested that the code of good practice for phosphine
fumigation will be published and distributed after incorporating comments from the workshops. With regard
to the insect resistance to phosphine, the laboratory resistance control unit has been established under the
NMBPP to monitor potential resistance to phosphine. Any enterprises having suspicious on insect resistance
to phosphine can contact the laboratory resistance control unit to collect insect sample and undergo testing to
determine appropriate dosage if resistance is detected.

3.    The Maximum Residue Limits, MRL of phosphine in crops should be referred to the reference of
Codex Alimentarius.

4.    Given that pure phosphine (i.e. from phosphine generator) is odorless and the odor of impure of
phosphine is detectable when the concentration of phosphine is 0.5 ppm (which is higher than the threshold


                                                    81
limit value, TLV, it is essential to emphasize that the absence of smell does not always indicate the absence
of phosphine.

5.     The validity of the faced gas masks cartridge should be referred to the label attached to the cartridge.

6.     Important information / instruction for safety should be in the box to make reader aware of these
information / message.

7.     After the workshops, a number of enterprises / new enterprises contacted DoA to get additional
copies of training modules for their operation regarding insect pest management.




                                                    82
1.     Train-the-trainer Workshop

Date and Venue:               12-14 May 2008, KU Home Kasetsart University, Bangkok

Objective:                    To provide training to officers of DoA who will provide the nation-wide
                              training to methyl bromide users.

Type of Workshop              Theoretical and practical training

Participants:              Approximately 35 persons comprising of
     (1) DoAs officers from the 8 regional offices of the Office of Agricultural Research and
           Development and the Port of Bangkok Plant Quarantine Station (Authorized Training Center)
     (2) DoA officers,
     (3) Department of Industrial Works
     (4) World Bank and UNEP
     (5) Safety equipment specialist and
     (6) Medical practitioner.

Workshop topic:
Theoretical Session
     (1)     Ozone Layer and the Montreal Protocol;
     (2)     Hazardous Substances Act B.E. 2535
     (3)     National Methyl Bromide Phase-out Plan and Maximum Allowable Consumption;
     (4)     Stored Product Insect Pests and Biological Control Agents;
     (5)     Chemical Control for Stored Product Pests;
     (6)     Methods for the Detection and Measurement of Resistant of Major Beetle pests of Stored Cereal
             with Methyl Bromide and Phosphine;
     (7)     Rodents and Their Control;
     (8)     Birds and Their Control;
     (9)     Fumigation Procedures;
     (10) Symptoms and First Aid for Patients Exposing to Methyl Bromide and Phosphine;
      (11) Integrated Pest Management (IPM)
Practical Session
      (12) Training on code of good practices for fumigation with methyl bromide and phosphine


                                  Pictures of Train-the-trainer Workshop




                                                    83
84
2.   Brain Storming Workshop on Methyl Bromide Phase-out and Phosphine Fumigation



                                          85
Date and Venue:                11-12 March 2009, Rama Garden Hotel, Bangkok

Objective:                     To present the proposed good practices and safeguard procedures for
                               phosphine fumigation and to seek feedback from stakeholders. The plenary
                               session was conducted on 11 March 2009, while the specific group session was
                               conducted on 12 March 2009.

Type of Workshop               Pubic hearing / brainstorming Workshop

Participants:                 Approximately 172 persons (104 from private sector and 68 from government
                              agencies and associations) comprising of
Private Sector (104 participants)
      (1) Owners of storage facility who use methyl bromide and phosphine for fumigation
      (2) Importers / traders of methyl bromide, phosphine and alternatives
      (3) Fumigation servicing companies
Government Agencies and Associations (68 participants)
      (4) DoA
      (5) Department of Industrial Works
      (6) Department of Pollution Control
      (7) Department of Domestic Trade
      (8) Thailand Tobacco Monopoly
      (9) National Food Institute
      (10) Rice Exporter Association
      (11) Thai Crop Protection association
      (12) National Bureau of Agricultural Commodity and Food Standard
      (13) Marketing Organization for Farmers
      (14) World Bank
      (15) Government Savings Bank

Workshop topic:
11 March 2009
     (1)     Accreditation Scheme on Manufacturing Process for Issuance of Phytosanitary Certificate for
             Processed Commodities
     (2)     Operation of Management Information System (MIS)
     (3)     Alternatives to methyl bromide for QPS and non-QPS in Thailand
     (4)     Good practice for phosphine fumigation
     (5) Monitoring and management of phosphine resistance
12 March 2009
     (6)     Discussion on Good practice for phosphine fumigation

                                 Pictures of Braining Storming Workshop




                                                    86
87
3.      1st Training Workshop for Fumigators

Date and Venue:                   6 May 2009, Sofitel Centara Grand Bangkok Hotel, Bangkok

Objective:                        To provide training to fumigation servicing companies

Type of Workshop                  Theoretical training

Participants:                             Approximately 70 persons comprising of
     (1) 41 trainees from 30 fumigation servicing companies
     (2) DoA officers
     (3) Government Savings Bank
     (4) Department of Industrial Works
     (5) World Bank and UNEP
     (6) Authorized equipment suppliers
     (7) Bureau of Occupational and Environmental Diseases
     (8) Medical practitioner (Vibhavadi Hospital)

Workshop topic:

                                                          88
(1)   Government policy to phaseout the use of MB and implementation of Management Information
      System (MIS)
(2)   Monitoring of insect resistance to phosphine and insect resistance database
(3)   Operational safety for phosphine and the use of safety device
(4)   Symptoms and First Aid for Patients Exposing to Phosphine
(5)   Demonstration on the use of fumigation and safety equipment

                    Pictures of 1st Training Workshop for Fumigators




                                          89
90
4.    2nd Training Workshop for Fumigators

Date and Venue:            16 September 2009, Port of Bangkok Plant Quarantine Station, Bangkok

Objective:                 To provide training to fumigation servicing companies

Type of Workshop           Theoretical and practical training

Participants:              Approximately 50 persons comprising of
     (1) 30 trainees from 20 fumigation servicing companies
     (2) DoA officers
     (3) Government Savings Bank
     (4) Authorized equipment suppliers

Workshop topic:
Theoretical Session
      (1) Code of Good for Fumigation
      (2) Integrated Pest Management (IPM) and experiences in USA.
      (3) Operation and maintenance of fumigation and safety equipment
Practical Session
      (4) Code of Good for Fumigation
      (5) Operation of fumigation and safety equipment

                         Pictures of 2nd Training Workshop for Fumigators




                                                 91
5.   3rd Training Workshop for Fumigators



                                            92
Date and Venue:            4 February 2010, Port of Bangkok Plant Quarantine Station, Bangkok

Objective:                 To provide training to fumigation servicing companies

Type of Workshop           Theoretical and practical training

Participants:              Approximately 35 persons comprising of
     (1) 30 trainees from 14 fumigation servicing companies
     (2) Government Savings Bank
     (3) Authorized equipment suppliers

Workshop topic:
Theoretical Session
      (1) Code of Good for Fumigation
      (2) Operation and maintenance of fumigation and safety equipment
Practical Session
      (3) Code of Good for Fumigation
      (4) Operation of fumigation and safety equipment

                         Pictures of 3rd Training Workshop for Fumigators




                                                 93
94
                     THAI MeBr MANUAL




Thai MeBr Manual 1                      Thai MeBr Manual 2




                           95
                     THAI MeBr MANUAL




Thai MeBr Manual 3                      Thai MeBr Manual 4




                           96
