RP-59
LAO PDR: AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
POLICY FRAMEWORK FOR COMPENSATION, RESETTLEMENT AND REHABILITATION OF
PROJECT AFFECTED PERSONS
November 2000
A.     The Project
1.     The Lao People's Democratic Republic (Lao PDR) is one of the poorest and least
developed countries in East Asia. Rural poverty, found primarily in farming households who live
at the subsistence level, is a major concern. At the same time, agriculture remains the major
sector of the economy. Against this background, and based on discussions with the Government,
the proposed project should be designed to initiate a program of investments and institutional
capacity building needed to support agricultural growth, and thereby reduce rural poverty. A
strong emphasis on community involvement and participation will be an integral feature of the
proposed project.
2.     Four provinces - Khammouane, Champasak, Saravane and Attapeu, all located in the
southern half of the country - have been proposed by the Government, based on several criteria,
for the project. Poverty is widespread in all four provinces; its incidence is particularly high in
the latter two. Attapeu, to the extreme south, is difficult to reach, and is isolated due to the lack
of good roads.
3.     The magnitude of adverse impact from the Project is anticipated to be very marginal
(based on available information, no land acquisition and involuntary resettlement is expected) as
the infrastructure components will focus on rehabilitation of existing irrigation systems and
access tracks and the construction of hand pumps and open wells. However, it is possible that
during the course of implementation some land may need to be acquired and some compensation
may need to be paid to project affected persons (PAPs). To adequately address the rehabilitation
and compensation of the people who could possibly be affected by the acquisition of land under
the Project, the Government of the Lao PDR and LADP has adopted this Policy Framework for
Land Acquisition, Involuntary Resettlement and Rehabilitation of Project Affected Persons (the
Resettlement Policy). It will be implemented by the respective units (e.g., Department of
Irrigation for irrigation systems, Department of Transport and Communications for access tracks,
and Department of Public Health for water supply) together with the Provincial Project
Implementation Office under the coordination of the MAF National Project Office.
B.     Resettlement Policy
4.     The Resettlement Policy will adopt the principles of previous resettlement policies
prepared for Bank-assisted projects in the country. The principle objective of the Policy is to
ensure that all (PAPs) will be compensated for their losses at replacement costand provided with
rehabilitation measures to assist them to improve, or at least maintain, their pre-project living
standards and income earning capacity.
1


﻿5.     The Policy lays down the principles and objectives, eligibility criteria of PAPs,
entitlements/compensation, legal and institutional framework, modes of compensation and
rehabilitation, peoples participation features and grievances procedures that will guide the
compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation of the PAPs.
C.     Project Affected People
6.     The project affected people (PAP) include the following persons to be identified by the
baseline information collected for each of the sub-projects where there are land, property or asset
acquisition:
(a)    persons whose houses and other structures are in part or in total affected (temporarily
or permanently) by the project;
(b)    persons whose agricultural/residential and commercial land is in part or in total
affected (permanently or temporarily) by the project;
(c)    persons whose businesses are affected in part or in total (temporarily or permanently)
by the project;
(d)    persons whose crops (annual and perennial) and trees are affected by the Project; and
(e)    person whose other assets are affected by the project.
D.     Principles and Objectives
7.     The principles outlined in the World Bank's Operational Directives 4.30 on Involuntary
Resettlement have been adopted in preparing this Policy framework. In this regard the following
principles and objectives would be applied:
(a)   Acquisition of land and other assets, and resettlement of people will be minimized as
much as possible.
(b)   All PAPs are identified in the project impacted areas as of the date of thebaseline
surveys (see paragraph 17). They are entitled to be provided with rehabilitation measures
sufficient to assist them to improve or at least maintain their pre-project living standards,
income earning capacity and production levels. Lack of legal rights to the assets lost will not
bar the PAP from entitlement/compensation to such rehabilitation measures.
(c)   The rehabilitation measures to be provided are: (i) cash compensation at replacement
cost without deduction for depreciation or salvage materials for houses and other structures;
(ii) agricultural land for land of equal productive capacity acceptable to the PAP;I (iii)
replacement of residential and commercial land of equal size acceptable to the PAP; (iv) and
transfer and subsistence allowances.
(d)   Replacement residential and agricultural land will be as nearby as possible to the land
that was lost, and acceptable to the PAP.
"Agricultural land for land of equal productive capacity" means that the land provided as compensation
should be able to produce the same or better yield the PAP was producing on his/her previous land. The
production should be in the planting season immediately following the land acquisition. It can be for a
future period if transitional allowance equal to the household's previous yield is provided to the PAP
household while waiting for the land to get back to the same productivity as the previous land.
2


﻿(e)   Plans for acquisition of land and other assets and provision of rehabilitation measures
will be carried out in consultation with the PAPs, to ensure minimal disturbance.
(f)   The compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation activities will be satisfactorily
completed before a no objection from the World Bank will be provided for award of contract
of civil works under each sub-project See section on Institutional Arrangements for
responsibilities.
(g)   The sources of funding for the compensation and rehabilitation of PAPs will be
funded as follows: compensation for productive, residential and commercial land will come
from the village land through the approval of the Governor's Office; and cash
compensation for structures, trees, crops, income loss and rehabilitation assistance will
come from the provincial counterpart fund in the Project.
(h)   The MAF-National Project Office will see that institutional arrangements are in place
to ensure effective and timely design, planning, consultation and implementation of the
compensation program.
E.     Partial Resettlement Plan
8.     In case where the impact of land and property acquisition by the each sub project
2
component are minor2, a partial Resettlement Plan for each such project component will be
prepared by the respective Provincial Project Implementation Office (PPIO) and submitted to the
World Bank for its concurrence.
9.     Each partial Resettlement Plan will include: (a) an inventory; (b) a socioeconomic
survey; (c) detailed compensation and entitlement information; (d) payment and rehabilitation
schedule; and (e) cost estimate and funding source. The forms are found in the attachments. The
implementation arrangements are discussed in paragraph 17.
10.    The partial Resettlement Plan will be implemented and compensation completed
satisfactorily before an approval can be provided by the NPO for award of civil works contract
under each sub-project.
F.     Full Resettlement Plans
11.    In case where the impact of land and property acquisition by the each sub project
component are significant , a full Resettlement Action Plan for each sub project component will
be prepared by the respective PPIO in accordance with the provisions of this Policy. The full
plan will be submitted by the National Project Office (NPO) to the World Bank for its
concurrence.
12.    Each Plan will include: (a) an inventory; (b) a socioeconomic survey; (c) detailed
compensation and entitlement information; (d) implementation and rehabilitation activities; (e)
2   Impacts are considered minor if no affected people are physically displaced and less than 10 % of their
productive assets are lost.
Impacts are considered significant if the following conditions apply:
*   the affected people are physically displaced and more than 10 % of a household's productive
assets are lost; or
*   200 or more people are affected for each sub-project (as per OD 4.30).
3


﻿grievance procedures; (f) arrangements for monitoring and evaluation, (g) implementation
schedule and; and (h) cost estimate and funding source. The implementation arrangements are
discussed in paragraph 17.
13.    The MAF-National Project Office will ensure that the compensation, resettlement and
rehabilitation activities will be satisfactorily completed before a no objection from the World
Bank will be provided for award of contract of civil works under each sub-project.
14.    The sources of funding for compensation and rehabilitation of the PAPs will be funded as
follows: compensation for productive, residential and commercial land will come from the village
land through the approval of the Governor's Office; and cash compensation for structures, trees,
crops, income loss and rehabilitation assistance will come from the provincial counterpart fund in
the Project. See paragraph 17 for implementing arrangements.
G.     Village Investment for the Poor
15.    The Project will have a community-driven development component known as Village
Investment for the Poor (VIP). This component will have a menu which will include activities
related primarily to agricultural production, livestock and livelihood activities. Should a VIP sub-
project be approved which requires land and/or property acquisition, this policy will apply and
the cost will be borne by the proponent group and the village.
H.     Legal Framework
16.    The legal context in Lao PDR has been changing rapidly over the last few years. A
constitution was introduced in 1991, forestry and water resources laws in 1996, and land law in
1997. While they are subject to interpretation, the various legislative initiatives provide a legal
foundation for the consideration of resettlement and compensation.
The Constitution (August 14, 1991)
Article 8:    All ethnic groups have the right to protect, preserve and promote their fine
customs and culture. All acts of division and discrimination among ethnic
groups are prohibited.
Article 22:   Lao citizens are all equal before the law.
On Forestry, No. 001 (October 11,1996)
Article 7:    Individuals and organizations having received forest and forest land allocations
from the State for their preservation and management shall be entitled to
compensation and interest, such as the use of wood, gathering of forestry
produce, etc.
Article 59:   The forest and forestry operations management agencies include the Ministry of
Agriculture and Forestry, the Provincial/Municipal Agriculture-Forestry
Services, the District Agriculture-Forestry Offices and the Village administrative
authorities.
4


﻿On Water and Water Resources, No. 006 (October, 1996)
Article 28:   When resettlement is necessary from the area and vicinity of water sources
development projects, project owners shall provide assistance in providing
appropriate shelters and livelihoods for the resettled population. The funds used
to finance resettlement assistance or compensation to the population shall be
included in the projects' investment.
Preservation of Cultural Heritage
Notice No 943, implementing Article 19 of the Constitution of Lao PDR, Decrees No. 99, 174,
194 of the Prime Minister of Lao PDR (19 December 1992, 13 December 1993 and 12 November
1994 respectively) covers preservation of historic sites, traditional and artistic heritage, traditional
architecture and places of worship (more than 50 years old). The regulations prohibit removal,
destruction or alteration of these items without authorization of GOL.
On Land, No. 001 (April 2, 1997)
Article 5:    The State protects the legal rights and benefits of those who have effectively
received the right to use land including the right to transfer it.
Article 18:    The district.. .may grant the right to use agricultural land within its
administration...
Article 21:    The State authorizes individuals to use forests lands (defoliated or degraded) not
to exceed three hectares per one laborer in a family
Article 22:    The district.. .may grant the right to use forest land within its administration...
Article 63    The right of an individual to use land shall terminate when the State takes back
the land in the public interest.
Article 70:    When it is necessary to use an individual's land in the public interest, the State
must make appropriate compensation for damages.
Article 71:    In determining damages, there must be a Committee comprised of representatives
of interested parties to determine the value of the damages.
I.     Institutional Arrangements
17.    The responsibility for implementing the Policy and Resettlement Plans are as follows:
(a) The National Project Office (NPO) under the MAF has the overall responsibility for
implementing the Policy and ensuring that all compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation
activities are satisfactorily completed before providing approval for award of civil works
contracts in the case of Partial Resettlement Plans or for submitting requests for no
objection from the World Bank for award of civil works contracts in the case of full
Resettlement Action Plans.4
NPO will be assisted by World Bank staff in review and approval of Partial Resettlement Plans in the
first year of the project after which it will take over the responsibility on its own.
5


﻿(b) It will facilitate the discussions between the province and the Governor's Office
regarding compensation for land acquired for the sub-projects.
(c)  It will monitor the PPIO's work to ensure that the activitiesare carried out in a
satisfactory manner.
(d) It will ensure that reports are submitted to the World Bank Office in
Vientiane on a regular basis.
(e) The Provincial Project Implementation Office (PPIO) is responsible for obtaining all
relevant completed PAP inventory and socio-economic surveys for the infrastructure sub-
project in its province. It will prepare the compensation package for PAPs according to the
Project's Resettlement Policy and in cooperation with the appropriate provincial agencies
and the Governor's Office.
(f) It will send a copy of the completed forms (inventory, socio-economic survey and
compensation information) to DAFO in the district. It will ensure that the compensation
in land or in cash is available for the DAFO to pay the PAPs. (Refer to paragraph 7c for
types of compensation).
(g) It will monitor the proper implementation of DAFO regarding consultation with
PAPs and the payment of compensation and other entitlements.
(h) It is also responsible for organizing the orientation and training on this policy for the
concerned DAFO staff and the Village Head so that they can carry out the Resettlement
Plans, consultation with PAPs and implement the payment of compensation and other
rehabilitation entitlement to PAPs in a timely manner and as agreed.
(i)  The DAFO, under the guidance of the PPIO is responsible for the following activities
under the Resettlement Plans: information dissemination about the Project and the
Resettlement Policy, consultation with PAPs, payment of compensation and other
rehabilitation entitlements to PAPs in a timely manner.
(j) It should report to the PPIO if there are any problems with the Resettlement Plans and
implementation..
J.     Entitlement/Compensation Policy
18.    PAPs will be entitled to the following types of compensation and rehabilitation measures:
(a)   PAPs losing agricultural land and crops
i) Compensation of lost agricultural land will be through provision of "land for land"
arrangements of equal productive capacity of the lost land and satisfactory to the
PAPs.
ii) PAPs will be compensated for the loss of standing crops, fruits and trees at market
price.
iii) PAPs whose land is temporarily taken by the works under the Project will be
compensated for their loss of income, standing crops and for the cost of soil
6


﻿restoration and damaged infrastructure based on the temporarily impacted period.
If this period is more than two years, the impact is to be permanently considered.
(b)    PAPs losing residential land and structures
i)  The mechanism for compensating loss of residential land and structures will be:
(1) the provision of replacement residential land of equivalent size, satisfactory
to the PAPs; and (2) cash compensation reflecting full replacement cost of the
structures, without deduction for depreciation or salvage materials.
ii) If the impact on residential land and/or structure is minor, cash compensation at
replacement cost acceptable to the PAP will be provided.s
iii) If the residential land and/or structure is partially affected by the Project and the
remaining residential land is not sufficient to rebuilt the residential structure lost,
then at the request of the PAP the entire residential land and structure will be
acquired at full replacement cost, without depreciation. The threshold of
insufficient remaining residential land is to be determined based on the
consultation with PAPs.
(c)   PAPs losing commercial land, structures and business
i) The mechanism for compensating loss of business will be: (1) the provision of
alternative business or commercial site of equal size and accessibility to customers,
satisfactory to the PAP; (2) cash compensation for lost business structure reflecting
full replacement cost of the structures, without depreciation; and (3) cash
compensation for the loss of income during the transition period.
ii) PAPs will also be provided compensation at full replacement cost, without
deduction for depreciation and salvage materials for any other fixed assets affected
in part or in total by the Project.
K.     People's Participation
19.    The PAPs will participate throughout the various stages of the planning and
implementation of the partial or full Resettlement Plans. For these purposes and prior to the
preparation of the Resettlement Plans, the PAP will be informed of the provisions of this Policy at
public meetings held by the respective PPIO, DAFO and Village Committees. (See Annex 4 for
Steps in Land/Property Acquisition and Compensation).
20.    Each household PAP will be fully informed by the relevant DAFO and/or Village
Committees of their entitlements/compensation and rehabilitation choices under the Resettlement
Plans. After compensation, each PAP household will sign an acceptance letter
21.    For the community driven development VIP sub-projects, the community proponent
group will, if necessary, plan and decide among themselves how to deal with land and/or property
acquisition based on the Policy. The Village Committee will be responsible for informing PAPs
of the provisions of this Policy and to ensure that they are satisfied with the outcome.
Minor impact on residential land is defined as less than 20% of the total residential land holding and
the remaining area is not less than 200 m2.
7


﻿22.    Provincial monitoring will obtain feedback from PAPs to see if there has been
compliance with Resettlement Policy. The World Bank team will also monitor these activities in
its regular supervision missions during the period of project implementation; consultation with
PAPs and beneficiaries will be conducted.
L.     Implementation Arrangements
Implementation Schedule
23.    A detailed implementation schedule of the various activities to be undertaken will be
included in each Resettlement Plan.
24.    Satisfactory payment of compensation and provision of other rehabilitation entitlements,
and relocation if that be the case, will be completed before a no objection from the World Bank
can be provided for award of civil works contract under each sub-project.
Complaints and Grievances
25.    Complaints and grievances related to any aspect of the Resettlement Plans, including the
determined quantities and price of the lost assets, will be handled as follows:
(a)    As a first stage, PAPs will present their complaints and grivances to the Village
Committee, and the Committee will have to provide a written response to the PAP within
fifteen calendar days of receiving the complaint. If the PAP is not satisfied with the
decision of the village, the PAP may present the case to the DAFO within fifteen calendar
days of receiving the written response from the Village Committee. The decision of the
District should be rendered within fifteen calendar days of receipt of the PAP's appeal and
if the PAP is not satisfied with the decision of district, the PAP may present the case to the
PPIO and the same procedure as at the district level will be applied.
(b)    Another option, after the village and district appeals have been tried, is for the PAP
to appeal to the representative of the National Assembly at the provincial level. This
representative acts like an ombudsperson and can initiate results quickly.
26.    PAPs will be exempted from all taxes, administrative and legal fees.
Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation
27.    Implementation of the Resettlement Plans will be regularly supervised and monitored by
the respective DAFO and PPIO. The findings will be recorded in quarterly reports to be
furnished to NPO. The World Bank team will also monitor these activities in its regular
supervision missions during the period of project implementation.
M.     Costs and Budget
28.    Each Resettlement Plan will include detailed cost of compensation and other
rehabilitation entitlements and relocation of PAPs, if that be the case, with a breakdown by
agricultural land, residential land, business land, houses, other structures, businesses, other assets
and cost for compensation or Resettlement Plan implementation. The cost estimates will make
adequate provision for contingencies.
8


﻿29.    The Resettlement Plans will also include information on how the funds will flow and the
compensation schedule.
30.    It will clearly state from where the sources of fund will come. For the infrastructure
components, compensation for productive, residential and commercial land will come from the
village land through the approval of the Governor's Office. Cash compensation for structures,
trees, crops, income loss and rehabilitation assistance will come from the provincial counterpart
fund of the Project.
31.    For VIP sub-projects, all compensation will be the responsibility of the proponent
community group and the village.
ANNEX
1.     Steps in Land/Property Acquisition and Compensation
FORMS:
1.    Inventory (Census) of Project Affected People
2.     Socio-Economic Household Data of Project Affected People
3.     Compensation/Entitlements of Project Affected People
9


﻿ANNEX 1: STEPS IN LAND/PROPERTY ACQUISITION AND COMPENSATION
For Each Sub-Project Involving Land and Property Acquisition
Activity                         Responsible          When
Orientation and training in the Compensation, Resettlement  NPO and PPIO  Introduction of Project
and Rehabilitation policy and procedures will be provided to
districts and communes
1.   District works with villagers to select and prioritize development VDC, DDC and DAFO  During planning period
activities including infrastructure for construction and/or
improvement
2.   VDC consults and discuss potential land and structure  VDC           During planning period
acquisition impact with affected head of household
3.   Provincial and District engineers design infrastructure and  Provincial and District  During start of
finalizes exact amount of land and structure to be affected  Engineers  implementation
4.   Complete inventory and socio-economic survey of affected  Provincial and District  During start of
households                                       Engineers and DAFO  implementation
5.   Hold another consultation with affected households and agrees DAFO and VDC  During start of
on compensation and provide contact names and address for           implementation
grievance/complaints
6.   Complete entitlement form and set schedule and funding  PPIO and DAFO.  During start of
source for payment                                                  implementation
7.   PPO submits all completed forms to NPO for review  PPIO             Three months before
award of contract for
construction
8.   NPO reviews and approves Partial Resettlement Plans and  NPO         Three months before
submits full Resettlement Action Plan to World Bank                  award of contract for
construction
9.   World Bank reviews and approves Full Resettlement Action  World Bank  Three months before
Plans                                                                award of contract for
construction
10. PPlO pays cash compensation to affected households from  PPIO         One month before
provincial budget for affected structures, trees, crops and          award of contract for
rehabilitation assistance.                                           construction for Partial
Village provides compensation for affected agricultural and          and Full Resettlement
productive land from village land bank.                              Action Plans
11. World Bank provide "no objection letter" (NOL) for award of  World Bank
contract for construction work in the case of sub-projects with
full RAP.
VDC        - Village Development Committee
DDC        - District Development Committee
DAFO       - District Agriculture and Forestry Office
PPIO       - Provincial Project Implementation Office
NPO        - National Project Office
10


﻿Form    I
LAO PDR: AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Inventory of Project Affected People
Province:                                            District:                                                      Village:
Survey Name of Head   No. of  Total Land- Land to be Land Use  Loss as                                                                  Loss of
No.   of Household  Persons  holding of  Acquired  Type *   % of Total         Loss of Assets                 Loss of Crops            Other              Other Losses
in Hhold  Hhold-M2     W2)                                                                                         Assets
Structures Structures  Area of  Fruit trees                      Eg.,
permanent temporary residential land  lost Type  Paddy area  Other  graveyards,  Residence  Business  Income
(M2)     (M2)      lost     and Number    (M2)    (Specify)  wells, etc.  (rented)   Lost        Loss
(M2)                                   (Type & No.)
* Land Types are as follows (change land type as appropriate for the Dstrict):
1. Irrigated rice land                                                 4. Forest land                                        7. Garden land
2. Rainfed rice land                                                   5. Wasteland                                          8.
3. Dry land (foothills) for cultivation                                6. Residential land                                   9.
11


﻿Form 2
LAO PDR: AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Socio-Economic Household Data of Project Affected People
Province:          ._District:                                                                    Village:
Name of Household Member        Sex    A      Ethn        Edti         Occupation and  E               Estimated
Survey       Address of     (please put name of Head of Household first)  ge    E   c         ucaton      Sources of     mployment     Total Income
No.        Household                                                          Group                        Income                       per Year
(KIP)
12


﻿Form 3
LAO PDR: AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Entitlements of Project Affected People
Province:                                   District:                                           Village:
Name of                                    Compensation for Structures  Compensation for Crops & Trees  Compensation for Other Assets  Total
Survey   Head of                                                                                                      and Losses
No.    Household                                                                                                (e.g., graveyards, wells,  (KIP)
businesses, etc.)
Quantity  Unit Price  Entitlement  Quantity  Unit Price  Entitlement  Quantity  Unit Price  Entitlement Quantity  Unit Price  Entitlement
(M2)    (KIP per   (KIP)      (M2)    (KIP per   (KIP)      Unit     (KIP)     (KIP)     Unit    (KIP)     (KIP)
M2)                           M2)
13


