E-423
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMEN                              VOL. 1
A. INTRODUCTION
1.     This draft Environmental Assessment (EA) analyzes the potential environmental impacts of the
Lao PDR Agricultural Development Project in the provinces of Champassak, Khammouane, Saravane
and Attapeu. Mitigation measures are proposed for the anticipated negative impacts and to further
increase project benefits. The EA is written in accordance with World Bank Operational Policies 4.01
(Environmental Assessment), 4.04 (Natural Habitats), 4.07 (Water Resources Management) and
4.03/4.09 (Pest Management) as well as the Lao PDR Environmental Protection Law (EPL) of April
1999, the recommendations of the Lao PDR National Environmental Action Plan 2000 and the proposed
Regulation on Environmental Assessment in the Lao PDR drafted by the Science, Technology and
Environment Agency (STEA) in June 20001. Additional guidance for the EA was provided by the World
Bank publications Environmental Guidelines for Social Funds and the Environmental Assessment
Sourcebook. The report is based on field observations, literature review and discussions with government
officials, international and national experts working in Lao PDR in development and environmental
organizations and villagers7.
2.     The Agricultural Development Project has a primary objective of reducing rural poverty by
improving and increasing agricultural production. This will be achieved by taking a community-based
approach to address the needs of the poor. The existing key constraints to agricultural development will
be removed by rehabilitating small- and medium-scale irrigation systems, improving existing village
access tracks, providing improved village water supply, supporting agricultural service delivery and
village investments directly targeted for the poor. Through successful project implementation, technical
and administrative capacity will be built at all levels for future development. The project will support the
on-going process of decentralization and will contribute to institutional strengthening.
B. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
3.     The environmental assessment of the project concludes that the project's impacts are generally
positive, while proper management and low-cost mitigation measures will minimize or address the likely
negative impacts. It is proposed to classify the Lao PDR Agricultural Development Project as
environmental category B. The project will have macro-level and associated benefits in terms of training
environmental specialists, raising awareness and concerns of environmental issues and assisting in the on-
going development of environmental guidelines for general use. These are important given that
incorporation of environmental considerations in project development is a relatively new concept in Laos.
The main environmental issues for the project are:
(a)    Natural Resource Management
(i)    Catchment issues including upstream land and water use, soil erosion and
sedimentation, downstream water quality, National Biodiversity Conservation
Areas (NBCAs);
Social safeguards including the policies for indigenous peoples, resettlement and land and property compensation
are addressed in the accompanying annex (INSERT REFERENCE TO MARY'S REPORT).
2 The data was gathered during the project pre-appraisal mission from 22 August to 9 September 2000. See Annex 2
describing the schedule of the consultant, Annex 3 listing the people met during the mission and Annex 4 listing the
documents used for the literature review.


﻿(ii)   Fisheries including migratory pathways, habitat, cumulative basinwide effects
and biodiversity.
(iii)  Wetlands conservation.
(b)    Direct Impacts on Project Areas
(i)    Soil fertility including salinization;
(ii)   Drainage including flood control, sedimentation, degradation of surface water
quality and waterlogging;
(iii)  Construction effects including borrow areas, spoil disposal, erosion and waste
disposal;
(iv)   Pest management including increased use of pesticides;
(v)    Fisheries including natural capture fisheries and future aquaculture.
(c)    Health
(i)    Improved household nutrition and financial stability;
(ii)   Disease vectors including mosquitoes, rats and parasites:
(iii)  Water supply and sanitation including water use education and hygiene.
4.     Specific mitigation measures proposed for the project to address the issues listed above include:
(a) Raising awareness of catchment-based natural resources management through planning
exercises in 9 of the project watersheds to better incorporate uplands conservation, fisheries
and wetlands management concerns;
(b) Actions to address the impacts on fisheries through technical training, scientific surveys and
field research including the possible incorporation of fish passes on key structures;
(c) Developing basic guidelines and training materials to encourage incorporation of fisheries
considerations in irrigation system management;
(d) Studying saline soils and ground water in Thakek District of Khammouane Province and
developing management guidelines for their use;
(e) Outlining contractor responsibilities for worker safety, site restoration, waste disposal, local
employment and environmental standards and providing necessary inspection;
(f) Examining closely the potential effects of project implementation on downstream wetlands at
Samong I and II scheme in Attapeu Province and Thongpha Weir in Champassak Province
and developing mitigation measures as required during implementation;
(g) Linking with the National Malaria Control Program and providing funding for impregnated
bed nets, supervision and training of Village Health Volunteers, information and education
campaign (IEC) materials and logistics.
5.     Monitoring for compliance with environmental standards to ensure that the negative impacts are
being properly managed is necessary for a number of issues. These include:
(a) Initial and annual monitoring of irrigation soils and water quality for salinity, contamination
and nutrients;
(b) Initial and annual monitoring of drinking water quality including initial source sterilization;
(c) Regular monitoring of fisheries in selected project streams and general survey of the effects
of irrigation structures on fisheries using existing capacity of on-going fisheries projects;
(d) Regular monitoring of public health through surveys of public health facilities to determine
whether there are noticeable increases in health problems potentially related to irrigation
system development.


﻿6.   The legislative, regulatory and institutional framework for environmental issues is new and
evolving. More than other areas, there is a dearth of existing capacity. Thus, the project provides a low-
risk opportunity to build environmental expertise and experience within the Lao PDR institutions, and to
provide guidance and input to the on-going process. The project will support training and raising
awareness of environmental issues at central, provincial, district and community levels. This will include
not only government staff but also project beneficiaries and executing agencies such as contractors. The
project will utilize checklists, matrices, manuals, extension materials and training programs on subject-
specific issues and for training of trainers (TOT). Where such material and capacity already exists, such
as with the environmental checklists and handbook developed for the Department of Irrigation by the
Strengthening and Restructuring Irrigation Department Project (SRIDP), the project will follow these
guidelines.
7.     The staff of line agencies will be responsible for environmental issues within their purview with
the support of the Science, Technology and Environment Agency (STEA) at the different levels. STEA
will provide regulatory guidelines, training and backup support for this work. Monitoring and evaluation
will similarly be incorporated into the regular duties of the various extension staff with the data being fed
back up into project management. It is important that the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry appoint
staff to their Environmental Management and Monitoring Unit (EMMU). In addition, one staff will be
designated to serve as the focal environmental officer on the project Steering Committee. Similarly, one
of the existing STEA environmental officers at Provincial level will be appointed to each of the Provincial
Project Management Committees.
C. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
8.     Project scope. The project will be implemented in 15 districts within the 4 provinces including
a total of 102 villages. The sub-projects are mostly in the Mekong River and its tributary floodplains and
lowlands with some in the foothills and uplands surrounding them. The largest investment will be in
improved rural infrastructure. This includes rehabilitation of 21 gravity and pump irrigation schemes
ranging in size from 30 ha of command area to 2,200 ha with a total area of 6,580 ha (gravity) and 620 ha
(pump). Approximately 164.5 km of existing access tracks will be improved including the construction
of 84 Irish crossings. Water supply points will be constructed including 199 drilled wells with hand
pumps and 139 shallow dug wells. The total costs for this rural infrastructure will be around $6.9 million
for irrigation, $1.6 million for village access tracks and $0.3 million for village water supply and
sanitation. Approximately $1.9 million will be invested in improved agricultural services. This includes
agricultural extension, adaptive research and demonstrations and development of water user associations.
An additional investment of $1.7 million will be made in village investments for the poor (VIP), block
grants given annually for implementing small-scale projects identified by the villagers themselves
targeting the most vulnerable. Administrative and coordination support provided at the national level and
provincial level will require an investment of $2.4 million. The total project cost, including physical and
price contingencies is thus estimated to be $16.8 million. This includes an estimated budget for technical
assistance (TA) of $2.2 million.
9.     Project design. The project is expected to become effective around August 2001 and will run for
slightly more than 5 years to the end of 2006. The project is seen as the first phase of a long-term, on-
going support to the rural agricultural sector that will reinforce the government's policy of
decentralization. The philosophy is to start with a relatively simple design and to build capacity and
success that enables increasing investment with more options in the future. The major features in the
project design are its emphasis on bottom-up planning, addressing key constraints of the agriculture sector
and improving support services for small farmers in order to alleviate rural poverty. A strong program of


﻿training with a long-term approach and relevant application of skills on the job will strengthen the
institutional capacity to support additional work. The project will follow the government's policy
initiatives on irrigation management transfer and ensure that beneficiaries agree to maintain the
infrastructure. Support for monitoring and evaluation will ensure that the project is meeting its goals and
that adjustments are made where required while strengthening and developing procedures. The project
interventions are limited to rehabilitation works of existing irrigation systems and roads and construction
of new water supply points. Only minor extensions of canal networks will be proposed and no new roads
are planned. A major focus of the project is on improving the irrigation management and water use
efficiency.
10.    Overall implementation responsibility rests with the provinces through the line agencies
concerned with irrigation, agriculture, public health, engineering and roads. The Provincial Project
Implementation Office (PPIO) will be established to monitor and coordinate implementation with
chairmanship by the Vice-Governor. Village Investment Projects will be supported by District-level
committees and the District Agriculture and Forestry Office (DAFO). At the national level, the
Department of Planning is responsible for overall coordination through a Central Project Coordinating
Unit (CPCU). The overall project management responsibility will rest with the Project Steering
Committee established and chaired by the Vice Minister of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
(MAF) and including representation from concerned MAF departments and other ministries.
D. SCREENING OF POTENTIAL ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS
11.    The potential environmental impacts of the proposed project have been analyzed on the basis of
field visits to project sites , interviews with local farmers, discussions with government staff at national,
provincial, district and village level, discussions with staff of national and international organizations and
consultants4, review of documentation5, and spatial analysis of remote sensing imagery and Geographical
Information Systems (GIS) data. While all project sites could not be visited due to time and access
constraints, sufficient information was available from project reports and the spatial analysis to provide
site-specific recommendations. These will be reviewed on the ground in close consultation with the
stakeholders to confirm the results.
12.    The main environmental issues can be categorized as: (1) natural resource management
(catchment issues); (2) direct impacts on project areas; and (3) potential impacts on people's health. The
impacts include both positive and negative effects; overall, the project is seen as being generally positive
with respect to its impact on the environment. It thus provides a low-risk opportunity to better integrate
environmental issues into project planning and implementation while building capacity for environmental
management and monitoring. Some mitigation and monitoring measures will be required and these are
outlined in the accompanying Environmental Management Plan. The issues of resettlement,
compensation for land and property damage and impact on indigenous people and vulnerable people are
addressed in the Social Assessment and so are not included in this document'.
See Annex 2 for the schedule of the consultant for the environmental assessment.
4 See Annex 3 for a list of persons contacted during the environmental assessment.
See Annex 4 for a bibliography of references consulted for the environmental assessment.
See Annex 1 for the maps produced by the spatial analysis including LandSAT imagery by province and project
and watershed maps for each project.
INSERT REFERENCE TO MARY'S DOCUMENT.


﻿Impacts on Natural Resource Management
13.    Overview. Laos maintains one of the highest levels of forest cover in the region and is blessed
with a relative abundance of water resources. There is little industrialization and the amount of agro-
chemical use remains low. As a result, the quality of surface water for irrigation is excellent and there is
sufficient quantity to expand the irrigated area. There are some worrying trends though in terms of the
reduction in forested areas with concomitant problems of higher incidences of flooding, lower dry season
flows and increasing siltation. Maintenance of the upper watershed areas is important to protect the
quality and quantity of the water resources within the catchment and to guard against soil erosion.
14.    Biodiversity. In addition, the natural forest areas, rivers and wetlands serve as habitat for a wide
variety of flora and fauna - this is recognized by the Government who have designated twenty National
Biodiversity Conservation Areas (NBCA) throughout the country and are considering nine additional
areas for gazetting (IUCN, 1999:29-31). Hunting of many species for subsistence and for wildlife trade
and illegal fishing methods are regulated against within existing legislation in order to protect these
resources, although with varying degrees of effectiveness. The location of the projects in the lowland
plains and floodplains is also the location where there are many wetland areas. These wetlands provide
an important refuge for aquatic biota during the dry season and are the source of a wealth of biodiversity.
They play a key role in the ecology of the Mekong River system, one of the most biologically diverse
river systems in the world. Irrigation systems can cause changes in water quality and quantity delivered
downstream to the wetlands, resulting in changes to the ecosystem. Similarly, weirs can block upstream
migration of species into wetlands and block nutrient-rich flood backflows that the ecosystems are
dependent upon.
15.    The major issues for natural resource management within the proposed project are: (1) soil, water
and biodiversity conservation, (2) fisheries management; and (3) conservation of wetland ecology. Most
of the projects (11 of 21, or 52%) are located near uplands that comprise the catchment for the irrigated
area. While none of the project infrastructure or command areas are within National Biodiversity
Conservation Areas (NBCA), most of the projects (57%) are close to NBCAs, with three of these projects
located adjacent to an NBCA and another within the area of a proposed NBCA!. Projects that are near to
their upper catchment and those that would have significant effects on fisheries and wetlands will include
participatory catchment management training as part of the project implementation.
16.    Impacts on Upper Catchment. The proposed projects will generally have a strong positive
effect on soil, water and biodiversity conservation. The more intensive use of the existing agricultural
land will increase local people's incomes, intensify agricultural activity within the lowlands and provide
them with more food. As a result they will have less time and reason to go hunting or to expand or
maintain upland agriculture that would degrade the catchment. Their increased dependence on lowland
agriculture will provide an incentive for maintaining the upper catchment in good condition under local
management. The improvement of access roads is not expected to result in an increase in hunting
activities as these roads already exist and so are already in use by hunters,
17.    Impacts on Fisheries. The proposed projects will have both positive and negative effects on
fisheries management. While none of the projects will create any reservoir areas, the upstream channels
8 Projects are considered close to NBCAs if the system or the benefiting villages are within 15 km of the NBCA
boundary (without crossing a major river). This follows the methodology for participatory management of NBCAs
developed by IUCN that has been implemented across 25-33% of the country. Projects have been considered
adjacent to NBCAs for the purposes of this analysis if they are the closest village to the NBCA boundary and within
3 km of the boundary. See Table 1 for a listing of projects and their geographic situation and likely impacts for
these issues.


﻿will maintain water throughout the year and will thus provide a habitat for fisheries. Rice paddy fields are
also habitat for fisheries, so properly managed irrigation systems could enable access of fry to the fields
where they will be able to grow throughout the season. The improved control of water throughout the
system also creates the possibility for aquaculture. The resource will benefit from reduced competition
for fisheries because of increased employment in agriculture. On the other hand, the weirs block fisheries
migration routes upstream. This reduces the ability for some fish (particularly fusiform cyprinids) to
complete their life cycle by going upstream to spawn. While current research shows that individual small-
and medium-scale irrigation systems will have only moderate impacts on fisheries productivity and
biodiversity, consensus among fisheries experts' is that there will be a significant cumulative negative
impact on the resource because of the large number of planned weirs throughout the basin that will block
upstream migratory pathways". While the existing weirs already block the pathways, their rehabilitation
will in some cases also increase the crest height. This project provides an opportunity to investigate and
mitigate the negative effects of some key structures and demonstrate a potential solution to this future
problem. Options for this are presented within the Environmental Management Plan.
18.    Impacts on Wetlands. The proposed projects will have a small but potentially significant impact
on several identified wetlands. These include the Dong Hua Sao wetlands within the Dong Hua Sao
NBCA in Pathoumphone District of Champassak Province and the Xe Piane - Xe Kampho wetlands
(proposed NBCA) in Sanamxay District in Attapeu Province. These wetlands are of national importance
and so must be addressed within the design and management of the irrigation schemes that will affect
them. In addition, there are two smaller wetlands of lesser importance that will be affected by the projects
in Champassak Province - these too must be considered in any design and management plans. The Dong
Hua Sao wetlands are upstream of the irrigation projects - the effects of the structures on aquatic species
(especially migratory species) must be studied as part of project implementation. This will build capacity
and knowledge within the Irrigation Department about this important issue and could lead to installation
of fish passes as a mitigation measure. The remaining wetlands are mostly below the irrigation projects.
The proper water management and agronomy practices that will be supported through the project will
result in more efficient use of irrigation water and non-critical nutrient and contaminant loading of
drainage water flowing downstream. There may be a requirement for compensation flow during the dry
season in some cases - this will be determined during project implementation along with estimation of the
required quantity and quality parameters. The projects that will impact on wetlands are described in the
accompanying table 1.
It is envisioned that these activities would be supported in the next phase of the project activities in order to
simplify project implementation during the initial phase.
10 This included Dr. David Coates, the Mekong River Commission's (MRC) Chief Technical Adviser for the
Assessment of Mekong Fisheries Project; Dr. Simon Funge-Smith, Aquaculture Development Advisor for the Food
and Agriculture Organization (FAO) to the Department of Livestock and Fisheries; Niklas Mattson,
Fisheries Scientist Adviser to the MRC Project for the Management of Reservoir Fisheries in the Mekong Basin;
Sten Sverdrup-Jensen, Chief Technical Adviser to LARReC - Living Aquatic Resources Research Center of the
Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry; Dr. Terry Warren, Fisheries Biologist and Independent Consultant; and Dr.
Tyson Roberts, Icthyologist and Independent Consultant. Contact was not made with lain Baird (Fisheries
Consultant) or Dr. Nicholas Innes-Taylor (Fisheries Biologist, Senior Advisor to the Rural Development Center in
Savannakhet) during the mission, however it is understood that both of these fisheries experts who live in Southern
Laos are also of the same opinion.
See also Hoggarth, Daniel D. et al, 1999. Management Guidelines for Asian Floodplain River Fisheries. Part 1:
A spatial, hierarchical and integrated strategy for adaptive co-management and Part 2: Summary of DFID
Research. FAO Fisheries Technical Paper 384/1 and 384/2. Department for International Development of the
United Kingdom (DFID)/MRAG Ltd/FAO; Rome, and Lorenzen, Kai et al, April 1999. Impacts of Irrigation and
Aquaculture Development on Small-Scale Aquatic Resources: Exploratory Studies and Survey Design. T.H. Huxley
School of Environment, Earth Sciences and Engineering, Imperial College of Science, Technology and Medicine;
London.


﻿Table 1: Projects and their geographical locations with respect to natural resources,2.
Project               Proximity to NBCA    Proximity to Upper   Fisheries/Wetlands Impact
Catchment
Champassak Province
Nongkon Weir           Near Dong Hua Sao          Near          Dong Hua Sao wetlands upstream Close
NBCA and Wetlands                        to Mekong River so affects fisheries
migration pathways.
Houay Namsai Weir      Near Dong Hua Sao          Near          Dong Hua Sao wetlands upstream.
NBCA and Wetlands                        Close to Mekong River so affects
fisheries migration pathways.
Pathoumphone Weir     Near Dong Hua Sao       Not Affected     Minor stream but may provide pathway
and Pump Scheme       NBCA and Wetlands                        to Nong Sam wetland. Mekong flood
overtops weir and other infrastructure
allowing fisheries access in wet season.
Thongpha Weir          Adjacent to Dong           Near         Dong Hua Sao wetlands upstream.
Hua Sao NBCA and                         Nong Sam wetlands downstream. May
Wetlands                            affect fisheries migration pathways.
Nongkon Weir is downstream.
Thahou Weir           Adjacent to Xe Piane        Near         Bung Nong Gnom wetlands may be
NBCA and Wetlands                        upstream - must be checked.
Houay Palai Weir              Far                 Near          Minor impact - plains area above may
have some fisheries. Rough flow in river
so weir may not affect fisheries
migration in wet season.
Kongthao Weir                 Far                  Far         No significant impact.
Thongwai Weir                 Far                 Near         Minor impact - small wetlands area
within Paksong wetlands downstream.
Khammouane Province
Thathot Weir          Adjacent to Phou Hin        Near         No significant impact.
Poun NBCA
Phan Deng Pump        Near Phou Hin Poun      Not Affected     No significant impact.
and Nakai-Nam
Theun NBCA
Naphoxay Pump         Near Phou Hin Poun       Not Affected     No significant impact.
and Nakai-Nam
Theun NBCA
Sangom Weir and       Near Phou Hin Poun          Near         No significant impact.
Pump Scheme              .  NBCA
Nakosin Weir          Near Phou Hin Poun          Near          No significant impact.
NBCA
Saravane Province
Dongmon Weir          Near Xe Bang Nouan           Far          Minor impact - large plains area
NBCA                               upstream with many villages but no
significant wetlands.
Nongdeng Weir                 Far                  Far          Minor impact - large river with strong
12 See footnote 8 for description of the definition of "near" and "adjacent" to NBCAs. Projects are considered
"near" to their upper catchments if the forested areas of the catchments are easily accessible from the project
location based on observation of satellite imagery and GIS infrastructure datasets. See Annex 1 for the maps of the
project areas.


﻿flows in wet season but Xe Set
hydropower project upstream eventually
blocks migratory routes.
Soutabali Weir             Far                 Far        Minor impact - large river with strong
flows in wet season but Xe Set
hydropower project upstream eventually
blocks migratory routes. Nong Deng
Weir is downstream.
Houay Lat Weir             Far                Near        No significant impact.
Kep Pheung Weir            Far                 Far        Minor impact - large plains area
upstream with many villages but no
significant wetlands. Dongmon Weir is
downstream.
Attapeu Province
Naxaithong Pump            Far             Not Affected   No significant impact.
Nakeangkham Pump           Far             Not Affected   No significant impact.
Samong I and II      Within Proposed Xe       Near        Contains significant wetlands within
Weir                   Piane NBCA                         command area although may already be
Extension                        converted to rice paddy. Xe Piane
wetlands downstream. Fish pass exists,
must be studied to see effects.
Direct Impacts on Project Areas
19.    Impacts on Soil Quality and Salinization Risk. The soils in the project areas are generally high
in sand content, low in organic matter, are mostly acutely deficient in nutrient levels and have high
permeability with low moisture retention. The soils are mainly derived from alluvial deposits or
sandstone materials that are not known to have high levels of soluble salts. With the high levels of
rainfall during the wet season, the soils will have the salt concentrations lowered by natural leaching by
rainwater. With the exception of the western part of Khammouane Province, there are no reports of saline
groundwater in the areas and while the areas are relatively flat, there appears to be sufficient gradient for
leached salts to be carried away rather than to build up in local groundwater. The quality of irrigation
water is high, and with good catchment management this will be maintained. There will be a necessary
increase in the application of chemical fertilizers to make up the nutrient deficiency, however the split
nitrogen application recommended will maximize absorption by crop plants and minimize losses through
leaching. The project will provide small quantities of fertilizers for demonstration purposes as part of the
extension activities. The form in which farmers apply phosphate fertilizer is rock phosphate, which is
relatively insoluble and unlikely to get leached into groundwater. The project would also promote greater
use of crop residues and manure, which would tend to increase nutrient retention by the soils as well as
enhancing soil mineralization, soil microfauna development and water holding capacity. Thus, with the
emphasis on proper soil management and the favourable natural conditions, there does not appear to be a
high risk of soil quality degradation or build up of soil salinity because of the project activities. The soils
and irrigation water quality will however be regularly monitored as a safeguard measure. For the two
projects in Thakek District of Khammouane, there will be a careful study of the underlying soil and
groundwater layers in order to assess the risks of salinization in these projects prior to implementation.
However, as one of these projects has been operating with irrigation in the past without observed
problems with salinity, it is anticipated that this problem will be manageable.
20.    Impacts on drainage including flood control and sedimentation. The rehabilitation of the
irrigation projects will have a positive effect on flood control and sedimentation. The weirs have been in
place for a number of years without having caused significant increases in flooding in the river systems


﻿upstream or downstream of the project areas. The site visits occurred during a major flood event yet the
weirs observed were functioning as designed - it is thus expected that there will continue to be minimal
impact of the weirs on watershed flood control. In some projects the command areas are being negatively
affected by flooding problems because of an inability to drain incoming flows and impounded rains. The
rehabilitation will solve these problems and thereby improve the situation allowing agriculture to be
productive in these locations and reducing associated health problems. Some of the weirs have been
affected by deposition of sediment upstream. This can affect the river morphology and lead to changes in
habitat and flow regime. The project will install sediment removal gates in these locations that will solve
the problem and return the streams to their previous state. The sediment has also entered the canal
systems, reducing their efficiency and causing potential health problems. The project will result in
improved canal system maintenance by the benefiting farmers that will regularly remove this trapped silt.
21.    Impacts on drainage including surface water quality and waterlogging of soils. The
improved management of the irrigation system will have a positive impact on the waterlogging of soils
and a minor negative impact on surface water quality. The current situation is one where there is usually
over-irrigation since the farmers simply let the water flow into their fields without concern. This leads to
waterlogging since fields are not properly drained and associated health hazards from disease vectors.
The low level of farm inputs combined with the over-irrigation results in little nutrient loading or
contamination of existing surface water. As a result, large quantities of water are flowing through the
system and returning to the stream for use downstream at about the same quality. With improved
management, there will be an increase in concentration of nutrients and contaminants in the water because
of more efficient use and higher level of inputs. This will occur gradually over time as the project is
implemented and the extension methods prove successful in raising production - it is expected that by the
end of the initial phase of the project most farmers will be utilizing agro-chemicals in their farming
systems. However, there will be much less water draining from the system and returning to the river
downstream. It is anticipated that the small amount of drained water could cause some nutrient loading
and subsequent eutrophication of small ponds and depressions downstream prior to returning to the river
system. Once in the river system, the small amounts of drainage water will be diluted to the point where
they will not contribute to the growth of aquatic weeds or algal blooms downstream.
22.    Impacts of Project Construction. Project construction of irrigation systems and access roads
will involve the use of heavy equipment and manual labour, concrete construction, soil excavation, filling
and compaction. This can cause impacts in terms of the contamination of the site with waste oil and other
residues from the equipment, damage to access roads from the heavy construction vehicles, accidents to
contractor labour and casual labourers hired for the construction work, borrow pits from soil excavation
that fill with wastewater and therefore provide a source for disease vectors, improper disposal of spoil
from cut and fill operations and social impacts from outside labour interacting with the local population.
These potential impacts can be avoided by hiring competent contractors who follow best practice in their
construction work. Construction contracts will be written to detail fully the responsibilities of the
contractors with payment schedules tied to compliance in these issue 3. All contract work must be
inspected during and after completion. It may be necessary to provide training to potential or selected
contractors so that they understand their responsibilities in undertaking the work on the project. If these
steps are followed, it is anticipated that there will be minimal negative impact from the project
construction work.
13 The technical specifications for the project construction works detail many of these requirements. In addition,
there will be consultant support at the CPCU for preparation of standard contracts that will include these
specifications. Clauses 12, 13, 19 and 20 of the "Conditions of Contract" of the Standard Bidding Documents for
"Procurement of Small Works" can be suitably modified for this purpose.


﻿23.    Impact from Pest Management - Background. Use of chemical fungicides, herbicides,
insecticides, molluscicides and rodenticides is currently very low within the project areas. With the
increase in cropping intensity, it is expected that there will be a gradual increase in the problems
encountered with weeds, insect pests, rats and snails as seen elsewhere in the region. Commonly these
problems appear within a few years of intensification of production. It is likely that one of the responses
by farmers will be to increase their use of chemical agents to combat these pests. This could have several
undesirable effects, both direct and indirect. Direct effects include unsafe application with subsequent
ingestion by farmers, incorrect application resulting in unsafe levels of toxic chemical residues in farm
produce and buildup of chemical resistance among pests. Indirect effects include toxic residues entering
the soil, surface water and ground water with subsequent problems for aquatic flora and fauna as well as
the danger of human consumption. These dangers are compounded by the large amount of banned
substances that are available because of the lack of regulation and knowledge within Laos of their
dangers. This is balanced by the high degree of awareness of farmers about Integrated Pest Management
(IPM) including leaf-eating insects and their natural enemies. In addition, the Lao PDR Government has
been discouraging the use of chemical pesticides.
24.    Pest Management Within Project Design. The project will include incorporation of IPM as
part of the extension training of the Farming Systems Extension Workers (FSEW). The FSEW in turn
will provide "farmer field school" type training for groups of farmers in alternatives to chemical use, safe
and proper application methods of chemicals and notification of dangerous substances to be avoided.
Farmers would be trained to minimize damage by rodents and snails through cultural measures and
maintenance of canals. Incorporation of fisheries aspects into irrigation system management will also
provide additional benefits to farmers that would be threatened by increased use of chemicals which are
toxic to fish. A pest management plan will be prepared as part of the Agricultural Services component of
the project during the initial stages of the project to specifically address these issues. As a result, it is
anticipated that the increase in use of chemicals for pest management will be kept under control and the
impact on the environment will be small.
25.    Impact on Fisheries. Fish are the major source of protein for rural Lao people. Surveys have
shown that nearly one hundred percent of rural families engage in fishing activities at some time during
the year. Irrigation systems offer potential for increasing the amount of wild fish and other aquatic
animals caught by local people while using less effort as a result of their providing water year-round and
channeling fish to places where they can be more easily caught. Irrigation systems can also offer good
potential for aquaculture both of indigenous species and exotic species for sale or consumption.
Estimates of the amount of fish that can be caught in rice fields vary from as little as 30-40 kg/ha/cycle to
as much as 350-400 kg/ha/cycle with intensive nutrients and stocking. Certain fish species also
contribute to reducing health problems by eating mosquito larvae and snails as well as some rice pests.
26.    Irrigation systems can also be harmful to fisheries - improved infrastructure can block access of
fish to the system and canals can be heavily fished resulting in no recruitment of fry into the rice fields.
Application of large amounts of chemical insecticides will cause heavy fish mortality as will drying out
canals or fields. However, this is unlikely to occur since farmers value the fish and these concerns will be
raised during irrigation scheme management discussions. The project design recognizes the future role of
fisheries in expanding the benefits for the irrigation systems and will include this within subsequent
project phaseS4. Adjusting the management of the irrigation systems to incorporate wild capture fisheries
concerns would improve the economic benefits of the systems and be compatible with the project
1 This is not included during the initial phase in order to keep project complexity to a minimum based on previous
experiences in implementation of agricultural projects in Lao PDR.


﻿approach. There is considerable existing capacity in fisheries research and extension   that could be
accessed to provide expertise and support for this work. This would provide a positive impact on
fisheries from implementation of the project.
Impacts on Health
27.    Impact of improved household nutrition and income. The largest impact of the proposed
project will be the higher production of rice and other agricultural produce enabled through the
rehabilitation of the irrigation systems. This will improve household food security and produce a surplus
that can be sold or traded for needed cash or other goods. It will have numerous multiplier benefits such
as improved education for children who will also study better because of being well-fed. Families will be
able to purchase needed preventative and curative medicines and make longer-term investments that they
would otherwise not be able to make because of living day-to-day. The government will benefit by
generating overall rice surpluses and not having to invest as much in supporting people in these areas.
28.    Impact on disease vectors. A major source of concern for irrigation system development is the
potential proliferation of disease vectors such as mosquitoes for malaria and dengue fever, snails for
schistosomiasis and rats for leptospirosis. Introduction of water into the project areas particularly during
the dry season can provide a new habitat for these vectors - they particularly favour polluted stagnant
water sources. The assurance of water availability in the wet season could also increase disease vectors at
critical times. However, the improved management and drainage that will be implemented under the
proposed project will also reduce the potential sites where these vectors might proliferate. In particular
the project will ensure that farmers do a better job of canal maintenance, a major source of these disease
vectors at the present time. Thus, proper implementation of the planned project could well reduce the
number of disease vectors in the project areas.
29.    Impact on malaria incidence. Malaria is a major cause of serious illness in Laos, although it is
likely that the incidence is overstated due to any high fever being classified as "malaria" (see Table 2).
The incidence rate is closely tied to a number of factors, ranging from the geographic (topography,
elevation and forest cover) to socio-economic and cultural factors. The lowland plains and floodplains
are largely malaria-free - the area where most malaria occurs are the foothills near small streams with an
altitude of 400 meters to 1,000 meters. However, farmers mentioned malaria as a health concern in most
of the project sites visited. The National Malaria Control Program (NMCP) is supported by four major
projects along with a number of smaller NGOs and other international aid organizations. The NMCP
works through the government with a combination of early detection and treatment (EDT), and
information and education campaign (IEC) to educate villagers on the causes and prevention of the
disease. A study by one of the agencies noted that in almost every area where their program is
implemented, malaria falls from 25-27% to 0. However, in areas with irrigation, the numbers consistently
fall to 5-6% only. They are implementing a study to determine the reasons why. Thus, the project will
link with the NMCP program in implementing malaria prevention within project locations where it is
identified to be a problem. This will have a net positive impact on the incidence of the disease.
30.    Impact on dengue fever incidence. Dengue fever is transmitted by a mosquito that breeds in
stagnant clear water sources such as uncovered water jars and old tires that collect rainfall. The
symptoms of dengue are a high fever with rashes and bleeding, and the disease can be fatal for children.
Dengue fever is particularly prevalent around living quarters rather than in rice fields and the proposed
irrigation works will not provide increased habitat for the mosquito vector. In terms of water supply, the
15 This includes the projects of the Mekong River Commission in cooperation with the Living Aquatic Resources
Research Center (LARReC) of the National Agriculture and Forestry Research Institute (NAFRI) of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Forestry (MAF) and the Rural Development Center (RDC) based in Savannakhet Province.


﻿project will focus on drilled wells and shallow wells, which are not breeding grounds for the mosquito
vector unlike waterjars. Therefore it is felt that the project will not result in an increase in dengue fever
incidence and this is not a significant impact.
Table 2: Malaria situation in 1999"
Province          No. of Malaria   No. of       Blood Film      Positive     No. of Deaths
Cases      Hospitalized     Taken
Cases
Attapeu               5954          1107          4847           1438             25
Champassak            21510         4281          17229          2331             68
Khammouane            21968         3023          18945          3225             18
Saravane              8368          4209          4159           1716             63
31.    Impact on schistosomiasis incidence. Schistosomiasis has been a serious problem in the Khone
Falls area of the Mekong River just above the Cambodia border. The vector is a river snail whose
preferred habitat is rocks on sandy islands, 3-4 meters deep in flowing water. The snail can be found in
some tributaries in shallow, fast-running water and has been pumped into irrigation systems from the
Mekong River. However, it doesn't survive within the irrigation canals or rice paddy; there does not
appear to have been further incidences of schistosomiasis in irrigation projects that are near to the habitat
in Southern Laos. It is thus felt that this constitutes a minor threat for farmer health and is of no
significant impact for the proposed projects.
32.    Impact on leptospirosis incidence. Leptospirosis is a debilitating disease spread through
bacteria that is spread mainly through rat urine that has only recently started to appear mainly in
Northeast Thailand. It has been particularly prevalent during the 2000 wet season where the combination
of prolonged and widespread flooding has caused an epidemic resulting in over 200 deaths. There have
yet to be any reports of the disease in Laos; however given the similarity of conditions in Laos and in
Northeast Thailand this is an issue of concern. The project will likely result in an increase of rats
particularly in the dry season when the spread of the disease is not a concern. However, the agricultural
extension will focus on ways to reduce rat populations and better management of drainage so that flooded
conditions do not prevail over long periods of time. Thus it is felt that the project will result in reduced
spread of this disease should it eventually become prevalent in southern Laos.
33.    Impact on liver fluke incidence. Liver fluke is a common parasitic disease in Laos that is
mainly transmitted through the widespread cultural practice of eating raw fish in a dish called "goi".
People who have the parasite defecate in rice fields, fish eat the parasite and then the people eat the
uncooked fish. It is estimated by some that over 80% of the rural Lao people are infected by this parasite
over the course of their lives, many having been first infected as children. The proposed project is likely
to increase the incidence of liver fluke because of the expected higher amount of fish that will be
harvested from the rice fields. The parasite is not fatal, but can be debilitating and should be avoided.
Many villagers during the field visit were aware of the cause of the liver fluke being the raw fish dish, but
still regularly ate it because it was among their favourite foods. Improved sanitation and hygiene along
with the health messages that will be provided by the health extension work supported in the project will
start to address the behavioural changes necessary to reduce the incidence of liver flukes.
34.    Impact of water supply projects. The project intends to construct a number of sanitary water
points in the project villages including drilled wells with hand pumps and shallow wells. These water
points will be a significant improvement over the existing water sources of the villagers and so will have a
16 Source: Institute for Malaria, Parasitology and Entomology, Vientiane.


﻿positive impact on health. The water points will be constructed using best practice, including proper well
siting with no unsealed openings and adequate drainage and disposal of wastewater. A larger concern in
terms of sanitation and hygiene are behavioural practices that were observed during the site visits. There
appears to be a low awareness of the importance of hygiene, and it is felt that even a proper water point
will have a limited impact because of poor handling and use of the water. Thus, this project component
includes an emphasis on water use education to address the root cause of poor hygienic practice. An
additional concern is the possibility that the water source may be contaminated with high levels of
contaminants. In particular, arsenic has been found in the region at high enough levels to be of concern.
It is expected that this may only be an issue in the areas of alluvial soils, which comprise many of the
project locations. Thus a program of initial testing and on-going monitoring is included in the project to
ensure that the water source is providing the positive impact intended. This will be carried out by the
National Center for Environment, Health and Water Supply who will also train the beneficiaries and staff
as part of the capacity-building activities of the project.
35.    Impact of canals on sanitation. In some of the projects visited, the canals were being used for
waste disposal including dumping of trash and food by-products as well as for bathing and washing
laundry and cooking utensils. Animals were also using the canals for drinking water and defecation -
reports indicate that it is not uncommon for canals to be used for human defecation when there are houses
nearby. The canals would then transport biological and chemical contaminants into the rice fields where
they would come in contact with agricultural workers leading to higher incidence of diarrheal and
parasitic diseases. It would also provide a potential avenue for the spread of cholera. It is not possible to
physically prevent this from happening - therefore it must be addressed through education and awareness
raising among the people who live near the canal. Fortunately in most places these people are also those
who would benefit from the rehabilitation of the irrigation systems. Thus it is expected that through the
health extension messages emphasizing the proper sanitary practices would reduce the incidences of
improper use of the canals for waste transport. It is clear that the current situation will not be better than
the situation after the project as the canals exist already and are transporting waste into the project areas.
The canals will be cleaned and reshaped and the people better informed about sanitary and hygienic
practices. Therefore the impact of the project on this aspect will be positive.
36.    Alternatives to project. The irrigation schemes all presently exist and no new schemes are to be
constructed under the project. The alternatives to the project interventions in these areas thus are to
simply leave the schemes in their present condition as it is not possible to relocate the irrigation works or
the command areas they serve. It has been noted that the existing schemes have a number of problems
including poor utilization of water resources, low production of food crops and negative environmental
health effects. The initial construction of the weirs has already affected the fisheries resource and this
will not be significantly altered by rehabilitation of the schemes except to be improved through the
measures outlined within this document. The project design has examined the schemes from agricultural,
technical and economical perspectives using qualified experts with input from the local people and
through local institutions. It is therefore felt that the present alternative is the most suitable to achieve the
project goals with the addition of the measures proposed within this environmental assessment and
management plan.
E. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN (EMP)
37.    In order to address the negative impacts identified in the screening and to accentuate and increase
the positive impacts, the following mitigation, management and monitoring measures are proposed. The
plan includes incorporating the checklists and matrices mentioned previously and identifies training


﻿requirements and institutional responsibilities. Approximate costs are included for implementing the
proposed plan and potential sources of support are noted'.
Catchment-Based Natural Resource Management Training
38. Rationale and design. The need for participatory exercises to integrate natural resource
management concerns on a catchment basis was described previously for projects that are near to their
upper catchments and which have significant impacts on aquatic resources (9 of the 21 projects). This
will raise awareness and capacity for the local people to protect the upper watersheds to ensure the
sustainability of the water source and for soil conservation. It will enable incorporation of local and
basinwide fisheries concerns into project design and operation. It will provide a forum and a set of tools
and data developed by the local people as a first step for their own management of the natural resources in
the project area watersheds. It is suggested that the project adapt the existing "Participatory NBCA
Management System" guidelines for use. These guidelines are compatible with the bottom-up
participatory irrigation approach and can be integrated easily within the project's participatory irrigation
management process. In fact, the tools and methodology will provide assistance for developing methods
and training for forming water user groups. This methodology has already been implemented in many
places throughout Laos, including in Champassak and Khammouane Provinces. Thus there are an
existing group of staff located at the Provincial and District Department of Forestry offices who have
been trained in and are experienced in working with villagers using this participatory methodology. It is
proposed to pilot the activity in one of the schemes and extend it to the remaining 8 schemes afterwards.
39.    Requirements. The existing methodology was developed for NBCA management, so must be
adapted to better incorporate the specific concerns of the project. Specifically, the irrigation and fisheries
aspects must be integrated within the existing process. There is a need for consulting services by those
familiar with the existing process and with participatory irrigation management to adapt and refine the
model for the project in partnership with local staff. Fisheries expertise could be accessed through
existing projects. The proposed consultancy would include developing the project model, testing it in one
of the first schemes to be implemented, refining it based on this initial trial, training of trainers for the
provincial staff, and then on-going training and implementation of the process in the identified projects.
In terms of implementation, a core provincial team of trainers would work with the district staff, run the
planning exercises with the villages, then leave follow-on activities with the district staff, providing
backup services as required. The costs required for this are estimated below:
Table 3: Costs for Catchment-Based Natural Resource Management Training
Item                                          Unit     Quantity    Unit Cost       Total Cost
or Value
Technical Assistance
International Consultant Participatory Planning8  Month   2           $8,000             $16,000
Local Consultant Team 10-15 persons          Month         2           $3,750              $7,500
Village Planning Sessions
Per diems. materials, transportation. etc.   Village      30             $500             $15.000
Total Cost                                                                                $38,500
17 The costs and details for implementation of the EMP will be finalized during Appraisal.
" This might be able to be covered through local consultants familiar with the NBCA process. This would result in
reduced costs. The determination of the consultant will be made during project implementation. There may also be
a cost requirement to access local fisheries expertise through existing institutions. Therefore the costs should remain
as listed in order to be indicative.


﻿Investigation of Fisheries Management Issues for Weir Projects
40.    Background. The environmental assessment noted the consensus view of fisheries experts that
small- and medium-scale weirs will have an impact on the basinwide fisheries resource because they
block migratory pathways. They also agree that there is insufficient research and data to conclusively
support their objective judgements and that there has yet to be a proper installation of alternative fish pass
designs that would enable a comparative analysis. It must furthermore be noted that the weirs already
exist and that the modifications to their design are not as critical in terms of impact as their initial
installation. However, the initial installation was unlikely to have been examined in terms of its
environmental impact. Review of the watershed maps of the projects indicate that the most critical weirs
with respect to their impact on aquatic resources are likely the Nongkon and Houay Namsai Weirs located
in Phatoumphone District of Champassak Province. These weirs are above the floodplain, and therefore
form a barrier to fisheries whereas weirs within the floodplain do not because they are regularly
overtopped. Their stream sources flow from the Dong Hua Sao wetlands within the Dong Hua Sao
NBCA. These wetlands are of national importance because they support a number of rare or endangered
species including the Siamese Crocodile. They are noted as areas of rich fisheries and have outstanding
potential for ecotourism.
41. Rationale. Several fisheries experts have suggested that construction of fish passes is justified -
recent research into fish passes indicates that there is promise for using "vertical slot" designs for fish
passesl9. The current weight of scientific research on the resource in the project area and the effects of
the weirs though is insufficient to conclusively demonstrate that this investment would be required or that
the fish pass would certainly address the negative effects. Given the clear importance of fisheries in the
project area and the uncertainty over the effects of the weirs on the resource, the project offers an
opportunity to contribute to the overall understanding of the situation, train the irrigation staff about these
issues and to pilot test potential mitigation measures. It is proposed that the project support technical
training of project staff on fisheries issues including scientific survey methods. The data thus collected
during project implementation would contribute to field research that is currently underway through the
on-going fisheries projects in Lao PDR20. At the same time, the staff would gain an increased
understanding of the resource, knowledge of survey methods and improved interaction with the fisheries
expertise and institutions working in the project areas. Based on the results of this field research, it may
be possible to justify the investment for retrofitting fish passes into one or more of the most critical weirs
as a pilot project to examine their utility in mitigating any observed negative effects. Alternatively, the
Lao PDR Government may decide based on the opinions of the fisheries experts to install a fish pass on a
key structure initially in order to better compare the effects on fisheries with the other projects.
42.    Design. A consultant will be required to prepare the design of the field research including the
best locations for the research, the type of data to be collected, how often and when it should be collected,
collection methods, institutional framework, training needs, linkages with on-going programs, monitoring
requirements and indicators. After the program is designed, the participating staff will be trained by local
institutions in scientific survey methods following the recommendations. The data will be collected in
cooperation with the personnel from the fisheries projects who will provide additional training and
These designs are a variation on the "submerged orifice" type of fish pass and provide excellent energy
dissipation while being able to operate over a wide range of flows and head differences of up to 5-6 meters. The fish
pass would require a maximum slope of 1:10 so it is anticipated that it would be able to be retrofitted into the
existing weirs for a reasonable cost. See Warren, Terry J. and Niklas S. Mattson, 2000. Can Fish Passes Mitigate
the Impacts of Water-Related Development on Fish Migrations in the Mekong Basin? Paper presented at Living
Aquatic Resources Research Center (LARReC); Vientiane.
20 See footnote 10 for a listing of the various experts working on fisheries projects in Lao PDR who would be
interested in the data, in providing training and in examining any pilot fish passes.


﻿support and who will analyze the data. The knowledge gained will be fed back into the participating staff
and agencies to assist in determining whether a pilot fish pass might be required for a comparative study.
The fisheries project staff will be able to assist in the design, costing and operation recommendations for
any fish passes to be installed.
43.     Requirements. The consultant will be a locally-based international fisheries expert, there are
several candidates available in the area who would be suitable for this work. They would recommend
upon the requirements for the training and which institutions would best be able to provide it for a
reasonable cost. Additional costs are required to support the field data collection and for follow-up
training and analysis work. The costs for the installation of a retrofitted vertical slot weir are also
included as an option for consideration by the Lao PDR. This would best address the requirements for a
comparative study of the fisheries resource in the project area and the effectiveness of this mitigation
measure and could be implemented at the beginning of the project or following the field research.
Table 4: Costs for investigation of fisheries management issues for weir projects.
Item                                           Unit      Quantity    Unit Cost       Total Cost
or Value
Technical Assistance
International Consultant Program Design       Month         I            $8.000              $8.000
Local Institution for Technical Training. Follow-up  Month  2            $5.000             $10,000
Field Data Collection Costs
Equipment, labour, per diems, materials, transportation  Lump Sum  I    $25.000             $25,000
Total Cost                                                                                  $43.000
Table 5: Optional retrofitting of fish pass.
Item                                           Unit      Quantity    Unit Cost       Total Cost
or Value
Technical Assistance
International Consultant Fish Pass Adaptation Design  Month  1.5         $8,000             $12.000
Local Civil Engineer for Structural Design     Month        2             $500               $1,000
Construction Cost
Concrete, reinforcement steel, labour, equipment. etc.  Structure  1    $75,000             $75,000
Total Cost                                                                                  $88,000
Incorporation of Fisheries Considerations in Irrigation Management Plans
44.     Rationale and design. Irrigation projects can be either beneficial or harmful to fisheries
depending on how they are managed. Incorporation of fisheries aspects into irrigation system
management does not require major changes in system design or construction, nor in total areas cropped.
The most important aspects required are to allow recruitment of small fry into the rice fields at the
beginning of the cropping season, preventing trapping and fishing of the canals, ensuring that water levels
are maintained in canals during recruitment and in fields afterwards and to support more organic farming
methods. If these measures are taken, it is expected that an additional benefit of approximately 100-200
kg of fish per hectare per cropping season will be attained without significant loss in cropped area or yield
and without requiring stocking or feeding. There will be corollary benefits in terms of larvivorous fish
eating mosquito larvae, herbivorous fish eating weeds in canals and fish eating other harmful pests. As
all irrigators are also fishers, it is anticipated that these measures will be popular and easily adopted. The
input required would be to provide guidelines, training and extension materials to support incorporation


﻿of these basic operation considerations into irrigation scheme management. There is room for more
intensification of fisheries within the project areas, however this will be addressed in subsequent phases
of the project.
45.    Requirements. There are a number of local institutions that are working on improving fisheries
management within the rural Lao milieu. Contact will be made with the fisheries expertise available at
LARReC to acquire existing materials for extension work and for advice on how to implement fisheries
design in irrigation projects. The Rural Development Center in Savannakhet could also offer training
courses and backup support for these efforts at a low cost. These projects all work within the Lao
government structure so there are Lao field staff available who could be accessed for the cost of per diems
and transportation to provide follow-up, field visits and backup support.
Table 6: Costs for incorporating fisheries concerns into irrigation management.
Item                                          Unit     Quantity    Unit Cost       Total Cost
or Value
Technical Assistance
Local training course design and delivery    Month         I           $5.000              $5,000
Local experts providing on-site follow-up and support  Month  6         $300               $1,800
Materials Costs
Extension materials, per diems, transportation  Lump Sum   I           $4,000              $4,000
Total Cost                                                                                $10,800
Study of Saline Soils and Ground Water in Thakek District, Khammouane Province
46.    Rationale and Design. The western part of Khammouane Province is part of the Khorat Plateau
geologically, and consists of old alluvium overlying what used to be part of a sea. Thus, there are saline
layers close to the surface in many places, as evidenced by salt farming of ground water that takes place
in Thakek District. Unlike the rest of the project areas, these locations therefore have a potential source
of salinity that must be investigated. Should a possible source of salinity be located in the soils or in the
ground water near the surface, management measures will have to be implemented to avoid possible
salinization of the soil because of irrigation.
47.    Requirements. An investigation of the area will be required including sampling of existing
wells, drilling in selected locations, laboratory analysis of the soils and groundwater to establish the depth
and concentration of the saline layers and analysis to provide recommendations for management.
Expertise to deal with this issue exists both at the Irrigation Department and at the National Agriculture
and Forestry Institute (NAFRI).
Table 7: Costs for saline soils and ground water investigations, Thakek District
Item                                          Unit     Quantity    Unit Cost       Total Cost
or Value
Technical Assistance
Local consulting costs                       Month         I        $2,000                 $2,000
Materials Costs
Per diems, transportation, field costs, labour  Lump Sum   1        $2,000                 $2,000
Total Cost                                                                                 $4,000
Compensation Flows for Downstream Wetlands


﻿48.    Rationale and design. There are three instances of wetlands being located downstream of
projects. In one situation, the wetlands are small and are fed by a number of sources, only one of which is
an irrigation project (Thongwai Weir). In this case, the project will likely have a minimal impact on the
wetland and compensation flows will not be required. In the case of the Samong I and II scheme (Attapeu
Province), there are wetlands located within the scheme's command area as well as significant wetlands
below. The wetlands below (Xe Kong wetlands within the Xe Piane NBCA) are being supplied by a
large river system so are likely minimally affected by the irrigation scheme. However the wetland within
the scheme area (Nong Poodon) and others nearby may well be affected if they have not already been
converted into rice paddy. These wetlands must be inspected to determine their condition and whether
they have ecological value. If they do, a management plan will have to be worked out to conserve the
wetlands including provision of good quality compensation flows from the irrigation system during
implementation. A similar situation exists with the Nong Sam wetlands downstream of the Thongpha
scheme (Champassak Province). The wetland must be inspected to determine if it has ecological value,
then a management plan must be worked out based on the results.
49.    Requirements. Initial inspection of the areas will be made during project appraisal by the
irrigation and environmental consultants in cooperation with local institutions. This will be sufficient to
determine the level of study required. It seems a good possibility that the wetlands in question have
already been converted into rice paddy or aquaculture schemes based on the survey of the areas in 1996.
If that is the case, then no further action is required. If this is not the case, then it additional surveys will
be required from qualified wetland ecologists to determine the value of the wetlands and compensation
flow requirements from the irrigation schemes. Additional survey work should be part of project
implementation during early stages to satisfy whether these schemes can be adequately managed for both
irrigation and preservation of wetlands. If not, the schemes should be removed from the project and
replaced by alternative schemes.
Table 8: Costs for wetlands survey and management consultancy
Item                                      Unit     Quantity   Unit Cost     Total Cost
or Value
Technical Assistance
Wetlands ecologist from locally-based organization
working in the field                      Month       I        $5.000              $5.000
Materials Costs
Per diems, transportation, field costs. labour  Lump Sum  I    $2.000              $2,000
Total Cost                              __$7,000
Support for National Malaria Control Program (NMCP) Impregnated Bed Net Program
50.    Rationale and design. It is recognized that malaria is a significant health problem in many
places in Laos, and it was noted to be prevalent in most of the project sites visited. While there appears to
be a base threshold below which malaria incidence will not fall in areas where there is irrigation,
following the NMCP program method will significantly reduce the amount of malaria in the project areas
below the current levels. It is thus recommended to provide funding to the NMCP for them to implement
the Impregnated Bed Net (IBN) program in project villages where there are cases of malaria.


﻿51.    Requirements. The NMCP program is well defined and experienced in delivering impregnated
bed nets, IEC materials and supervising and training Village Health Volunteers as required. The program
requires budget for recurrent funding as detailed below  .
Table 9: Costs for National Malaria Control Program in project villages
Item                                       Unit     Quantity   Unit Cost      Total Cost
or Value
Recurrent Costs
IBN program in average village of 50 families  Village  70       $226               $15.820
Total Cost                                                                           $15,820
Environmental Monitoring
52.    Rationale and Design. In order to ensure that the implementation of the projects has been done
according to the design and that no unforeseen negative effects have been generated, it is necessary to
have a program of on-going monitoring of the identified environmental concerns. The project design
follows the philosophy of the Lao government with respect to environmental issues. Each line agency is
responsible for environmental concerns within its purview with guidance and support from the Science,
Technology and Environment Agency (STEA). Thus, it does not make sense to set up a separate
environmental monitoring unit - instead the line ministry staff will be monitoring the environmental
concerns as part of their regular work.
53.    Agricultural Monitoring. The recommended agency for the agricultural monitoring work is the
Provincial Agriculture and Forestry Service (PAFS), specifically the Extension Training Units (ETU)
within the PAFS. They will collect samples as required in the field and send them to Vientiane for
analysis. They will observe the project locations for other indicators following checklists that have been
prepared for irrigation projects by the SRIDP project. Should problems be found with soil or water
quality, they will recommend remedial action according to the situation and following the guidance of the
STEA support staff12. The following specific environmental indicators for agriculture are suggested for
monitoring on an annual basis, more often if a problem is indicated or observed in the field:
* Irrigation water quality - standard tests including sediment load, total dissolved solids (TDS),
salinity (electrical conductivity), sodium adsorption ratio (SAR), chlorides, boron, nitrogen and
pH.
*  Soils - inspect for signs of salinization, laboratory sample if problem observed.
*  Drainage water quality - agro-chemical residues (check based on chemical being used in
agriculture), dissolved oxygen, Total Coliform, check receiving water bodies for excessive weed
growth as indicator of nutrient loading.
54.    Drinking water monitoring. The recommended agency for implementing and monitoring
drinking water supply and to provide water use, sanitation and hygiene education and training is the
Public Health Engineering Department in consultation with the Ministry of Health (National Center for
21 There are several options for this program depending on the required contribution from the target beneficiaries.
Options for funding depend on whether villagers pay for the nets and deltamethrine themselves or if they are
provided by the government. The costs are as follows: (a) 100% subsidy ($226/village), (b) 50% subsidy
($153/village) and (c) No subsidy ($81/village).
22 1he STEA support staff at national and provincial level will receive training that includes possible remedial
actions that can follow identified problems.


﻿Environment and Health and Water Supply - Nam Sa-at). The agency will collect data during the
construction of the water point, will initially sample the well water after running a pump test and will
sanitize the well. A set of standard forms will be created to enable the staff to easily collect the required
data at the site. Training will be required to enable the staff to collect the necessary data, with follow-up
training on an annual basis. Currently, there are only laboratory facilities in Vientiane Province and at the
Central Office of Nam Sa-at. Thus the staff must be trained on sampling and send the samples to
Vientiane for testing and entering in the Nam Sa-at database. The data that will be collected includes:
*  Character of local hydro-geology including the nature of the soil and the underlying porous strata
as well as the thickness of the water-bearing formation and depth to the water table.
*  Location, log and construction details of the local wells, whether operating or abandoned.
*  Extent of recharge area likely to contribute water to the supply.
*  Nature of and distance and direction to local sources of pollution.
*  Dry season flow of surface water sources.
*   Sustainable aquifer yield based on pump test.
*  Anticipated daily demand.
*  Physical quality of water including pH, odour and taste, turbidity, conductivity and TDS.
*  Chemical quality of water including arsenic concentrations23, fluoride, hardness, iron, manganese
and nitrates.
*  Bacteriological quality of ground and surface water sources (Total Coliform).
55.    Public health monitoring. The recommended agency for the public health monitoring work is
the District Public Health Service through their regular work at district level. They would collect regular
information from the district health centers and Village Health Volunteers regarding incidence of specific
diseases that would be provided to the Provincial Public Health Office for collation with the provincial
hospital statistics. The specific public health indicators to be collected are:
*  Incidence of malaria and dengue fever.
*  Incidence of unusual diseases that could potentially be schistosomiasis or leptospirosis.
*  Incidence of diarrheal outbreaks.
*  Incidence of liver fluke.
56.    Fisheries monitoring. The recommended agency for the fisheries impact monitoring is the
DAFS with support from the available fisheries projects at LARReC and the MRC. The monitoring
would include sampling the fish species and numbers including the use of the fish passes according to the
recommendations of the fisheries consultant. They would survey the villagers upstream and downstream
of the weirs to determine whether the amount of fish they are catching has increased, decreased or stayed
constant as well as the amount of effort they have been using to catch fish. They would note if there have
been reports of high fish mortality because of increased chemical usage within the irrigation schemes.
The design and training for the fisheries monitoring will be arranged with the concemed fisheries
projects.
57.    Requirements. Environmental monitoring efforts would be integrated as much as possible
within the on-going regular work of the line agency staff. As a result, for the PAFS and Nam Sa-at staff,
there is no need to designate additional funding for the work. Costs for the sampling equipment and
testing can be allocated from the budgets for the irrigation scheme rehabilitation and drinking water
supply construction since they will be relatively small. For the District Public Health Service, there will
23 These will be tested on site using standard test kits. These kits test to 50 ppls while WHO standards are 10 ppls,
but they provide a cheap way to identify where there may be serious contamination worthy of more exact testing.


﻿need to be payment of per diems, transportation costs and reporting costs to enable them to provide
reports on a regular basis to the project. These funds however should be quite small and can be taken
from the costs allocated to the provincial governments for the regular project work. Therefore no
additional costs are allocated for the monitoring work. This will be confirmed along with the potential
requirements for contingency funding to address concerns identified through the monitoring activities.
Incorporation of Environmental Concerns in Extension Work
58.    Methodology. The design of the environmental management plan is to incorporated
environmental concerns specific to project activities within the regular work of the staff whose duties it is
to implement the work in the different sectors. The staff need to be supported in this work by being
trained to recognize what are the environmental issues in their work, what alternatives there are to address
the issues, how one can extend the knowledge in a practical way to farmers and contractors and how one
can follow up and monitor the results. In addition to training, they will need some tools to assist them in
their field work. Tools will include checklists and matrices of environmental issues that need to be
examined during the design, implementation, operation and maintenance of project activities. Where
such checklists and matrices exist, for example the Environmental Checklist for Initial Environmental
Examination of irrigation projects prepared by the Department of Irrigation, these will be utilized.
Additional materials will be developed to support the different field work including extension materials
for information and education campaigns. The additional materials will be developed by the
environmental consultants and monitoring and evaluation consultants supported through the project and
already budgeted. The extension workers will need to have regular supervision and follow-up to see how
the work is going, what improvements might be made and support for their identified needs and problems
they encounter in their work. The STEA agency staff at national and provincial level will fulfill this role
- training will be provided to them through the capacity-building activities supported under the project.
Institutional Strengthening and Training
57.    General. The legislative, regulatory and institutional framework for environmental issues is new
and evolving. As a result, there is little experience upon which to base the design of the environmental
aspects of the project. At the same time, this provides a real opportunity to assist the government to gain
practical experience and provide feedback based on that experience into the nascent process. The
relatively low risk associated with the project activities and the many positive impacts the project will
have on the environment make it ideal for building capacity and awareness at all levels.
58.    Roles and responsibilities. The national Science, Technology and Environment Agency (STEA)
will provide guidelines on the environmental law and various other considerations that will be
incorporated in sustainable project development. They will provide direction and coordination to the
Environmental Management and Monitoring Units (EMMU) at the line ministries at national level and
provincial level. The staff of the line ministries will develop overall plans for the implementation of their
project activities that follow the direction and guidelines of the STEA, while providing feedback in terms
of reports. The provincial staff of the line agencies will take the overall plans and develop specific action
plans for the project work that incorporates the regulations and guidelines for environmental assessment
and management. There are STEA staff based in all of the project provinces in newly-established offices
who will assist them in understanding the guidelines and adapting the projects to include environmental
considerations and address issues of concern. The provincial staff will then direct and supervise the
district staff in implementing the plans including training them in the environmental issues and
regulations and providing backup support.
59.    Requirements. There is a need for outside consulting services to assist in the development of the
checklists, matrices and extension materials specific to the project and to develop training courses and to


﻿train provincial and national trainers to deliver them. The consultants would coordinate with the national
STEA to ensure that the materials and courses developed are compatible with the environmental
legislation, direction and guidelines. They would develop the materials courses jointly with the EMMU
of the concerned ministries and work with them to train the provincial staff so that the EMMU staff are
capable of providing support and guidance to the provincial level work. There will be a need for annual
follow up including training needs assessment and refresher courses. The costs for the consultants, and
training of trainers are included in the technical assistance allocated to the project. The duties can be
supported through the training and extension advisor in cooperation with the training coordinator with
support from the monitoring and evaluation specialist.


﻿ANNEX 1: SCHEDULE
Date             Location             Activities
22 August 2000   Vientiane            Arrival in Vientiane.
Initial meeting with Steering Committee at Ministry of
Agriculture and Forestry.
Initial team meeting.
23 August 2000   Vientiane            Review of project documents and maps.
Arranged meetings with Lao Government Agencies and
International Organizations.
24 August 2000   Vientiane            Meetings at Living Aquatic Resources Research Center
(LARReC) and Department of Livestock and Fisheries,
EU Malaria Programme, IUCN.
25 August 2000   Vientiane            Meetings with WHO, LARReC, MSTI Laos.
Arranged for digital data acquisition.
Continued document review.
26 August 2000   Pakse                Travel to Pakse, Champassak Province.
Meetings with IUCN Biodiversity Project at the
Department of Forestry Office.
Various team meetings.
27 August 2000   Pakse                Meetings with IUCN Non-Timber Forest Products
Project
Review of project documents and maps.
28 August 2000   Pakse                Project Pre-Appraisal Workshop with representatives of
all four project provinces.
29 August 2000   Pathoumphone         Field trips to Nongkan Weir scheme, Pathoumphone
District, Champassak  Pump/Weir scheme, Houay Namsai Weir scheme
30 August 2000   Paksong, Bachiang,   Field trips to Thongwai Weir scheme, Houay Palai
Pakse Districts,     Weir scheme, Houay Ngang Weir scheme and Km. 8
Champassak           Weir scheme.
31 August 2000   Saravane, Wapee      Field trip to Nongden Weir scheme, Dongmon Weir
Districts, Saravane  scheme.
1 September 2000  Saravane District,  Meetings with Provincial Irrigation Service Office and
Saravane             Provincial Science, Technology and Environment
Office.
Field trip to Houay Lat Weir scheme (unsuccessful).
2 September 2000  Savannakhet         Arrival in Savannakhet.
Meetings with Rural Development Committee and
Department of Livestock and Fisheries Office.
Arranged for vehicle rental for trip to Khammouane.


﻿3 September 2000 Takhek District,     Arrival in Takhek.
Khammouane           Field trip to Sangom Weir scheme.
Meetings with Provincial Primary Health Care Office.
4 September 2000 Nhommalat District,  Meetings with Provincial Irrigation Service Office.
Khammouane           Field trip to Thatot Weir scheme, Naphoxay pump
scheme.
5 September 2000 Vientiane           Returned to Vientiane by bus.
6 September 2000 Vientiane           Meetings with Nam Sa-at, World Bank.
Wrap-up Meeting with Ministry of Agriculture and
Forestry.
7 September 2000 Vientiane           Meetings with MRC Watershed Classification Project,
UNICEF, Danida.
Received digital datasets from MRC.
8 September 2000 Vientiane           Meetings with NAFRI, Institute of Malariology,
Parasitology & Entomology, Ministry of Health,
NAWACOP, MSTI Laos, EU Malaria Project.
Collected documents from various libraries.
9 September 2000 Phnom Penh,         Departure from Vientiane via Bangkok.
Cambodia             Returned to Phnom Penh.
10-18 September  Phnom Penh,         Processed LandSAT imagery and GIS data for project
2000             Cambodia            analysis.
3-8. 19-23, 28-31  Phnom Penh,       Report research and writing.
October 2000     Cambodia


﻿ANNEX 2: PERSONS CONTACTED
A. Lao Government Staff
The following staff were met individually or accompanied the Consultant on field trips. This list of
staff does not include the many people met during the larger meetings during the mission or the
members of the members of the Steering Committee.
Dr. Boon Keomanyvong
Chief of Hygiene Division
National Center of Environmental Health and Water Supply
Khammone Khamchanh
Deputy Director
Provincial Irrigation Service Office
Saravane Province
Khamsone Khamlasy
Deputy-Director
Tourism Office of Khammouane Province
Tongphat Leungkhamma
Director of Forest Inventory Planning Committee
NAFRI - National Agriculture and Forestry Research Institute
Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
Douangchith Litdamlong
Chief of Livestock and Fisheries Division
Provincial Agriculture and Forestry Service Office
Coordinator, Rural Development Center
Savannakhet Province
Kongkham Miboun
Chief of Water Supply Division
National Center of Environmental Health and Water Supply
Khamphone Nammavaly
Chief of Agriculture and Forestry Office
Wapee District, Saravane Province
Sisouphan Saengsureejan
Project Coordinator
Biodiversity Conservation Project
Department of Agriculture and Forestry
Champassak Province
iaikham Saiyavong
Provincial Irrigation Service Office
Khammouane Province
Dr. Bounpone Sidavong
Vice-Chief of Entomology Section
Institute of Malariology, Parasitology & Entomology
Ministry of Health


﻿Bouakeuam Simma
Chief of Science, Technology and Environment Office
Saravane Province
Souksakhon
Water Supply and Environmental Health Officer
Saravane Province
Padith Vanalathsamee
Deputy-Director of Forestry Section
Department of Agriculture and Forestry
Champassak Province
Soukata Vichit
Director-General
Department of Environment
Science, Technology and Environment Agency
Thavone Vongphosy
Deputy-Chief, Division of EIA Management
Science, Technology and Environment Agency
Dr. Anonh Xeuatvongsa
Primary Health Care Director
Chief of International Cooperation
Khammouane Province
B. International Organizations
Geoff Anderson
Team Leader
ADB Capacity Building for Urban Development Administration Project
Dr. Boissy
Lao Co-Director
Lao PDR-European Union Malaria Control Programme
Thomas Breu
Chief Technical Advisor
Mekong River Commission Watershed Classification Project
Dr. David Coates
Chief Technical Adviser - Assessment of Mekong Fisheries Project
MRC - Mekong River Commission
Victor Cowling
Training Advisor
RDC - Regional Development Committee
fain Craig
Conservation Field Adviser
IUCN - The World Conservation Union
Lao-Swedish Forestry Programme


﻿Dr. Giovanni Deodato
WHO Representative
WHO - World Health Organization
Rafael Diaz Diaz
Project Officer - Rural Water Supply
UNICEF - United Nations Children's Fund
Gerry Duckitt
Agricultural Advisor
NAWACOP Nam Ngum Watershed Management and Conservation Project
Chris Flint
Chief Technical Advisor
IUCN - ICAD Planning for Nam Et/Phu Loy NBCAs
Dr. Simon Funge-Smith
AquacultUre Development Advisor
FAO - Food and Agriculture Agency of the United Nations
Dr. Frank Haegeman
Public Health and Malaria Specialist
Belgian Technical Cooperation
Ministry of Health - World Bank Health System Reform and Malaria Control Project
Wolf D. Hartmann
Chief Technical Adviser
Project for the Management of Reservoir Fisheries in the Mekong River Basin
MRC - Mekong River Commission
Peter Jones
Conservation Field Advisor
IUCN - The World Conservation Union
Lao-Swedish Forestry Programme
Dr. Karl Kaiser
Project Advisor
NAWACOP Nam Ngum Watershed Management and Conservation Project
Niklas Mattson
Fisheries Scientist Adviser
Project for the Management of Reservior Fisheries in the Mekong Basin
Mekong River Commission
Ole S. Pedersen
Dan ida Coordinator
Natural Resources and Environment Programme
St6phane P. Rousseau
European Co-Director
Lao PDR-European Union Malaria Control Programme
Dr. John Storey
Senior Malaria Expert
EU Malaria Control Programme in Cambodia, Lao PDR and Vietnam - Lao PDR Project


﻿Sten Sverdrup-Jensen
Chief Technical Adviser
LARReC - Living Aquatic Resources Research Center
Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
Sengsavanh 0. Vongsiprasom
Senior Programme Assistant
Water and Environmental Sanitation
UNICEF
Dr. John Whiteman
Team Leader/Aid Management Adviser
Asian Development Bank Aid Coordination and Monitoring Project
Rorie Wust
Managing Director
Terran GIS
C. Persons Corresponded With
Sophie Nguyen-Khoa
Renewable Resources Assessment Group
T.H. Huxley School of Environment, Earth Sciences & Engineering
Imperial College
Dr. Tyson Roberts
lcthvologist
Independent Consultant
Terry Warren
Fisheries Biologist
Independent Consultant


﻿ANNEX 3: REFERENCES
A. Irrigation, Water Resources and Agriculture
Connell, John, Sinee Chuangchum and Tonlang Banyanuwong, July 1994. Quaker Service Laos
Small-Scale Irrigation Program Evaluation. Quaker Service Laos; Vientiane.
Dougihertv. T.C. and A.W. Hall, 1995. Environmental Inpact Assessment of Irrigation and Drainage
Projects. FAO Irrigation and Drainage Paper No. 53. Overseas Development Administration of the
United Kingdom (ODA)/FAO; Rome.
SM EC, December 1998. Draft Final Report: Institutional Strengthening of the Water Resources
Coordination Committee. Technical Assistance to the Lao People's Democratic Republic for the
Institutional Strengthening of the Water Resources Coordinating Committee. Asian Development
Bank TA 3006; Vientiane.
GOL, 2000. Decentralised Irrigation Development and Management Project, Lao PDR. Project
Document and Annexes. Asian Development Bank TA No. 3189-Lao. Ministry of Agriculture and
Forestry; Vientiane.
GOL, February 2000. Lao Agricultural Census, 1998/99 Highlights. Steering Committee for the
Agricultural Census, Agricultural Census Office; Vientiane.
GOL, April 2000. Agricultural Development Project: Project Report Volumes I and II. World Bank
Project Document and Annexes. Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry; Vientiane.
Raturi, Rabul et al, September 2000. World Bank Pre-appraisal Mission - Aide-Memoire: Lao
I,ople 's Democratic Republic Proposed Agricultural Development Project. World Bank; Vientiane.
B. Socio-Cultural Information
Chaz6e, Laurent, 1999. The Peoples ofLaos: Rural and Ethnic Diversities. White Lotus Press;
Bangkok.
Evans, Grant (ed.), 2000. Laos: Culture and Society. Silkworm Books; Chiang Mai.
C. Health
Muto, Reiko, 1998. Summary of the Dengue Situation in the Western Pacific Region. Communicable
Diseases Unit, World Health Organization (WHO) Western Pacific Regional Office.
Haegeman, Frank and Rattanaxay Phethsouvanh, March 1999. Operationalization and Financing of
Vector Control through Impregnated Bed Nets in Lao P.D.R. Working Paper. Institute of Malaria,
Parasitology and Entomology; Vientiane.
McLauchlan, Gillian, September 1999. Water Quality Surveillance within the Lao P.D.R. National
Environmental Health and Water Supply Programme. UNICEF/Nam Sa-at; Vientiane.
Vythilingam, Indra, January 2000. Mission Report: Malaria and Vector Control Programmes.
Regional Office for the Western Pacific. WHO; Vientiane.


﻿Rim. Han-Jong. June 2000. Results of Stool Examinationfor Parasitic Infectionfor Schoolchildren in
Vientiane Municipality, Savannakhet and Bolikhamxay Provinces. Letter with data tables to WHO.
Courtesy of WHO Lao PDR; Vientiane.
D. Fisheries
Coates, David and T.A. Redding-Coates, 198 1. Ecological Problems Associated with Irrigation
('anals in the Sudan with Particular Reference to the Spread of Bilharziasis, Malaria and Aquatic
Wf eedh and the Ameliorative Role of Fishes. International Journal of Environmental Studies, 1981,
Vol. 16, pp. 207-212. Gordon and Breach Science Publishers, Inc.; United Kingdom.
Coates. David, 1984. A Survey of the Fish Fauna of SUdanese Irrigation Systems with Reference to
the se of Fishes in the Management ofEcological Problems (the Control fAquatic Weeds, Malaria
and hifective Schistosomiasis). Fisheries Management (1984) 15, No. 3, pp. 81-95; Great Britain.
Redding, Theresa A. and Alex B. Midlen, 1991. Fish Production in Irrigation Canals: A Review.
FAO Fisheries Technical Paper 317. FAO; Rome.
Ho-garth, Daniel D. et al, 1999. Management Guidelines for Asian Floodplain River Fisheries. Part
/: A spatial, hierarchical and integrated strategy for adaptive co-management. FAO Fisheries
Technical Paper 384/1. Department for International Development of the United Kingdom
(DFID)/MRAG Ltd/FAO; Rome.
loggarth, Daniel D. et al, 1999. Management Guidelines for Asian Floodplain River Fisheries. Part
2. Summary ofDFID Research. FAO Fisheries Technical Paper 384/2. Department for International
Development of the United Kingdom (DFID)/MRAG Ltd/FAO; Rome.
Lorenzen, Kai et al, April 1999. Impacts of Irrigation and Aquaculture Development on Small-Scale
Aquatic Resources: Exploratory Studies and Survey Design. T.H. Huxley School of Environment,
Earth Sciences and Engineering, Imperial College of Science, Technology and Medicine; London.
Funge-Smith, Simon and Hans Guttman, 2000. Rice and Fish in Rural Lao PDR: Implications and
Challenges. FAO Aquaculture Production Project Powerpoint Presentation; Vientiane.
Warren, Terry J. and Niklas S. Mattson, 2000. Can Fish Passes Mitigate the Impacts of Water-
Related Development on Fish Migrations in the Mekong Basin? Paper presented at Living Aquatic
Resources Research Center (LARReC); Vientiane.
E. Protected Areas
Claridge, Gordon (compiler), 1996. An Inventory of Wetlands of the Lao P.D.R. The IUCN Wetlands
Programme. IUCN/UNEP; Bangkok.
CESVI. 1998. Environmental Protection and Community Development in Siphandone Wetland,
Chanpasak Province, Lao PDR. Cooperazione e sviluppo in cooperation with Center for Protected
Areas and Watershed Management (CPAWM), Department of Forestry, Agriculture and Forestry
Division, Champassak Province, Khong District; Pakse, Lao PDR.
Danish Ministry of Foreign Affairs/Danida, May 2000. Support to Natural Resource Management in
Southern Provinces of Lao PDR under the Danida Project Identification and Formulation Mission.
Debriefing Note. Natural Resources and Environment Programme, Danida/Lao PDR; Vientiane.
Flint, Chris assisted by Padith Vanalathsamee, May 2000. Integrating Development with
Conservation (Conservation and Development for Guardian Villages) in Dong Houa Sao NBCA. 2


﻿Draft. Report of short-term consultancy for Biodiversity Conservation Project, IUCN with the
Provincial Forestry Office, Champassak Province, Lao PDR; Vientiane.
Danish Ministry of Foreign Affairs/Danida, June 2000. Draft Project Document, Annex 9: Proposed
Pilot Areas. Natural Resources and Environment Programme, Danida/Lao PDR; Vientiane.
Various, July 2000. The Participatory NBCA Management System: A General Description/bfr
Technical Users and Policy Makers. Draft. The Lao-Swedish Forestry
Programme/IUCN/Department of Forestry, Lao PDR; Vientiane.
F. General Environmental
Doolette, John B. and William B. McGrath (editors), 1990. Watershed Development in Asia:
Straegies and Technologies. World Bank Technical Paper Number 127. The World Bank;
Washington D.C.
World Bank, 1991. Environmental Assessment Sourcebook. Volume I: Policies, Procedures, and
CrOsS-Sectoral Issues. World Bank Technical Paper Number 139. Environment Department;
Washington D.C.
World Bank, 1991. Environmental Assessment Sourcebook. Volume II: Sectoral Guidelines. World
Bank Technical Paper Number 139. Environment Department; Washington D.C.
Claridge, Gordon and Xiong Tsechalicha, December 1997. Khammouane Province: A Preliminary
Environmental Inventory. IUCN - The World Conservation Union; Vientiane.
Graham, Douglas J., Kenneth M. Green and Karla McEvoy, October 1998. Environmental Guidelines
fr Social Funds. The World Bank, Latin America and Caribbean Region; Washington D.C.
Duckworth, J.W., R.E. Salter and K. Khounboline (compilers), 1999. Wildlife in Lao PDR: 1999
Status Report. IUCN - The World Conservation Union/Wildlife Conservation Society (WCS)/Center
for Protected Areas and Watershed Management (CPAWM); Vientiane.
World Bank, 1999. Environmental and Social Safeguards: Briefing Book. East Asia Environment
and Social Development Unit. The World Bank; Washington D.C.
G1OL, April 1999. Environmental Protection Law. Final Translation. Chairman of the National
Assembly; Vientiane.
GOL- July 2000. National EnvironmentalAction Plan 2000. Science, Technology and Environment
Agency, Prime Minister's Office, Lao PDR; Vientiane.


