Report No. PID8967
Project Name                     Lao People's Democratic Republic-Agricultural (@
Development Project
Region                           East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                           Irrigation & Drainage; Other Agriculture
Project ID                       LAPE65973
Borrower(s)                      LAO PDR
Implementing Agency
Address MAF
Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
Department of Planning, Ministry of
Agriculture and Forestry, Vientiane.
Lao PDR
Contact Person: Mr. Anonth Khamhung,
Director General
Tel: (856-21) 415 359
Fax: (856-21) 415 363
Email: Maf@laogov.net
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                January 24, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         January 29, 2001
Projected Board Date             May 29, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
The Lao People's Democratic Republic is one of the poorest and least
developed countries in East Asia. Per capita income is low (around US$280
in 1998), and at 39 percent, poverty incidence is high (using 1997/98
data) in a predominantly agricultural, rural economy. Poverty incidence in
the rural areas is much higher; and overall, the central parts of the
country are generally better off in comparison with the South and the
North. The agriculture sector is a major sector of the economy,
contributing well over 50 percent of GDP and providing employment to over
80 percent of the country's labor force. Realizing sustainable growth of
the economy, and bringing about a reduction in overall poverty in the
country, will consequently require the efficient use of resources
allocated for the agriculture sector, and achieving sustained agriculture
growth. However, the prevailing serious macro-economic imbalances, and
more importantly, the severe constraints in institutional and human
resources ability, limit the Government's capacity to effectively design
and implement development policies and programs. Consequently, a sustained
long term commitment is needed for addressing these issues; and the
proposed project should be viewed as the first phase of a long term
program, responding to the Government's Agriculture and Forestry Sector
Development Plan.While the Government had embarked on a path of economic
reforms over the past decade, which also included the agriculture sector
(the past year, however, has been marked by high budget deficits, high
inflation, and a depreciating exchange rate), there are important issues
which need to be addressed in the sector. In particular, in the case of
irrigation, which has attracted the most attention and fiscal resources in



the past three years in the context of pursuing self sufficiency in rice
production (other considerations which have guided this policy have
included the objectives of stabilizing rice production, protecting against
natural calamities such as floods and drought, increasing rural
employment, and supporting crop diversification and agricultural
intensification), investments need to be supported by adequate
pre-investment feasibility studies, and generate the returns necessary for
ensuring economic viability of the investments. In addition, there are
issues arising from the weak institutional and human resources capacity,
which limits Government's capacity to effectively design and implement
development policies and programs; and inadequacies in rural
infrastructure and essential support services, particularly road access
and dry season irrigation, availability of relevant agricultural
technologies, good quality seed, planting materials and other key inputs,
as well as extension and research. Also, many of the rural communities
lack access to safe potable water supply; most rely on surface sources or
unprotected springs, which can easily become contaminated, with serious
health consequences.
2. Objectives
Within the above context, the primary objectives of the project are to
reduce rural poverty, by improving and increasing agricultural production.
This it will do by taking a community based approach, in designing and
implementing components which directly impact the lives of the poor. By
addressing the underlying constraints faced by the agriculture sector, the
project will also have a long term positive impact on sector growth. This
too will contribute to reducing rural poverty. To realize the above
objectives, the proposed project would: (i) reinforce the Government's
program of decentralization, under which responsibilities for program
implementation are vested with the Provincial and related District
administrations, and promote community level involvement in
implementation; (ii) strengthen institutional capacity, taking into
account that the national level government agencies focus on broad policy
guidance, while the provincial governments are responsible for direct
implementation; and (iii) emphasize 'bottom-up' planning in designing and
implementing components, by adopting a strong participatory approach,
involving the potential beneficiaries in the rural community, as well as
the concerned departments of the Government at the central and local
levels.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
In the past year, IDA has been engaged in a dialogue around the key issues
faced by the agriculture sector in Lao PDR, and on reviewing options for
its development. The proposed project provides a good opportunity to move
this dialogue further. Lao PDR is at an early stage in its development
process. Importantly, in this context, IDA has the ability to take a long
term view while developing sector development programs, and can bring to
bear lessons of experience in implementing sector-wide projects from other
parts of the world.
4. Description
Project Approach: It was agreed with Government that the province would be
used as the geographic basis for designing the project, given the
Government's emphasis on decentralization. This would also allow the
necessary focus on strengthening institutional capacity to better plan and
-2 -



implement development programs, and on delivering the essential support
services to the farmers, which needs to be an essential component of the
project. Based on earlier discussions between the Government and the Bank,
the provinces of Khammouane, Champasak, Saravanne and Attapeu were
selected for inclusion in this first phase project. Within the selected
provinces, this first phase project would target initially those areas
which have good potential to increase agricultural production, and
secondly, focus on rehabilitating existing infrastructure, and
strengthening local and community-based O&M capacity, rather than the
creation of substantial new infrastructure. A participatory planning
approach would be built into the project preparation process. A social and
economic assessment exercise (with consultant support), would aim to
consult village communities (separately taking into account the views of
small farmers, women, ethnic communities, etc.), staff of the village,
district and provincial government departments concerned with supporting
agricultural development, and any others in the rural community who can
make a contribution to better designing the proposed project. Outline of
Project Components: The proposed project would be designed to broadly
address some of the issues and constraints faced in ensuring agricultural
sector growth. As indicated earlier, the project would be implemented in
four provinces. While recognizing the diverse needs for tackling poverty
in the rural areas, the strategy underpinning the design of the project is
to use the irrigation component (and related infrastructure development)
as a focal point in this first phase, around which the proposed
interventions to build capacity of local government staff and communities
would be developed. Based on actual implementation performance, it is
proposed to scale up and introduce more components, in the later phases of
the program. Taking this into account, the outline of the proposed project
components is briefly summarized below. n Irrigation: The proposed project
would focus on rehabilitating primarily existing small and medium scale
gravity based schemes, and very selectively, converting diesel pumps to
electricity based pump schemes. The proposed project would provide for
rehabilitating 18 small and medium schemes, and 3 electric pump schemes;
it also provides for converting 2 diesel pump schemes to electricity based
schemes. The service area of these 23 schemes is 7,200 ha. In the absence
of technical studies, the development of new schemes is not included. n
Village Access Tracks and Trails: Access tracks linking irrigation schemes
to villages and to the road network have fallen into disrepair, and make
the areas inaccessible particularly during the rainy season. Low cost
rehabilitation will be provided for, to enable improved access and better
systems for marketing of agricultural produce and acquiring inputs, and
the delivery of rural and technical services to the farmers. Only tracks
connecting villages to schemes, as well as to the nearest gravel surfaced
roads will be considered for rehabilitation. Based on discussions with
the respective provinces, there is provision for rehabilitating about 165
kms of access tracks, and the construction of around 85 Irish crossings. n
Village Water Supply and Sanitation: Many of the small village communities
(and indeed some of the larger centers of population in the rural areas)
do not have access to safe potable water supply. The provision of safe
potable water is a high priority, given that many of the village
communities presently do not have access to it. The problem is more acute
in the less accessible upland areas, leading to serious health problems
for these communities. The project will provide for the installation of
around 200 hand pumps and the construction of about 140 open wells for
such communities. Provision is also made to install about 340 sanitary
- 3 -



pits and conduct a health and hygiene awareness educational campaign. n
Village Investments for the Poor (VIP): The proposed Village Investment
for the Poor (VIP) component will be a block grant, given annually to each
of the participating districts, for implementing small scale projects
identified by the villagers themselves. The objectives of the component
are to: support rural communities where poverty is high (targeting the
women, ethnic minorities, and poorer households); strengthen capacity for
designing and implementing small projects at the village level; and
facilitate a closer link between DAFO staff and communities. The Program
will begin implementation in a phased manner so as to build up capacity of
the PAFSO and DAFO staff who will be responsible for the program. It is
proposed that each district receives an annual allocation of US$20,000.
This component will be closely linked and integrated with the agricultural
extension component of the Project. n Agricultural Services: The project
would strengthen the capacity of the Provincial Agriculture and Forestry
Service Office (PAFSO) and the related district offices, for providing
essential technical services to farmers; and selectively of the central
Ministry, so as to enable them to effectively support agricultural
development. The component is designed in a manner such that it's
implementation will be closely coordinated with the implementation of the
rural infrastructure and VIP components. It would focus on the
strengthening of the essential technical support services to farmers, the
key ones being research and extension, strengthened IPM and water
management, aimed at supporting increased crop and livestock production
(through in-service and farmer training, adaptive research trials and
on-farm demonstrations, basic extension and other equipment, improved
mobility, and other means to support extension work). The component would
build on the participating community-based, extension methodology
successfully tested under the Pilot Extension Project. The project would
also support the establishment and strengthening of Water Users
Associations.n Project Implementation Support: The project would provide
support for the project's implementation and coordination arrangements;
and for strengthening the monitoring and evaluation function at the
district, provincial and central levels.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost       17.87
6. Implementation
The project would be implemented over five years. It is tentatively
expected that after approval by IDA's Board of Directors in May 2001, the
project would become effective around August 2001. On the ground
implementation is expected to commence with start of the dry season in
2001 (around October), and to the end of the year 2006. The project's
institutional arrangements are guided by the Government's policy of
decentralization. At the national level, a Central Project Steering
Committee (CPSC) would be established to periodically review
implementation performance, and provide guidance for addressing issues and
problems which may arise during implementation. The Committee would be
headed by the Vice Minister, MAF, and include representatives from the
various agencies of government concerned in guiding and supporting project
implementation. To coordinate activities at the national level, a Central
Project Coordination Office (PCO) would be established within the
-4 -



Department of Planning of MAF (DOP-MAF). It would undertake some of the
procurement, be responsible for overall Project M&E, and preparing
periodic progress/monitoring reports. Project implementation would be a
direct responsibility of the province; for this purpose, a Provincial
Project Implementation Office (PPIO) would be established, within the
office of the Director, PAFSO. As far as possible, the institutional
arrangements for implementing the project would use the existing
departments (i.e. use existing provincial departments for irrigation,
agriculture, etc., rather than create new structures for the project).
This would ensure that the activities and approach under the project would
get mainstreamed within the overall program for the province, and not be
treated artificially as an enclave activity.
7. Sustainability
Sustainability of the proposed operation is being pursued from various
fronts. Firstly, institutional sustainability is important, and is being
pursued by building consensus on the project design among a wide range of
stakeholders and adopting a participatory process. During project
preparation, an analysis of the institutions and the other stakeholders
was undertaken, the findings of which have guided the design of the
project. In addition, capacity building, and involving rural communities,
are integral parts of the project which will be emphasized during project
implementation. Particular attention is being paid to putting in place
practical arrangements for O&M, and in this context, supporting the
beneficiaries in building capacity to take on this responsibility.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
In designing the proposed program, lessons from a variety of sources will
be taken into account; these have been incorporated in the project
preparation terms of reference. A review of the Bank's experience with
rural development projects in different parts of the world, has
highlighted the following lessons: (i) ) commitment and ownership to the
program is vital, not just by Government, but by implementing agencies and
the rural people directly affected; (ii) project design must be simple,
and should draw upon proven technologies; and the goals must be realistic
and precise; (iii) project design must be flexible; (iv) beneficiary
participation, at both the planning stage and during implementation, is
necessary; (v) credit and farm inputs are often critical to success; (vi)
arrangement for infrastructure maintenance have to be in place from the
start; (vii) community organization and build up should precede
infrastructure development.The Bank has not supported many projects in
support of agricultural development, irrigation and rural infrastructure,
in the Lao People's Democratic Republic. However, there is one
agricultural sector project in Laos, the Upland Agricultural Development
Project, which was recently completed, and which provides important
lessons. Implementation experience was mixed, with project targets having
to be substantially revised downwards, due to a very slow start-up of
implementation. The lessons reinforce the findings on other Bank projects
in other parts of the world as outlined above.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Y
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  An environmental analysis was carried out of the
proposed project components; special attention was paid to project sites
- 5 -



which may be close to forested areas or other habitats of special
importance (e.g., wetlands, protected areas). Based on this analysis, it
is concluded that the project's impacts on the environment are generally
positive. Potential negative impacts, for example in the project areas and
on the natural resources and health of people, can be addressed through
proper management and low cost mitigation measures. Important issues
considered during the completion of the EA work, included: issues
concerning natural resources management, including catchment management,
the implication of irrigation development on fisheries, and wetlands
conservation; impacts on soil quality and drainage; impacts of project
construction; impacts from pest management; impacts on fisheries; and
impacts on health. An environmental management plan has been outlined,
which would be financed under the project. Given that the project
primarily focuses on rehabilitating existing infrastructure, and is
relatively small in size (and also not geographically concentrated in one
area), the scale of the impacts are generally small. Thus the project
provides a low risk opportunity to build environmental expertise and
experience within the Lao institutions, by supporting training and raising
awareness of environmental issues at central, provincial, district and
community levels. This will include not only government staff, but also
project beneficiaries and executing agencies.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Rahul Raturi
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending January 26, 2001.
- 6 -



