Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 22152 LA
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONNA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 13.20 Million (US$16.70 M Equivalent)
TO THE
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 3, 2001
Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 1, 2001)
Currency Unit = KIP
1 Kip = US$.000125
US$1 = Kip 8,200
FISCAL YEAR
July 1- June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB                  Asian Development Bank
APB                  Agricultural Promotion Bank
CMI                  Community Managed Irrigation
CPCU                 Central Project Coordination Unit
DAFO                 District Agricultural and Forestry Office
DIDMP                Decentralized Irrigation Development & Mgmnt Project
DIS                  District Irrigation Service
DOA                  Departnent of Agriculture, MAF
DOI                  Department of Irrigation, MAF
DOLF/DLF             Department of Livestock and Fisheries, MAF
FAO                  Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations
EIA                  Environmental Impact Assessment
EIRRIERR             Economic Intemal Rate of Return/Economic Rate of Return
ETU                  Extension Training Unit
FIAT                 Farmer Irrigated Agricultural Training
GOL                  Govenmment of Lao PDR
Ha                   Hectare
HYV                  High Yielding Variety
IDA                  International Development Association
IRRI                 Intemational Rice Research Institute
IFAD                 International Fund for Agricultural Development
IMT                  Irrigation Management Transfer
ISF                  Irrigation Service Fee
Kwh                  Kilowatt Hour
LWU                  Lao Women's Union
MAF                  Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
MCTPC                Ministry of Construction, Transport, Post and Commnunication
M&E                  Monitoring and Evaluation
MOH                  Ministry of Health
MOF                  Ministry of Finance
NAFRI                National Agriculture and Forestry Research Institute
NBCA                 National Biodiversity Conservation Area
NGO                  Non-Governmental Organization
NPC                  National Project Coordinator
O&M                  Operation and Maintenance
PAFSO                Provincial Agricultural and Forestry Service Office
PIMP                 Pumped Irrigation Management Project
PIS                  Provincial Irrigation Service
PMO                  Prime Minister's Office
STRAP                Sustainable Irrigated Agricultural Project
TA                   Technical Assistance
UXO                  Unexploded Ordnance
VDF                  Village Development Fund
VEW                  Village Extension Worker
WUA/WUG              Water User's Association/Water User's Group
Vice President:   Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Manager/Director:   Ian Porter
Sector Manager/Director.   Mark D. Wilson
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Rahul Raturi



LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key perfonnance indicators                                                          3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       9
3. Benefits and target population                                                      9
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       9
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          10
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         11
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           11
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   12
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        12
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           13
2. Financial                                                                          13
3. Technical                                                                          14
4. Institutional                                                                      15
5. Environmental                                                                      16
6. Social                                                                             17
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 19
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     20
2. Critical risks                                                                     21
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     21



G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           22
2. Other                                                                             22
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         23
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        23
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         24
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                   33
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        47
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                  49
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                              53
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      56
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    69
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  70
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 71
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           73
MAP(S)
IBRD 31444



LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
Agricultural Development Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
EASRD
Date: May 3, 2001                                 Team Leader: Rahul Raturi
Country Manager/Director: Ian Porter              Sector Manager/Director: Mark D. Wilson
Project ID: P065973                               Sector(s): Al - Irrigation & Drainage, AY - Other
Agriculture
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Project Financing Data
[ ] Loan    [X] Credit    [ ] Grant     [ ] Guarantee    [ ] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): SDRI3.20 million
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                          Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.50                              Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan:    Source                                    Local         Foreign        Total
BORROWER                                                        0.86           0.00          0.86
IDA                                                             7.98           8.71         16.69
OTHER SOURCES OF BORROWING COUNTRY                              0.66           0.00          0.66
Total:                                                          9.50           8.71         18.21
Borrower: LAO PDR
Responsible agency: MAF
Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
Address: Department of Planning, Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, Vientiane. Lao PDR
Contact Person: Mr. Anonth Khamhung, Director General
Tel: (856-21) 415 359               Fax: (856-21) 415 363               Email: Maf@laogov.net
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$M):
FY         2002       2003       2004       2005      2006       2007
Annual    0.60        1.70       4. 1 5     4.15       4.15      1.94
Cumulative    0.60        2.30       6.45      10.60     14.75      16.69
Project implementation period: 5 Years
Expected effectiveness date: 10/01/2001  Expected closing date:  12/31/2006
.CSePAC tes Rd Me1020



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The Lao People's Democratic Republic is one of the poorest and least developed countries in East Asia; it
has among the worst social indicators in the region. Per capita income is low (around US$250 per ann ism in
1998), and at 39 percent, poverty incidence is very high (using 1997/98 data) in a predominantly
agricultural, rural economy. Poverty incidence in the rural areas is much higher (the rural poor accournt for
more than 90 percent of all poor); and overall, the central parts of the country are generally better off in
comparison with the South and the North.
The agriculture sector is a major sector of the economy, contributing well over 50 percent of GDP and
providing employment to over 80 percent of the country's labor force. Realizing sustainable growth of the
economy, and bringing about a reduction in overall poverty in the country, will consequently require the
efficient use of resources allocated for the agriculture sector, and achieving sustained agriculture grow, th.
However, the prevailing serious macro-economic imbalances, and more importantly, the severe constraints
in institutional and human resources ability, limit the Government's capacity to effectively design and
implement development policies and programs. It would be fair to say, that from its present level of
development, Lao PDR will require decades to build up an adequate cadre of qualified staff, which car
effectively respond to the varied challenges faced in the agriculture sector. Consequently, a sustained long
term comnnitment is needed for addressing these issues, and the proposed project should be viewed as tIie
first phase of a long term program, responding to the Government's Agriculture and Forestry Sector
Development Strategy.
*   Within the above context, the primary objectives of the project are to reduce rural poverty by
improving and increasing agricultural production. This it will do by taking a community based
approach, in designing and implementing components which directly impact the lives of the poor iin the
participating provinces and districts. By addressing the underlying constraints faced by the agriculiure
sector, the project will also have a long term positive impact on sector growth. This too will contribute
to reducing rural poverty.
To realize the above objectives, the proposed project would: (i) reinforce the Government's program of
decentralization, under which responsibilities for program implementation are vested with the Provincial
and related District administrations, and promote community level involvement in implementation; (ii)
strengthen institutional capacity, taking into account that the national level government agencies focus on
broad policy guidance, while the provincial governments are responsible for direct implementation; and (iii)
emphasize 'bottom-up' planning in designing and implementing components, by adopting a strong
participatory approach, involving the potential beneficiaries in the rural community, as well as the
concemed departments of the Government at the central and local levels.
Project Approach and Geographic Coverage: Given the Government's emphasis on decentralization, it
was agreed that the provinces would be used as the geographic basis for designing the project. This wculd
also allow the necessary focus on strengthening institutional capacity to better plan and implement
development programs, and on delivering the essential support services to the farmers. The project wouild
be implemented in the provinces of Kharnmouane, Champassak, Saravanne and Attapeu, which were
selected by the Government for inclusion in this first phase project. The selection was based on the
following key criteria: provinces with untapped agricultural potential; high poverty incidence; should be
- 2 -



part of the Government's public investment program/priority; and as far as possible, provide contiguity in
geographic coverage. The selection of provinces also aims to ensure complementarity with an Asian
Development Bank project, which has recently been approved to support Irrigation Development and
Management.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Progress in achieving program objectives will be measured through a monitoring and evaluation system
which will be supported under the project; it will include community based monitoring mechanisms. As
part of project preparation, a detailed baseline survey was completed in the participating provinces. Details
of the various output and impact indicators to be monitored under the project are given in Annex 1. It is
important to emphasize, however, that issues of institutional and human resource capacity in Lao PDR are
significant; addressing these concerns will require a long term engagement. There are no easy solutions, and
consequently, expectations from this first phase project should be modest.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 19098-LA            Date of latest CAS discussion: 04/20/99
The proposed project is consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy, which has poverty
reduction as its overarching priority. The CAS objectives for the rural economy focus on investing in rural
development and natural resources management, improving agricultural productivity, and ensuring
appropriate forestry management techniques for enviromnental sustainability; and supporting rural and
national infrastructure development. The proposed project will focus particularly on supporting rural
development, and improving agricultural productivity.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Sector Performance and Issues.
Wide ranging sector work has been completed in the recent past' . It provides a good overview of sector
performance, and more importantly, of the key issues which the sector faces. The Government too has
developed socio-economic profiles for some provinces, and has outlined a strategic vision for the
agriculture sector. Overall, while the share of agriculture in GDP has been declining steadily over the past
decade, it continues to be of significant importance to the Lao economy, both in terms of its share in the
economy and for providing employment, as noted above. The declining share reflects both rapid increases
in the manufacturing and services sectors, particularly up to 1997 (prior to the onset of significant
macro-economic issues emerging), but also reflects the slow growth in most areas of the sector. During the
1980s the sector grew at an average annual rate of about 3.8 percent; in the 1990s growth has slowed down
to around 3 percent p.a. (sector growth in 1997 was only recorded at 1.2 percent). Total cultivated area
averages about 700,000 ha, of which rice accounts for more than 80 percent. Only a small percentage of
the area under cultivation is irrigated. Characterized as an extensive but low productivity system, the
agriculture sector has been unable to meet the needs of a growing population and to provide a reliable
surplus for export and the food and feed processing industries. Generally, the low output character of Lao
agriculture, and the low rural incomes that are its result, stem from supply and demand side factors:
These include the following: sector reports by the Bank which include Social Development and Strategy (1995), Agricultural
Sector Memorandum - An Agricultural Sector Strategy (1995), Public Expenditure Review (1997), Priorities for Rural
Infrastructure Development (1997); the FAO prepared a report on Promoting Sustainable Rural Development (1999); and the
ADB sponsored a Consultant led Agriculture Strategy Study (1998).
- 3 -



ineffective agriculture services to help the Lao farmers to upgrade production techniques, and weakly
developed marketing opportunities for poor rural farmers.
Overall, the key issues faced by the sector reflect the stage of development of the overall Lao economy and
in particular of its human resources and institutions which are critical for supporting growth. While the
Government has embarked on a path of economic reforms over the past decade, which also included the
agriculture sector (the past couple of years, however, have been marked by high budget deficits, very high
inflation, and a rapidly depreciating exchange rate), there are some important issues which need to be
addressed in the sector. Important among these include the following. First, there are serious issues arising
from the weak institutional and hunan resources capacity, which limnits Govenrnent's capacity to
effectively design and implement development policies and programs. Second, inadequacies in rural
infrastructure and essential support services, particularly road access and dry season irrigation, availability
of relevant agricultural technologies, good quality seed, planting materials and other key inputs, as we] I as
extension and research, are also constraining sector growth. In addition, the poor public expenditure
management has resulted in biases against some sub-sectors with potential comparative advantage, and
there is a lack of a sound framework for sustainable natural resources management. On the policy side.
insufficient attention has been given to creating an enabling environment for rural sector development; ihis
may also be due to weaknesses in existing institutional capacity to effectively grapple with some of these
concerns (for example, some of the distortions result from the pursuit of self sufficiency goals while
allocating public resources; government involvement in supply of inputs, due to limited success in
implementing privatization policies; weaknesses in public expenditure management, including investments
in inigation pumps without adequate feasibility studies; limited access to credit, poor institutional
framework, and a highly distorted interest rate structure).
Government Strate2v to address sectoral issues
Overall, the rural sector is the main focus of the Government's development programs. A discussion paper
which has recently been drafted, summarizes the key thrusts of the Government's strategy for supportir g
growth in the agriculture sector, and eliminate rural poverty. It recognizes the low intensity subsistence
nature of the sector, and the fact that agricultural transformation is in its early stages in Laos, and that
irnportant challenges lie ahead. In supporting initiatives for growth, the Government has outlined six
component elements, which form the core of the Agriculture and Forestry Sector Development Plan: food
production (with particular focus on rice), with a view to securing food security; commercial production of
agricultural commodities, with a view to moving the sector from subsistence to material production;
stabilization of slash and bum agriculture; irrigation development; agriculture and forestry research; and
human resources development. These programs are an integral part of the Government's integrated rural
development approach for providing rural infrastructure and improving the economic situation of the riral
people.
-4 -



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project is designed to support the Government in implementing key parts of its strategy. Its design
takes into account the fact that the agricultural sector of Lao PDR is at an early stage in its development
process. Accordingly, the project is being structured in a manner such that it can address some of the key
issues critical for supporting agricultural development. Being developed as the first phase of a long term
program, it would initiate a program of supporting human resources development at both national and
provincial levels, together with a complementary program to improve the availability of rural
infrastructure, mainly irrigation. The project would directly address key sector issues as they relate to the
irrigation subsector. In addition to strengthening institutional capacity, the project would establish key
technical, financial and economic criteria for guiding investments in irrigation; and support the
Government's policy of transferring responsibility for irrigation management and system O&M to water
user associations. By establishing and strengthening water user groups, it would also reinforce community
responsibility towards operating and maintaining irrigation infrastructure, and improve water use
efficiency. The project would also support the Government's thrust on decentralization, by empowering
communities and Government structures at the provincial, district and village levels, through their role in
identifying and implementing small sub-projects seen to be important by the potential rural beneficiaries.
By linking these initiatives closely to the implementation of irrigation and other infrastructure development,
as well as the village based investments program, the project aims to reinforce the 'learning by doing'
approach to institutional capacity building. At the same time, the project would also address the priority
short term issues of increasing food production and incomes among the rural poor.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
As indicated earlier, the project would be implemented in four provinces. While recognizing the diverse
needs for tackling poverty in the rural areas, the strategy underpinning the design of the project is to use the
irrigation component (and related infrastructure development) as a focal point in this first phase, around
which the proposed interventions to build capacity of local government staff and communities would be
developed. Based on actual implementation performance, it is proposed to scale up and introduce more
components, in the later phases of the program. Taking this into account, the outline of the proposed
project components is briefly summarized below.
Irrigation: The proposed project will provide for rehabilitating 17 small and medium schemes, and 3
electric pump schemes; it also provides for converting 2 diesel pump schemes to electricity based schemes.
The service area of these 22 schemes is 7,070 ha. In the absence of technical studies, the development of
new schemes is not included. Key criteria for selecting schemes include: they should not have been
rehabilitated in the past 5 years; schemes should have potential irrigation intensities of 120 percent; farmers
should be willing to establish themselves into water user groups (if not already in existence, in which case,
they should be willing to participate in program to strengthen their activities); beneficiary farmers should
be willing to contribute towards meeting O&M costs, and involve themselves in the design and
implementation phase of the works (rehabilitation works on a scheme will not commence without the
establishment of the WUAs, and confinmation that farmers are willing to contribute towards meeting the
O&M costs of the scheme). The thrust of the component is on restoring the ability of the selected schemes
to deliver water more efficiently to the farmers within the original design area, by rehabilitating main and
secondary canals, repairing or installing new distribution structures, improving the diversion weirs in a few
instances, getting the benefiting farmer community to rehabilitate the tertiary canals, and tapping into the
potential which a few schemes offer to complete the scheme (where construction had not been completed as
- 5 -



originally envisaged, or where the available water resources provide the possibility of increasing the sccpe
of benefits from the scheme) and thereby increase the size of the command area.
Village Access Tracks and Trails: Access tracks linking irrigation schemes to villages and to the road
network have fallen into disrepair, and make the areas inaccessible particularly during the rainy season.
Low cost rehabilitation will be provided for, to enable improved access and better systems for marketing of
agricultural produce and acquiring inputs, and the delivery of rural and technical services to the farmers,.
Only tracks connecting villages to schemes, as well as to the nearest gravel surfaced roads will be
considered for rehabilitation. Based on discussions with the respective provinces, there is provision for
rehabilitating about 165 kms of access tracks, and the construction of around 85 Irish crossings.
Community involvement in the maintenance of these tracks will be emphasized under the project.
Accordingly, prior to the commencement of the works, the village community will enter into a
commitment/agreement with the Provincial Roads department, under which they will provide labor
resources to maintain the tracks; the roads department will provide the equipment and overall supervision
for these activities.
Village Water Supply and Sanitation: The provision of safe potable water is a high priority, given tha.
many of the village communities presently do not have access to it. The problem is more acute in the less
accessible upland areas, leading to serious health problems for these communities. Drawing upon the
National RWSS Sector Strategy and Guideline National Framework which was formally launched in la:e
1997, the project will provide for improved water supply and sanitation in the project districts, using a
demand-driven approach to identifying benefiting communities, and the means (hand pumps, open wells,
gravity based schemes) for meeting their needs. The component also provides an opportunity for taking on
board the lessons from the implementation of the RWSS strategy elsewhere in the country (in seven
spearhead provinces), and accordingly making improvements. In line with the strategy, the project will
provide for the installation of systems based on community preferences, affordability and technical
feasibility. Provision is also made to install about 5,000 sanitary pits and conduct a health and hygiene
awareness educational campaign. The materials for the hand pumps and open wells, as well as the cost of
drilling, would be supplied by the project; the communities would contribute labor for the implementation
of this component. Prior to initiating work on these village water schemes and sanitary pits, communities
will be consulted and their participation sought on the design, preference and implementation plans.
Community-based agreements would be entered into with the Provincial Health Offices, whereby the
communities would confirm their commitment to provide labor for installation, and for taking on full O&M
and replacement responsibility for these schemes.
Village Investments for the Poor (VIP): The Village Investment for the Poor (VIP) component will be a
block grant, allocated annually to each of the participating districts, for implementing small scale projects
(broadly ranging in size between $500 to $1,500) identified by the villagers themselves. The objectives of
the component are to: support rural communities where poverty is high (targeting the women, ethnic
minorities, and poorer households); strengthen capacity for designing and implementing small projects at
the village level; and facilitate a closer link between District Agricultural & Forestry Office (DAFO) staff
and communities. The Program will begin implementation in a phased manner so as to build up capacity of
the Provincial Agricultural & Forestry Service Office (PAFSO) and DAFO staff who will be responsible
for the program. It is proposed that each district receives an annual allocation of US$20,000. This
component will be closely linked and integrated with the agricultural extension component of the Projec-.
Given the limited implementation capacity in the districts and villages, the component will initially be
implemented in the irrigation villages (though it will target households which do not own irnigated plots;,
and then expand to villages identified as being among the poorest in the district. Training and technical
assistance will be provided to the DAFO staff and the village volunteers, who will be responsible for
- 6 -



implementing the component. The eligibility and selection criteria shall ensure that sub-projects are
demand-driven and meet essential technical, economic, financial, environmental and social parameters;
beneficiaries will be expected to contribute at least 10 percent of the total sub-project costs.
Agricultural Services: The project will strengthen the capacity of the Provincial Agriculture and Forestry
Service Office (PAFSO) in the 4 project provinces, and the related 15 participating district offices, for
providing essential technical services to farmers; and selectively of the central Ministry, so as to enable
them to effectively support agricultural development. The component is designed in a manner such that it's
implementation will be closely coordinated with the implementation of the rural infrastructure and VIP
components. It will focus on the strengthening of the essential technical support services to farmers, the key
ones being research and extension, strengthened IPM and water management, aimed at supporting
increased crop and livestock production (through in-service and farmer training, adaptive research trials
and on-farm demonstrations, basic extension and other equipment, improved mobility, and other means to
support extension work). The component will build on the participatory community-based, extension
methodology successfully tested under the Pilot Extension Project. The project will provide for a program
of adaptive research trials and demonstrations to develop technical recommendations on crop
diversification, and also respond to problems and constraints identified by farmers. The project will also
support the establishment and strengthening of Water Users Associations; as noted earlier, work on
rehabilitating irrigation schemes will only be initiated after a WUA is established (or is already in
existence), and confirms its willingness to take on the responsibility for system operation and maintenance.
Environmental Management: Based on the findings of an environmental assessment (EA), the project
generally has a positive impact on the environment. However, there are some issues which need to be
considered; moreover, the project provides an opportunity to increase environmental awareness among both
Government staff and beneficiaries. Drawing upon the findings of the EA, the project will finance TA,
training, materials and other support costs for raising awareness among fanners and extension staff, of
catchment-based Natural Resources Management, Impact of rrigation Development on Fisheries, linkage
to supplement the National Malaria Program, Pest Management and encouraging the use of IPM, and for
putting in place a system for monitoring of Environmental Impact of the project.
- 7 -



Project Implementation Support: Support will be provided for the project's implementation and
coordination arrangements, under which direct implementation responsibility would lie with the provinces.
In addition, support will also be provided for strengthening the monitoring and evaluation function at the
district, provincial and central levels, as well as the financial management capacity, in the context of
project operations.
tIn   ve               Banhk       %of
Component                   Setowr        COst         o      fianin       Banik-
A. Improved Rural Infrastructure                                    0.0                  0.0
1. Improve Irrigation            Irrigation &        8.55       47.0       7.81      46.8
Drainage
2. Improve Rural Accessibility   Rural Roads          1.87      10.3       1.74       10.4
3. Improve Rural Water Supply    Rural Water          0.55       3.0       0.39        2.3
Supply &
Sanitation
B. Environmental Management         Natural             0.29        1.6       0.28        1.7
Resources
Management
C. Improved Agricultural Services                                   0.0                  0.0
1. Agricultural Extension        Agricultural        2.03       11.1       1.90       11.4
Extension
2. Adaptive Research &           Research             0.35       1.9       0.34        2.0
Demonstration
3. Water Users' Associations    Irrigation &         0.44        2.4       0.42        2.5
Drainage
D. Village Investments for the Poor  Decentralization   2.02       11.1       1.90       11.4
E. Project Coordination                                             0.0                  0.0
1. National Level                Institutional        1.02        5.6      0.96        5.8
Development
2. Provincial Level              Decentralization     1.09        6.0       0.95       5.7
Total Project Costs                   18.21     100.0      16.69      ]00.0
Total Financing Required                     18.21     100.0      16.69      100.0
Component cost in this table includes contingencies.
Implementation Schedule: The project will be implemented over five years. It is tentatively expected that
after approval by IDA's Board of Directors in May 2001, the project would become effective around
September 2001. On the ground implementation is expected to commence with start of the dry season in
2001 (around October), and continue to the end of the year 2006.
- 8 -



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The thrust of the project will be to link the implementation of the infrastructure and village based
components to a program for upgrading institutional capacity to provide technical services to small
farmers; as well as to sensitize Government towards adopting clear technical and economic criteria for
selecting projects and programs to be supported from their own budget resources. In this context, the
following changes will be pursued under the project: adoption of clear technical and economic criteria for
selecting irrigation sub-project to be supported by the provinces, while promoting further irrigation
development; establishment and clear definition of roles for water user groups in small and medium
irrigation schemes, under which water user associations would take over the responsibility and costs of the
O&M of irrigation schemes.
3. Benefits and target population:
The project will support poor rural families (involving more than 50,000 individuals), and in doing so,
generate both economic as well as institutional/social benefits. The former would come from increased
agricultural production, which should increase overall value-added within the rural economy. The project
would also contribute to improving the capacity of local institutions and rural communities, and through
that, contribute to securing the longer term sustainability of these economic benefits. Social benefits would
come from the participation of project beneficiaries in the decision making processes. The latter two could
arguably be the most significant contributions from the project. Improved rural infrastructure, including
irrigation, rural access, and rural water supply and sanitation would also raise the quality of rural life.
The main beneficiaries will be the rural poor, primarily the small scale subsistence farmers and landless
laborers within the four participating provinces. While a large part of the investment will target rural
populations concemed with irrigation, much of it along the Mekong plain, the component for village based
investments will also support communities in the upland areas, which is home to some of the poorest people
in the country.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
National Level Arrangements. The project's institutional arrangements are guided by the Government's
policy of decentralization. At the national level, a Central Project Steering Committee (CPSC) has been
established to periodically review implementation performance, and provide guidance for addressing issues
and problems which may arise during implementation. The Committee is headed by the Vice Minister,
MAF, and includes representatives from the various agencies of government concemed in guiding and
supporting project implementation. To coordinate activities at the national level, a Central Project
Coordination Office (PCO) has been established within the Department of Planning of MAF (DOP-MAF).
It will undertake some of the procurement, be responsible for overall Project M&E, and preparing periodic
progress/monitoring reports. It will be responsible for ensuring that Bank guidelines and procedures are
followed on procurement, disbursements, auditing and overall financial management, and that
environmental and social guidelines are followed in both developing and implementing components. The
PCO includes a Finance Unit, which is staffed by qualified people drawn from the Department of Financial
Services (DFS-MAF) of DOP-MAF in the financial management of the project. The Unit will ensure that
separate records are maintained at the provincial level to account for disbursements by the provinces. It
would consolidate overall project accounts, and have them audited.
Provincial Level Arrangements. Project implementation would be a direct responsibility of the province;
for this purpose, a Provincial Project Implementation Office (PPIO) has been established, within the
office of the Director, PAFSO in each of the participating provinces. The PPIO will be responsible for
-9-



coordinating implementation of the different components; actual responsibility for the direct day-to-day
implementation of the components would be with the concerned sections of the PAFSO (Inigation,
Agriculture, Livestock, Fisheries, the newly established Provincial Extension and Training Unit, or PETU),
in close coordination with the DAFOs (and the FSEWs to be trained under the project). The PPIOs wotid
be responsible for facilitating procurement, making certain that O&M commitments are being followed up
by communities, maintaining the financial records of the provincial level activities of the project, and
regular monitoring of implementation progress and maintaining records for the M&E system. A Provincial
Project Steering Committee, chaired by the Vice Governor, has been established in each of the
participating provinces, to periodically review implementation perfor-mance, and for facilitating solutions to
problems which may arise during implementation.
The institutional arrangements proposed for the project rely on the existing provincial departments for
irrigation, agriculture, etc., rather than create new structures for the project. This would ensure that the
activities and approach under the project would get mainstreamed within the overall program for the
province, and not be treated artificially as an enclave activity. Each of the participating provinces has
already identified a core team which supported the project preparation work, and which will form the core
of the implementation units in each of these provinces. Establishment of the CPSC, PCO, and the PPIOs
for the four (4) participating provinces were satisfied as conditions of negotiations.
Monitoring and Evaluation: Monitoring of project implementation, as well as assessing the development
impact of the project, would be the responsibility of the PCO, in close association with the PPIOs. The
M&E Unit in the PCO includes one Monitoring Officer to oversee the survey and analysis work, and two
technical staff to provide assistance. The PPIOs include at least 2 staff who would support the PCO's
M&E Unit in carrying out this responsibility. The project includes funds to build M&E capacity (TA to
upgrade skills and design a system; computers and photcopiers; training; and funds for specific studies to
be done during implementation, to assess progress and identify any issues which need to be addressed). T he
thrust of the component will be on setting up a simple but effective management information system, as
well as systems for program reporting, monitoring and evaluation. A mid term review would be carried out
towards the beginning of the third year of the project; and if necessary, revisions made to the design of the
project. An initial baseline study (for the purposes of project M&E), has been completed prior to appraii,al,
with the involvement of MAF and provincial staff.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Various alternatives were considered while designing the proposed project. Given the underlying objective
of using the proposed project to target rural poverty, and at the same time also address important
institutional capacity issues, the following options were considered. (i) sub-sectoral interventions at a
national level, around themes such as irrigation; support services, i.e. research and extension; (ii) social
fund or community-based initiatives; and (iii) regional agricultural development projects targeted at the
poor. While the first two approaches could support the overarching objective of poverty alleviation, three
important considerations have guided the decision towards the last mentioned approach.
First, it would provide a more effective instrument for tackling the institutional issues more broadly
(including weaknesses in the total public expenditure program in the sector), which is considered to be
important in these early stages of support to the sector. Second, it would ensure greater local ownership,
particularly at the provincial level, as it would essentially be financing existing programs, which are
already seen to be local priorities; however, it would build in the need for greater scrutiny, and more
important, the need for investments to meet clearly defined technical and economic criteria, before they aie
- 10 -



supported. Finally, the approach also provides greater flexibility, and by largely supporting already
ongoing programs, it would create no new institutions, thus minimizing any additional fiscal burden to the
government.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                       Project                   (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects onty)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                      Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
- Upland agriculture, irrigation, tree   Upland Agriculture                           S
crops                              Development Project (closed)
- Implement new forest resource     Forest Management and              S             U
management systems                  Conservation Project (closed)
- Capacity building, conservation and  District Upland Development     S              S
agriculture                        and Conservation Project
- Land titling                     Land Titling Project                S              S
Other development agencies
Small Scale Irrigation              ADB: Community Managed
Irrigation Sector Project
Irrigated Agriculture               Dutch: Sustainable Irrigated
Agriculture Project
Agriculture Services                EU: Strengthening of Livestock
Services and Extension
Activities
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
There are lessons from a variety of sources which have been considered in designing the proposed project,
and incorporated in the project preparation terms of reference. A review of the Bank's experience with rural
development projects in the past has highlighted the following lessons: (i) commitment and ownership to the
program is vital, not just by Government, but by implementing agencies and the rural people directly
affected; (ii) project design should draw upon proven technologies; and the goals must be realistic and
precise; (iii) project design must be flexible; (iv) beneficiary participation, at both the planning stage and
during implementation, is necessary; (v) arrangement for infrastructure maintenance have to be in place
from the start; (vi) social preparatory activities such as community organization and build up should
precede infrastructure development. A review (by QAG) of selected poverty reduction projects in East Asia
has also highlighted some important conclusions: the need for greater focus on addressing the long term
institutional implications of a project to ensure sustainability; need for simplifying and increasing flexibility
in the Bank's procurement procedures; need for greater analytical focus in monitoring the project's long
term impact, which needs to be built into the project design.
The Bank has not supported many projects in support of agricultural development, irrigation and rural
infrastructure, in the Lao People's Democratic Republic. However, there is one agricultural sector project
in Lao PDR, the Upland Agricultural Development Project, which was recently completed, and which
- 11 -



provides important lessons. Implementation experience was mixed, with project targets having to be
substantially revised downwards, due to a very slow start-up of implementation. Important lessons froir
this experience include the following: project design should be simple and realistic, in line with institutional
capacity; staff capacity should be assessed, and training which is essential for achieving results, provided;
weak procurement capacity, and delays in fund and budget disbursement caused major implementation
delays; decentralization of implementation to provinces can be successful, providing parties are flexible in
adjusting targets in line with capacity; sufficient time should be provided during preparation for
participatory process; agricultural projects should be designed in a holistic manner; maintenance of gravel
roads should be an integral part of roads components; design specifications should be prepared by
adequately qualified professionals.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The project has the support of the Government, including key officials such as the Vice Minister of
International Cooperation, and the Minister for Agriculture and Forests. It was strongly supported by
Government during the CAS discussions, and was endorsed at the national level, for seeking IDA support.
Important indications of the Government's commitment and ownership of the project are the following:
*   At the national level, the project concept has been endorsed by the high level committee responsible for
reviewing/approving investment proposals for which external support is being sought.
*   The MAF established a Multi-agency Core Team, with representation from MAF, the Prime Minister's
Office (Office of International Cooperation, and the Leading Committee for Rural Development),
Ministry of Finance, State Planning Committee, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the Ministry of
Communications, Transport, Post and Construction, which provided guidance during project
preparation.
* Each of the four provinces has expressed strong interest in participating in the project; and all have
nominated staff who participated in the project preparation process, and who form the core of the
provincial project implementation units. Workshops involving key staff from all participating provirces
were held in Pakse (which included participants from the provinces of Champasak, Saravane and
Attapeu) and Thakek (Khammouane Province), at the initiation of the project preparation process (and
also at the time of pre-appraisal), where the overall concept and design of the proposed project was
discussed.
*   A baseline survey was completed (prior to appraisal), with the active involvement of staff from MAF
and PAFSO, covering the districts in the four participating provinces; the report has been translated
into Lao, and has been made available to the PPIOs and participating districts.
*   The PCO & the four PPIOs were established prior to negotiations.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
In the past year, IDA has been engaged in a dialogue around the key issues faced by the agriculture sector
in Lao PDR, and on reviewing options for its development. The proposed project provides a good
opportunity to move this dialogue further. Lao PDR is at an early stage in its development process.
Importantly, in this context, IDA has the ability to take a long term view while designing sector
development programs, and can bring to bear lessons of experience in implementing sector-wide projects
from other parts of the world.
- 12 -



E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$2.3 million; ERR = 16.3 % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
The project's direct benefits would mainly come from improved water resources management in the
project-supported irrigation schemes, covering an area of about 7,070 ha, which would result in increased
agricultural production, household incomes and food security in the project areas. Improved water
conveyance and distribution will be achieved through the rehabilitation, improvement and protection of
irrigation infrastructure, and institutional changes, including participatory irrigation management through
Water Users' Associations/Groups, which should lead to better O&M of the irrigation systems. These
benefits provide the basis for the cost-benefit analysis carried out. Benefits would also accrue from the
implementation of the Village Investments for the Poor component However, as these would be demand
driven and their nature difficult to predict in advance, the related costs and benefits are difficult to estimate
ex ante; hence, they are not included in the analysis. In addition, as indicated earlier, significant
non-quantifiable benefits would accrue from strengthening capacities at both the central level, as well as at
the level of the PAFSO and the related district offices, so as to enable them to effectively support
agricultural development; and from closely involving the local/rural communities in the design and
implementation of the project, which will foster the creation of social capital and create a better link
between the government staff involved in delivering services and the farming community.
For the purposes of the analysis, benefits arising from the project are expected from: (i) an increase in
cropping intensity of around 50 percent on average, across the schemes; (ii) elimination of crop losses and
reduced yields, as a result of improved water control; overall, better crop yields and lower unit costs of
production, as a result of improved farning practices and the adoption of yield-enhancing practices; (iii)
reduced irrigation costs, from better on-farm water management; this would also encourage farmers to
diversify, albeit slowly, into higher value crops. Crop budgets and farm models were prepared to deternmine
incremental farm income; and also for the purposes of the economic analysis (using border prices), for
aggregating total project benefits and costs. Based on estimated project costs and returns, the proposed
project is expected to yield an ERR of 16.0 percent, a net present value of $2.3 million (using a discount
rate of 12 percent), and a benefit-cost ratio of 1.5, over a 20 year period of analysis.
Sensitivity Analysis: Sensitivity analysis has been done to assess the impact on estimated project returns,
arising from changes in base case assumptions. As outlined in section F below, the key risks to project
implementation are of the following nature: (i) institutional risks, due to insufficient local capacity; (ii)
delays in making counterpart funding available; and (iii) insufficient beneficiary involvement in project
implementation. If these risks were to materialize, it would result in delayed implementation, higher costs of
completion, or lower yields and hence benefits. Sensitivity analysis carried out shows that the ERR would
fall to 15.1 percent, if project implementation were to be delayed by 2 years; and if incremental benefits
were to be reduced by 10 percent the ERR would decrease to 12.4 percent. Other switching values
calculated indicate that costs would need to go up by 20 percent and benefits would have to come down by
12 percent for EIRR to drop below 12 percent.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ mnillion; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Farm Income Analysis: Using crop budgets, farm income analysis was carried out to assess the financial
- 13 -



impact of the project on the incomes of the expected beneficiaries. Net farm income is estimated by
deducting all cash costs of production from the gross value of the paddy and other crops produced by the
farmers; hence it represents the return to the farm operator's labor and management. The analysis shows
that farm incomes would double with the project. Average returns per labor day are projected to increase
from $1.08 without project, to over $2.65 with project.
Cost Recovery: Traditionally, investment costs on both gravity and pump schemes were fully met by the
government. In addition, O&M costs of gravity-fed schemes have seldom been recovered from the
beneficiaries while farmers using pumps pay for operating costs of electricity/diesel. Overall, budgetay
allocations for operations and maintenance were severely limited in the past, thereby threatening the
sustainability of these schemes. The project's design takes these weaknesses into consideration, and will
provide for the establishment of WaterUsers Associations (WUAs), which will be responsible for collecting
an irrigation service fee on a scale which would be sufficient to meet system O&M costs. The level of
Irrigation Service fee to meet this objective is estimated under the project to be an average US$ 20/ha/year
for gravity schemes and US$ 40/ha/year for pump schemes.
Fiscal Impact:
The fiscal impact from the project would come from various sources. On the expenditure side, the fiscal
impact of the project would result in an increase in allocation of national and provincial resources allocated
to support agricultural development in the initial group of provinces and districts. Over the five year life of
the project the provincial governments and the communities are expected to contribute about US$ 0.6
million each, and the national government about US$ 0.8 million as counterpart funds. The impact on
annual recurrent costs will be low. Based on an analysis of present levels of expenditures, it is expected
that this level of financial commitment towards the project can be met from the resource envelope available
to the provinces (particularly for Champasak and Khammouane provinces, where tax collections exceed
expenditures overall; Saravanne and Attapeu may need support from the center) and at the national level.
On the other side, a positive fiscal impact can be expected, arising from the transfer of operation and
maintenance responsibility for irrigation schemes to water user associations; and increased community
participation in program design and execution (particularly with the implementation of the VIP
component), which should result in more efficient use of the resources presently allocated for supporting
agricultural development in the four provinces.
3. Technical:
Insufficient technical capacity is an important constraint, impacting on planning and implementation at all
levels. Irrigation schemes are operating below capacity, with very low irrigation efficiencies, due to des:.gn
and construction deficiencies, and poor O&M. Rehabilitation of existing canals with required hydraulic
sections and selective lining, will improve irrigation efficiency. The future sustainability of these schemes
will be strengthened, by organizing water user groups, providing appropriate training in O&M practices,
and shifting O&M responsibility to the beneficiaries. Overall, the implementation of the rural infrastructure
component (irrigation, access tracks and village water supply schemes) would be taken up only after
community based agreements are established/endorsed, under which the communities would be fully
responsible for 0 & M of the infrastructure schemes after their rehabilitation/construction.
More broadly in the irrigation subsector, considerable investments have been financed by the Government
in the past two to three years. As briefly discussed earlier, an important concern around these investmerLts
has been on their technical and econornic viability (in addition to the fiscal impact of the sudden increase in
expenditures in support of irrigation). This lack of attention to technical issues may partly be a function of
institutional and human resource capacity for appraising investment proposals; however, it is also the result
- 14 -



of insufficient attention so far to adopting simple criteria for checking the viability of infrastructure related
subprojects. A training component has been included for all implementing departments to emphasize
"learning by doing" while implementing the rural infrastructure components, complementing other more
traditional training programs supported by other donors.
4. Institutional:
The issue of severe institutional and human resource capacity constraints is a central feature in Lao PDR,
and has been referred to earlier. As already noted, the project is being designed to address this concern; in
designing interventions, the project will build on experiences from other donor financed programs, which
too have been addressing institutional issues. However, human and institutional development takes time
and, and impact will come slowly. The project will address this issue by introducing simple, but important
technical and economic criteria for selecting sub-projects to be supported. In addition, the project provides
for training, linked closely to implementation.
Inevitably, as a result, the share of technical assistance and training in total project costs is relatively large;
care has been taken to ensure that it is not disproportionate to the overall scale of the project. Another
important issue arises from the fact that govemment officials receive very low salaries, which have been
further eroded as a result of currency depreciation and inflation. A satisfactory solution to this issue of a
poor incentive system is going to be difficult; however, it will no doubt impact on the efficiency of
implementation, since rewards are clearly very low.
4. l Executing agencies:
Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, and participating provincial governments and their line departments.
As noted earlier, direct implementation/execution responsibility would lie with the provincial governments,
which will work through their district offices.
4.2 Project management:
The detailed implementation arrangements outlined earlier, are guided by the objective of using ADP to
support the process of decentralization of program/project implementation to provinces. This is a
challenging task in Lao PDR, given institutional constraints, and the ability to realize these objectives
depends on the commitment of local institutions. In this context, an important feature of ADP is to provide
resources for capacity building at provincial, district and local levels through training, and technical
assistance. The other feature is to have a project unit in each province for supporting and monitoring
actual implementation of the project, with the national coordinating unit to provide support for
procurement, financial management, monitoring and evaluation and other overall project responsibilities.
4.3 Procurement issues:
In the past, the absence of efficient and timely procurement has adversely impacted project implementation
in Lao PDR. A Procurement Capacity Assessment of the executing agencies which was undertaken,
concluded that MOAF does not have the adequate capacity and experienced staff to handle project
procurement satisfactorily. The design of the project includes measures aimed to address this issue: (i)
internal and external training; (ii) provision of specialized consultants with excellent procurement
knowledge; and (iii) easy access to IDA procurement specialists based in Bangkok and Vientiane. In
addition, for supporting initial start up actions, the recruitment of a procurementlirrigation engineer is a
condition of effectiveness; provision is also made to recruit a consultant to support the start up of
implementation of the VIP component. In addition, the capacity for surveys, design and preparation of
construction drawings is limited at the provincial level. To overcome this, tender design and drawings, and
the bills of quantities (with an accuracy of upto 10- 1 5 percent) will be prepared by each province with the
assistance and direction of the Department of Irrigation of the Ministry which has adequate capacity for
- 15 -



this limited activity. The contracts will have an item for completing the surveys, designs and preparation cf
detailed drawings. Successful contractors may use the services of privatized survey and design enterprises
in each province, to complete the designs and detailed drawings. These contractors would be paid after the
approval of such work by the provincial irrigation and/or roads departments.
4.4 Financial management issues:
Satisfactory financial management has been an issue in Lao PDR, due to limited capacity. Overall, the
project financial management will be centralized in the Finance Unit of the PCO, which will draw on
qualified staff from the Department of Planning, Division of Financial Services. In addition to being
responsible for consolidated financial statements and initiating payments from the MOF managed Special
Account and Project Bank Account (GOL funds), this unit will oversee the accounts units of the provinces
and assist in capacity building at the provincial level. It is proposed that PPIO accounts units maintain
accounts for financial transactions taking place at this level. The PPIO account offices will be primarily
responsible for disbursing Village Investment component of the project. As this would involve a large
volume of transactions of small payments, this will have to be closely monitored by Finance Unit in the
PCO.
5. Environmental:                  Enviromnental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
An enviromnental analysis was carried out of the proposed project components; special attention was paid
to project sites which may be close to forested areas or other habitats of special importance (e.g., wetlands,
protected areas). Based on this analysis, it is concluded that the project's impacts on the environment are
generally positive. Potential negative impacts, for example in the project areas and on the natural resources
and health of people, can be addressed through proper management and low cost mitigation measures.
Important issues considered during the completion of the EA work, included: issues concerning natural
resources management, including catchment management, the implication of irrigation development on
fisheries, and wetlands conservation; impacts of project construction; impacts from pest management;
impacts on fisheries; and impacts on health. As outlined below, an environmental management plan has
been outlined, which would be financed under the project. In this context, it is important to emphasize that
the regulatory and institutional framework for environmental issues is new and evolving in Lao PDR. More
so than other areas, there is a dearth of existing capacity.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Given that the project primarily focuses on rehabilitating existing infrastructure, and is relatively small in
size (and also not geographically concentrated in one area), the scale of the impacts are generally small.
Thus the project provides a low risk opportunity to build environmental expertise and experience within the
Lao institutions, by supporting training and raising awareness of environmental issues at central,
provincial, district and community levels. This will include not only government staff, but also project
beneficiaries and executing agencies. Specific mitigation measures proposed for the project, which take a
long term view in addressing these issues, given the weak skills base and the need for institutional/capacity
building, include the following: raise awareness among farners and staff, of catchment-based natural
resources management (given the need for the the irrigation communities to be sensitive to issues of natural
resources management, particularly where the schemes were close to existing NBCAs), through training of
extension staff and build it into the extension program; through TA and training, improve understanding of
fisheries issues as they relate to irrigation development, among staff involved in designing and operating
irrigation systems; develop, specify and monitor contractor responsibilities for worker safety, site
restoration, waste disposal, local employment and environmental standards in the technical specification oi-
weirs and link up with the National Malaria Control Program and provide support in the case of identified
- 16 -



schemes. Finally, the project will build capacity, and implement a monitoring program to assess the
responsiveness of implementation to the environmental aspects of the project.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: Draft received on 12-18-2000;
and sent to the Infoshop on 01-12-2001.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
During detailed project preparation work, and also as part of the community consultation process to
identify sub-projects and to undertake the social and economic assessment, environmental concerns were
discussed with local stakeholders, including participating farmers, village folk and local officials. At the
start of the detailed work on environmental analysis, a workshop was held, at which the terns of reference
and likely environmental and social issues emerging from the project were discussed with provincial and
district level officials of all the four participating provinces. Visits were made to most of the project sites,
concerning irrigation development, and meetings were held with a cross section of stakeholders, including
national and local govemnment agencies, as well as representatives of various international organizations
working on environmental issues of interest to the project. The EA/EMP report was translated, and made
available at both the national and local levels in each of the four participating provinces and the
Govemrnment response to these concerns was considered during appraisal for finalization the scope of the
environmental management plan.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
As indicated above, the project will aim to strengthen capacity at an appropriate level to review the
potential environmental effects of the development proposals. Importantly, through its community based
approach, the project will promote awareness of environment and natural resource management issues in
participating communities. At the same time, monitoring of the environmental aspects of the project has
been built into the overall monitoring system developed for the project, for which capacity building
measures will also be supported; special monitoring surveys will be undertaken at the time of the mid-term
review.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
A social and economic assessment (SEA) was conducted at the start of project preparation. The objectives
of the SEA were: to investigate and understand the social, economic political and cultural factors
conceming the intended project beneficiaries; determine the main constraints faced by the rural
communities; guide the design of the project; and to incorporate the participatory planning and consultation
process with beneficiaries into the overall project planning and implementation process. Findings from the
SEA indicated that the key social issues were related to the following: the high incidence of rural poverty is
linked to low agricultural productivity and food insecurity; poor health due to poor nutrition and lack of
basic services; and high illiteracy from lack of educational opportunities, especially among women and
ethnic minority groups. A related social issue is the weak andlor non functioning water user groups for
recently constructed irrigation systems, primarily due to lack of clarity of roles and guidance from
irrigation staff. Women have also discussed the lack of domestic water supply, vegetable gardens and
credit for livelihood activities (see Annex IA for more details).
- 17 -



The percentage of ethnic minorities in the four project provinces of Champasak, Saravane, Khammouane
and Attapeu is as follows: 15%, 40%, 47% and 63% respectively. Attapeu, which has the highest
percentage of ethnic minority groups is also the poorest of the four provinces. Many of the ethnic minority
communities live in the remoter parts of the provinces, which are very poorly serviced by agricultural
extension services, schools, health facilities, etc. The Irrigation Component, which forms the major parl of
the Project, will have little or no impact on ethnic minorities as they live in the higher elevations which are
not suitable for irrigation. A Development Strategy for Ethnic Minority and Vulnerable Groups has been
prepared for the project (included in the Implementation Manual for the project). The program will provide
development opportunities for the ethnic minority and other vulnerable groups primarily through various
components such as improvements in irrigation, agricultural know-how and extension services,
improvements in domestic water supply and other demand-driven sub-projects from the communities. The
program will promote participation and development in a culturally appropriate manner and fully involving
ethnic minority communities in their own development. The Project will ensure that, in areas with ethnic
minority communities, the local and district staff working on these components will have ethnic minority
staff and/or representation from ethnic minority representatives to help in the implementation.
The magnitude of adverse impact from the Project is anticipated to be marginal as the physical
infrastructure will focus on rehabilitation of irrigation systems and access tracks and the construction of
hand pumps and open wells. However, it is possible that during the course of implementation some land
may need to be acquired and some compensation may need to be paid to project affected persons. To
adequately address the rehabilitation and compensation of the people who could possibly be adversely
affected by the acquisition of land under the Project, the project has prepared a Policy Framework for Land
Acquisition, Involuntary Resettlement and Rehabilitation of Project Affected Persons, which has been
endorsed by Govermment. The full document is included in the Implementation Manual.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
As mentioned earlier, the project is intended to benefit the poor within the rural areas in Laos. The primary
beneficiaries of the project will be the rural communities within the targeted areas, focusing particularly on
the rural poor, including those from ethnic minorities. The project would also benefit the provincial and
district level institutions by upgrading their capacity to deliver technical support services to the small
farmers. During the social and economic assessment local government officials and potential beneficiaries
were consulted. Workshops were conducted to provide feedback from beneficiary and local officials to
provincial and national stakeholders. Under the Village Investment for the Poor component, project
beneficiaries are expected to participate in their own development through undertaking assessments of their
own communities and planning and implementing their own development action plans.
As part of the irrigation component, full participation from farmers will be encouraged. It will define a
systematic process of farmer participation in irrigation activities through the development of the water u ,er
groups. The Project will delegate operation and maintenance responsibilities to water users and will
improve efforts at extension and training, particularly in O&M and water management.
Beneficiaries will participate in monitoring their own sub-projects. The Project will continue regular
consultation meetings and workshops during implementation with all the major stakeholders in order to
keep improving the project and to ensure that opportunities for optimum participation are in place.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Intemational and regional NGOs working in the country have been consulted on sectors in which they are
- 18 -



working and the project team has sought their advice during project preparation. Officially, there are no
local NGOs in Lao PDR. However, consultations with local stakeholders and members of civil society have
taken place during the Social and Economic Assessment. The Lao Women's Union, a quasi government
organization, is regarded as a non-government organization in the country. They have been consulted
during project preparation and will be participate in implementing the VIP component and be represented in
village and district development committee which will be appraising and approving proposals submitted by
village groups. The Project also plans to recruit conununity development staff from members of NGOs
who have relevant experience in the country.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The Project is making every effort to ensure that the institutional arrangements which will be put in place
will not be radically different from the existing structure but in fact make use of such a structure.
Provincial and District Agricultural and Forestry staff will be the key staff for the project team. For
example, the VIP will be under the coordination of the PAFSO Extension and Training Unit and will be
implemented by the DAFO extension unit. One staff will be assigned from DAFO to be responsible for the
component. At the village level, a village volunteer will be recruited to be the facilitator at that level.
Participation at the village and district levels will be enhanced through the inclusion of the existing village
and district development committee for their role in reviewing and appraising the sub-projects. DAFO staff
will provide the technical assistance in reviewing sub-projects for technical feasibility, if required, and for
providing extension services, when needed. Detailed institutional arrangements can be found in Annex 2
and in the Implementation Manual.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
A monitoring system will be developed which will tie in with the overall monitoring program of LADP; a
baseline survey has been completed prior to negotiations, which provides the basis for evaluating the
outcome from this intervention. The VIP monitoring will be at two levels: a) one at the program level
which will be implemented by the district; and b) the other at the village level which will be a participatory
self monitoring by beneficiary groups. The latter will be developed with the help of an expert who is
knowledgeable with M&E in societies with low literacy, where altematives to the text and national
language will be included. The information from the participatory monitoring and the project monitoring
will provide an indication if the project is achieving its social development outcomes and corrective
measures can be put in place as needed.
7. Safeguard Policies:
71 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                   Appleablity
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)          0 Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                  0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                   0 Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                     0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                 0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                  0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                            0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                             0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)        0 Yes 0 No
- 19-



7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Social Aspect:
A major part of the funds under the proposed project will go towards the rehabilitation of physical
infrastructure, such as existing irrigation schemes and village roads/tracks. Since no major new
infrastructure will be constructed, it is expected that land acquisition will be minimal, if at all. However, in
order to provide for such an event, a simple land acquisition and resettlement policy framework has been
developed and officially endorsed by the Government. Recognizing that the implementation of Government'
s focal sites program includes resettlement (done in a manner which is not compliant with the Bank's policy
on involuntary resettlement), such villages will not be included under the proposed project.
Environment: The staff of the line agencies would be responsible for monitoring the environmental issues
within their purview, with support and guidance from the Science, Technology and Environmental Agency
(STEA) at the different levels. As noted earlier, the project includes provision for building capacity on
environmental management and monitoring issues; a program of 'training of trainers' involving PAFSO and
STEA staff would be implemented, and orientation and training will be provided to provincial, district and
village officials tasked with the responsibility of the safeguards.Overall, the project includes a strong M&E
component; regular monitoring will be conducted to ensure that the project is in compliance with the above
safeguards.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainabitity:
Sustainability of the proposed operation is being pursued from various fronts. Firstly, institutional
sustainability is important, and is being pursued by building consensus on the project design among a wide
range of stakeholders and adopting a participatory process. During project preparation, an analysis of the
institutions and the other stakeholders was undertaken, the findings of which have guided the design of the
project. In addition, capacity building, and involvement of rural communities, are integral parts of the
project which will be emphasized during project implementation. Particular attention is being paid to
putting in place practical arrangements for O&M, and in this context, supporting the beneficiaries in
building capacity to take on this responsibility. A baseline survey has been completed prior to negotiations,
which will facilitate project monitoring.
- 20 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating            Risk Migation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Counterpart funding would be made          S        Strong government commitment to program
available in a timely manner, and not be a          being built, through close consultation and
cause for implementation delay.                     involvement of officials at all levels.
Local capacity of provincial staff,        S        Close involvement of engineering staff during
particularly to manage procurement                  project preparation; support for building local
processing will improve, and not cause              capacity prior to project start-up, together with
implementaion delays.                               TA support during implementation.
Participatory approaches will be more      M        Strong participatory approach adopted in
effective in enouraging community                   preparing the project, with the support of the
involvement in developing and                       Government.
implementing sub-projects.
From Components to Outputs
Continuity and appropriate skills mix      S        Core team of local staff, which will be involved
among counterpart staff, who are tasked             with implementation, already participating in
to support project implementaion.                   preparation phase; will be supported by a
targeted TA package.
Local Counterpart funding available in a   M        Project being designed to minimize demands on
timely manner.                                      additional budget resources. Obtain commitment
from provincial government to provide sufficient
counterpart resources.
Timely recruitment of key consultants,     M        Discussions underway with other bilateral
who are needed to support project                   donors to support to support TA needs of
implementation.                                     project; recruitment of key consultants to be
initiated soon after negotiations - general
procurement notice in Dev. Business after
appraisal.
Overall Risk Rating                        M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
none
- 21 -



G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
The following are the conditions of effectiveness: (i) the Implementation Manual has been issued by
Government; (ii) a procurement specialist has been recruited; (iii) a chart of accounts for the Project has
been designed, and an accounting software has been installed; and (iv) the Project accountant and the
accountant clerks in the Central Project Coordination Office have been trained in the use of the Project
accounting software and in the Project accounting and computer procedures set out in the Implementation
Manual.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Assurances obtained at negotiations:
Program Implementation: (i) Project Implementation to be carried out in accordance with the provisiors
outlined in the Manual for Project Implementation; (ii) Policy Framework for Land Acquisition,
Resettlement and Rehabilitation for Project Affected Persons will guide implementation of actions under the
project where acquisition of land or the displacement of villagers is unavoidable; (iii) the Development
Strategy for Ethnic Minorities would be applied during implementation; (iv) Physical works on an
irrigation sub-project will not be initiated unless there is an existing water users group/association, whicla
has entered into a commitment with the Government to it will collect sufficient inigation service fees to
meet the costs of O&M of the schemes; (v) prior to commencing work on an access track, an agreement
will be entered into between the village and the Provincial Roads Department, for the provision of village
labor for routine track maintenance; and in connection with the water supply and sanitation component, an
agreement will be entered into between the village and Provincial Health Office for the provision of village
labor for the installation and O&M of the water supply schemes and sanitary pits, and for the payment cf a
yearly fee for their maintenance; (vi) prior to approval of a sub-project under VIP, the beneficiary
community will need to have entered into a sub-project agreement in accordance with the provisions of the
implementation manual.
Project Management: (i) A Central Project Steering Committee, chaired by the Vice Minister, MAF, and a
Central Project Coordination Office within the Department of Planning of MAF, will be maintained
throughout the implementation period of the project; (ii) Each of the four project provinces to maintain a
Provincial Project Steering Committee and a Provincial Project Implementation Office through the
implementation period of the project; (iii) for the purposes of the VIP component, a District Committee vill
be maintained during the implementation of the project; and villagers will be required to contribute, either
in cash or kind, the equivalent of at least 10 percent of sub-project costs; (iv) a Central Extension and
Training Unit in MAF, and Provincial Extension Training Units in each of the participating provinces, saall
be maintained through the implementation of the project.
Monitoring and Evaluation: (i) Maintain policies and procedures to enable monitoring and evaluation on
an ongoing basis; (ii) complete a mid-term review by March 1, 2004.
Financial Reporting: A financial management system shall be maintained, including records, accounts and
financial statements; consolidated project accounts for the project as a whole, together with the Special
Accounts and Second Generation Special Accounts in the four provinces, to be audited annually; certified
copies of financial statements to be forwarded to the Bank not later than six months after the end of each
fiscal year; a time bound action plan for the strengthening of the financial management system would be
implemented
- 22 -



H. Readiness for Implementation
0I 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
Z 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
0 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Rahul Raturi                      Mark D. Wilson                    Ian Porter
Team Leader                       Sector Manager                    Country Manager
- 23 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC: Agricultural Development Project
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
To pursue the goal of poverty  Improved food security -  Periodic Surveys and Poverty  Enabling macro-economic
alleviation, invest in rural    measures of consumption.    Assessments.        environment.
development and natural
resources management, and                                                       Political commitment and
thereby increase rural incomes                                                  financial support tc pursue
programs and policies
targeted at poverty reduction.
Project Development       Outcome / Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
Key constraints are removed  Improved food security and   Baseline and periodic surveys Project benefits are sustained
to intensifying agriculture,    delivery of basic services in  (including beneficiary  through support for O&M at
increasing agricultural   project areas              surveys) during            the provincial level, strong
productivity, and providing                          implementation, on         community ownership and
basic services for low-income  Increased agricultural  agricultural performance,    role in project design,
subsistence fanners through   productivity (e.g., increase in  household incomes, and on   implementation and
responding to community   cropping intensities in project local participation and  monitoring; and continued
priority needs in targeted  schemes by at least 20%,  institutional strengthening    community commi ment to
project areas.            higher paddy yields per                               O&M.
hectare, greater incidence of  Detailed mid-term and
crop diversification, etc.)    terminal evaluations  No major natural calamities,
or drastic changes Ln weather
Increased household incomes                          (such as excessive :iooding,
of beneficiary households                            prolonged droughts:, etc.)
Established linkage between
community priority needs and
agricultural extension service
delivery
- 24 -



Key ProddMa.e
Hiai0rchy of Objectives           Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Output from each           Output Indicators:          Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Rehabilited irrigation  1 . Rehabilitation of 7,070 ha, Regular Implementation  Counterpart funding would be
systems for small farmers in  leading to at least a 20 percent Progress/Monitoring Reports  made available in a timely
the project areas, making  increase in cropping                                   manner, and not be a cause
them more efficient and    intensities.                Supervision Reports        for implementation delay.
reliable.
Increase in paddy yields per
hectare.                   Baseline survey; periodic   Local capacity of provincial
Evaluation Reports;        staff, particularly to manage
Increase in proportion of  evaluation at mid-term (end of procurement processing will
farmers satisfied with     year 2) and at completion.    improve, and not cause
irrigation water delivery,                             implementation delays.
Functioning Water User                               Minutes of Central and
Groups with responsibility for No. of Water user Groups  Provincial Project Steering    Participatory approaches will
managing irrigation systems.  taking over responsibility for  Committee Meetings   be more effective in
O&M in project irrigation    .         .               encouraging community
schemes.                   Minutes ofeDinst  and      involvement in developing,
villgage Mveetings, and    implementing, monitoring
periodic evaluation reports, on and levating, sonets
VIP (and other) component.  and evaluatmg subprojects
2. Increase in accessibility to  2. Rehabilitation of around
service areas for dispersed  165 kms of tracks connecting
villages in the project areas.  schemes to roads and villages.
Improved access to markets
for farm inputs and output,
leading to increased traffic
and reduced transport costs
and travel time to markets.
3. Improved water supply and 3. No. of households in
sanitation provided for    project area with access to
participating rural        improved/safe potable water
communities                supply (according to defined
criteria); incidence of water
bome diseases.
-25 -



4. Improved delivery of   4. Establishment of a CETU,
agricultural services, which   and four Provincial Extension
are more responsive to small  Training Units (PETUs);
farmer needs.             upgrading of DAFO technical
staff into generalist Farming
Systems Extension Workers
(FSEW)
Number of farming
households who are aware of
and adopt improved
agricultural practices;
trying/using new seed
varieties, applying fertilizer;
and introducing new crops to
cropping pattern.
On-farm demonstrations of
technology which respond to
small farmer issues.
5. Availability of village based Annual disbursements of
funds to invest in subprojects  around US$20,000 per
which respond to community  district, for implementation of
priorities, and improve   prioritized small-scale village
incomes of the poor.      investments.
Number of household groups
involved in proposing and
implementing subprojects.
Number of women and ethnic
minorities groups submitting
and having proposals
approved for implementation
Number of sub-projects
deemed satisfactory by village
communities.
- 26 -



6. Increasing the awareness of 6. Regular monitoring of the
project staff and beneficiaries  project fo environmental
on environmental issues   impacts.
related to the project.
Improved understanding of
impacts on irrigation
development on fisheries and
other environmental concerns.
Conduct of village level
dissemination on
environmental issues
7. Effective Implementation of 7. Timely actions on
the project, with provinces    government follow up and
taking a lead role - supported  coordination of
by a good system of       implementation.
monitoring and evaluation.
Key operations manuals
developed, applied, and
refined according to specific
project needs.
No. of project staff with
improved competencies on
project implementation,
M&E, procurement
processing and financial
management.
M&E system and MIS
developed, community linked
M&E system put in place, and
timely monitoring reports and
evaluation studies completed.
- 27 -



Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:        (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                          Outputs)
1. Improvements in Rural
Infrastructure:                                     Project MIS
Continuity and appropriate
e Rehabilitation of     US$ 8.55 million          Financial Monitoring Reports skills mix among counterpart
Smallscale irrigation;                                                   staff, who are taskei to
Progress Reports;         coordinate and support project
* Improve rural access -  US$ 1.87 million        disbursement records      implementation.
rehabilitation of access
tracks and trails;
* Improve Rural Water   US$ 0.55 million
Supply and Sanitation
Environmental Management  US$0.29                   Bank Supervision mission    Timely recruitment of key
reports                   consultants, who are needed
to support project
implementation.
2. Improved Agricultural                            Minutes of Central and    Local Counterpart lunding
Services                                            Provincial Project Steering    available in a timely manner.
Committee Meetings.
* Agricultural Extension  US$ 2.03 million
* Adaptive Research     US$ 0.35 million
* Support for Water User's US$ 0.44 million
Associations
3. Village/Community      US$ 2.02 million
Investments for supporting
the Poor
4. Implementation Support   US$ 2.12 million
and Project Management
- 28 -



Annex la: Summary of Social And Economic Assessment
1.    The Project is designed to support the Government of Lao PDR's major concerns for economic
growth and reduction of the overall poverty situation in the country. It seeks to enhance agricultural
productivity, improve small holder food security and increase rural income. The proposed project
components are: 1) improvement in irrigation (gravity) and small scale infrastructure (access tracks and
water supply); 2) agricultural services (primarily extension services); 3) village investment for the rural
poor (community-based activities); and 4) institutional strengthening and capacity building.
2.    A social and economic assessment was conducted at the start of project preparation. The
objectives of the SEA were: to investigate and understand the social, economic political and cultural factors
concerning the intended project beneficiaries; determine the main constraints faced by the rural
communities; guide the design of the project; and to incorporate the participatory planning and consultation
process with beneficiaries into the overall project planning and implementation process.
Approach and Methodology
3.    The SEA was conducted from January to February 2000 and covered the four project provinces of
Attapeu, Champasak, Khammouane and Saravanne. The following reports prepared under the SEA are
available in project files: (i) Social and Economic Assessment Report for Lao PDR: Agriculture
Development Project; (ii) Individual reports on each of the four project provinces: Attapeu, Champasak,
Khammouane and Saravanne; (iii) Local Government Structure and Organization; and (iv) Reports on
water user groups. The quantitative and qualitative assessment covered 20 villages with about 5 villages
for each province. The village selection was done through consultation with officials at the district level
using the following criteria: land topography, i.e., the lowland/upland; communities with incidence of
poverty; and communities with effinic minority groups.
4.     The quantitative data collection was mainly based on the review of secondary data from sources
such as national and local statistics and reports. Qualitative data collection was carried out by using the
participatory approach through the use of focus group discussion and interview techniques. In order to
promote the people's involvement and spontaneous discussions in each village studied, the focus groups
were classified into 3 groups namely the community leader or key informant group, the general farmers
(both men and women) and the women's group. At the district and provincial levels, discussions were also
conducted with the concerned governnent officials in order to obtain their views and feedback on needs and
constraints especially in the area of extension delivery and capacity building or strengthening. In all, the
assessment covered 60 focus groups involving about 900 people.
Key Findings
5.    The key findings are summarized below:
Community
* Farmers are in favour of having access to irrigation water with motivation of being self sufficient in
rice.
* People in upland areas would like to improve non-rice food production and nutritional intake.
*   Community strength and integration are strong, a foundation of community unity and commitment to
- 29 -



the project.
Irrigation Infrastructure
* Irrigation system with unlined canals cause constraints such as:
- high water loss
- increase cost of production (e.g. diesel pump scheme)
- delay in planting (for far away farm plots)
- high cost of time and labour in maintenance.
* Water shortage during planting season in dry months.
* Conflicts over water use in large scheme during the peak period
Capital A Credits
* Production of dry season rice requires relatively high inputs (80% of total cost of production).
*   Cost of production ranges between 900,000-1,100,000 Kip per hectare.
* Lack of capital for livelihood activities by women.
Labor
* High demand of labour during the peak period pushed up the cost of labor.
* Traditional labour exchange tradition can no longer be applied in larger irrigation schemes.
Production Technology and Extension
. Farmers lack experience and technical know how in crop management.
- Access to extension services is limited due to shortage of technical manpower and budget constrainis.
* Pests posed one the serious problems unable to tackle by farmers due to lack of knowledge and the high
cost.
* Low yield from dry season rice fairly common among farmers in relatively poor areas.
Social and Health
Social and Health constraints although not directly related to the irrigated agriculture can impede the
farmers health and labor contribution to the agricultural activities.
* Health related problems are for example the lack of access to modem health care, good sanitation and
clean potable water.
*   Frequent pregnancies and child care of women from poor households and among ethnic groups put the
women and their babies in poor health.
* Malaria and diarrhoea are major causes of death of the children and adults in remote villages.
* Women with burdens of frequent pregnancies and constant child care are not able to fully contribute
their labour in farm works and have to depend on their husband.
* Sickness not only impedes the available of family labour but worsened the household finance situation
(due to expenditure on medical treatments and transport).
Food Security
* Food security problem in still common (some households can cover only 3-4 months of food)
* Major factors for low productivity are also floods, drought and pests
*  The " khao khiew" or advance selling of green paddy to pay for contingencies (e.g. medical treatments)
is one of the maj or causes of food insecurity in poor households.
- 30 -



Vulnerable Ethnic Groups
*   Food insecurity is widespread among the upland and poor ethnic minority groups due to decrease in the
fallow period, limited knowledge of agricultural technology and lack of extension services and
agricultural inputs.
*   Low education level for these groups and high illiteracy among women.
*   Limited or lack of access to public utilities and services, such as all season roads, potable water, health
services and schools.
Main Recommendations
6.    The main recommendations are listed below.
(a) Improve irrigation, particularly for dry season cultivation and strengthen water user groups (see
below).
(b) Provide alternative models for information dissemination and technology transfer though: (i)
demonstration at farm plot; (ii) investment on volunteer model farmers.
(c) Strengthen support systems in service deliveries and extension in the area of cost reduction,
marketing and feasible options in irrigated agriculture (MAF and APB should co-ordinate their
operations closely).
(d) Development of upland crop diversification in areas where potential for development of irrigated
land are limited through the following ways: (i) assistance in land clearing of allocated plots; (ii)
undertake beneficiary land-use planning in response to farmers' needs and priorities; (iii) give
priority to poor ethnic groups to develop their non-rice food production capacity.
(e) In less developed provinces such as Attapeu where many areas are under the diesel pump scheme;
there are very few gravity schemes which can be targeted by the project for rehabilitation. More
assistance in terms of livelihood production such as livestock and animal husbandry should be
considered (especially for women and ethnic minority groups). Extension programs on upland
agriculture should be promoted and increased.
(f) Health and sanitation facilities and birth-spacing program are top priority needs of women in most
villages especially among the ethnic minority groups.
(g) Literacy program for women and ethnic minority groups should be provided in order that they can
participate fully in the agricultural extension program and other project activities to be provided by
the project.
Water Users Group
7.     The assessment of the water users groups (WUG) in the four project provinces produced the
following findings. More information on WUG can be found in the Annex on Water User Association.
Keyfindings
*   Many irrigation schemes were constructed recently (completed in late 1990's) and WUGs were not
well established and functioning.
*   There is lack of clarity regarding roles and responsibilities of WUG and govemment.
* The responsibilities of WUG is often undertaken by the existing village authority.
* WUG operation in ethnic minority communities is difficult due to low literacy rate and cultural
factor or traditional practices which do not always comply with official rules and regulations.
* The collection of water user fees is not always possible due to the inefficiency of the irrigation
system and irregularity of water supply.
- 31 -



* Farmers' contribution especially women in providing labor for the construction and maintenance is
impressive but often not recognized by the outside.
* There is limitation to the human labor input and technical know-how when proper maintenance and
rehabilitation have to be met.
Recommendation Concerning WUG
(h) WUG should be well prepared before taking on the transfer of systems.
(i) They should be well prepared to take up responsibilities through training on the following
topics:
(i) Organization management
(ii) Financial management
(iii) Basic technical skills
(iv) Conflict resolution
(  The scheme should be reconstructed or rehabilitated properly before the transfer of ownership be
carried out.
(k) Mechanisms should be set up at the district level to solve inter-village conflicts over water uses.
(1) Irrigation schemes should be categorized according to size and their potential. Guidelines to be
developed accordingly to suit the level of development for each WUG.
(m) A small repair or maintenance unit with necessary equipment should be set up at the District or
Agricultural Development Centres to provide technical assistance to farmers both in training and
supplying equipment and machines.
- 32 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC: Agricultural Development Project
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$9.11 million
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE
The project would be implemented within Attapeu, Champasak, Khammouane, and Saravane provinces,
mostly in the Mekong Corridor. Table-i below summarizes the project's Rural Infrastructure Component.
Table 1: Summary of Proposed Infrastructure Component
Villages            Irrigation Infrastructure Schemes         Access Tracks          Water Supply &
I      aitation
Provinces                           Gravity       Pump            Total                  Irish   Base   Hand   Dug   Base
Dis-                                                                       Cross-  cost  Pumps  Wells  cost*
tricts   No.   Popu-                                 Area   Cost   Lengt   ings
lation       Area         Area                (000     h
US$)                   (000                    (000
No.   ha   No.   ha   No.   Ha                         No.   US$)   No.    No.   US$)
Attapeu      2      6     1644    2    300    2    260    4    560               10       -      57      37      -      42
Champasak     5      29    10639   7   1420    1    180    8   1600   1.570    32         31      432     48      33      71
Khamnmouane    2      20    4485    3    630    2    180    5    810   1.099    21          8      176     20      44      65
Saravane     3      41    20450    5   4100                 5   4100   2.927    98       45      877     94      62    133
Total       12    96    37218   18   6580   5    620   23   7200                165     84    1542    199      139    311
The figures in parenthesis gives number of villages for water supply schemes
* Includes cost of 5070 nos. of sanitarv pour latrines (one latrine per household)
The Water Supply and Sanitation sub-component has an indicative amount of $311,000. The numbers for handpumps and dug wells have been
included for costing purposes; actual implementation of types of systems will be based on community preferences, affordability and technical
feasibility.
Irrigation Infrastructure Rehabilitation (Base cost - US$7.1 million)
The project would rehabilitate a total of 22 existing irrigation schemes, which have fallen into disrepair
over the years, mainly due to the near absence of a system of maintenance, either by Government or by the
beneficiaries. The main canals on many schemes are in particularly poor shape, and it is proposed to
rehabilitate them and line the critical reaches. In addition, on account of resource constraints, work on
some schemes has been going on for a number of years (10-15 years in some cases), but these are yet to be
completed (for example Dongmon Weir scheme, with service area of 1200ha, in Saravane province, where
work was initiated in 1987, but many secondary canals are yet to be built). The project would provide for
the completion of works needed on the secondary canals, and the structures which are needed for efficient
operation. Of the total schemes, there are 16 gravity schemes, five pump schemes and one gravity cum
pump scheme (Sangom  in Khammouane province with service area of 280 ha). In order to improve the
operations of the pump schemes, the project will provide for their conversion from diesel to electric pumps.
- 33 -



Table 2
IMPL EMENTA TION SCHEDULE OFIRRIGATION INFRASTRUCTURE
Province       Districts        Scheme        Service    Base                  lmlem entation Seh edule
Designation      Area     Cost*      Year       Year        Year      Year     Year
(ha)     (000       2002       2003       2004      2005      2006
Attapeu      Xamkhixay    Nakeangkham          200       256
Xamaxay         Samong II        150       194
Xamkhixay       Naxaithong        60        84
Xamaxay         Samong I         150       202
Total         560       736
Champasak   Pathamphone    Houaynamsai           130       181
Bachiang       Houaypalai        100       78
Pathamphone       Nongkan         250        185           _
Pathamphone    Pathamnphone       180        196
Saysomboon    Kongthou ipn        300
656
Saysomboon    Kongthou ii p       300
Pathamphone      Thonghpha        180       254
Pakse         Km 8 Weir        130       199                              -
Paksong        Thongwai          30        11
_       _ammouane    Thakhek       Total         1600      1760
Khlammouane    Thbakhek           Nakosin         70        92
(Nakaikhia)
Gnomallath       Phandeng         100       133            _      -
Gnomallath       Naphoxay         80        120
Gnomallath        Thathot         280       317                      _
Thakhek         Sangom          280       431             _
Total         810       1093
Saravane       Saravane        Soutabali        100       31
Saravane       Nondengi p       600
Saravane      Nondeng i p-      800       1153                              -
Saravane      Nondeng , p-      600                       _      -
Wapy         Dongmani p .      600
1443
Wapy         Dongman i pn      600                                         -
Saravane        Houaylat        300        148           _
Laongnamn      Kep Pheung        500       154
(Ked Pheung)
Total         4100      2929
-34 -



Criteria for selection of schemes: The following criteria were used for selecting the schemes (from much
large sample which had originally been identified).
(i) Schemes should not have been rehabilitated in the last 3-5 years; (ii) in this first phase, gravity schemes
were given priority; in exceptional cases, pump schemes where diesel pumps have already been converted
to electricity, or the pump schemes which require conversion from diesel to electricity (and where electric
lines have been brought to the pump station site), have been considered; (iii) schemes should have potential
to increase irrigation intensity to over 120 percent after their rehabilitation, and will generate a rnirimum
economic rate of return of 12 percent; (iv) farmers are willing to establish themselves into WUGs, where
they are presently not in existence, or to sign on to a program to strengthen the WUG activities, where these
already exist; they should be willing to contribute fully to meeting the O&M costs and involve themselves
in the design and implementation of these works.
Implementation Arrangements and Schedule: Implementation would be the direct responsibility of the
Provincial Irrigation Office (PIO) and PAFSO, under the overall guidance of the Provincial Project
Implementation Office (PPIO). Contracting for the implementation of irrigation infrastructure shall be
carried out mostly through National Competitive Bidding procedures of the World Bank, except for two
schemes where the costs exceed $500,000; the latter would be tendered using ICB procedure. The list of the
selected schemes is summnarized in Table 2.
It is planned that work on five schemes (two in Champasak, one in Khammouane and two in Saravane
provinces) would be initiated soon after effectiveness, during the first year of the project. For these five
schemes, it is proposed that the tender documents would be based on preliminary designs which have been
prepared by the Irigation Survey and Design Division of the Irrigation Department prior to appraisal. For
the detailed designs, a provision would be made in the contract for these schemes, under which the
Contractor shall arrange their detailed surveys and designs through a Design Enterprise acceptable to the
PIO, and which shall be approved prior to award of contract. The payments to the Design Enterprise shall
be made by the contractor after the detailed designs and drawings are approved by the PIO. The detailed
surveys, designs and drawings and bill of quantities (BOQ) shall be prepared by the above enterprise
during the first three months of the award of the contract and during the course of the fourth month these
shall be reviewed and approved by the PIO before construction could be initiated. For the remaining
schemes there should be sufficient time, for the detailed surveys and designs to be done during
implementation, in advance of the award for construction work.
Rural Access Tracks (Base Cost US$ 1.5 million)
Description: Access tracks linking irrigation schemes to villages and to the road network have fallen into
disrepair, and make the areas inaccessible particularly during the rainy season. Low cost rehabilitation will
be provided for these tracks, to enable improved access and the development of better systems for
marketing of agricultural produce and acquiring of inputs, and the delivery of rural and technical services
to the farmers. Only tracks connecting villages to schemes, as well as to the nearest gravel surfaced roads
will be considered for rehabilitation. The project provides for the rehabilitation of these village access
tracks, using laterite surfacing. Based on discussions with the respective provinces, there is provision for
rehabilitating about 165 kms of access tracks, and the construction of around 85 Irish crossings. The
project will not deal with the larger road network, since this is being addressed under a separate IDA
- 35 -



project (the Road Maintenance Project).
Criteria for selection: The following criteria were used for selecting the village access tracks proposec
under the project: (i) These are existing access tracks which need rehabilitation and no acquisition of land is
envisaged; (ii) they are for villages related to the irrigation schemes proposed for rehabilitation under the
project, and for providing access between these villages and the schemes and connection to the nearest good
road; (iii) the communities are willing to sign an agreement with the Provincial Roads Department, pric r to
taking up rehabilitation of these tracks, under which they would provide labor for the maintenance of these
tracks after their rehabilitation; (iv) no bridges would be constructed -- mostly Irish Crossings would be
provided.
Implementation Arrangements and Schedule: The Provincial Communication and Transport Office
(PCTOs) shall check the lengths of these access tracks and number of Irish Crossings, prepare a profile
along with typical sections of these tracks, and typical drawings of the Irish Crossings. Based on these,
BOQ (with length of the access tracks in kms and items of excavation, mass concrete, riprap etc for the
Irish Crossings) for each of the packages shall be prepared and tenders invited together with the irrigat .on
schemes rehabilitation. Implementation of this component is expected to be completed with the
rehabilitation of irrigation schemes.
Routine Maintenance and Beneficiary Agreements: As indicated under the Criteria of Selection of
Access Tracks, labor for the routine maintenance of these tracks shall be the responsibility of the
communities for which an agreement would be signed with them prior to taking up the work of
rehabilitation (the roads department will provide the equipment and overall supervision). The routine
maintenance would comprise repairs to the earthen shoulders, laterite patch work and minor repairs to the
Irish Crossings. It is felt that repairs of major cuts in these access tracks as a result of heavy floods or
damages to Irish Crossings would be beyond the capacity of the communities and such heavy repairs shall
have to carried out by the PCTO under their maintenance programs.
Village Water Supply and Sanitation (Cost US$ 0.5 million)
Description: The provision of safe potable water is a high priority, given that many of the village
communities presently do not have access to it. The problem is more acute in the less accessible upland
areas, leading to serious health problems for these commnunities. The design of the component is guided by
the National RWSS Sector Strategy and Guideline National Framework which was formally launched in
late 1997. The strategy aims to bring about a transition from the past top-down to a more demand
responsive approach. Accordingly, in line with the strategy, the project will provide for the installation of
systems based on community preferences, affordability and technical feasibility. Provision is also made to
install about 5,000 sanitary pits and conduct a health and hygiene awareness educational campaign. The
materials for the hand pumps and open wells, as well as the cost of drilling, would be supplied by the
project; the conununities would contribute labor for the implementation of this component. Prior to
initiating work on these village water schemes and sanitary pits, communities will be consulted and their
participation sought on the design, preference and implementation plans. Community-based agreements
would be entered into with the Provincial Health Offices, whereby the communities would confirm their
commitment to provide labor for installation, and for taking on full O&M and replacement responsibility
for these schemes. Overall, the component provides an opportunity for taking on board the lessons from the
implementation of the RWSS strategy elsewhere in the country (in seven spearhead provinces), and
accordingly making improvements.
Criteria used, and coverage: (i) These rural village water supply schemes shall comprise hand pumps,
- 36 -



dug wells, as well as gravity based schemes where water supply is assured; (ii) there is an expressed need
for a water system; (iii) the communities are willing to contribute about 15-20 percent of the base cost of
village water supply schemes, mostly in the form of labor, and are also willing to sign an agreement, prior
to taking up of these schemes, giving an undertaking that they would be fully responsible for their 0 & M
after their installation/construction; (iv) water quality shall be tested and potable water shall be made
available to these villages; (v) while deciding whether hand pump would be installed or a dug well would be
constructed the view of the communities would be ascertained; (vi) one hand pump 4 inch diameter, one
dug well, is estimated to cater for a population of about 100-150 persons or 25-30 households.
Beneficiary Agreement to contribute labor and yearly replacement fee: As indicated in the criteria for
selection, the communities would have to sign an agreement with the Provincial Health Office, prior to
taling up of these schemes, that they would contribute labor and yearly replacement fee for the 0 & M of
these schemes. It has been estimated that around Kip 1000 per year per household would be needed for this
purpose, which includes for consumable items like washers etc.
Implementation Arrangements: The implementation of village water supply schemes and sanitary latrine
toilets shall be the responsibility of PPHOs, which shall work under a contractual agreeement between
MAF and NCEHWS who will provide the overall guidance in each province. Since these are simple works
and support would be available from the NCEHWS, no technical assistance has been proposed under the
project; it is expected that with the existing staff and technical assistance provided to the provincial
implementation office (engineering and procurement matters) they should be able to supervise these works.
The project would, however, provide motor cycles, meet O&M costs, per-diem and travel costs etc..
Project Component 2 - US$1.97 million
VILLAGE INVESTMENT FOR THE POOR
Description:
The Village Investment for the Poor (VIP) component will be a block grant allocated to a district for
implementing small scale projects identified by the villagers themselves. The eligibility and selection
criteria shall ensure that sub-projects financed from the grant are demand-driven, meet community
preferences, and are responsive to essential technical, economic, financial and social parameters which are
set out in an Implementation Manual. Simple criteria will be developed to establish cost, benefits and
technical feasibility. The majority of the sub-projects are expected to be small and well within the technical
and management capacity of the community. This component will be closely linked and integrated with the
agricultural extension component of the Project.
-37 -



Phasing and Location: The VIP component will be implemented in 15 districts which make up the pro ect
area. These are:
Province         Project District   Total Villages    Village with
Irrigation
Component
Attapeu           1. Xamakhixai              32              4
2. Xamaxai                 52              2
3. Xaysetha                x
Champasak         1. Bachiang                93              3
2. Pakse                   64              3
3. Paksong                105              1
4. Pathampone              93             17
5. Sanasomboun             86              5
6. Phontong                x
Khammouane        1. Mahaxai                 89
1. Nhonunalath            71              17
2. Thakek                 137              3
Saravanne         1. LaoNgam                 112             6
2. Saravanne              160             24
3. Wapi                    80             11
Total
T'he Program will begin implementation in a phased manner so as to build capacity of the PAFSO and
DAFO staff who will be directly responsible for the program. It will start in one district per province,
except for Champasak which will have two districts in year one, bringing a total of five districts for year
one; the program will build up to include the 15 districts by year three, and the same number will continae
for years four and five.
Selection Criteria of Beneficiary Groups
1. Beneficiaries will come from villages which are part of the project districts.
2. These villages have to be identified as the poorest by the district.
(Poverty in Lao PDR is defined by several methods at the moment. For the VIP Program purposes, it
will follow the definition that is used locally from district to district. E.g., consultation with PAFSC'
and DAFO staff in the 4 project provinces have yielded various indicators of poverty such as: little or
no agricultural land; no irrigation; low income of less than Kip 50,000 per year; remote and/or no
access roads; low education.)
3. Households receiving assistance from ADP's irrigation component will not be eligible for VIP.
4. Households have to prepare and submit proposals as a group and not individually.
5. The VIP funds will be distributed for sub-projects as follows: one third to poor rural groups; one third
to ethnic minority groups and one-third to women groups.
6. The groups will receive the funds in the form of grants for the approved sub-project activities.
- 38 -



Selection Criteria Requirements for Sub-Projects
1. They should be proposed by members of a village group or nouai (village sub-group).
2. They benefit large numbers of people, especially the poor, and not only a single household.
3. The potential beneficiaries have participated in planning the proposal.
4. The proposals should fall within the priorities of MAF's national agricultural development program in
general and the provincial agricultural program in particular.
5. Proposals which fall within the positive list will be considered (see the implementation manual; the list
will be updated annually). The Program will not support proposals which are environmentally and
socially negative, government's normally budgeted activities, land clearing, and activities already
supported by other donors.
6. They meet essential technical, economic, financial and social parameters.
7. They are expected to be small and well within the technical and management capacity of the
community.
8. They meet other project requirements on cost ceiling, environment and social safeguards, gender, ethnic
minority group preference and other aspects.
9. The beneficiary households are willing to contribute a minimum of 10% of sub-project costs; the
contribution can be in the form of labor and local material.
10. There must be adequate operation and maintenance plans for each sub-project.
11. Each sub-project must be completed within 4 months from date of receiving the VIP funds.
Fund Allocation: The allocation will be by district. It is proposed that each district receives an annual
allocation of $20,000. VIP can finance sub-projects from communities costing between: KIP 4,000,000
($500) minimum and KIP 12,000,000 ($1,500) maximum. Exceptions can be made to accommodate
sub-projects that are justified for lower or higher amounts, such as trails, small bridges, etc. (to
accommodate this, each sub-project shall include a grant of not more than $1,500 equivalent and shall
include a contribution of at least 10 percent of the sub-project cost). Each district has to fund
agriculture-related activities up to at least 80 to 90% of the grant; the remainder can be used for other
community priorities. Beneficiaries will be required to contribute a minimum of 10 percent of the cost of
the sub-project; the remaining 90 percent would be provided as a grant from the project.
Institutional Arrangements
Implementation of the VIP will be under the coordination of the PAFSO Extension and Training Unit
(ETU); actual implementation will be by the DAFO extension unit, i.e. by the group of staff at the DAFO
level who are trained as Farning System Extension Workers (FSEW) under the project. One staff will be
assigned from DAFO to be responsible for the component. At the village level, a village volunteer will be
recruited to be the facilitator at that level. The village volunteer will be responsible for the following tasks:
information dissemination about the program; assist the DAFO staff in conducting simple village
assessments and prioritization of need (this activity will be part of the FSEW training, and closely linked to
the extension component, since the latter would require a full consultation and PRA process with the
village, to get a sense of the constraints and issues); assisting the nouai to prepare proposals and plans;
facilitating the linkages with DAFO; collecting pre and post baseline data; supervising sub-project
implementation; and undertake follow-up on operation and maintenance by the beneficiary groups.
Initially, the FSEW will undertake these activities until such time that they can transfer them gradually to
the village volunteer.
Participation at the village and district levels will be enhanced through the inclusion of the existing village
and district development committee (not necessarily the same as the RDC) for their role in reviewing and
- 39 -



appraising the sub-projects. DAFO staff will provide the technical assistance in reviewing sub-projects for
technical feasibility, if required, and for providing extension services, when needed.
It is proposed that the operational expenses for village volunteers for the VIP program and the technical
assistance of the DAFO staff will be recovered through a smnall percentage (say 5 percent for the village
and 3 percent for DAFO) levied on the sub-project cost. DAFO staffs operational expenses will come fiom
the project.
VIP Approval Process: The proposed approval process for VIP will be an adaptation of existing
procedures practised in the villages and districts. The proposed procedures for approval of sub-projects are
summarized below.
1. The eligible groups in the village prepare proposals and budget under the guidance of the VDV and
DAFO. They submit a signed copy of the proposal and other required documents to the Village
Committee for review and endorsement. The proposals would indicate the share of beneficiary
contribution (minimum of 10%) which will likely be labor and some local material.
2. The Village Committee (which could be an existing one, but should include the following persons: the
Village Head or Deputy; a Women Union's representative; a Senior representative; a Youth
representative) reviews the proposals based on the criteria mentioned above and endorses those which
meet the criteria.
3. The Village Committee endorses proposals which respond to local priorities and meet set criteria to -he
District Committee via DAFO. (The District Committee could also be an existing one; it should
include the District Head or Deputy; the DAFO VIP Coordinator; District Treasurer; a Rural
Development Committee member; a Women Union's representative; and relevant DAFO-FSEW staff
as technical resource person.)
4. The District Committee appraises the proposals according to the criteria described in the VIP
Implementation Manual.
5. If changes are needed which would ensure the eligibility of a particular proposal, the DAFO staff will
inform and help the groups in the villages to modify the proposals.
6. The District Committee approves or rejects the proposal.
7. The DAFO then notifies the PPIO VIP Coordinator of the approval with a brief summary of the
proposal, schedule of implementation, cost and schedule of payment(s).
8. The PPIO VIP Coordinator will submit the list of approved proposals to the PPIO Head.
9. The PPIO VIP Coordinator prepares a check for the total amount of the sub-project to be approved by
The PPIO Head and Finance Section Chief.
10. If expenditures on a particular sub-project are expected to take place in installments covering a pericd
beyond two months, then funds will be made available according to the expected schedule; such cases
are likely to be few. The request for the next installment will be through the submission of a
Sub-Project Expenditure Form by the Sub-Project Group to DAFO who sends it with a request to the
PPIO VIP Coordinator for the next payment.
11. DAFO provides the first training course in using the Sub-Project Expenditure Form to the Sub-Project
Group.
12. After the training is conducted, DAFO cashes the check from the Provincial Second Generation Special
Account and hands the cash to the Groups for sub-project implementation. Funds will be released a Aer
the training and not earlier than one week before project implementation.
-40 -



VIP Procurement Arrangements: A broad spectrum of activities will be undertaken under the VIP
Program with the direct participation and contribution in kind of the beneficiaries. Procurement of works,
goods and services for individual contracts under this component are expected to be small, given that the
annual fund allocation for each district is US$20,000 and for each village less than US$ 3,000; most
proposals are likely to be less than US$ 1,000 each; each village may have 3 or 5 proposals per year.
Community Participation in procurement is justified in this case.
VIP Implementation Manual: A draft VIP Implementation Manual has been developed which describes
the procedures, including financial and procurement arrangements in detail. The draft manual will be
tested in the first year of implementation and revised, based on discussions on the experience and key
lessons, at a workshop at the end of the first year.
Project Component 3 - USS 2.21 million
IMPROVED AGRICULTURAL SERVICES
The Agricultural Services component of the project would provide for (i) institutional strengthening of
agricultural services at district, provincial and central levels for the delivery of extension services; and (ii)
adaptive research and demonstrations, which respond to farmer concerns, and promote crop diversification.
Institutional Strengthening for Agricultural Extension (US$1.9 million)
The Pilot Extension Project (PEP) was launched in 1996 with funding from the Swiss. Supported by
technical assistance from an international NGO (Novartis Foundation), PEP entailed structural adjustments
within the DAFOs to enable them to become more effective extension agents. Extension Training Units
were established at the Provincial levels and linked to the national Agricultural Extension Agency, with
expectations that these will continue to operate even after the Project is completed. Part of the PEP
methodology, which has guided the design of this component, was the conversion of the district technical
specialist into a generalist, with a specific geographical area of responsibility. Drawing upon the
experiences of the PEP, the project would provide for the following.
A Central Extension Training Unit (CETU) would be established, initially, within the PCO; it would be
headed by an Agricultural Extension Adviser (AEA). The head of the CETU would coordinate the
implementation of the component in all provinces, drawing upon experts available in the various
departments of the Ministry (agriculture, irrigation, forestry, livestock and fisheries). The adviser would
ensure proper linkages of activities under this component with those of Water User Groups and Village
based investment to support the poor (VIP). The CETU would be responsible for preparing annual training
and extension plans in collaboration with the PAFSO and DAFO in the project areas. It would also
organize and implement the training of PAFSO staff, utilizing the local technical assistance provided to
guarantee the services of appropriate resource persons. The CETU would participate in and monitor the
training of DAFO staff by PAFS-ETU.
At provincial level, a Provincial Extension Training Unit (PETU) would be established within the PAFSO.
It would comprise a Coordinator of the Unit and 5-6 staff assigned from the various existing sectors
(agriculture, livestock, fisheries, forestry, and irrigation). The role of PAFS-ETU wouldbe to coordinate
the extension programs of the districts within the province and to organize the training of district staff. The
staff would receive training on extension from the CETU and, in tum, would be responsible for training
staff of the DAFO. The PETU would also have responsibility for i) planning and monitoring extension
programs; ii) coordination with input suppliers, credit institutions and markets; and iii) diffusion of
messages through the mass media.
- 41 -



At District level, the project would implement a training program which aims to upgrade the technical
knowledge and extension skills of DAFO technical staff (the project would initially target 5 to 6 staff per
district) to enable them to become effective polyvalent, generalist Farning Systems Extension Workers
(FSEW). The FSEW would be trained in the mix of technical skills needed to support the farming systems
in each area. They would be assigned responsibility for specific villages each year and would develop work
programs in a participatory manner with farmers, including extension messages to be demonstrated through
field plots and regular visits to the villages according to the cropping calendar prepared for the season. ] n
addition to their strictly extension role, FSEW would also be expected to act as facilitators helping villagers
to identify needs and fomnulate proposals for financing under the Village based investment to support the
poor (VIP).
Delivery of Extension Services: The project would adopt a participatory demand driven approach to
delivery of extension services. FSEWs would be responsible for gathering information regarding the
characteristics of the cropping systems in the villages assigned to them. This information would be
collected through participatory methods (i.e. PRA) and analyzed together by the FSEW and the farmers.
Based on a comprehensive analysis of the information collected, the FSEW and the farmers would develop
relevant crop production plans to be disseminated to all farmers in the village and to be used as reference-
for establishment of demonstration plots. These plans would be updated every year with corresponding
update of demonstration plots and crop production technologies recommended for dissemination.
Demonstration plots, to be installed every season, would be the focal point for in-service training of farnters
and DAFO technical staff.
Adaptive Research and Demonstrations (US$0.3 million base cost)
Presently, most farmers are focused on rice production only. From the point of view of increasing incomes
of farmers and securing the long-term viability of the investment in irrigation rehabilitation, it is important
to have a program to support farmers to diversify into higher value crops. Relevant recommendations from
research on the best varieties, inputs and cultural practices to use for potential crops are not available in the
country. A program of on-farm adaptive research and demonstrations, of technologies available in
neighboring countries for similar agro-ecological conditions, is therefore proposed.
The Director of NAFRI would assign a Research Coordinator from its regular staff to manage this
component. The Coordinator would have the responsibility to interact with the CETU staff, Heads of
PAFSO and DAFO to plan the implementation of research activities in the various Provinces/districts.
Trials and demonstrations would be based on priority needs identified by farmers and implemented by
NAFRI specialists in collaboration with staff of PAFSO and DAFO. Participation of NAFRI scientists in
the process of constraint identification at farm level would be encouraged. The results of these trials and
impact of the demonstrations would be presented by NAFRI researchers and discussed in workshops with
extension staff from the concerned PAFSO and DAFO, and farmers at the end of every season.
With the expected increase in use of chemical fertilizers, there is a potential for some increase in nutrient
leaching. However, the extension services would be emphasizing the recommendation of split nitrogen
application to maximize absorption by crop plants and minimize losses through leaching. The project
would also promote greater use of crop residues and manure, which would tend to increase nutrient
retention by soils.
Insects constitute the main pest group in Lao PDR, but presently there is very little insecticide use in the
project area. However, intensification of production with irrigation and increased fertilizer use would,
eventually, lead to increased pest build-up and increase in use of pesticides. As a result to the National IPM
program, a significant number of farmners are aware of leaf-eating insects and their natural enemies. The
project would include training in IPM for rice and vegetables as part of the extension training of FSEW.
- 42 -



Project Component 4 - US$0.41 million
WATER USERS ASSOCIATION
The improvement of maintenance arrangements for existing irrigation systems and the strengthening of the
O&M capacity, are key development issues in the irrigation sub-sector. The project would support the
policy of transferring responsibility for irrigation management and system O&M to water user associations
(WUAs). Many donor agencies have been supporting the Government in the establishment of WUAs; and
the ADB has recently approved a project ('Decentralized Irrigation Development and Management Sector
Project'), which would finance irrigation rehabilitation, and provide institutional and management support
in establishing WUAs. This recently approved ADB project is being implemented in six provinces
(different from the 4 provinces being supported under ADP) and will cover 56 pump irrigation schemes
with a total area of 10,000 ha.
Taking the above into account, the ADP will not propose any new strategy but instead will work closely
and synchronize activities with the ADB project in order to achieve similar ends. The project would build
on these initiatives, and help promote and institutionalize the development of Water Users Associations as
envisioned by the Government. Water user groups (WUG) and related associations at the system level,
would need to be established (where they do not already exist) prior to irrigation systems being
rehabilitated; and commitments entered into by the irrigators to take on responsibilities for building the
tertiary canals and for O&M (and meet these costs through Irrigation Service Fees).
Project Component 5 - US$0.27 million
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT:
Based on the findings of the environmental assessment which was carried out during detailed project
preparation (which has been translated into Lao and made available to all project provinces), and further
field work and discussions during the course of appraisal, a targeted component on environmental
management has been included in the project. It responds to the key environmnental issues identified,
establish a system for environmental monitoring, and provide training to STEA and PAFSO staff (training
of trainers) to build capacity in the provinces for dealing with environmental concerns, compliance on
social safeguards, and monitor the environmental/social aspects of the project during implementation. Key
areas which the component will address include: raising awareness among farmers and staff, of
catchment-based natural resources management in 9 selected schemes (given the need for the irrigation
communities to be sensitive to issues of natural resources management, particularly where the schemes
were close to existing NBCAs); improve understanding of fisheries issues as they relate to irrigation
development, among staff involved in designing and operating irrigation systems; outline contractor
responsibilities for worker safety, site restoration, waste disposal, local employment and environmental
standards; link up with the National Malaria Control Program and provide support in the case of identified
schemes. The project will also support periodic monitoring of environmental impacts and compliance on
social safeguards in connection with the components.
Project Component 6 - US$1.98 million
SUPPORT FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION/COORDINATION
The project would provide support for the implementation and coordination units, and in particular strengthen capacity
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) as well as in Financial Management. Overall, the institutional arrangements
for implementing the project are guided by the objective of reinforcing the Government's policy of
-43 -



Accordingly, they provide for overall coordination responsibility being vested in the central government,
execution responsibility lying with the Provinces and districts.
National Level Institutional Arrangements
Central Project Steering Committee (CPSC) has been established to periodically review implementation
performance, and provide guidance for addressing issues and problems which may arise during
implementation. The Committee is headed by the Vice Minister, MAF, and include representatives from the
following Ministries: Finance; Foreign Affairs; International Cooperation in the Prime Minister's Office;
State Planning Committee; Health; Communications, Transport, Post and Construction; Leading
Committee for Rural Development; Lao Women's Union; STEA; Representatives of key departments cf
MAF: Agriculture, Irrigation, Livestock and Fisheries, Forestry, NAFRI, LaRREC; Representatives of the
4 participating provinces from the PPIO/PAFSO; and the National Project Coordinator (Head of PCO') as
member/secretary to the Steering Committee, and the National Project Director of ADB Irrigation Project
as observer. The CPSC would meet quarterly in the initial two years of the project (when project start up
issues may require more intensive support), and half yearly thereafter; the Project Coordination Unit would
act as the secretariat to the CPSC.
Central Project Coordination Office (PCO) has been established within the Department of Planning of
MAF. In addition to the National Project Coordinator, the PCO includes the following key staff. Irigation
Section, to include (i) Coordinator for Irrigation Rehabilitation; (ii) Coordinator for Water Users
Associations development; (iii) Coordinator for Procurement; Extension Training Unit/Agricultural
Services Section, to include a Coordinator, and specialists nominated from each of the Departments in
Crops, livestock, fisheries, forestry; and a representative of NAFRI for agricultural research; VIP Section,
to include one person as coordinator; Monitoring and Evaluation Section, to include one Monitoring
Officer, and 2 technical staff; and a Finance Section, to include a Project Accountant, and one accounting
clerk/cashier.
T'he PCO would be established within the Department of Planning of MAF (given the broad based nature
of the project; however, technical staff would work through their respective technical departments, for
example, Irrigation, Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries, Forestry etc.), to support the provinces in project
implementation, and be responsible for its coordination at the national level. It would be responsible for
consolidating the annual work program for the project (and ensuring that sufficient budget resources have
been allocated to meet counterpart fund requirements at all levels); ensuring that Bank guidelines and
procedures are followed on procurement, disbursements, auditing and overall financial management, and
that environmental and social guidelines are followed in both developing and implementing components. It
would monitor the Project Special Account, and ensure that the provincial Second Generation Special
Accounts are regularly accounted for and fully reconciled. It would consolidate overall project accounts,
and have them audited. It would also be responsible for overall Project M&E, preparing periodic
monitoring reports, and for undertaking a mid-term evaluation, in close partnership with the participating
provinces; it would prepare quarterly progress reports which would be used for CPSC meetings, and would
also be submitted to the Bank. National level consultants, who are expected to work across the four
provinces, will be located in the PCO. Using the TA personnel, as well as through appropriate training
courses to be provided, the project will aim to improve the skills of the PCO staff, particularly in the area
of financial management, procurement, and M&E.
- 44 -



Provincial and District Level Arrangements
A Provincial Project Steering Committee, chaired by the Vice Governor, has been established in each of
the participating provinces, to periodically review implementation performance, and for facilitating
solutions to problems which may arise during implementation. It would meet at least once a quarter (it
could meet more often if necessary); its membership would include: Representatives of Provincial
Departments for Treasury/Finance, Rural Development, Health, DTCPC, Provincial Administration, Lao
Women Union, and STEA; Director of PAFSO; heads of the PAFSO all sections; heads of participating
DAFOs; PPIO Head.
A Provincial Project Implementation Office (PPIO) has been established within each participating
provinces, within the office of the Director, PAFSO. It includes the following key staff: Provincial Project
Coordinator, Head of PPIO; Irrigation Section, to include (i) Coordinator for Irrigation Rehabilitation; (ii)
Coordinator for Water Users Association development; (iii) Procurement Officer plus one assistant
Coordinator for the Access Tracks (from MCTPC), Water Supply/Sanitation (from NAMSAAT/Health),
and Environmental Management (STEA); Extension Training Unit (ETU), to include 5 to 6 staff:
specialists in crops; livestock; fisheries; forestry; water management; IPM (in some provinces (for example
Saravanne and Champasak, where the PEP Project was under implementation), the Extension Training
Units already exist; the project will work through these units) At the District level, in each of the 15
districts, 5 to 6 Farming Systems Extension Workers (FSEW) to be nominated in the DAFO; VIP Section,
to include one person as coordinator; Monitoring and Evaluation Section, to include one Monitoring
Officer, and 2 technical staff; and Finance Section, to include a Project Accounts Clerk and one cashier.
The component for rural water supply would be implemented by the Provincial Department of Public
Health, and the access tracks component by the Provincial Department of Construction and Transport
(DCTPC). Both of these departments will nominate one person, who will be responsible for representing
them at the PPIO, and making available to the PPIO all information (status of physical progress,
financiallcost details, M&E data, etc.) conceming the implementation of their respective component.
The PPIO would be responsible for coordinating implementation of the different components; actual
responsibility for the direct day-to-day implementation of the components would be with the concerned
sections of the PAFSO (Irrigation, Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries, etc.), in close coordination with
the DAFOs. Core staff from each of the PAFSO sections, who would be directly responsible for the
project's implementation have already been identified. The PPIOs would be responsible for facilitating
procurement, making certain that O&M commitments are being followed up by communities, maintaining
the financial records of the project, and regular monitoring of implementation progress and maintaining
records for the M&E system. For managing procurement (from bid preparation to contract award), the
PPIO would include one procurement officer, and an assistant.
Monitoring and Evaluation. The project will strengthen institutional capacity in M&E at both national
and provincial levels; small M&E units have been established as part of the PCO and the PPIOs. A
baseline survey has been completed prior to appraisal, with the involvement of MAF and PAFSO staff,
covering the districts in the four participating provinces; the report has been translated into Lao, and has
been made available to the PPIOs and participating districts. This will provide the basis for the monitoring
and evaluation program to be supported under the project. Monitoring of project implementation, as well as
assessing the development impact of the project, would be the responsibility of the PCO, in close
association with the PPIOs. The project would support the establishment of a simple but effective
management informnation system, as well as systems for program reporting, monitoring and evaluation; a
draft manual has been prepared and agreed list of project performance indicators has been agreed (see
-45 -



Annex 1 - Project Design Summary). A mid term review would be carried out towards the beginning of the
third year of the project; and if necessary, revisions made to the design of the project.
Financial Management Efficient financial management (FM) is essential for timely project
implementation. A Finance Unit has been established within the PCO staffed by qualified persons
experienced in project accounting of donor funded projects ( those who have been managing the accounts of
ADB funded Irrigation Projects, Lao-Swedish Forestry Project, PHRD grant for ADP Project Preparation).
At the provincial levels, it was agreed that qualified person (those who have been managing the accounts of
the FOMACOP project in each of the provinces, who have gained considerable experience in the process),
will become part of the PPIO, responsible for maintaining provincial second generation special accounts.
Establishment of thesefinancial management units at both the central and provincial units were satisfied
as conditions of negotiations. A draft manual for project financial management had been prepared earlier,
and has been translated into Lao. The project includes provisions for providing training in financial
management. This will include training in basic accounting, English language skills, computer skills in
accounting software package and the course in World Bank disbursements/financial management (in Turin)
as appropriate for identified staff. For the purpose of upgrading the existing accounting/financial facilities
at MAF with a proven and reliable system the ministry requested that the ADP project also utilize the FMS
implemented by SIDA for donor projects of the Road Sector, which has been approved by IDA as
satisfactory for meeting minimum requirements in FMS. SIDA has agreed to provide technical assistance
free of charge to setup FMS for the project.
- 46 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC: Agricultural Development Project
Components Project Cost Summary
(US$ Million)
%      % Total
Foreign    Base
Local  Foreian   Total  Exchanae  Costs
A. Improved Rural Infrastructure
1. Improve Irrigation                    2.76     4.35     7.10        61       45
2. Improve Rural Accessibility           0.65     0.89     1.54        58       10
3. Improve Rural Water Supply            0.17     0.30   QA7           64        3
Subtotal Improved Rural Infrastructure          3.58     5.53     9.11        61       57
B. Environmental Management                     0.16     0.12     0.27        42        2
C. Improved Agricultural Services
1. Agricultural Extension                1.31     0.57     1.88        30       12
2. Adaptive Research & Demonstrations    0.21     0.12     0.33        37        2
3. Water Users Associabon                0.38     0.03     0.41         6        3
Subtotal Improved Agricultural Services         1.90     0.72     2.62        27       16
D. Village/Community Investments for the Poor   1.50     0.47     1.97        24       12
E. Project CoordinatIon
1. National Level                        0.54     0.41     0.95        43        6
2. Provincial Level                      0.78     0.25     1.03        24        6
Subtotal Project Coordination                   1.32     0.66     1.98        33       12
Total BASELINE COSTS                               8.46     7.49    15.96        47      100
Physical Contingencies                   0.43     0.68     1.10        61        7
Price Contingencies                      0.61     0.54     1.15        47        7
TotalPROJECTCOSTS                                  9.50     8.71    18.21        48      114
-47 -



Expenditure Accounts Project Cost Summary
(US$Million)
%     % Total
Foreign   Base
Local  Forelan   Totba    Exchane  Costs
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
Building                         0.21        -    0.21         -       1
Irrigation                       2.12    3.50     5.62       62       35
Access Tracks                    0.52     0.78    1.30       60        8
Village Water Supply             0.07     0.29    0.37       80        2
Subtotal Clvil Works               2.93    4.57     7.50       61       47
B. Equipment & Furniture
Fumiture                         0.00     0.00    0.01       60         -
Equipment                        0.02     0.30    0.32       95        2
Subtotal Equipment & Fumlture      0.02     0.30    0.32       94        2
C. Vehicles                        0.04     0.81    0.86       95        5
D. VillagelCommunity Investments   1.02     0.30    1.32       23        8
E. Technical Assistance
Intemational TA                     -    0.52     0.52      100        3
Regional TA                         -    0.98     0.98      100        6
National                         1.23             1.23         -       8
Subtotal Technical Assistance      1.23     1.50    2.73       55       17
F. Training                        116         -    116          -       7
Total Investment Costs               6.40     7.49    13.89       54      87
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Staff                           0.01        -    0.01         -        -
B. O&M                             1.36        -    1.36         -       9
C. Overhead                        0.69        -    0.69         -       4
Total Recurrent Costs                2.06             2.06         -      13
Total BASEUNE COSTS                   8.46    7.49    15.96       47      100
Physical Contingencies             0.43     0.68    1.10       61        7
Price Contingencies                0.61     0.54    1 15       47        7
Total PROJECT COSTS                   9.50    8.71    18.21       48      114
-48 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC: Agricultural Development Project
Introduction: This annex presents a brief description of the approach, the assumptions and the
results from the financial and economic analysis of the Project. Financial analysis is based on the
crop budgets, and the estimated effects of the Project on productivity and income of the
beneficiary farmers, as well as their affordability of cost recovery measures proposed by the
government. Crop budgets and farm models were prepared to determine incremental farm
incomes. Data for budgetary analysis are based on the information obtained during preparation.
As designed, the project components, such as village access tracks and agricultural extension, are
targeted at villages and districts wherein the Project supported the rehabilitation of irrigation
schemes. In view of the linkages between the activities, supportive investment in village access
tracks and agricultural services are treated as necessary for realizing the expected total benefits
from the Project. The social infrastructure component of village water supply is strictly not an
essential element for realizing the main objective of increased agricultural production. While it
produces important intangible gains - reduction in water bome diseases and time savings to fetch
water - such benefits have not been included in the analysis, given data problems and difficulties
in valuation.
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
Project Benefits: The project's direct benefit would come from improved water resource
management in the irrigation schemes, supported by improved services to farmer; this would
result in increased agricultural production, household incomes and food security in the project
areas, covering an area of about 7,070 hectares. Sustainable and efficient water conveyance,
distribution and use in the schemes will be achieved through the rehabilitation, improvement and
protection of irrigation infrastructure. Benefits would also accrue, although it would be more
difficult to precisely estimate, to the rural poor from the implementation of small demand-driven
sub-projects, supported under the Village Investments for the Poor (VIP) component. These
sub-projects are expected to be numerous and would be demand-driven, depending on the
different priorities of the rural communities. Only the direct benefits, using a simple livestock
enterprise model as a basis for reflecting such benefits, have been included in the overall analysis.
Indirect benefits are also expected in the form of institutional strengthening through more
participatory processes for deternining village priorities and implementing community-based
projects, which is arguably the most significant contribution to the project.
Beneficiaries are farmers, farm workers and their families whose livelihood depends on the 7,070
hectares of irrigated lands. Incremental production from the irrigation and agricultural services
will directly benefit some 7,300 farm families or a farm population of about 47,300. In addition, it
is estimated that at least 26,000 farm households will directly benefit from the VIP component
(this estimate is tentative as it is difficult to judge the nature of sub-projects which will be financed
under this component, in view of its community demand-driven approach). Many of these
beneficiaries are poor. Most of the poor are landless, and are farm workers or small-scale
subsistence farmers. They suffer from limited access to food and water. The Project will bring
- 49 -



about additional improvements in welfare arising out of the proposed interventions.
Approach: Analysis of the economic viability of the project was carried out by comparing the
proposed investments and incremental O&M costs with the expected incremental benefits derived
from the projected performance of the irrigation schemes. The 'with project' costs consist of the
investmnent incurred over five years and the recurrent O&M costs for the next 20-year life of the
Project, including minor rehabilitation of the systems. All costs, except costs related to the waler
supply and sanitation component and taxes, were included in the analysis. All benefits and costs
were adjusted for economic prices (details are provided in the project files). The key assumptions
underlying the analysis are reflected in Table 4.1 below.
Table 4.1: Crop Area, Yields, Production & Crop hitensities
Present               Future Without           Future With
Crop     Yield  Prodn.   Crop   Yield  Prodn.   Crop   Yield  Prodn.
area     (tons/  (tons)    area   tons/  (tons)    area   tons/  (tons)
-(ha)     ha)             (ha)   ha                (ha)    ha
Rice Rain-fed]     3.770    2.0    7.540    3.770  2.0    7.540       0       2.5     0
Rice-Supplemental'  1,373    2.6    3,570    951    2.3    2,187      7,070   3.1    21,917
Irrigation
Rice - Irrigated'    253    3.8    961        132    3.3    436       2,186  4.4    9.618
Maize              0                                                  273    2.6    709
Groundnut          0        1.0     0        0       1.0    0         267    1.4    374
Veeetable                   7 I.Q= I Q              7.0 _0            91      10.0   910
__________=-___==__                 Proiect Area (hectares)
Wet season       |           5,223          [         5,223                    7,070
Dry Season       [           2,816          [         2,816                    4.455
Crop Intensities (%)
Wet Season                    100                       92                     100
Dry Season                    9                         6                       62
Annual                        109                       98                      162
' This includes a shift from glutinous rice to non-glutinous rice.
For the Village Investment for the Poor (VIP) Component wherein demand-driven sub-projects
which are consistent with the priorities for supporting agricultural and fisheries development will
be financed, direct participation and financial contribution of beneficiaries will be necessary. The
demand-driven nature of the component implies that communities will determine the nature and
scope of each sub-project funded. Accordingly, neither the benefits nor costs can be accurately
identified ex ante. However, potential incomes to be derived from livestock enterprise models
were generated to demonstrate potential benefits and are included in the overall analysis.
-50 -



Main Assumptions:
Assumptions: The benefits expected from the Project are: (i) increased cropping intensity in
farms which were not previously irrigated in the dry season, and in the existing farms where dry
season cropping is expected to increase. The cultivation intensity in the irrigated area is estimated
to increase on average from the present 109% to a post-project average of 162%. In contrast,
without the Project, it is expected that the cropping intensity will decrease by 10% over the
period of analysis due to the continued deterioration of the systems and declining availability of
water at the tail end of the tertiary canals particularly during the dry season; (ii) increased yields
are expected to be achieved due to both improved and more predictable scheduling of irrigation
water to fields and from better farmning practices. The Pilot Extension Project (PEP) has shown
that the intensive, community-based extension system that the Project will be adopting is likely to
result in wide adoption of improved technologies (including the use of improved seeds, higher
yielding varieties, using optimal levels of fertilizer, better water and cultural practices) by farmers.
In contrast, in a without-Project scenario, it is expected that a decrease in yields of up to 15%
during the life of the analysis will happen, due to poor cultivation practices and deteriorating
irrigation systems; (iii) modest crop diversification is aassumed to take place to include higher
value crops such as maize, legume and short season vegetable crops during the dry season as long
as steady markets are identified; and (iv) about 10% increase in revenues are expected from better
prices for inputs and outputs and lower transport costs, due to better access tracks which are
expected to provide better and more efficient access to markets.
Results: With the above assumptions, and a Project evaluation period of 20 years, the economic
internal rate of return (EIRR) for the overall project is estimated at 16 percent with a NPV of
US$ 2.35 million, and a benefit-cost ratio of 1.5 (using a discount rate of 12 percent). Individual
irrigation schemes were also analyzed and the IRRs for each proposed scheme range from 16
percent to 174 percent. Details of computations are available in the project files.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
Sensitivity Analysis: Sensitivity tests were carried out to test the impact on base case estimates
of Project returns, from the risks associated with higher project costs, lower project benefits, and
delays in project implementation. As summarized in Table 4.2 below, the sensitivity analysis
indicate that economic returns accruing from the Project is fairly robust. If costs increase by
around 15% and projected benefits decrease by around 10% during the project life, we can expect
an EIRR of around 12%. Among all the risks identified, the risk associated with delays in project
implementation of no more than 2 years, will likely result to almost the same base EIRR. This
analysis therefore points to the need of ensuring that critical factors (such as institutional readiness
to implement, counterpart funding, human resource complement, and other Project inputs) are in
place and readily available upon project effectiveness. These factors have been taken into account
in designing the project, and will help mitigate the risks associated with higher project costs and
of having lower project benefits. The analysis also points to the importance of having a sound
macroeconomic framework during the life of the Project which will contribute to stable prices of
inputs and goods in order to minimize price fluctuations.
- 51 -



Table 4.2 Sensitivity Analysis
Risks                                                                   Base       EIRR
EIRR (%'  (%)
# 1. A 15% increase in cost due to delays in counterpart funds and other factors  15.8  12.6
# 2. A 10% decrease in benefits 'with project' yield and crop intensity      15.8       12.4
# 3. Project implementation is delayed by two years                          15.8       15.1
The switching values suggest that if costs increase by more than 20% and benefits decrease by
12%, the EIRR will drop below 12 %. This reaffrms the findings and recommendations made
above on the need to ensure that critical factors for timely implementation are in place to avoid
increases in costs and decreases in project benefits.
- 52 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC: Agricultural Development Project
Financial Analysis:
A financial analysis has been done to estimate the effects of Project interventions on the income of
beneficiary farmers, and the affordability of cost recovery measures proposed by the government. Crop
budgets and farm models were prepared to determine incremental farm income as a result of investments
made under the Project.
The overall result of project interventions would be a shift to improved management and expanded
cultivation in the dry season. This in turn, will help bring about not only increases in cropping intensity
and crop yields compared to the present situation but would also arrest any further deterioration. Some
farmers would also be encouraged to diversify their cropping by adding higher value crops. However, it is
noted that progress will inevitably be slow as small subsistence farmers consider it risky to provide cash
inputs unless they see a reliable marketing and input delivery system.
Essentially, the financial analysis is concerned with the estimates of the magnitude and possible reduced
variability of rice production under fully irrigated conditions including supplemental irrigation during wet
seasons, compared to the without-project situation. Project sites in the four provinces do not exhibit much
variations in terms of topography, climate, technology or farming systems. Rice production dominates both
wet and dry seasons. Livestock production, aside from vegetable and fruit cultivation, is the second most
important cash activity. While other crops may be more profitable, farmers have traditionally grown rice,
and have been practicing low technology subsistence farning. In addition, they are reluctant to plant other
crops in the current environment of erratic water management and marketing problems.
In line with the prevailing size of irrigated land per household, crop budgets have been prepared, based on
one hectare, for both the with- and without-project scenario. Two farm models have been prepared: one for
Attapeu and Khammouane; and one for Champasak and Saravane to reflect differences in their cropping
patterns. Build-up of yields take place over the first four years, with full development yields reached by
year 5.
Financial and economic prices are provided in the working papers in the project files. Irrigation Service
Fee (ISF) is estimated at $20/ha (gravity-fed schemes) and $40/ha (electricity-operated pump schemes).
Average wage rate of $1. 1/day has been estimated for farm labor based on data collected in the field. Since
family labor is currently underemployed during the dry seasons, cash income is calculated with cost of
family labor set to zero.
Based on the farm models used, per ha income is calculated for every crop, with- and without the project,
until year 5 when full development is reached. Since the net farm income is defined as gross receipts, it is
therefore an estimate of the return to the farm operator's labor and management. Details are given in Table
5.1 below.
- 53 -



Table 5.1 Net Farm income and Return per Family Labour Day
(Units in $)
Attapeu & Khamnouane    Champasak & Saravane
Present Situation:_
Net farm income                   178                       234
Return per labor day                 1.09                      1.08
With project
Net farm income                   658              L        884
Return per labor day                2.65                      2.68
Average farm size model used for Attapeu and Khanimouane is 1.5 hectare; while average farm size model used for Champasak and
Saravane is 2 hectares
Hence, in the with-project situation, in Attapeau and Khammouane, net farm income is expected to increase
by 270% and returns per labor day by 143%. On the other hand, in Champasak and Saravane, in the
with-project situation, net farm income is expected to increase by 280% and returns per labor day by
148%.
Cost Recovery: Traditionally, investment costs on both gravity and pump schemes are being fully met :y
the government. It has been observed that O&M costs of gravity-fed schemes have seldom been recovered
from the beneficiaries, while farmers using pumps pay for operating costs of electricity/diesel. Budgetary
allocations for operations and maintenance have been severely limited, thereby threatening the
sustainability of these schemes. The project's design have taken these issues into consideration and will be
providing resources for setting up, operationalizing and strengthening water users associations (WUAs) and
community/village groups in order to address O&M concems, in a more sustainable manner. Mechanisms
will be designed to enable communities to undertake regular O&M and cost recovery of investments in
irrigation schemes, access roads and water supply and sanitation systems.
Recently, the government has proposed new cost recovery measures. These include the following:
WUAs will collect irrigation service fees (ISF) and would retain these fees for funding O&M
costs for irrigation. The level of irrigation service fee to meet this objective is estimated under the
Project to be an average of US$ 20/ha/year for gravity schemes and US$ 40/ha/year for pumr
schemes. As shown in Table 5.1 above, average farm incomes from 1.5 to 2-hectare farms are
expected to generate about US$ 658 to US$ 884 annually. It must be noted that this estimated net
income still does not include supplemental incomes to be derived from fisheries and livestock
activities.
A Village Development Fund (VDF) will be established from payments received from farmers to
cover the capital investment costs for irrigation schemes. The proposed payments are 1 00kg of
paddy per ha of irrigated land for diesel pumps and 150kg of paddy per ha of area cultivated for
gravity schemes. According to govemment guidelines, payments must be made for a period of 20
years or until such time that capital costs of the irrigation schemes have been fully recovered. For
gravity-fed schemes, 20% of the fund/paddy collected is reverted to the government and the
remaining 80% remains under the Fund for financing village development activities.
The impact of the above mentioned measures on an average farmer beneficiary of the Project has been
taken into consideration in the computation of the net farm income in Table 5. 1. The farm income analysis
shows that with the substantial increases in yields and incomes due to the additional cropping to be done by
the Project, farmer beneficiaries would be in a position to afford these proposed levies. In the long run,
- 54 -



farmers will be more willing to pay these levies if they continue to reap improvements in their productivity
and incomes brought about by the project interventions.
Since these measures are new, the institutionalization of these proposed capital recovery schemes will pose
a substantial challenge to Project implementation, in view of the previous practice that costs of public
investments are not recovered and no system for levies for O&M have been in place. The challenge lies in
being able to provide appropriate and timely support to enhance the organizational, technical and financial
capability needs of WUAs and other community groups to enable them to properly manage their O&M
responsibilities and the VDF resources they will generate.
Fiscal Analysis
The fiscal analysis found that a large majority of expenditures for rural infrastructure are presently being
financed through budgetary allocations by the national government. For instance, O&M costs account for
roughly 25% of annual irrigation development expenditures. The project expects to devolve the necessary
resource mobilization and budgetary allocations to the local governments. The following would be
achieved under the Project:
(i)   the provincial government will be responsible for investment and O&M costs of primary irrigation
canals while the WlUAs would be responsible to maintain most of the secondary and tertiary
canals;
(ii)   the provincial govemment would be responsible for the investment costs for the access roads and
water supply and sanitation facilities while the communities would operate and maintain the said
facilities.
(iii)  the community will contribute 10% of investments costs for the VIP component.
The fiscal impact from the Project would come from various sources. On the expenditure side, the fiscal
impact of the Project would result in an increase in allocation of national and provincial resources allocated
to support agricultural development at the local levels in the in the initial group of provinces and districts.
Over the five-year life of the project, the provincial governments and the communities are expected to
contribute about US$ 0.67 million (4% of total project costs) and the national government about US$ 0.86
million (5% of total costs) as counter part funds. Based on an analysis of present levels of expenditures, it
is expected that this level of financial commitment towards the project can be met from the resource
envelope available to the provinces (particularly for Champasak and Khammouane provinces, where tax
collections exceed total expenditures overall; Saravane and Attapeu, however, may need support from the
center) and at the national level. A positive fiscal impact can be expected from the transfer of O&M
responsibility for irrigation schemes to water user associations; and increased community participation in
program design and execution (particularly with the implementation of the VIP component), which should
result in more efficient use of resources for village/local-level agricultural development projects in the four
provinces.
Lastly, as mentioned earlier, the Project will provide resources for institutional strengthening of WUAs and
communities. It is envisioned that the Project resources which have been allocated for the purpose of
building capacities of WUAs and community groups will, in the long run, contribute to overall
improvements in local and national fiscal resource management.
- 55 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC: Agricultural Development Project
Procurement
General: Under the project, procurement will involve civil works contracts for the improvement of
irrigation schemes, construction of access tracks from villages to the schemes and to the existing district
and/or provincial roads, works associated with village water supply facilities, and some building facilities
(mainly rehabilitation and extension) for agriculture extension services. The procurement of goods will
involve vehicles, furniture, materials for hand pumps including pipes and screens for the village water
supply component, the on-farm adaptive research trials and miscellaneous items such as survey equipment,
hydrologic gauging equipment, computers, copiers and fax equipment. The village investment program will
be implemented through small community contracts (involving works, goods & services). ). Under the V IP,
block grants would be allocated to districts from which grants would be made available to rural folk
(preferably to groups, but also to individuals, in a village) for implementing small scale projects identified
by the villagers themselves. For technical assistance either specialized individual consultants will be
recruited, or a consulting firm engaged. The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents will be used for all ICB
tenders, and Bank guidelines followed in preparing the NCB tenders, and all invited consultant firms will
follow the Bank's Standard Request for Proposals.
Guidelines: Procurement under the IDA Credit will follow the World Bank guidelines "Guidelines for
procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995, and revised
January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 and the Bank's " Guidelines for the
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Banks Borrower" published by the Bank in January
1997 and revised September 1997 and January 1999.
Capacitv Assessment: During the last seven years, various bilateral and multi-lateral donors have
financed projects in the Forestry and Irrigation Sectors; currently there are on-going projects financed by
ADB and by IDA which are implemented by centrally controlled Project Management Units (PMUs) n
Vientiane. Procurement processing from preparation of documents to evaluation and award, as well as
payments, are handled by these PMUs with the assistance of consultants. Over the years, training on
procurement has been provided by donors to technical staff of MAF, as a result of which many engineers in
the Department of Irrigation (DOI) are familiar with ADB and IDA procedures, but the capacity to work
independently without technical assistance input is extremely weak. A Procurement Capacity Assessment
of the executing agencies was undertaken. This assessment concluded that MOAF does not have the
adequate capacity and experienced staff to handle project procurement satisfactorily. Therefore,
implementation risks associated to procurement are considered high. Mitigation measures to address the
risks include: (i) internal and external training; (ii) provision of specialized consultants with excellent
procurement knowledge; and (iii) easy access to IDA procurement specialists based in Bangkok and
Vientiane; In addition, as there are some inconsistencies between the national and Bank procurement
guidelines (the GoL regulations state that bids may be rejected if there is no suitable bids when there is no
effective competition; and re-bidding is allowed or negotiations are undertaken when the bid exceeds the
budget allocated.). To address these issues, provision are made in the DCA which will ensure that the
project's procurement procedures are consistent with Bank guidelines.
Procurement Methods (Table A)
1.     Works: The following civil works for a total aggregate value of US$9.28 million will be
- 56 -



implemented under the project: (a) rehabilitation of irrigation schemes; (b) construction of rural access
tracks; (c) rehabilitation and/or construction of building facilities for agriculture extension and other
training activities; and (d) drilling and installation of hand pumps, as well as open wells and gravity based
schemes for Village Water Supply, and sanitary latrine toilets for households and schools.
A detailed tender processing and implementation schedule has been prepared, which is sunmiarized
below:
Province         Irrigation Rehabilitation
No. of Schemes    No. of Tenders   Contract minimum  Value US$
maximum
Attapeu          4                 4                 96,000                266,000
Champasak        9                 9                 106,000               360,000
Kharnmouane      5                 5                 120,000               445,000
Saravane         5                 8                 69,000                770,000
2.    Procurement of civil works for the rehabilitation of irrigation schemes, construction of rural access
tracks and building facilities rehabilitation and/or construction will be undertaken by the respective
Provincial Project Implementation Offices (PPIO) under the direction of Provincial Agriculture and
Forestry Service Office ( PAFSO); staff from the Provincial Communication and Transportation Office
(PCTO) will be nominated to the PPIO, who will be responsible for the access roads component. The
Project Coordination Office and PPIO come under the MAF. Most of these works are small, geographically
scattered over four provinces and 22 schemes, and include 30 contracts to be tendered during four years of
inplementation. The works are not technically complex and the cost of each contract will vary between a
minimum of US$ 25,000 to a maximum of US$ 770,000. There would be two contracts that may exceed
$500,000. Since local contractors may not have the financial nor technical capacity for larger contracts,
ICB is proposed for contracts of US$ 500,000 or more (in value, total aggregate value of these two ICB
contracts will be US$1.3 million). In case of eight larger contracts exceeding $300,000 in contract value,
the proposed implementation period is three years; hence it is unlikely to be attractive to international
bidders, no International Competitive bidding ( ICB) is therefore proposed for these works (except those of
US$ 500,000 or more in value). Total aggregate value of NCB contracts will be about $7.29 million. The
international bidders will not be excluded from participation in the bidding process for all contracts under
NCB procedures. There are sufficient number of contractors throughout Lao PDR with adequate
equipment, experience for such works and financial capacity to participate in the bidding process. All
eligible contractors in Lao PDR will be allowed to participate and tenders will be advertised in all national
and provincial papers, and the embassies with potential bidders will also be informed.
3.    Works related to village water supply for drilling and installation of hand pumps and open wells as
well as pour and flush sanitary latrine toilets, (having a total aggregate value of US$0.44 million), will be
implemented by force account to be carried out by the Provincial Office for Environmental Health and
Rural Water Supply ( PEHRWS), under an agreement which will be entered into with the national center in
Vientiane. The force account arrangement, whereby PEHRWS will be provided with the materials and
equipment, and also reimbursed for its costs of implementation, is proposed for the following reasons:
- 57 -



(a) Beneficiaries who will be closely involved in implementation, are expected to provide about 20
percent of total investment cost in the form of in-kind labor for digging wells, concrete and other
works which require unskilled labor. PEHRWS has procedures and rules for community
participation, as well as future 0 & M and replacement of such facilities; so it will be one of the
obligation of PEHRWS to obtain such agreement from the beneficiaries;
(b) To ensure safe water supply, water quality must be tested and certified before the completed
works are handed over to the beneficiaries. PEHRWS will provide this service under the terms of
their force account agreement;
(c) PEHRWS has the drilling equipment and trained staff for this activity from previous projects of
various donors; moreover, the total value of works under this component is small and the works will
be spread over four provinces, 13 district and about 1 10 villages. Private small contractors will lot
be interested and it will be difficult for the provincial staff of PEHRWS to supervise and manage
such small contracts; and
(d) Finally, as noted in para 6 below, this will facilitate direct contracting of equipment and
materials, to enable the standardization which is being pursued, based on community preferences and
seven years of implementation experience.
4.     Goods: The following goods are expected to be procured under the project:
(a) Vehicles and Motor Cycles, for consultants, Central Coordination Offices and field operations.
(b) Furniture, survey instruments, hydrologic gauging equipment, agricultural extension training kits,
material for the on-farm demonstrations and the adaptive research component, computers including
printers and software, copiers and fax machines.
(c ) Hand pumps, pipes, screens, filter material and fittings for hand pumps, miscellaneous locally
manufactured pulleys etc for open wells, and pour and flush type sanitary fittings.
5.    Vehicles and Motorcycles for a total aggregate value of US$870,000 will be procured in two
batches, first batch during first year of implementation, and the second batch during third or fourth year,
using International Competitive Bidding procedures (ICB). Estimated cost for the first batch will be about
US$426,000, and for the second batch US$360,000. For initial start-up activities, three double cabin 4x4
pick up and two motorcycles for a total aggregate value of US$84,000 will be procured using Internatibnal
Shopping (IS) three Quotation procedure or LAPSO. Goods available off-the-shelf and of standard nature,
including survey instruments, hydrologic gauging equipment, computers and office equipment such as
copiers and fax machines will be procured using International Shopping (IS) procedures, for an aggregate
value of about US$180,000. Locally manufactured equipment such as furniture, agricultural kits and well
pulleys, etc. for a total aggregate value of US$146,000 will be procured using national shopping (NS)
procedures (three Quotations). Estimated Cost for IS and NS items will be about US$264,000 and
US$46,000 respectively and these will be procured following articles 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Requests for quotations under both IS and NS procedures should indicate the description, technical
specification, quantity of each item and the desired delivery time and place, and maximum value of each
contract will not exceed US$50,000 for intemational and US$20,000 for national shopping.
6.     The Environmental Health and Rural Water Supply Center (EHRWC) has used various types of
hand pumps and galvanized as well as PVC pipes and fittings from several sources. Taking into
- 58 -



consideration the experience of seven years, EHRWC recommends that standardization should be a factor
to consider in the procurement of these items. EHRWC has the experience and drilling equipment available
in four provinces and can execute the work through its provincial offices (PEHRWC). A force account
agreement for a total value of about US$320,000 with the EHRWC, who will direct the work and take into
account the beneficiary preference for the selection of equipment which would be procured through direct
contracting, is recommended.
7.    Village Investment program: A broad spectrum of activities will be undertaken by rural
beneficiaries under this component. Grants would be provided to groups of individuals (or communities) in
villages within the participating districts, to implement smnall sub-projects selected based on agreed criteria.
The communities will be responsible for implementing the individual subprojects to be financed, which will
be small in size, generally being less than $1000 each. The main purchases to be made would consist of
construction material for small works, small ruminants for fattening and poultry, agricultural materials
plants and seeds, and local technical support; this would be the responsibility of the communities.
Accordingly, community based direct contracting would be followed, as the grouping of these purchases
will not be feasible, because they involve different beneficiaries scattered over more than 250 villages; and
given that the total fund allocation for each district and village is foreseen to be about US$ 20,000 and
US$ 3,000 respectively. Given that communities have limited experience in contracting, support for
implementation would be provided by the district offices of MAF, through the extension agents and village
development coordinators (DAFO), as well as through the PPIOs. The total cost of this component is
estimated at US$ 2.0 million, including grants to the communities (of $1.32 million), and Technical
assistance and Training to support the implementation of the component.
8.    Community Participation in procurement is justified in the interest of bringing rural communities
and government support service staff together, and thereby contributing to project sustainability, and to
achieving the social objectives of the project. Procurement will be done by communities, primarily through
direct contracting, according to procedures defined in the implementation manual. IDA would not be
involved in the approval process for every contract and disbursement at the district or village level;
however, arrangements will be made for supervision by independent outsiders (as part of the overall
consultant services under the project) agreed with the Government.
9.     While procurement of smaller works and National Shopping procedures for goods and services
would be applicable, works, goods and services less than $ 5,000 equivalent per contract may be procured
by direct contracting to communities and NGO's up to a cummulative maximum of US$ 1.5 million
equivalent . As a safeguard, the total value of contracts that can be awarded through direct contracting to
any one community or NGO would be limited to US$ 20,000 equivalent.
10.   Consultants Services (Table Al) and Training - About US$ 2.92 million and US$1.25 million
would be allocated to consultants services and training, respectively. Consultant services shall be procured
in accordance with IDAs "Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers" published by the Bank in July 1997 and revised April 1998 and July 1999, and using the Bank'
s Standard Request for Proposal - Selection of consultants dated July 1997 and revised April 1998 and July
1999. Any contract above $ 200,000 would be advertised in the Development Business requesting
expression of interest prior to developing a short list. Detailed requirements of Technical Services, with
terms of reference for each specialist and training requirements, are available in the Operations Manual.
Consultants would be required to provide services for the review and approval of designs and tender
drawings prepared for each province, and assist the provincial and central project offices in procurement,
disbursement and financial matters.
- 59 -



11.   Quality- and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) - The selection of firms would be based on qualito-
and cost based selection procedures; it is expected that one firm will be selected to provide these services.
This includes technical assistance for infrastructure implementation support, as well as consultant services
for supporting the implementation of the Agricultural Services components, and for building capacity in
monitoring and evaluation, amounting to about US$2.72 million covering input both at the central and
provincial levels, the procurement of which will be carried out through the PCO.
12.   Individual Consultants - The selection of individual consultants would be on their qualificatior s
for the assignment (Section V of the Guidelines). They may be selected on the basis of references or
through comparison of qualifications among those expressing interest in the assignment or approached
directly by the Borrower. Total cost for individual consultants is not expected to exceed US$200,000, and
will include a procurement/irnigation engineer, whose recruitment will be a condition of effectiveness., as
well as a consultant to support the start up of implementation of the VIP component.
13.   Training. Training, workshop and study tours ($1.25 million million) will be financed by IDA at
100 percent and procured according to normal business principles. Each activity including cost estimate
will be submitted to IDA for prior review.
- 60 -



14.      Operating Costs. About US$2.24 million would be allocated to cover the incremental operating
cost related to staff travel and per diems at both central and provincial levels, office rental, utilities, office
running cost, and operating cost of vehicles. The disbursement for the operating costs will be on a declining
basis: 95 percent during the first two years, 80 percent, 70 percent, 60 percent during third, fourth and
fifth year respectively of project implementation.
Procurnment methods (Table A)
LAO PEOPLES DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
Agriculture Development Project
Procurement Anrangements - Non ICB/LCB Aggregated as Other
(US$ Million)
Procurement Method
International    National              N.B.F.    Total
Competitive   Competitive    Other
Bidding       Bidding
A. Civil Works
Building                                         -             0.25                   -          0.25
(0.23)                           (0.23)
Irrigation                                       1.37          5.43        .          0.18       6.98
(1.26)        (5.23)                  -         (6.49)
Access Tracks                                                  1.61                   -          1.61
(1.53)                           (1.53)
Village Water Supply                             -             -           0.32       0.12       0.44
________________________________________                                  (0.30)      -         (0.30)
Sub-total Warks                                  1.37          7.29        0.32       0.30       9.28
(1.26)        (6.99)      (0.30)                (8.55)
B. Equipment & Furniture                                                 -
Fumniture                                                                  0.01                  0.01
(0.01)               (0.01)
Equipment                                                                  0.33                  0.33
= ===- = _ _ _    (0.33)              (0.33)
Sub-otal Goods                                   -             -           0.34                  9.28
________________________________________  ____________  ____________  (0.34)   _____3 )
C. Vehtcles                                      0.79           -          0.08                  0.87
(0.79)                    (0.08)                (0.87)
D. Village/Community Investments for Poor        -             -           1.20       0.12       1.32
l_  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ __  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _    __  _ _  _ _                  (1.20)                (1.20)
E. Technical Assitance                                         -           2.92       -          -
(2.92 )   _ _ _
F. Tranlng                                                                 1.25                  1.25
(1.25)               (1.25)
G. Recurrent Expenses                            -              -          1.99       0.25       2.24
(1.56)               (1.56)
Total                                            2.16          7.29        8.09       0.67      18.21
(2.05)        (6.99)     .6S         (        (16.69)
- 61 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Consultant Services
A. Firms               2.72    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00       2.72
(2.72)   (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)   (2.72)
B. Individuals         0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.20     0.00    0.00     0.20
(0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.20)   (0.00)   (0.00)   (0.20)
Total  2.72    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.20     0.00    0.00      2.92
(2.72)   (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.20)   (0.00)   (0.00)   (2.92)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Prior Review Thresholds (Table B)
14.   All contracts subject to ICB procedures and direct contracts (except those related to VIP) wou:id
require prior review. Each contract for works equal to or more than US$ 150,000 per contract and for
goods equal to or more than US$ 50,000 and procured according to National Competitive bidding (NC B);
first direct contracts with each province for the water supply and sanitation component; the first works
contract for each year for each province and the first two goods contracts would be subject to the Bank's
prior review. Prior review of works and goods include bidding documents, evaluation reports and draft
contracts. No prior review will be required for village investment program contracts or training. Prior
review for works and goods would cover about 90 percent of the combined total value of civil works and
goods.
15.   Individual consultants contracts equal to or more than US$ 50,000 equivalent, and contracts of
fimns equal to or more than $ 100,000 equivalent will be subject to the World Bank's prior review. All
terms of reference would be subject to prior review.
-62 -



Prior Review Thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure Category      Contract Value       Procurement   Contracts Subject to Prior
Threshold           Methods         Review (US$ Million)
(US$ Thousands)
1. Works                 US$500,000 and above   International    All contracts ($1.3 m)
Competitive
Bidding
Less than US$ 500,000                   All contracts of $150,000
National          and more; and first contract
Competitive      from each province per year
Bidding           ($ 4.0 m)
Not applicable                          First contract with each
province
Force Account
2. Goods                 US$50,000 and above   International     All contracts ($0.8)
Competitive
Bidding
Less than US$ 50,000                    All contracts of $50,000
International    and more; and first contract
Shopping, and    from each province per year
Local Shopping for
Furniture        ($ 0.1 m)
3. Village Investment    Less than $5000       Direct Contracts    No prior review
Program                                        with Village
Communities
4. Consultant Services and
Training
(a) Technical Assistance
Individual            Less than $50,000     Single Source     None
More than $50,000     Consultant Quality  All ($0.1)
Firm                  Less than $100,000    QCBS              None
More than $100,000    QCBS              All ($2.6)
(b) Training
5. Recurrent Cost        No Contracts
Total Value of Contracts Subject to Prior Review - US$8.90 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment - High, which will be mitigated with consultants input in the tendering,
evaluation and implementation process, and training to the provincial staff on procurement matters.
Frequency of Procurement Supervision Missions Proposed - One every 3 months during the first two years of
implementation, which will also provide training workshops, and one every six months afterwards until project
completion (includes special procurement supervision for post-review/audits). In addition, IDA's Vientiane field
office will carry out monthly meetings with the procurement unit of the executing agency.
- 63 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Disbursement of the proceeds of the Credit would be made against expenditure categories as shown in
Table C.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Exenir 0C00   tegr          A0moun in US$illonW           Finani  Pe  ntg
1. Civil Works                             8.00                         90%
2. Goods                                   1.10           100% of foreign expenditures; 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost); and
90% local expenditures fo othe:r items
procured locally
3. VIP Grants                              1.10            100% of Grant amount disbursed a/
4. Incremental Operating Costs             1.50           FY2001/2002, 2002/2003, 200:3/2004:
95%
FY 2004/2005: 80%
FY 2005/2006: 70%
FY 2006/2007 and thereafter: 60%
5. Consultants' Services                   2.10                         100%
6. Training                                1.20                         100%
Unallocated                              1.69
Total Project Costs                        16.69
Total                                      16.69
a/For VIP Grants, IDA Credit will finance 100 percent of the grant amount; beneficiaries will be
expected to cover a minimum of 10 percent of the cost of subprojects supported by the grants.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Withdrawal applications will be supported by Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) for civil works contracts
below US 150,000 equivalent; goods contracts below $50,000 equivalent; consulting firm contracts below
US$100,000 equivalent; VIP grants; individual consultants contracts below US$50,000 equivalent;
training; and incremental operating costs and audits.
Special account:
To facilitate credit disbursement, MOF shall maintain a separate dollar special deposit account in the
Central Bank of Lao PDR, on tenns and conditions satisfactory to IDA including appropriate protection
against set off, seizure and attachments. The Special Account (SA), which would cover the IDA share of
eligible expenditures in all disbursement categories, would have an authorized allocation of US$600,000
with an initial withdrawal of US$300,000 equivalent to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in the SA. When the arnounts withdrawn from the Credit total SDR 1.25 million, the initial
withdrawal will be increased to the authorized allocation. Applications to replenish the Special Account
should be submitted regularly, preferably monthly (but not less than quarterly) or when the arnounts
withdrawn equal 20 percent of the initial deposit, whichever comes first.
-64 -



Financial Management and Reporting Arrangements:
IDA funds will be channeled through a Special Account to be held and managed by MOF and through a
Second Generation Special Account (SGSA) facility in each of the four PPIUs and at the PCO as the
project is geographically scattered over four provinces and 15 districts. Each SGSA will have an advance
equivalent to two months of projected expenditures. MOF will be the manager of these SGSAs. In order to
facilitate speedy project implementation the following arrangements are proposed for payments through the
Special Account and SGSAs:
Central Level Special Account with MOF:
Civil works, goods and services financed under the project consist of contracts ranging from $10,000 to
over $500,000. The SA at MOF will be used for payment of all ICB and NCB contracts for all categories
of expenditure initiated by the PCO. Civil works contracts for rehabilitation of irrigation schemes and
rural access roads shall also be paid through the central SA irrespective of whether the contracts are
initiated by the central PCO or provincial PPIO. As the civil works relating to village water supply
schemes are carried out under the direction of the Office of Environmental Health and Rural Water Supply
in Vientiane, payments for this component will also be made through the central SA.
Provincial Second Generation Special Accounts of the SA:
The expenditure to be paid through the SGSA will be those relating to grants for village investment for the
poor, provincial and district level agricultural extension services, training and operating costs. The initial
deposit and the periodic advances will be determined taldng an average of two months expenditure based on
annual budgets but under no circumstances shall exceed $10,000. The SGSAs will be maintained in US$
and shall be opened at a commercial bank in the four provinces on terms and conditions satisfactory to
IDA. Applications to replenish the SGSAs supported by appropriate documentation shall be submitted at
least 30 days from the date of the last cash advance or whenever expenditures reach 1/3 of the advance,
whichever comes first. The SGSAs shall be audited by auditors acceptable to IDA as part of the annual
financial audit.
Central Level Second Generation Special Accounts of the SA at PCO:
Expenditure to be paid through the SGSA at PCO will be those relating to goods, services, project
coordination, training and operating costs. The procedure explained above for provincial SGSAs in
establishing, advancing and replenishing will apply to this account.
GOL Counterpart Funds:
The Project Bank account ( holding government counterpart funds) will be held at MOF in line with
government policy. These funds will be channeled through the MOF for expenditures initiated from the
PCO (works, goods, services and operating costs) and through the finance departments of the participating
provinces for expenditures disbursed from the provinces. A detailed description of procedures to be
followed in channeling donor and GOL funds is given in the Financial Management Arrangements in the
Project Implementation Manual.
Organization and Staffing
The project will be managed by the PCO which would be established within the Departnent of Planning of
- 65 -



MAF. This unit would be responsible for ensuring that Bank guidelines and procedures are followed on
disbursements, auditing and overall financial management. It would record transactions of the Special
Account and the SGSAs and consolidate overall project accounts, have them audited, prepare the annual
project budget based on input received from the PPIUs and the PCO, prepare withdrawal applications and
submit to IDA, and prepare quarterly project management reports (PMR).
PCO would include a Finance Section, which would be staffed by persons currently employed at the
Division of Financial Services at MAF (DFS-MAF) which is responsible for all financial management
activities of the ministry. The finance section would include a Project Accountant, and at a minimum onle
Accounts Clerk/Cashier to ensure adequate segregation of duties in (i) invoice processing of PCO initiated
activities; (ii) supervising and controlling provincial SGSAs; and (iii) coordination with MOF on
management of the SA. As a condition of negotiation MAF has assigned for ADP a Project Accountant
and an Accounts Clerk with experience and qualifications acceptable to IDA among persons experienced
in project accounting of donor funded projects (those who have been managing the accounts of ADB
funded Irrigation Projects, Lao-Swedish Forestry Project and the PHRD grant for ADP Project
Preparation).
At the provincial level the PPIOs would be responsible for maintaining the financial records of the
provincial activities of the project, and the operation of provincial SGSAs. Each PPIO will include a
Finance Section, which would be staffed at a minimum by a Project Accounts Clerk and one Cashier. Each
province has nominated accounting staff acceptable to IDA to manage the SGSAs from staff who have
been managing the SGSAs of the FOMACOP project in each of the provinces and who has gained
considerable experience in the process.
Accounting and Reporting
AtPCO:
The Project Accountant it the PCO will be responsible for maintaining the project books of accounts,
initiating payments from the Special Account and Project Bank Account (GOL funds) through payment
requests to MOF, consolidating annual work plans and budgets, monitoring overall project disbursements,
operation of the PCO SGSA, review of provincial SGSA expenditure, incorporating accounting
information received from the provinces in the central accounting system, supervising and training the
finance staff at the PPIOs, coordinating with MOF on annual counterpart fund requirements and for
producing quarterly Project Management Reports (PMR's). . Expenditure relating to payments from the
SA must be authorized for payment by a nominated senior official of MAF and the head of PCO prior to
approval of a senior official of MOF. On satisfaction of necessary approvals payment will be effected
through a check payment or a fund transfer initiated by MOF. Expenditure for payments from counterpart
funds will be subjected to the samne process.
At PPIO:
The PPIOs will be responsible for all aspects of cash disbursements at the provincial level including
contract monitoring of village investment expenditures, operation of SGSAs requesting payments from the
provincial department of finance for counterpart funded expenses and for producing costed annual work
plans. These work plans will be forwarded to PCO for approval and for incorporation into the project's
overall annual budget. In addition, every month each PPIO will prepare an expenditure forecast for activity
funded by IDA for the next sixty days. This will be submitted to MOF routed through PCO for requesting
an advance to the SGSA. Each PPIO will be responsible for keeping the records relating to these advances
- 66 -



and forwarding information on expenditures to PCO for inclusion in the overall project financial statements
and for initiating replenishment. . Expenditure relating to payments from the SGSA must be authorized for
payment by a nominated senior official of PAFO, and the head of PPIO prior to payment being made. The
replenishment request must be approved by a nominated senior official of MAF and the head of PCO prior
to approval of a senior official of MOF. Once the advances have been fully documented to the satisfaction
of MOF , a reimbursement to the SGSA can be made from the Special Account.
Financial Management System
A project financial management assessment was carried at the MAF which will implement the project. The
overall assessment is that the financial units at MAF and in the Provinces will need technical assistance to
install acceptable accounting systems per OP/BP 10.02 and to train staff. To upgrade the existing
accounting/financial facilities at MAF with a proven and reliable system, the ministry requested that the
ADP project also utilize the FMS implemented by SIDA for donor funded projects in the road sector in Lao
PDR. This system meets IDA requirements and is successfully being implemented for several IDA financed
projects in Lao PDR. SIDA agreed to provide free technical assistance to install the system and carry out
introductory staff training within PCO.
A computerized accounting system, with a chart of accounts which will identify PCO and provincial
disbursements, will facilitate financial management and consolidation of financial statements. Detailed
guidelines on procurement, payment authorization, cash management, month and year-end closing and
financial reporting are given in the Project Accounting Procedures Manual.. A detailed financial
management assessment including a description of the proposed financial management system is presented
in the FM Assessment Report which is available in project files. As a condition of effectiveness the design
of the Financial Management System for the project shall be completed and the staff at PCO and PPIOs
trained on the Financial Management System.
Pending installation of the accounting system, training of staff and a period of successful financial
management                              operations the project is not considered eligible for PMR
based disbursements. Disbursements will be based on                   Statements of
Expenditures together with Withdrawal Applications and Direct Payment Applications. Signatories
on the IDA Replenishment Applications shall be the Minister of Finance or the Director of the Treasury
Departmnent                           at MOF and the Vice Minister of the Ministry of Agriculture
& Forestry.
Project Management Reports (PMR)
The simplified PMRs to be submitted to IDA shall include at a minimum, the following documents:
Report 1-A Project Uses and Sources of Funds
Report 1-B Uses of Funds by Project Activity
Report 3-A Procurement Process monitoring (Goods and Works)
Report 3-B Procurement Process Monitoring (Consultant Services)
Report 3-C Contract Expenditure Report (Goods and Works)
Report 3-D Contract Expenditure Report (Consultant Services)
PCO shall submit these reports to IDA on a quarterly basis within 45 days of the quarter end starting the
first quarter following project first disbursement. Additional output monitoring reports will be developed, if
appropriate, during implementation.
-67 -



Audit
Annual project financial statements will be produced by PCO and audited by an independent auditor
appointed under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA. The auditor will also be required to express
opinions on: (i) whether the Special Account funds have been correctly accounted for and used in
accordance with the Credit agreement; and (ii) the adequacy of documents and controls surrounding the
use of the Statements of Expenditures as a basis for disbursements The audited financial statements will be
submitted to IDA within six months of the year-end.
Capacity Building and Strengthening of Financial Management
Since adequate human resource capacity in finance, computer skills and working knowledge of English is a
major constraint in project financial management IDA has identified training activities and has
recommended a training action plan for ADP financial management staff. This training will be implemented
during the first two years of project implementation. In addition it has been agreed that the MAF shall
carry out a time-bound action plan for strengthening of the financial management system. The relevant
action plans are as follows:
Agricultural Development Project
Financial Management Improvement Action Plan
Training Type        Training Course     Trainees/ Responsibility     Action date
WB Financial          WBI/ILO course        Project Accountant at PCO   Jul. 1, 2002
Mgt./Disbursement     Turin, Italy   _
Advanced accounting and  Vientiane College or    Project Accountant and/or   Dec. 31, 2002
finance                other private institution. Accounts Clerk(s) at PCO
Intermediate accounting   Private Institution-3  Accounts Clerks (s) at PCO  Jul. 1, 2002
month intensive course
Basic accounting and   Private Institution-3  Accounts Clerks at PPIO    Jul. 1, 2002
finance                month intensive course                         _
Accpac Software        Further on the job    Project Accountant and   Dec. 31, 2001
training on accounting   Accounts Clerk(s) at PCO
package provided by
SIDA
Prepare first set of  N/A                    PCO                      3 months after first
simplified PMRs                                                       Credit disbursement
(Dec. 31, 2001)
Advanced English       Vientiane College     Project Accountant at PCO   Dec. 31,2002
Basic English reading    Vientiane College -  Accounts Clerk(s) at PCO    Dec. 31, 2002
and writing/          Integrated English for   and Accounts Clerks at
hitermediate English  Personal & Professional PPIO
Development- 3 month
intensive course
- 68 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC: Agricultural Development Project
proect    ,,Keo                                    Plann*d                    A, tu,al
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      10                           10
First Bank mission (identification)             11/08/99                     11/08/99
Appraisal mission departure                     01/09/2001                   01/22/2001
Negotiations                                    04/09/2001                   04/19/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   09/30/2001                   09/30/2001
Prepared by:
Staff of Ministry of Agriculture & Forestry, which included departments of irrigation, agriculture,
livestock, fisheries, forestry, NAFRI, NSC & PAFSO representatives of the four provinces, with the
support of Central Project Steering Committee which included representatives of Ministry of Finance,
Ministry of Foreign Affairs, International Cooperation, Prime Minister's office, State Planning Committee,
Ministry of Health, Ministry of Communication, Transport, Lao Women's Union, with assistance from a
team of international and national consultants.
Preparation assistance:
Japanese PHRD Grant
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
NaMi                                     Speciality
Rahul Raturi                      Team Leader/Economist
Mary Judd                         Anthropologist
Aizad Khan                       Irrigation Engineer/Procurement
Linda Schneider                   Institutions
Enrique Crousillat                Procurement
Wijaya Wickrema                   Financial Management
Preethi Wijeratne                 Financial Management
Carolina V. Figueroa-Geron        Economist
Alvaro Bueno                      Agriculturist
Karin Nordlander                  Legal Counsel
0. Ladipo                         Financial Management and Disbursement
Uma Lele                          Peer Reviewer
Nejdet Al-Salihi                  Peer Reviewer
Guzman Garcia-Rivero              Peer Reviewer
Srish Kumar                       Economist
Evelyn Cowan                      Program Assistant
Kathryn Cherrie                   Program Assistant
-69 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC: Agricultural Development Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
1. Lao People's Democratic Republic: Agricultural Development Project. Project Preparation Report (in
five volumes); April 2000.
2. Social and Economic Assessment Report for Lao PDR: Agriculture Development Project. Supported
by:
*   Individual reports on each of the four project provinces: Attapeu, Champasak, Kharnmouane and
Saravanne;
* Local Government Structure and Organization; and
* Reports on water user groups.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Bank Mission Aide Memoires and related Back-to-Office Reports
e Identification Mission - November 1999
o Preparation Assistance Mission - February 2000
a Pre-appraisal Mission - August 2000
o Appraisal Mission - January 2001
Power point/slide presentations, for consultation workshops on project design.
Procurement Capacity Assessment
Financial Management Capacity Assessment
Detailed Project Costs
C. Other
*Including electronic files
- 70 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC: Agricultural Development Project
Dec-2000
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in USS Miliions                                disbursements
Project ID     FY   Purpose                                          IBRD         IDA         SF        GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.          Orig   Fnn Rev'd
P042237        1999 PROVIN. INFRAST.                                      0.00      27.80       o.00       0.00       o.o0      23.29       2.47       -3.3t
P059305        1999 LA DISTUPLANO OEV                                     0.00       2.00       0.00       0.0        0 co       1 99       1.33       -0 38
P044973        1998 SOUTHERN PROVINCE RE                                  0.00      34.70       0.00       0.70       0.00      2988        8.71       -418
P004210        1997 H:GHWAY IMPROV. II                                    0 co      48.00       0.00       0.00       0.00      23.31      20.41     -22.01
P004208        1996 LANDTITLING                                           0.00      20.73       0.00       0.00       0.00      13.98        5.57       1.41
P004209        1996 SAC 10                                                0.00      40.00       0.00       0.00      18.89       0.0      20.42       0.49
P004200        1995 LA-HEALTH SYS. REf. & M                               0.00      19.20       9.00       0.00       0.00      10.29       10.43      -.80
P004207        1994 LUANG NAMTHA PROVDE                                   0.0o       9.70       8.00       0.00       0.00       1 29       0.17      -449
P004201        1994 HWY IMPROVE I                                         0o o      3000        0.00       9.00       0.00       2.23        1.92     .28,03
P004196        1994 FOREST MGT & CONSERV                                  0.00       870        0.00       0.00       0.00       0.47        5.77      -2.93
P004176        1994 WILDUFE & PROTECTED                                   0 00       0.00       9.00       5.00       0.00       0.63        0.86       4.45
P004203        1993 LA-EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT                              0.00      19.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       327        3.58      .15.38
P004197        1993 PROVL GRID INTEGRAT                                   0.00      36.00       0.00       0.00       1.03       0.00       0.a2      -35.08
P004202        1992 SAC ti                                                0.0o      40.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.03       1.91     -41.91
P004195        1990 UPLANDAGRiC. DEV.                                     0.00      20.20       0.00       0.00       6.86       000        4.79        1.18
Total:        0.00      356.03       0.00     o.M0        37.49      115.19      83.15    -189.81
- 71 -



LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Dec-2000
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                         Disbursed
IFC                               IFC
FY Approval          Company                         Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic
1998                SEF BAFCO                        0.77     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.77    0.00     0.00     0.00
1998                SEF Endeavor                     0.15    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.15    0.00     0.00     (.00
1998                SEF Scttha                       1.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     1.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:          1.92     0.00    0.00     0.00      1.92    0.00     0.00     0.00
Approvals Pending Comnmiitment
FY Approval         Company                            Loan    Equity      Quasi    Partic
2000                SEF Settha Restr                  180.00      0.00      0.00       0.00
To-al Pending Commitment:        180.00       0.00      0.00      0.00
- 72 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC: Agricultural Development Project
East
POVERTY end SOCIAL                                        La.      Asia &      Low-
PDR     Pacific   income        Delopm.ntdiamond
1999!
Pn,llat1ina mId-yar (ndflns)                               t 1      t17        7 417                   Life expecian,y
GNP oar canita (Atlas method. US$S                         280      1.000        410
CrNP fAtlas mnathd USEbfil"isnv!                           * 5       1 83t       aRA
Average annual orowth. 1993-99
Pnftlrmlal,v /141                                          2 6         1 '       1c                         ) 
P'-W'~~a /-/,)                        r,        i 7        I         NP 
Labor foace   )                                                        13        2 3      GNp                                 Gross
per                               primary
Most recent estimate flatest veer available. 1993.99k1                                    capita                            -sumar
Povort. 1% of oooulohion below national oovC,1o lion        4f
I Irhabr  nnm,/a6tirn t Of tolst oooulahonl                 71         14         .1
I if. r.nacAtncv at hirth imr,rst                           i4         Si         fit0
Infant mo nlitv Joor 1.OGO fivc births)                     96         35         77
tCh;ld m*lr-rtritinn /1 of childron under 5)                40                    492 Si             Arcess to safe wate
Accoss to emoroved water scurce 1% of DoDulalon)            39         R4         64
tllit.rr." '% of oooulation soe foS                         SA         I5         3$
iimoxYner,marv snrrnllrnsnt 114 of vchaol.soe sonatallonl   117       lit         4f'                   LaoPDR
Mete                                                     123        121       102                     Lovnrornegroop
Prrmaln                                                  101        171        AR
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS end LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989       1998       1999
Economoic ratioss
GOP 6USS billions)                                        0.71        1 3         1 4
Crns- d-mIstes inv-enmen'lGno                                        24 5
F      nnfrte of norts rand    rvrrllG1t 1                            37                                   Trade
rrns. erentic 5an,Ot.t3P                                             23 7
Crnos nat.nnrl save,nOGfP?. 26 sT
Current account balance(GOP                               -19.9      -R.7          .        omesbX
W-r0rt m,etr nrnJCilPn                                                                                                    InvestmIent
TOal debtjGOP                                            206.       193.2                 Savings
Tntl dantr servinelrAunnrs                                70 A        66 
ProserrI value of debt/GDP                                           89
Presnnt v.le. of deb1lo-nOrt                                        236 A
Indebtedness
1979-89  19SS-99      1993       1999   1999-03
lrwraoon annual orowthrl
GOP                                     29        6.3      40          4.0                               LaoPOR
GNP                                                .        1 4        1 .Lowineoma; oro1
Fxoorts of ocods and servics                                                                                                        W
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989        1998      1999       Growth rates of output and invostmsnt (%)
(It of GDP)
Aariculture                                               60.6       52.6
lndritrv                                                  13.4       22.0
Manufactu,rno                                             9 3       16.7
5nn4ner^                                                  7 6 n      75 J4
Private consumbtion                                 -           '    71.5 t        'as   96    97   s8    99
Genrral onve-ement -nonurmntinn                                       r 1
Imonrts of ooods and services                             32 0        4.9
1979-.9  1989-99       199f       1999
taosraoe annual an7wthl
Aoriculture                                       2.7      4.6         3.7
ndrl-trv                                         3.5      17 2        b 6
Menrrfa.otrinn                                  6.5      13 7        0 7
Services                                          3.1      6.9         1.0
Private r.nns,,mnin
General oovernment consumotio'r
Grnos dn-retI r in"rtement
Imports of ooods and services
G-n ns-t,         -.tat nrnr,rcn                           63         4 0        4 0
Note: 1999 data are preliminary e3timates.
Thi.s raIn was enrnollrd - ror- the Oovelonment Frosemirs central fdt-th.s.
The d         hamsrds srwt four k6v indinatnrs in the rm,ntrv (in hnlrll nmnarend with itk anrnm,P-nr,,n mversee If data arn rnissina the diamond will
-73 -



Lao PDR
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989       1998      1999     Inflabon
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                            SD T
Consumer prices                                                    91.0        .         t
Implicit GDP deflator                                   55.1       84.0    125.4
Government finance
(%/i of GOP, includes current grants)
Currentrevenue                                           8.5       15.0                       94   95    96    97   se   99
Current budget balance                                              7.8                       -     GQP deataor    CPI
Overall surplus/deficit
TRADE
1979     1989       1998      1999     IExport and import levels (US$ millGons)
(USS 7million)                                1
Total exports (fob)                                                337          -    iso -
Wood products                                                     115
Agriculture                                                         8               ro + 
Manufactures                                                       80
Tolal imports (cf)                                                 553_
Food i250                                                                                   J          _  J
Fuel and energy                                                   124
Capital goods                                            --       165
Exoort ,rice index H1995=100)                    ..       ..
immoor or ce incdex (199gS=1001                                                                a  Epel       a Inn,porns
Terms of trade (1995=100.
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(IJS$ nmillionsi                              1979     1989       1998      1999      Current account balance to GDP ratio ()
Exports of goocs and services                             86       467          -        o
Imports of goods and services                           227        612
Resource balance                                        -141       -145                 -
Net income                                                -2       -36
Net current transfers                                               72                   t_0
Current acrount balance                                 -135      -110
Financing items (not)                                    112        92          -
Changes in net reserves                          1        23        18         --      0 -
Memo:
Reserves includina oold fUSS mijlionsl                     1       117
Conversion rste (DEC. tacayUSS)                 5.7    583.0    3.298.3   7.102.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989       1998       1999
rUSS  Ritiionsl                                                                        Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           308    1.473       2,437
IBRD                                           0        0          0                                          8.31
IDA                                            0       92        395                                _      B    3ss
Total debtservce                                13        18        31
IBRO                                           0        0          0                                                C.62
IDA                                            0         1         4
Composibon of net resource flows                                                               0
Official grants                               29       40        118                  E 1.420
Official creditors                            43      172         78                              _          _      o 5s9
Pnvate crreditors                              D        0          0
Foreign direct investment                      D        4         46
Portfolio equity                               0         0         0
World Bank program
Commitments                                   10       43         63                A -tIBRO                      E- Bilatera
Disbursements                                  0       35         25                B - IDA    0 - Other multiteral   F - Pite
Prinrpal repayments                            D         0         1                r -                           r   c 
Net flows                                      0       35         24
Interest payments                              0         1         3
Net transfems                                  0       35         21
Note: This table was produced from the Development Economnics central database,                                          8117100
- 74 -



IBRD 31444
1000                              102'                              104              *             -    100:          105           110
,*  ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~CHINA
CHINA                         -.   ,  *s                                        $                            N.
v   -\J  ~ ~ ~~XLAO,--\
L.PEOPLE'S) i    GUlf    -7
DEM. REP.    /   of
Vien      N    \
~~~~~~~19                                          /~~~~~~~~  THAILAND      \
Ph  saly       '               VIETNAM                   IsV Ir
PH OVGSALY   If                                          &                 '         -..
MYANMAR                 *-'                                                                      E    I          . CAMBODIA            .
It    BOKEO           T     Man Sam                                                                       o
Ko,ng         -t16
-200  /g                                                                                      _            , P 
SAa                                  XING
THAILAND    (                      Vn TnONKIN t 
.    t   rVINTIAN   2XObU                 W                                                                  .
AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                ,                     -,                  ,
PROJECrPRv7NCESHKng                              Naoo _ *\.
-    PRINCIPAL HIGHWAYS                                       SVnAh                             >       
-16      2T    BORDER CROSSINGS                      b Wapy Districts\                                            gr_1-
t ~~~AnROT  alengno iii 2~v 
O    SELECTED TOWNS                                  O                                       47a
O     PROVINCE HEADQUARTERS                          PROJECT PROVINCE/DISTICTS
*a    NATIONAL CAPTALS                                 a.CahampsakPoine            <          
-     -  PROVINCEBOUNDARIES         b. B                            achian 6
PRINTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                       c. So somboon
01  50    100    1510 Klorneters f hnogii^.
I  HIGHWAYS                                    PROJECT PROVINCE/DISTRICTS        jms:J *.  
0  O25   50E    7     100Mile          Scrven Pro          puPrvnc              .-        < Lnre                 .  
16-              ab Wapy) Distri 6.                                                  16maxai
~14 j                                                                 c. Xaysetha    Lo   Distric
100       /                      104a          CAMBODIAe
PROMNCE BOUNDARIES  b. Bachion~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MY 00



