Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3509 LA
Development Credit Agreement
(Agricultural Development Project)
between
LAO PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 02, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3509 LA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 02, 2001, between LAO PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
"12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
Page  2
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 
194 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; 
and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries."; and
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, 
or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Affected Person" means a person who, on account of the execution of  
Parts A and B of  the  Project,  has  or  would  have  his  or  her: (i) standard of 
living adversely affected; (ii) right, title or interest in any house, land (including 
premises, agricultural land and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset 
acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (iii) business, occupation, 
work, or place of residence or habitat adversely affected;
(b)
"Development Strategy for Ethnic Minorities" means the strategy, adopted 
by the Borrower as part of the Implementation Manual, for the carrying out of the 
Project in areas where Ethnic Minorities are present, acceptable to the Association;
(c)
"District Committee" means the existing committee or the committee to be 
established to carry out the technical review of Sub-projects under Part B of the 
Project; 
(d)
"Ethnic Minorities" means those social groups in the Lao PDR that have a 
distinct social and cultural identity, and that are susceptible to being disadvantaged 
in the development process induced by the Project or any part thereof;
(e)
"Fiscal Year" and "FY" mean the Borrower’s fiscal year starting October 1 
and ending September 30;
(f)
"Grant" means a grant made available by the Borrower out of the proceeds 
of the Credit to a Village for a Sub-project under Part B of the Project;
(g)
"Implementation Manual" means the manual to assist the Project 
Coordination Office and the Provincial Project Implementation Office in each Project 
Province in the implementation of Parts A, B and C of the Project, and to assist 
Villages in the implementation of Sub-projects under Part B of the Project, through 
the description of, inter alia, procurement procedures and standard documentation, 
reporting requirements, manual and computerized accounting procedures, Project 
performance indicators, environmental criteria and the Development Strategy for Ethnic 
Minorities applicable to Sub-project design, maintenance provisions for works to be 
carried out under the Sub-project and criteria for the selection of Sub-projects, as 
such manual may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Association;
(h)
"Policy Framework for Compensation, Resettlement and Rehabilitation of 
Project Affected Persons" means the framework adopted by the Borrower on February 5, 
2001, acceptable to the Association;
(i)
"Project Districts" means the districts in the Project Provinces selected 
by the Borrower, in consultation with the Association, for participation in the 
Project;
(j)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Page  3
Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(k)
"Project Performance Indicators" means those indicators designed to 
measure the Borrower’s performance in achieving Project objectives as set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(l)
"Project Provinces" means the Borrower’s provinces of Attapeu, Champasak, 
Khammouane and Saravanne;
(m)
"Second Generation Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in 
Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement;
(n)
"Sub-project" means a specific investment project carried out under Part 
B of the Project and utilizing the proceeds of a Grant; 
(o)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(p)
"Village" means a sub-unit of a District.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to thirteen million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
13,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement: (i) for 
amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be paid) by the Borrower on 
account of a Grant made under Part B of the Project to meet the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for a Sub-project and in respect of which the withdrawal 
from the Credit account is requested, and (ii) for expenditures made (or, if the 
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
United States Dollars a separate special deposit account in Bank of the Lao People’s 
Democratic Republic (the Borrower’s Central Bank) on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
United States Dollars a Second Generation Special Account in each of the Project 
Provinces in a commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. 
Deposits into, and payments out of, each of the Second Generation Special Accounts 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement and 
additional procedures that shall have been approved by the Association.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2007, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
Page  4
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semi-annually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on 
each January 15 and July 15 commencing July 15, 2011, and ending January 15, 2041. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on January 15, 2021, shall 
be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Page  5
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through its Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and the Provincial 
Government of each of the Project Provinces, with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, agriculture, engineering, environmental, 
financial and social practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s 
objectives; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) 
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account and the Second 
Generation Special Accounts for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
Page  6
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in 
paragraph (a) of Section 4.01, in order to enable the Borrower, not later than 
December 31, 2001, or such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare 
quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Implementation Manual, acceptable to the Association, has been issued 
by the Borrower; 
(b)
a procurement specialist has been employed in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
(c)
a chart of accounts for the Project has been designed and an accounting 
software for the Project, acceptable to IDA, has been installed; and
Page  7
(d)
the Project accountant and the accountant clerks in the Central Project 
Coordination Office have been trained in the use of the Project accounting software 
and in the Project accounting and computer procedures set out in the Implementation 
Manual. 
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Post Office Box No. 46
Vientiane
Lao People’s Democratic Republic
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
MINFINANCE
4369
856-21-412142
VIENTIANE
MOF LS
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
LAO PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
By /s/ Vang Rattanavong
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Zafar Ahmed
Page  8
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
 Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
 (Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works 
   6,340,000
90%
(2)
Goods
     870,000
100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% of 
local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and
90% of local expen-
diture for other items
procured locally
(3)
Grants
     870,000
100% of Grant amount
disbursed
(4)
Incremental
   1,190,000
95% in FY 2001/2002,
operating costs
FY 2002/2003 and
FY 2003/2004, 80% in 
FY 2004/2005, 70% in
FY 2005/2006 and 60%
thereafter
(5)
Consultants’
   1,660,000
100% 
services
(6)
Training
     950,000
100%
(7)
Unallocated
   1,320,000
TOTAL
  13,200,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "incremental operating costs" means expenditures for Project 
staff travel and per diem, office supplies, maintenance of office equipment, and 
operation and maintenance of vehicles for the Central Project Steering Committee, the 
Central Project Coordination Office, the Provincial Project Steering Committees, the 
Provincial Project Implementation Offices, and the District Agriculture and Forestry 
Offices responsible for Project implementation, but excluding salaries.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for (i) contracts for civil works costing less 
than $150,000 equivalent each; (ii) contracts for goods costing less than $50,000 
Page  9
equivalent each; (iii) Grants; (iv) incremental operating costs; (v) training; and 
(vi) contracts for the employment of consulting firms valued at less than $100,000 
equivalent each and contracts for the employment of individuals valued at less than 
$50,000 equivalent each; all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in reducing rural poverty 
in the Project Provinces through the improvement of, and the increase in, agricultural 
production.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Rural Infrastructure
1.
Irrigation Infrastructure Rehabilitation
Rehabilitation of about twenty two irrigation schemes, including (i) 
rehabilitation of gravity and pump-based schemes, (ii) completion of works on selected 
schemes under construction, (iii) expansion of irrigation canals, and (iv) conversion 
of diesel pumps to electric pumps, in the Project Provinces, including provision of 
related equipment.
2.
Rural Access Tracks
Rehabilitation of about 165 kilometers of access tracks in the Project Provinces 
linking irrigation schemes rehabilitated under the Project to Villages and to the road 
network, including construction of about 85 Irish crossings.
3.
Village Water Supply and Sanitation
(a)
Installation of hand pumps and construction of open wells and gravity 
pipe systems for Villages in the Project Provinces.
(b)
Installation of sanitary pits and carrying out of a health and hygiene 
awareness educational campaign and related training in Villages in the Project 
Provinces.
Part B:
Village Investment for the Poor
Carrying out of small infrastructure investment projects and income-generating 
and other productive agricultural investment projects in Villages in the Project 
Provinces through the provision of Grants to Villages through the Districts.
Part C:
Institutional Strengthening and Implementation Support
1.
Institutional Strengthening for Agricultural Services
(a)
Strengthening the capacity of the Provincial Agriculture and Forestry 
Service Office in each of the Project Provinces in providing technical support 
services to farmers, through the provision of vehicles, equipment, related staff 
training, and technical assistance.
(b)
Strengthening the capacity of the District Agriculture and Forestry 
Office in each of the Project Districts in the Project Provinces and of the farming 
system extension workers in providing technical services to farmers and in 
implementing Part B of the Project, through the provision of vehicles, equipment and 
Page  10
relevant staff training.
(c)
Carrying out of a program of on-farm adaptive research and demonstrations 
which links the activities of the National Agriculture and Forestry Research Institute 
with those of the Provincial Agriculture and Forestry Service Offices and the District 
Agriculture and Forestry Offices in the Project Provinces, based on the priority needs 
identified by farmers in the Project Provinces.
(d)
Establishment and strengthening of water users associations in the 
Project Provinces, including upgrading of technical skills of extension staff and 
provision of vehicles and technical assistance.
2.
Environmental Management
Strengthening the capacity of the Provincial Agriculture and Forestry Service 
Offices and the offices of the Science, Technology and Environment Agency in the 
Project Provinces to monitor the environmental aspects of the Project and to provide 
appropriate guidance to provincial staff, district staff and farmers on improved 
environmental management.  
3.
Strengthening Implementation Arrangements
(a)
Strengthening the Central Project Steering Committee, the Central Project 
Coordination Office and the Central Extension Training Unit, through the provision of 
vehicles, equipment, staff training and the provision of technical assistance.
(b)
Strengthening the Provincial Project Steering Committee and Provincial 
Project Implementation Office in each of the Project Provinces through the provision 
of vehicles, equipment, staff training  and the provision of technical assistance.  
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2006.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and (b) the provisions of the 
following Parts of this Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Page  11
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for works shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $500,000 equivalent or more each, and contracts for goods shall be 
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Civil works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $7,300,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines and the provisions of sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph.
(b)
The procedures to be followed for national competitive bidding under 
sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, shall be those set forth in the Decree No. 95/PM 
dated December 5, 1995 on Government Procurement of Goods, Works [Construction, 
Repairs] and Services (hereinafter Decree 95/PM) and Implementing Rules and 
Regulations [Labieb] No. 1639/MOF dated December 22, 1998 on Government Procurement of 
Goods, Works [Construction, Repairs] and Services (hereinafter IRRs 1639/MOF) of the 
Lao People’s Democratic Republic, with the following clarifications required for 
compliance with the Guidelines:
(i)
in connection with any contract to be financed in whole or in part 
by the Credit, under National Competitive Bidding procedures no 
preference whatsoever will be given to a domestic bidder over 
foreign bidders or to a state company over a non-state company and 
goods may be purchased from abroad at a competitive price, even if 
domestic goods of the same quality are available; and
(ii)
in connection with any contract to be financed in whole or in part 
by the Credit, bids will not be automatically rejected for lack of 
effective competition solely on the basis of the number of bidders 
or because all bid prices substantially exceed the budget 
allocated and the provisions of paragraph (j) of Article 4 of the 
IRRs 1639/MOF will apply only as modified by the provisions on 
rejections of bids set forth in paragraphs 2.59-2.62 of the 
Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Vehicles, survey and hydrologic gauging equipment, and office equipment, 
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed $270,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Locally manufactured equipment estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $46,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Direct Contracting
Goods and works required under Parts A.3 and B of the Project and estimated to 
cost less than $5,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
Page  12
$1,500,000 equivalent, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
5.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Vehicles may be procured from the United Nation’s Inter-Agency Procurement 
Services Office (IAPSO) in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the 
Guidelines.
6.
Community Participation
Goods and works required for Part B of the Project may be procured in accordance 
with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$150,000 or more, each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 
or more, the first contract for works in each year in each Project Province, and the 
first two contracts for goods, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Association in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set 
forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Page  13
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
Individual Consultants
Services for an irrigation/procurement engineer and an adviser for the Village 
investment for the poor under Parts A and B of the Project, respectively,  in an 
aggregate amount of about $200,000 equivalent, shall be procured under contracts 
awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 
through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall, for purposes of periodically reviewing the implementation 
performance of the Project and providing guidance to the implementation agencies, 
maintain until completion of the Project, a Central Project Steering Committee, in its 
Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, chaired by the Vice Minister of the Ministry of 
Agriculture and Forestry and including representatives from:
(a)
the Ministry of Finance; the Ministry of Foreign Affairs; the Office of 
International Cooperation in the Prime Minister’s Office; the State Planning 
Committee; the Ministry of Health; the Ministry of Communication, Transport, Post and 
Construction; the Leading Committee for Rural Development; the Science, Technology and 
Environmental Agency; and the Lao Women’s Union;
(b)
the following departments of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry: 
Irrigation, Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries, Forestry, and Planning;
(c)
the following agencies of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry: the 
National Agriculture and Forestry Research Institute and  the Living Aquatic Resources 
Research Center; and
Page  14
(d)
the Provincial Agriculture and Forestry Service Office of each Project 
Province.
2.
The Borrower shall, for purposes of coordinating Project implementation and 
reporting, maintain until completion of the Project, a Central Project Coordination 
Office in the Department of Planning of the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture and 
Forestry, headed by a National Project Coordinator and comprising:
(a)
an Irrigation Section, including a Coordinator for irrigation 
rehabilitation, a Coordinator for Water Users Association development, and a 
Coordinator for procurement;
(b)
an Extension Training Unit/Agricultural Services Section, including a 
Coordinator, specialists nominated from each of the Departments of Crops, Livestock, 
Fisheries and Forestry of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, and a 
representative from the National Agriculture and Forestry Research Institute;
(c)
a Section for the Village Investment for the Poor component, including a 
Coordinator;
(d)
a Monitoring and Evaluation Section, including a Monitoring Officer and 
two technical staff; and
(e)
a Finance Section, including a Project Accountant and an accounting 
clerk.  
3.
The Borrower shall, for purposes of periodically reviewing implementation 
performance at the provincial level, maintain until completion of the Project, a 
Provincial Project Steering Committee in each of the Project Provinces, chaired by the 
Vice Governor of the province and including:
(a)
the head of the Provincial Agriculture and Forestry Service Office, and 
the heads of each of its sections;
(b)
the heads of the Provincial Departments of Finance, Public Health, 
Bridges and Roads, Rural Development, and the Science, Technology and Environment 
Agency;
(c)
a representative of the Lao Women’s Union; and
(d)
the Head of the Provincial Project Implementation Office.
4.
The Borrower shall, for purposes of coordinating Project implementation and 
reporting at the provincial level, maintain until completion of the Project, a 
Provincial Project Implementation Office in the Office of the Director of the 
Provincial Agriculture and Forestry Office, in each of the Project Provinces, with 
competent staff in adequate numbers, including a Provincial Project Coordinator and:
(a)
an Irrigation Section, including coordinators for irrigation 
rehabilitation, Water Users Associations, and procurement; 
(b)
an Extension Training Unit, including at least five staff with 
specialization that includes crops, livestock, fisheries, forestry, water management 
and integrated pest management;
(c)
a Section for the Village Investment for the Poor component, including a 
Coordinator;
(d)
a Monitoring and Evaluation Section, including a Monitoring Officer and 
two technical staff; 
(e)
a Finance Section, including a Project Accountant and an accounting 
Page  15
clerk;
(f)
a representative from the Provincial Department of Roads as coordinator 
of Part A.2 of the Project;
(g)
a representative from the Provincial Department of Public Health as 
coordinator of Part A.3 of the Project; and
(h)
a representative of the Science, Technology and Environment Agency, as 
coordinator of Part C.2 of the Project.
5.
In the carrying out of the activities in each Project irrigation scheme under 
Part A.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall ensure: (i) that a Water Users Association 
is in existence or is established prior to the start of the rehabilitation works; and 
(ii) that such Association collects sufficient irrigation service fees to meet the 
cost of operation and maintenance of such irrigation scheme.
6.
In carrying out Part A.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall, prior to the 
commencement of works on an access track, cause an agreement, acceptable to the 
Association, to be entered into between the relevant Village and the Provincial 
Department of Roads, for the provision of labor by the Village for the routine 
maintenance of the access track.
7.
In carrying out Part A.3 of the Project, the Borrower shall, prior to the 
commencement of works in a Village, cause an agreement, acceptable to the Association,  
to be entered into between the relevant Village and the Provincial Health Office, for 
the provision of labor by the Village for the installation and, thereafter, the 
operation and maintenance, of the water supply schemes and the sanitary pits, and the 
payment of a yearly fee for the maintenance and replacement of the schemes.
8.  
In carrying out Parts A and B of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a)
avoid adverse effects on Ethnic Minorities caused or likely to be caused 
by the Project; 
(b)
apply the Development Strategy for Ethnic Minorities in a manner and 
substance acceptable to the Association; and
(c)
through a process of informed participation, involve concerned Ethnic 
Minorities in the design and implementation of Sub-projects and works so as to ensure 
that the benefits received by the Ethnic Minorities under the Project are in harmony 
with their economic, social and cultural preferences and protect their customary user 
rights.
9.
In carrying out Parts A and B of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a)
take measures to avoid or minimize the acquisition of land or assets of 
villagers and to avoid the displacement of said villagers;
(b)
where the acquisition of land or assets or the displacement of villagers 
is unavoidable under proposed works or a proposed Sub-project, ensure that the Village 
shall, before carrying out the works which would result in such acquisition or 
displacement, make available to such villagers, compensation and rehabilitation 
measures in accordance with the Policy Framework for Compensation, Resettlement and 
Rehabilitation of Project Affected Persons; and
(c)
in the event that two hundred or more villagers are adversely affected by 
a Sub-project:
(i)
prepare a resettlement plan in accordance with the Policy 
Framework for Compensation, Resettlement and Rehabilitation of 
Project Affected Persons and furnish such plan to the Association 
for approval; and
(ii)
prior to the carrying out of the works or Sub-project, ensure that 
Page  16
all Affected Persons shall have been compensated and provided with 
other rehabilitation measures in accordance with the provisions of 
said plan.
10.
In carrying out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall, for purposes of 
appraising Sub-projects proposals,  maintain or establish and thereafter maintain, a 
District Committee in each District carrying out Part B of the Project, such Committee 
to include the District Head or his Deputy, the District Agriculture and Forestry 
Office Coordinator for Part B of the Project, the District Treasurer or the Finance 
Officer, a Rural Development Committee member, a representative of the Lao Women’s 
Union, and a technical resource person from the farming systems extension workers of 
the District Agriculture and Forestry Office.
11.
In carrying out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall select Sub-projects in 
accordance with the following criteria:
(a)
each Sub-project proposed shall be an infrastructure investment project, 
an income-generating investment project or an otherwise productive agricultural 
investment project which is technically, financially and environmentally viable, and 
economically justified by the number of people benefiting from it;
(b)
no Sub-project shall include a Grant of more than $1,500 equivalent;
(c)
each Sub-project shall include a contribution by villagers, in cash or in 
kind,  equal to at least 10% of the estimated cost of the Sub-project; and
(d)
no Sub-project shall: (i) include expenditures intended for a military or 
paramilitary purpose; (ii) relate to the manufacture or use of environmentally 
hazardous goods (including asbestos and pesticides), arms or drugs; or (ii) include 
the financing of government salaries.
12.
In carrying out Part B of the Project the Borrower shall, through the relevant 
District Agriculture and Forestry Office, ensure that, prior to the carrying out of 
works under a Sub-project, the District Committee shall have completed a technical 
review of such Sub-project and shall have confirmed the following:
(a)
the criteria described in paragraph 11 of this Schedule have been 
complied with;
(b)
necessary funding to fully finance the proposed Sub-project has been 
obtained, including a Grant and a contribution by villagers, in cash or in kind, equal 
to at least 10% of estimated cost of the Sub-project;
(c)
appropriate engineering and environmental standards and practices that 
would minimize any acquisition of land and avoid involuntary resettlement of Affected 
Persons have been considered in the design of the Sub-project in accordance with the 
Implementation Manual;
(d)
the Policy Framework for Compensation, Resettlement and Rehabilitation of 
Project Affected Persons and the resettlement plan, as the case may be, has been 
complied with, and, if applicable, appropriate compensation and rehabilitation 
arrangements have been completed and are acceptable to the Affected Persons as set 
forth under the Policy Framework for Compensation, Resettlement and Rehabilitation of 
Project Affected Persons and paragraph 9 of this Schedule;
(e)
a Sub-project agreement has been entered into and an implementation plan 
for the Sub-project has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the 
Implementation Manual; and
(f)
a maintenance program for the works to be carried out under the 
Sub-project has been prepared in accordance with terms acceptable to the Association 
and has been included in the Sub-project agreement, which shall include assignment of 
maintenance responsibilities in the respective Village, the preparation of training 
programs to strengthen the maintenance capabilities of the Village, and the 
Page  17
identification of available sources of financing to carry out such programs.
13.
In carrying out Part C.1 of the Project the Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain the Central Extension Training Unit with competent staff in 
adequate numbers;
(b)
maintain the Provincial Extension Training Unit  in each of the Project 
Provinces with competent staff in adequate numbers;
(c)
appoint and thereafter maintain in the District Agriculture and Forestry 
Office in each Participating District at least five farming systems extension workers; 
and
(d)
by January 1, 2002, nominate at least one staff each from the Science, 
Technology and Environment Agency and the Provincial Agriculture and Forestry Service 
Office in each Project Province to be trained as trainers and thereafter coordinate 
the implementation of Part C.2 of the Project.
14.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 
5 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about March 1, 2004, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by July 1, 2004, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter.
Schedule 5
Outcome/Impact Performance 
by Monitoring 
and 
Indicator
Project Closing
Evaluation Tools
Increased agricultural productivity
Baseline survey; and
In Project supported irrigation 
evaluation at mid-term 
and at Schemes:
project closing
   -   Cropping intensity
Increased by at least 
20% over levels
in years 2000 and 2001
   -   Paddy yields
Increased by at least 15% over 
levels in
agricultural year 2000/2001
Improved access to basic
At least 50% of households in Project
Baseline survey and 
Agricultural services (advice
Villages reporting improved 
access From extension staff) in the
evaluation at mid-term and
Project areas.
and adopting improved 
agricultural
at project closing
Increase in household incomes
Net farm income to increase by 
Page  18
100%
Baseline and evaluation surveys
in participating households (over 
level in agricultural year 
2000/2001) two years
after completion of irrigation 
rehabilitation work
Part A:
Rural Infrastructure
Irrigation schemes rehabilitated 
- 
7,070 ha areas in Hectares
Water User Groups established, and 
100% presence in all Project
Taken up operation and maintenance 
schemes
responsibility
Number of households with access 
to 
At least 60% of households in 
safe water Project Villages
Part B:
Village Investment for the
Ratio of 
households involved in village
At least 50% of the total
Poor
program - either as beneficiaries 
or 
in households in Project Villages
decision making
Share of women and ethnic 
minorities 
in At least 30% of total 
amount of 
total number and amount of 
approved
Grants allocated 
subprobjects
Part C.1:
Strengthening of Agricultural
Establishment of Extension 
Training
Services
1 Central ETU and 4 
provincial
Units (ETU)
ETUs established and all trainers
Adequately trained. Appointment
of Farming System Extension
Workers in Project supported
District Agriculture Offices
Part C.2:
Environmental Management
Ration of Provincial agricultural 
staff
At least 50% of all 
Provincial
Engaged in irrigation development
irrigation staff have had
with improved understanding 
issues
training or attended 
seminars
Part C.3:
Implementation Arrangements
Implementation Manual applied
Baseline, mid term, end of
Monitoring and evaluation system
Project evaluations completed
Functioning
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (6) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
Page  19
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $600,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $300,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account  plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 1,200,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made either (i) for eligible 
expenditures, or (ii) into the Second Generation Special Accounts for payments for 
eligible expenditures, all in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the  Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account and/or the 
Second Generation Special Accounts for eligible expenditures. All 
such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the 
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account and/or the 
Second Generation Special Accounts, the Borrower shall, at such time as the 
Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and 
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account and the 
Second Generation Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Page  20
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account and/or the Second 
Generation Special Accounts as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account or out of any Second Generation Special Account: (i) was made 
for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this 
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the 
Borrower shall, or shall cause the Provincial Project Implementation Office, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, to: (A) provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the  Special Account or cause the 
relevant Provincial Project Implementation Office to deposit into the respective 
Second Generation Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to 
the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof 
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further 
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower 
has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account or in any of the Second Generation Special Accounts 
will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account or in 
any of the Second Generation Special Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
