RESTRICTED
FILE     COPY                    Report No.   P-90Z
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
ARGENTINE RAILWAYS
WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF THE
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
March 4, 1971



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECM4ENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
LOAN TO THE ARGENTINE RAILWAYS
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a
proposed loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent
to US$84 million to the Argentine Railways (Ferrocarriles
Argentinos).
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.         The background to the Bank's association with the
transport sector in Argentina has been reviewed in the Report on
the proposed loan for a third road project, which is being
present simultaneously (P_901).
3.         The Argentine railways developed as separate systems
serving various areas and clienteles. In 1946 the Government
purchased the privately-owned systems and consolidated the entire
network of 43,000 km into the Ferrocarriles Argentinos. The
Government at that time, however, failed to create a fully unified
organization and to discontinue services which could no longer be
rendered economically in view of the changed demographic pattern,
the new distribution of economic activity and the development of
other transport modes. In subsequent years as a result of increasing
competition from roads, inadequate management and lack of investment,
the traffic and revenues declined, staff morale became low, the
equipment deteriorated and general inefficiency prevailed.
4.         The UN Special Fund study of transportation in Argentina
(the 1962 Larkin Report) inter alia recommended far reaching
reforms for improving the railways. Implementation of the
reforms proposed proved to be difficult and the working of
Ferrocarriles Argentinos continued to deteriorate. It ran increasingly
large deficits amounting to US$158 million equivalent in 1966. These
deficits have been a major drain on the national budget and
contributed greatly to the nation's fiscal problems and inflation.
5.         The management of Ferrocarriles Argentinos was entrusted
in July 1967 to an energetic group of army officers committed to the
rehabilitation of the system. The new management has made
considerable organizational changes and secured the adoption of a
new enterprise law giving a large measure of autonomy to Ferrocarriles
Argentinos. It has also performed creditably in achieving an
improvement in staff discipline. This is evident in the punctuality of
trains and the better maintenance of equipment. Traffic has increased
and the operating loss has been reduced from US$158 million
equivalent in 1966 to US$58 million equivalent in 1969, representing
(in real terms) a reduction of about two thirds. Since 1968 several
Bank missions have consulted with Ferrocarriles Argentinos in
identifying further the necessary reforms, and the enterprise
has now prepared a comprehensive five year plan (1971-75) for



-2-
modernizing and rehabilitating the system. This plan
("Plan do Mediano Plazo"l) has been approved by the Government,
which has committed itself to ensure its implementation. The plan
consists of a group of action programs regarding staff redeployment,
rationalization of services and closure of uneconomic lines,
modernizing and concentration of workshop facilities, rehabilitation
and renovation of diesel locomotives and passenger cars, building up of -
the fleet of locomotives, railcars and rolling stock, improvement
of the track, standardization of equipment, improvement of financial
and accounting practices, organizational changes and a more market-
oriented and aggressive commercial policy.
6.        At the negotiations held in Washington in December 1970
and January 1971, the Argentine Government and Ferrocarriles
Argentinos were represented by a delegation led by Dr. Juan
Llamazares, Undersecretary in the Ministry of Public Works and
Services.
7.        The past lending of the Bank and IFC to Argentina and the
progress of Bank-financed projects that are under execution
has been reviewed in the Report on the proposed loan for a third
road project.
PART II - DESCRIPTIONW OF THE PROPOSED PROJECT
8.        Borrower:              Ferrocarriles Argentinos
Guarantor:             The Argentine Republic
Amount:                In various currencies equivalent
to US$84 million
Purpose:                To help finance an investment program
of US$368 million, which is the
first two years' portion of the five
year rehabilitation plan
Amortization:          In 25 years, including a 4-year period
of grace through semi-annual
instalments beginning May 15, 1975
and ending November 15, 1995.
Interest Rate:         7-A4 percent per annum
Commitment Charge:     3/4 of one percent per annum
PART III - THE PROJECT
9.        A report entitled "Appaisal of a first railway project:
Argentine Railways" (PTR-62a) is attached.



-3-
10.       The Government and Ferrocarriles Argentinos have asked
the Bank for assistance in financing the investment of US$839
million equivalent proposed to be made over five years. This
investment forms a vital part of the comprehensive plan
(1971-75) 6f-modernizing and rehabilitating the railways.
This i3 a large program for an enterprise which is at present
far from viable financially but it seems justified in view of the
target adopted by Ferrocarriles Argentinos of bringing the working
expenses (i.e. all operating expenses, before charging depreciation)
below the operating revenues by 1975.  The losses over this period
will be covered by the Government as in the past.  The targeted
improvement in the financial position of Ferrocarriles Argentinos
would have a salutary effect on the national finances. Moreover,
the general increase in the railway's efficiency will help achieve
the country's long-term growth objectives, particularly by
carrying long haul freight and providing suburban passenger services.
11.       The project consists of the first two years (1971-72)
of the five year rehabilitation plan. An investment of the
equivalent of US$368 million is proposed during the project period,
of which the proposed loan of US$84 million would finance 23 percent.
The proceeds of the loan would finance the procurement of freight
cars, workshop equipment and components for rehabilitating and
renovating locomotives and cars, track material and track
workshop equipment and signalling and telecommunication equipment.
A small portion of the proposed loan would also finance civil
works related to track renewal and improvement. The most
probable overall economic rate of return of the proposed investment
is estimated to be about 20 percent, the range being from 14 percent
to 26 percent.
12.       The foreign exchange component of the project is
computed to be about US$172 million equivalent. Suppliers credits
of about US$34 million equivalent are expected to finance the
procurement of locomotives and electric rail-cars. Along with the
proposed Bank loan of US$84 million equivalent, external sources
would thus be financing about US$118 million of the total foreign
exchange requirement of the project. The proposed Bank loan,
however, depending on the proportion of bids won by local suppliers,
might finance up to US$6 million equivalent of local expenditure.
As explained in the memorandum on the economic situation in
Argentina attached to P-901, some measure of local expenditure
financing by international institutions is desirable to help
Argentina sustain a public investment program of appropriate size.
13.       Most of the contracts for items to be financed by the
proposed loan will be on the basis of international competitive
bidding in which Argentine suppliers may participate subject to a
margin of preference of 15 percent. The only exception will be the
procurement of components and new parts for rehabilitating diesel
locomotives and cars which are of vital importance for the
rehabilitation program and which must necessarily be procured from
the original suppliers on a negotiated basis. The proposed loan
includes US$11 million for this purpose. As explained in the
appraisal report (para.4.12), the proposed loan will finance about



half of the railway requirements for freight car bodies during
the project period, The Government has decided that as a measure
of encouragement to Argentine industry, the other half of the
freight car bodies will be reserved for competitive bidding confined
to Argentine suppliers, on condition that their prices are no more
than 125 percent of the lowest international prices for comparable
goods. Procurement under these arrangements would not be
financed by the proposed loan.
1I.       A recently passed law introduces more restrictive
requirements for procurement by public agencies. The Government
intends to pass a further law approving the proposed loan documents
in order to ensure that the Bank's standard procurement
requirements can be applied. Passage of this law will be a condition
of effectiveness.
PART IV - LEG(L INSTRUMEI"ETS AND AUTHORITY
15.       The draft Loan Agreement between Ferrocarriles
Argentinos and the Bank, the draft Guarantee Agreement between
the Argentine Republic and the Bank, the Report of the Committee
provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of
Agreement, and the text of a Resolution approving the proposed
loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
The Agreements follow the form currently used for loans for
railway projects.
PART V - THE ECONCMY
16.       A report (No.WH-191a) on the economy of Argentina was
circulated to the Executive Directors on June 3, 1969, and a
memorandum summarizing the principal recent economic developments
is attached to the report (P901) recommending the third
highway loan. They indicate that Argentina is creditworthy for
the proposed borrowing from the Bank.
PART VI - CCMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
17.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
18.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the
proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington D.C.
March 4, 1971.



