Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 14959-AR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ARGENTINA
ENTERPRISE EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NOVEMBER 2, 1995
Public Sector Management and Private Sector Development Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EOLTVALENTS
Currency Unit = peso
US$1.00 = 1.00 peso
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AE           =     Account Executives
ANA         =      Customs Administration (Administraci6n Nacional del
Aduanas)
AOP          =     Annual Operating Plan
CEM         =      Country Economic Memorandum
CET                Common External Tariff
CPI         =      Consumer Price Index
CNCE        =      National Trade Commission (Comisi6n Nacional de
Comercio Exterior)
DGI         =      General Tax Directorate
EU          =      European Union
FONPLATA  =        Fondo para el Desarrollo de la Cuenca del Plata
GATT        =      General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
GDP                Gross Domestic Product
IASCAV       =     Argentine Institute for Plant Health
ICADS        =     Institutional Capacity Analysis and Development System
ICGs         =     Institutional Capacity Gaps
INAL        =      National Food Institute
INTA         =     National Institute for Agricultural Technology
INTM         =     National Institute of Industrial Technology
IRAM               Argentine Institute of Materials Rationalization
LlB         =      Limited International Bidding
MERCOSUR =         Common Market of the Southern Cone
MPP          =     Manual of Policies and Procedures
MSA          =     Management Service Agreement
MSC          =    Management Service Contractor
MSTQ         =     Metrology, Calibration, Standards, Testing,
Certification and Quality Control
NCB          =     National Competitive Bidding
NTC         =      National Trade Commission
OECD         =     Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development
SDOE         =     Subsecretaria de Desregulaci6n y Organizacion
Econ6mica
SENASA             National Service of Animal Health
SF          =      Superintendency of Frontiers
SMEs               Small and Medium Enterprises
SOEs        =      Certified Statements of Expenditure
TA           =     Technical Assistance
TORs         =     Terms of Reference
UAP          =     Program Administration Unit
UCPFE       =      Coordinating Unit for Export Promotion Policies
UNDP        =      United Nations Development Program
VAT                Value Added Tax



ARGENTINA
ENTERPRISE EXPORT DEVELOPMIENT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page, No.
I. COUNTRY  AND SECTOR BACKGROUND  ......................   1
A. Country Context . ................................... 1
Argentina Before the 1991 Reforms  .....................   1
Development Strategy since 1991 .......................   1
B. Evolution of Trade  .. ..............................  3
C. Characteristics of Argentine Exports .......................   3
II. PROJECT SETTING  AND GOVERNMENT STRATEGY   .............   5
A. Constraints on Firmns  ................................   5
Characteristics of Export and Non-Export Firms  .............   5
Demand for Export Services ..........................   8
B. External Constraints   ................................   8
Export Procedures and Certification  .....................   8
Standards and Quality Certification System  .................  10
Local Export Services   .............................  12
Export Financing ................................ 12
C. Export Policy Framework  ...................   13
Export Promotion  ................................ 13
Protection Against Unfair Practices  .........               ............  14
D. Government Strategy and Bank Role   ..........                   ............  14
Government Strategy  .............................   14
Bank   Role   .....................................    15
Lessons Learned ....................... 15
m. THE PROJECT ................................... 16
A. Project Origin and Formulation ..........                  ................  16
Project Origin   ..................................  16
Project Formulation.    .............................. 16
B. Project Objectives and Description   ........................   17
Project Objectives ...........                     ..............  17
Project Description   ............................... 17
C. Project Costs   .........................  21
IV. IMPLEMENTATION AND SUPERVISION ARRANGEMENTS ......... 23
A. Institutional Responsibilities   ...........................  23



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
B. Organization and Management .......................... 24
C. Implementation Plan  ................................ 26
D. Procurement .........          ............................ 30
E. Disbursements .........         ........................... 33
F. Project Monitoring and Supervision  ....................... 35
V. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION ................................ 37
A. Project Benefits ................................... 37
B. Project Risks ..........        ........................... 38
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ....                    ........ 39
LIST OF ANNEXES:
1. Trade Statistics            ..41
H.   Selection Procedures and Terms of Reference for the MSC  .  .45
Im.   Institutional Strengthening Component: Summary of Work Document ....  55
IV. Summary of Annual Operating Plan    ..63
V. Implementation Schedule            ..70
VI. Procurement Arrangements          ..74
VII.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements    ..75
VIII. Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File  .... ....... 76
Map: IBRD No. 26842
This report was prepared by Mariluz Cortes (Task Manager), with the contribution and
teamwork of Mmes./Messrs. Alain Tobelem, Stefan Alber, William Mayville (LAlPS),
Prajapati Trivedi (CFSVP), Kalyan Baneri (CFSPF), Michael Finger (IECIT), Andrew
Singer, Matt Moran, and Robert Toth (consultants). Messrs. Paul M. Meo, Orville
Grimes and Gobind T. Nankani are, respectively, the managing Division Chief, Projects
Adviser and Department Director. The peer reviewers are Sarath Rajapatirana (OPRPG)
and Paul Holden (LATAD).



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ARGENTINA
ENTERPRISE EXPORT DEVELOPMENT
I. COUNTRY AND SECTOR BACKGROUND
A. Country Context
Argentina Before the 1991 Reforms
1.1   For decades, Argentina's industrial development strategy was based on import
substitution. Production essentially was oriented to the local market, while export sales
typically were reactive, driven by weak demand in the domestic market. This economic
model became increasingly unsustainable during the late seventies, which in Argentina
were characterized by persistent macroeconomic instability, weak economic growth,
widening fiscal deficits, and skyrocketing inflation. Average yearly inflation between
1975 and 1980 was 189%, peaking at 444% in 1976. Average GDP growth during this
period was only 1.6% per year. Then, between 1981 and 1989, the average inflation
rate increased to 355% and average GDP growth dropped to minus 0.9% per year.
During this period, investment's share of GDP declined from 23.6% in 1981 to 15.7%
by 1989. Finally, between June 1989 and January 1991, Argentina experienced an
episode of hyperinflation, with an inflationary spike reaching 4,934% in 1989 on a
December-to-December basis.
Development Strategy since 1991
1.2   The Government that took office in 1989 adopted a development strategy based
on opening the economy, state reform and modernization, and privatization of state
enterprises. In the area of trade policy, the reforms progressively applied since April
1991 went much deeper than any previous attempts to liberalize the trade regimes. The
result was Argentina's nominal tariff level fell to 15 % in 1991 compared to 42%
(including surcharges) in 1987. Currently, Argentina's average tariff is lower than that
of Brazil, Uruguay, Ecuador, and Paraguay, though higher than those of Chile, Mexico,
and Colombia. "
1.3   Before the 1991 reform, the import regime was characterized by a wide tariff
range, from 0% to 55 %. Forty-two percent of tariff lines were subject to licensing, with
a 15% across-the-board import surcharge. Tariffs were lower for imported inputs and
progressively higher for consumption goods; additionally, many goods were exempt from
tariffs. The cumulative result was high tariff levels and wide dispersion of effective
1.    This section is based on a study by S. Rajapatirana, entitled "Argentina: Trade
Policies in Perspective," dated March 15, 1994.



- 2 -
protection. In 1991, Argentina adopted a three-level tariff range: 0%, 11%, and 22%;
replaced all quantitative restrictions with tariffs (although such restrictions were
maintained for cars, sugar, and some paper products); and converted all specific tariffs
to ad-valorem tariffs. The number of tariff levels has increased to seven since the initial
reform and a surcharge on all tariff items has been restored--but as a fiscal measure
rather than for protectionist reasons. Under the MERCOSUR agreement, Argentina
adopted a CET of 20% on January 1, 1995, covering 85 % of the harmonized tariff lines,
with the remaining tariff lines scheduled to converge to the CET over time. Just
recently, the Government accelerated the convergence of tariffs with the CET. As a
result, the average nominal rate of protection has increased to 14% by the end of March
1995, compared to 9.1 % at the end of December 1994. There also was an increase in
the statistical tax (tariff surcharge), which applies equally to all imports. However, these
changes have not changed significantly the variance in nominal protection. The export
regime has been liberalized as well. Before the reforms, exports were subject to taxes
and licensing and there existed a vast array of export promotion and subsidy schemes.
The reforms of the early 1990s eliminated most export subsidies and taxes.
1.4   Generally, the results of the new economic strategy have been positive, fostering:
Greater economic growth. Between 1990 and 1994, GDP grew by 34.4% for an
average growth rate of 7.7%;
An increase in the level and efficiency of investment. Gross fixed capital
formation increased from 14.2% of GDP in 1990 to 23.3% of GDP in 1994.
Since market mechanisms have been the determinants of this investment,
allocative efficiency has increased;
Elimination of fiscal deficits. In the period 1990 to 1994, the public sector
primary surplus (not including the proceeds of the privatizations), ranged between
0.5% and 2% of GDP;
Greater price stability. The annual growth rate of the CPI dropped from 4,393%
in 1989 to 3.9% in 1994. The evolution of the combined price index (50%
wholesale and 50% retail) has been: 13.4% in 1991, 12.4% in 1992, 5% in
1993, and 4.5% in 1994, which indicates a tendency towards the convergence of
local and external inflation; and
An increase in the ratio of exports and imports to GDP. This ratio of exports to
imports relative to GDP increased from 10.7% in 1991 to 13.3% in 1994.



- 3 -
B. Evolution of Trade
1.5   The economic reforms initiated in 1991 also have generated the conditions for
greater access of Argentina's economy to international trade and financial flows. The
initial effect of liberalization was an import boom fed by a strong consumer response to
stabilization. Imports more than doubled between 1991 and 1993, while exports grew by
less than 10 percent. In 1994, exports picked up steadily, with growth rates increasing
from 6% in the first quarter to over 25 % in the fourth compared to the same periods the
previous year. On the other hand, imports decelerated from growth rates of over 50%
in the first quarter to only 13 % in the fourth compared to similar periods the previous
year. On a yearly basis, however, exports grew by 20% and imports by 28%,
increasing Argentina's trade deficit from US$3.7 billion in 1993 to US$5.8 billion in
1994 (see Annex I, Table 1). However, in 1995, exports took off, growing by 47% in
the first quarter, while imports increased by only 3 % compared to the same period in
1994. As a result, since March 1995, Argentina's trade has registered surpluses.
Several factors are behind these trends: sales to the local market slowed as the
consumption boom came to an end--by May 1995 local sales were one-third below the
level six months earlier and industrial production contracted by 4.1 % in June 1995
compared to June 1994)--while sales of agroindustrial products and fuel to Brazil
increased in response to the consumption boom that followed Brazil's Plano Real.
1.6   Despite rapid growth of both exports and imports since 1991, the openness of
Argentina's economy (measured as exports plus imports as a percentage of GDP) is still
low (13%) compared to other open economies of comparable size (Korea, Chile,
Australia and Spain), where the degree of openness is generally over 30% (see Annex I,
Table 4).
C. Characteristics of Argentine Exports
1.7   Argentine exports exhibit the following characteristics:
Concentration on Traditional Products. Exports of commodities and
agroindustries account for over 60% of Argentina's exports. Exports of
industrial manufactures have experienced rapid growth since 1993, but they start
from a relatively low level, and a significant share of them are exports of auto
parts made under a special agreement with Brazil (see Annex I, Table 5).
Concentration on a Few Markets. In 1995, half of Argentina's exports went to
five countries: Brazil, the US, the Netherlands, Italy, and Germany. Exports to
these countries accounted for 42% of total exports in 1987. The biggest
expansion has been exports to Brazil, which doubled the share of total exports
from about 1 1% in 1989 and 1990 to nearly 23 % in 1994. Exports to Brazil and
the rest of MERCOSITR, particularly of manufactures, are more diversified than



- 4 -
exports to other markets, which are comprised mostly of commodities exported
by a few large enterprises (see Annex I, Table 6).
Concentration on a Few Enterprises. While enterprises with prior export
experience are taking advantage of a liberalized trade regime, there are few new
entrants into the export market. This has resulted in a concentration of exports in
relatively few enterprises. In 1994, only about 9,000 enterprises--out of over
60,000 enterprises producing tradeables--exported goods for US$15.7 billion;
however, only 10% of these enterprises represent 92% of the export value.
Despite the strong export growth in 1994, these figures show no change from
those of 1993. In other words, the increase in exports in 1994 basically came
from the same group of firns that were exporting in 1993.
Different Composition of Exports in Regional and World Markets. Exports
to MERCOSUR (mostly to Brazil) are much more diversified and involve more
enterprises and products than exports to the rest of the world. Exports outside
MERCOSUR are mostly commodities and involve only a few large exporters.
These traditional exports require little effort to penetrate their intended markets;
moreover, the marketing experience gained by the exporters is not applicable to
other nontraditional export products. Importantly, the marketing experience of
firms that export within MERCOSUR is also insufficient to prepare exporting
fimns to penetrate more demanding and competitive world markets.
TABLE 1.1: Concentration of Exports
DECILE(%)       NUMBER OF             EXPORT             CUMULATIVE
ENTERPRISES        PARTICIPATION          PERCENTAGE
TOTALS %
0-10                923                 92.5                92.5
11-30              1,846                  5.9                98.4
31-100              6,465                  1.6               100.0
Source: Administraci6n Nacional de Aduanas (ANA).
1.8   Even though there are favorable macroeconomic conditions for private sector
activity, there are imperfections or rigidities inherited from the previous economic model
that constrain a faster response of private agents to export opportunities. The slowness
of the export response has adverse short-term effects on the levels of employment and
the trade balance, which have social and political ramifications and possibly could
compromise the viability of the reforms. The implementation of public policies to



- 5 -
remove such constraints could well become critical for keeping the reform process on
track.
HI. PROJECT SETTING AND GOVERNMENT STRATEGY
2.1   Argentina has not been able to develop rapidly a more diversified, nontraditional
export base. Argentina's exchange rate regime of keeping the local currency pegged to
the US dollar is not considered a major reason for the slow response of nontraditional
exports. Similarly, the trade regime is not a constraint to faster export developments,
since the anti-export bias arising from the remaining import restrictions is likely to be
low. Since the beginning of the Convertibility Plan in 1991, the real exchange rate has
appreciated significantly; however, part of this appreciation may have been offset by
several factors. These include tax measures and deregulation (including increases in
indirect tax reimbursement for exports, elimination of the gross asset tax from
agriculture and industry, and of the prepayments against VAT of the agricultural sector);
and the decline in value of the US dollar with respect to other currencies.
2.2    However, there are other factors that cumulatively work against a rapid
expansion of non-traditional exports. These include: lack of export experience and
knowledge of sources of export-related information, especially among small and
medium-size enterprises; prevalence of outdated production technology, low product
quality and deep-seated attitudes that work against exports (encouraged by decades of
import substitution); poor availability of export-related services in the country; and slow
and inefficient govemment procedures governing exports. This section discusses some
of these constraints and the manner in which the proposed project would address them.
A. Constraints on Firms
2.3   An important factor in the slow export response of nontraditional exporters is the
absence of export skills and motivation among Argentine firms, for which traditionally
exports were vehicles for capital flight or a temporary solution for shortfalls in local
demand. While enterprises with prior export experience now take advantage of a
liberalized trade regime, there are few new entrants into the export market, especially
among small and medium-scale firms; moreover, even large exporters may be
unprepared for a global trade environment within the context of MERCOSUR experience
(see para. 1.8).
Characteristics of Export and Non-Export Firms
2.4 Many entrepreneurs who survived in the past because of their financial skills,
generally suffer from a lack of awareness and knowledge of what is required to engage
in the modernization and technological upgrading of their plants, let alone to search for



- 6 -
export opportunities. Furthermore, there is strong resistance to investing in export start-
up activities because of uncertainties about financial returns. Nevertheless, the forces of
competition are inducing a structural transformation of some industries that, in due
course, should contribute to a rise in nontraditional exports. For examnple, capital goods
are the fastest-growing imports, accounting for about a fourth of total imports, with
about 40% of imported capital goods going to the industrial sector.
2.5   The behavior of Argentine firms is not atypical. International experience
suggests that trade liberalization policies alone are not sufficient to elicit rapid export
responses in countries with deep-seated attitudes that work against exports and where
outdated production technology, low product quality, and poor services to customers are
prevalent. In this climate,- it is increasingly necessary to complement improved policies
with support packages targeted to overcome knowledge deficits and perceptions of risk.
2.6   To ascertain the characteristics and specific problems encountered by small and
medium-scale exporters as well as potential exporters, interviews were conducted with
20 export focus groups. In addition, during project preparation a survey of 339 small
and medium enterprises (SMEs) was conducted. Within this universe, 186 finns exported
some of their products while 153 produced only for the local market. The interviews
revealed a number of deficiencies among enterprises that limited their ability to export:
SMEs in Argentina tend to be family owned and relatively old. Most firms in
the sample are family-owned. Two-thirds were established by individuals who
eventually incorporated other family members into the business. In general,
management is by family members and not by qualified professionals. Also,
most firms are relatively old: about 50% were in business more than 30 years,
while only 15% were created in the last 1O years or less.
Exporters and non-exporters respond similarly to increasing competition.
Two-thirds of the firms in the sample reported increasing competition in the
internal market because of new competitors or new imported products. More
fins in Buenos Aires, Santa Fe and Mendoza reported more competition in their
businesses than in the rest of the provinces. The response to increasing
competition is similar for exporters and non-exporters: one-third of the firms
lowered their prices and about 20% reduced production costs; 44% improved
their products; 60% reduced delivery times; and 35 % extended payment
conditions.
Exporting is a relatively new and secondary activity. Independently of the age
of the enterprise, export activities tend to be a recent phenomenon: 45% of the
exporters in the sample began exporting in 1990 or later. Most exporters export
only a fraction of their production: 63 % export 5 % or less of their production,
while only 10% export 40% or more.



Few firms make organizational changes before entering foreign markets.
Only 5 % of the firms that export have created a separate department to handle
their export business, and almost all firms lacked a strategic export plan. Most
exporters report only small adjustments in their way of doing business as a result
of engaging in export activities, while 31 % report no change at all.
Firms overestimate their managerial capability relative to exports. Both
exporters and non-exporters tend to overestimate their managerial capabilities:
70% of firms indicated that managerial aspects do not affect either positively or
negatively their capacity to export. In fact, a majority of exporters (64%)
indicated they have the capacity to plan, organize, and implement their export
strategy without external help, while 40% of non-exporters believe those skills
are already present in the firm. Similarly, about half the firms indicated that
training--of either management or staff--would have no effect on exports. In
contrast, active exporters--firms that export 20 % or more of their products--have
a quite different view of the importance of improving their capabilities to export.
About 56% of them reported that their exports were affected by entrepreneurial
skills and 62 % replied their exports were affected by the general skills of their
personnel.
Few exporters seek professional advice before entering export markets. In
many cases, the beginning of the export activity was the result of chance such as
a trip abroad, where an opportunity for marketing their products arose. In fact,
personal trips and attendance at trade fairs were the main sources of information
used in their decision to export. Only 12% of exporters reported using
professional help in market research to enter an export market, 11 % for product
adaptation, and 8 % for strategy and export procedures. The explanation given
for the slight use of external advice was the desire to do things internally as well
as budgetary constraints. Nevertheless, firms that used consultants in areas
related to exports generally were satisfied with the results. Those who never
used consultants had little knowledge of the types of services available or their
cost. In general, active exporters made greater use of external consultants than
marginal exporters.
Firms believe most constraints to exports are external to the frm. Only a
few exporters reported initial difficulties with product quality (5%), lack of
knowledge (2%), and lack of skills (1%). On the other hand, 44% of the
enterprises in the sample reported problems with state agencies involved in
exports. In general, firms revealed a lack of knowledge about how competitive
they would be in export markets.



-8-
Demand for Export Services
2.7   Although few firms have used external services to develop their exports, firms
showed a positive attitude toward the use of external services to improve their firms
competitiveness. Up to 69 % of exporters and 67% of non-exporters indicated they
would use the services of consultants.
2.8   Exporters and non-exporters gave somewhat similar ranks to the types of external
services that would help a firm enter export markets. For exporters the main services
are production technology, financing, and quality control. For non-exporters, the main
services are market information, production technology, and financing. Information on
production technology is of major importance to 67% of exporters and to 60% of non-
exporters. This reflects the concern of Argentine enterprises about the need to reduce
production costs, not only to export but to face competition in the internal market.
Market information was important to 68% of non-exporters and 53 % of exporters (free
access to market information was considered highly important to 88% of exporters and
90% of non-exporters). Quality control was important to 55% of exporters and 52% of
non-exporters. Services concerned with product design, management improvement, and
packaging were considered less important by both exporters and non-exporters. The
minor importance given to these services may reflect the fact that a large share of the
exports made by the firms in the sample went to Brazil, which is a market not very
different from that of Argentina in terms of products and packaging standards.
B. External Constraints
2.9   There are a number of constraints to faster export response that are beyond the
capacity of the firm to address. The main constraints, according to the firms
themselves, relate to the time and costs involved in export procedures. Another
impediment is the lack of credit--not only export credit but also credit for fixed
investments. The surveyed firms were less aware of problems caused by deficiencies in
the supply of local consultant or quality control services.
Export Procedures and Certification
2.10  Exporters view export procedures as a major obstacle: 44% of the enterprises in
the sample reported problems with state agencies. Although Argentina in the last few
years has made important advances in the deregulation and simplification of export
procedures, it still has a long way to go, particularly in improving the performance of
agencies that provide the certifications required by Customs. For example, the Sistema
Maria, which is being implemented by the Customs Administration, will offer services
to facilitate quick resolution of export procedures; however, there still are problems
concerning the prior-intervention regime. This regime includes numerous procedures



- 9 -
exporters must follow based on type of product and tariff position, and requires
interaction with various agencies of fiscalization and control.
2.11 As part of project preparation, export procedures were analyzed following every
step of an export operation. The institutional capability gaps of the main agencies
involved were analyzed using the Institutional Capacity Analysis and Development
System (ICADS) recommended by the Bank (see Annex EII). The main problems
detected regarding export procedures are the following:
General Problems of Agencies Involved:
- low quality of services, poorly qualified staff, and absence of a common
strategy and unified criteria among agencies;
-  practice of direct payments to personnel in these agencies creates an
opportunity for corruption;
-  unclear export regulations, making them subject to differing intexpretations;
and
-  incompatibility of service hours among agencies.
Customs Administration (ANA):
-  excessive time involved in checking products at border posts;
-  location of customs offices at different locations increases the time involved
in custom procedures;
-  high cost of services for small exports; and
-  excessive time to process tax reimbursements.
Argentine Institute for Plant Health (IASCAV) (phytosanitary certification):
-  excessive time to establish norms for import inputs to be used in export
products; and
-  slow services because only few laboratories test samples for the whole
country.
National Animal Health Service (SENASA) (certification of animal health):
-  slow response to issue quality certificates. Response is slower for non-
traditional products because of lack of knowledge about requirements in
importing countries. Higher fees are requested for faster service.



- 10 -
Undersecretariat of External Trade (Imports Directorate) and National
Institute of Industrial Technology (INII):
- procedures to import a product under the Temporary Admission Regime
requires about two months because of excessive paperwork and verification
procedures; and
- slow and complex procedures for issuing certificates of origin.
- excessive time in providing verification of imported products. Final
verification can take up to a year and a half, creating problems with bank
guarantees.
General Tax Directorate (DGI):
- excessive time (about 30 working days) to reimburse VAT to exporters.
2.12 The Institutional Strengthening Component of this project would allocate funds to
finance technical assistance to streamline export procedures.
Standards and Quality Certification System
2.13 The adoption of internationally accepted quality standards and certification by
exporters has become increasingly a prerequisite for entering foreign markets. At least
55 countries have adopted the International Standards Organization IS09000 series for
quality standards. These standards are complementary to those pertaining to the function
of the product or service and refer to the organizational structure, responsibilities,
processes and procedures, and resources for the optimization of quality control in
relation to risks, costs and benefits. The IS014000 series includes environmentally
focussed standards that will be required by the EU and other countries after 1996.
Firms that adhere to these standards receive certificates of registration acknowledging
that their quality control systems meet specified requirements. Quality system
registration by exporters is becoming mandatory for doing business internationally.
2.14 The state has an important role to play in the development of the standardization
and certification system for exporters. This includes the following key elements: (a)
services of metrology and calibration; (b) development and implementation of
standards; (c) testing and certification of products; and (d) quality services. These
services collectively are known as MSTQ. Although most of the services are provided by
private sector organizations, the public sector assumes the following roles: (i) promoting
awareness of MSTQ issues, particularly globally; (ii) establishing a regulatory
framework to assure that competition prevails among service providers; (iii) seeing that
effective mechanisms exist to assure all service providers possess the requisite technical
competence; (iv) providing services where social returns are high but private returns
low, such as the area of training, primary metrology, and specialized testing in public



- 11 -
health and safety areas; and (v) negotiating mutual-recognition agreements and similar
instruments with national, regional, and international governmental bodies. The latter
refers to mutual recognition of test results and laboratory accreditation, which is
important in the prevention of technical trade barriers.
2.15 Although over 30,000 firms worldwide have received certificates of registration
acknowledging that their quality systems meet specified requirements, only 17 firms in
Argentina have received such certification compared to 410 in Brazil, 133 in Mexico, 25
in Colombia, and 22 in Venezuela. In spite of a general awareness of the importance of
quality control in Argentina, few producers use quality control measures in their plants,
particularly among small and medium-sized firms. Nevertheless, Argentina is in a better
position than many developing countries to implement MSTQ initiatives. There is wide
recognition in industry and government that quality is an important factor in global
competitiveness, as well as an appreciation of the role the private sector can play in
implementing a national MSTQ system. In addition, unlike other counties in an early
stage of developing their MSTQ system, the most important "quality control"
organizations have established cooperative arrangements to avoid conflicts of interest and
more efficient use of resources.
2.16  Some of the basic problems affecting the deployment of an MSTQ system are:
- Quality control practices are managed by inadequately qualified personnel, even
among individuals who identify themselves as quality assurance consultants.
Although there are numerous courses and seminars about quality control, both the
qualifications and experience of trainers are low. There is a need to improve the
teaching of quality control in terms of curricula development, training of
teachers, and developing criteria for academic qualification;
- Official laboratories in charge of quality certification of export products are
highly centralized, creating bottlenecks that hinder exports. A system of
accredited laboratories able to provide these certificates would alleviate the
bottlenecks. A system of laboratory accreditation was approved in August 1994;
however, its implementation has been delayed because of the high costs involved
in training coupled with improving laboratory practices and administration; and
-  IRAM, the main developer of norms and standards in the country, requires
technical assistance to modernize outdated procedures and develop a long-term
strategy.
2.17  The technical assistance component of this loan would provide funds to improve
the MSTQ system in Argentina, particularly with respect to the types of certification and
accreditation required by exporters.



- 12 -
Local Export Services
2.18 As part of project preparation, an investigation was carried out to identify the
universe of suppliers of export services in Argentina. A total of 378 consulting firms
were identified and 56 subsequently interviewed. The investigation showed that local
consulting firms have the following characteristics:
Relatively new and small. A majority of these firms (60%) were established in
the last 10 years, with 20% of them created after 1993. The average staff size is
two employees. They, in tum, hire outside staff to meet the requirements of
contracts won.
Limited knowledge about nontraditional markets. Most consulting firms
concentrate their services on traditional markets.
Charge widely different fees for similar services.
Few provide services in the areas of quality control and certification,
product design or packaging. Of 378 consulting firms identified, only 9 work
prinarily in the area of quality control, and only 13 in packaging.
2.19 Given the scarcity of local consultants specialized in the types of export-related
consulting services that would be financed under the proposed Cost-sharing Grant
Scheme, consultant's services would have to be provided mostly by specialized foreign
firms. However, the project would help promote the establishment of export-related
consulting services in Argentina by stimulating the demand for such consulting services.
Also, local promotional activities would ensure that local service suppliers are aware of
the demand for consulting services.
Export Financing
2.20 Only 15% of enterprises surveyed indicated they used trade financing, although
access to credit was considered the most important factor in facilitating exports. Export
financing is little used because existing systems of export finance in Argentina are
inadequate. New exporters and enterprises planning to expand exports encounter acute
difficulties in securing preshipment export finance. Exporters need this kind of finance
to meet the costs of producing goods under an export order. Such loans are considered
self-liquidating, as repayment is expected to come from specific export proceeds.
However, commercial banks in Argentina generlly do not provide finance tied to
specific export transactions, but rather as part of general domestic working capital
granted on the basis of net worth and overall creditworthiness of borrowers. This makes
it difficult for small and new exporters to gain access to preshipment financing from
banks. On the other hand, banks find it difficult to evaluate, on the basis of available



- 13 -
information and analysis, whether firms will be able to process export orders on time
and meet product standards required by buyers abroad. One way to overcome this
constraint is to develop a mechanism for a privately-run preshipment export finance
guarantee. Such a guarantee would enable banks to provide preshipment export finance
by dealing with risks in three major ways: pooling of exporter risks; developing an
information and evaluation system about small and new exporters; and fostering the
development of collateral substitutes. There is greater availability of postshipment
export ftnance, although the mechanism for postshipment export credit insurance to
cover exporters against "foreign buyer" non-payment risk lacks credibility and capacity
to assume risks.
2.21  A review of export financing in Argentina carried out during project preparation
recommended two actions to improve trade financing: (i) conduct seminars on state-of-
the-art trade financing for commercial banks, and (ii) finance a feasibility study of a
private export credit insurance scheme.
C. Export Policy Framework
Export Promotion
2.22 Argentina has a number of export promotion agencies and programs at the federal
and provincial level. In general, these programs overlap in their functions, are
underfunded, and ineffective. One of the main export promotion programs has being
carried out since 1992 by Fundaci6n ExportAr, in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Its
main activities are direct promotion, market studies, and participation in international
trade fairs (paying 50% of the cost of the booth). Fundaci6n ExportAr coordinates the
activities of commercial attaches in seven or eight embassies in charge of providing
information to potential customers and Argentine exporters. The information provided
by the attaches on market profiles and lists of importers is available to enterprises
through a computerized network; however, this information is general in nature and is
not the type of information required to develop and implement an export plan. The
provincial governments also run export promotion programs that take the form of
maintaining offices in a few US and European cities and organizing trade fairs.
2.23 A Coordinating Unit for Export Promotion Policies (UCPFE), comprised of
the Secretaries of the Ministry of Economy and External Relations, was created through
an Interinstitutional Resolution, signed November 1994 by both ministries. It is headed
by the Secretary of Commerce and Investments and is responsible for the coordination
and rationalization of public sector agencies and programs dealing with export
promotion. Its objective is to reduce the role of the state to functions such as regulation
and oversight of the proposed project. During project preparation, a systematic
institutional capacity diagnosis of export promotion agencies (public and private) was
carried out. The results of this diagnosis are expected to help UCPFE carry out its role.



- 14 -
Under the Institutional Strengthening Component of this project, technical assistance
funds would be provided to UCPFE to help it rationalize and streamline existing export
promotion entities. Those entities whose roles overlap or provide services that could be
supplied more efficiently by the private sector would be gradually phased out. Also,
technical assistance would be provided to Fundaci6n ExportAr to improve its information
system.
Protection Against Unfair Practices
2.24 The National Trade Commission of Argentina (CNCE) was created in May
1994, and modeled after the US International Trade Commission. It determines how the
Government will respond to an industry that requests exceptional protection in the form
of safeguards, antidumping, and countervailing duty actions. The CNCE is exemplary
among such national agencies, in that it has a mandate to evaluate such requests from the
perspective of national economic interests--weighing the interests of domestic users
(consumers) of imported goods against the interests of domestic producers who ask for
protection.
2.25 CNCE would be assisted through the Bank's research program, which, among
other things, provides assistance to develop methods by which an agency such as CNCE
can respond in an economically rational way to industry requests for exceptional
protection. A conference would be arranged, funded by the Bank's research budget, but
jointly organized by the Bank and CNCE, concentrating on studies of how user interests
are incorporated into the procedures of other agencies.
D. Government Strategy and Bank Role
Government Strategy
2.26 The policy reforms adopted since 1991--including opening the economy to
external competition--are oriented towards a growing presence of Argentina in the world
economy. The Government views exports as the engine of growth in the next few years,
and the private sector as the center of this effort. The role of the Government is
envisaged as complementary to the private sector, anticipating changes in the
international arena and promoting activities domestically and externally that would
facilitate the development of export activities. The Government is aware, however, that
firms with no export experience find it difficult to break into the export business because
they do not know what information or assistance they need or where to find it. The
Government wants to assist these enterprises, while avoiding the shortcomings of
promoting exports through tax incentives or by providing services to exporters through
government agencies. The Government thus has asked the Bank to help reorient
exporter support programs in the following areas: assist potential exporters to obtain
export-related services from private sector providers instead of from government



- 15 -
agencies; simplify export procedures; improve the efficiency of public certification
agencies; and rationalize public sector agencies and programs that deal with export
promotion.
Bank Role
2.27 By helping accelerate and broaden the export development process in Argentina,
the proposed project fully supports the Bank's country assistance strategy for Argentina,
discussed by the Bank on May 4, 1995 with the Provincial Bank Privatization project, to
assist in the consolidation of the comprehensive reforms now underway. The Bank has
been and remains a strong supporter of the ambitious reform program begun in 1990.
Major challenges are to sustain the liberal trade regime and maintain macroeconomic
stability. To this end, it will be necessary to increase productivity and accelerate the
export response of Argentine firns. The Bank is particularly well-positioned to provide
the authorities with lessons learned worldwide on export support schemes. Also, the
Bank has the capacity to proceed rapidly in project design and implementation based on
experience in the preparation of similar projects in several countries.
Lessons Learned
2.28 The experience in Latin America as well as in other developing countries is that
traditional export promotion rarely has been effective in expanding exports. Promotion
schemes usually have failed when the macroeconomic conditions and the overall policy
environment were not conducive to exports. Also, the design of past projects appears to
have been flawed. First, promotion services were provided through a single public
service supplier that tended to suffer from rapid turnover in leadership as well as from
inexperienced staff. Second, the services provided were supply rather than demand
driven. Third, external assistance rarely was focused directly on the enterprises
themselves. Other countries, however, have been successful in stimulating exports by
providing support and assistance to enterprises in export marketing and related tasks,
particularly by facilitating the finance of export-related services provided by private
sector firms.
2.29 This innovative approach has been used in the Great Britain and Ireland, and with
Bank support in India, Kenya, Indonesia, the Philippines and Mauritius. Similar
programs have been designed for Jamaica, Trinidad and Tobago, Senegal, South Africa,
Bangladesh and Uganda. A small Cost-Sharing Grant Scheme is being implemented in
Argentina to stimulate the export of nontraditional agricultural products. A review
conducted by OECD on the British scheme shows that from a sample of 420 firms that
received cost-sharing grants over a 3-year period, half of them were later able to use
consultants at market prices, and 82% had begun implementing consultant
recommendations. A group of 180 firms that received cost-sharing grants in India
achieved exports worth 25 times the grants disbursed within three years. Another group



- 16 -
of 210 firms in India that received cost-sharing grants between 1987 and 1991 achieved a
25 % average growth rate in exports. Information from a sample of 36 activities
supported in Indonesia shows that the first year of implementation garnered additional
exports of US$36 for every US$1 of grant received. The cost-sharing grant scheme for
agricultural exports in Argentina recently has begun disbursements; thus, it is too early
to evaluate its impact on the firms' exports. Nevertheless, some lessons already can be
derived from this scheme: namely, the importance of good publicity campaigns to reach
potential exporters, and the need to have a continuously open window to receive
proposals. The proposed project would apply the lessons from these experiences.
Another important lesson is that the success of the scheme depends on the delivery
system. For this reason, the project proposes that the administration of the scheme be
given to a private sector fuim under a management service agreement.
m. THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin and Formulation
Project Origin
3.1  In Argentina various administrations have tried to promote exports through tax
incentives and by providing services to exporters through government agencies. This
assistance has not been successful because the agencies providing the services tend to
suffer from inexperienced staff and limited budgets; moreover, the services customarily
provided were supply-oriented rather than demand-driven. Adding to the problem for
exporters, a number of agencies at the federal and provincial levels provide overlapping
services with little measurable impact. The current Administration recognizes the
shortcomings of the previous approach and with Bank assistance has agreed on a phased
strategy to reorient its support to exporters in anticipation of the challenge of both
regional and world market opportunities, especially targeting small and medium-scale
enterprises and the areas of nontraditional exports.
Project Formulation
3.2   A delegation of the Argentine Government visited the Bank in the fall of 1994 to
request Bank support for an export development project. In response to this request,
Bank preparation missions visited Argentina in December 1994 and April 1995. A pre-
appraisal mission, later upgraded to appraisal, visited Argentina in July 1995. The
Argentine authorities have been heavily involved in project preparation. A strong
project preparation team operates under the Deputy Minister of Economy. Members of
this team have visited the Bank and travelled to several countries, including Ireland,
Great Britain, South Korea, and Japan to review exporter support schemes. The
Argentine team has been involved in all aspects of project design and subsequently



- 17 -
produced a comprehensive background report that has been integrated into the appraisal
effort.
B. Project Objectives and Description
Project Objectives
3.3   The primary objectives of the proposed project are to help increase the
international competitiveness of small and medium scale enterprises in Argentina and to
improve the performance of export-related public agencies, thus facilitating export
growth. The project would help firms to become more internationally competitive
through three avenues. First, the project would help increase awareness among
entrepreneurs about export opportunities through the provision of basic information about
foreign markets and profitable export strategies. Second, it would prompt a limited
number of enterprises to invest their own resources in productivity improvements and
export development expenditures through the incentive of a one-time grant to share these
costs. Third, the project would help to improve the performance of agencies providing
quality control and certification services. The project would also facilitate export growth
by supporting the simplification and reduction of export procedures.
Project Description
3.4   The project would have two main components: an Enterprise Assistance
Program to develop export competencies in the private sector in manufacturing and
service industries; and Institutional Strengthening to help improve the performance of
export-related public agencies.
(a) The Enterprise Assistance Program Component
3.5   The Enterprise Assistance Program would be in the form of: (i) cost-sharing
grants to cover up to 50% of the cost of consultant's services required to improve the
international competitiveness of enterprises, particularly small and medium enterprises
(SMEs); and (ii) the services of a worldwide Directory of Consultants and
Market Information Suppliers to ensure easy access by Argentine exporters to
information about the availability of export-related services worldwide.
3.6   The Cost-sharing Grant Scheme would offer its services solely in response to
private sector demand on a non-discriminatory basis, and firms would be attended on a
first-come-first-served basis. The assistance would be provided once an export program
has been developed at the finr level and the entrepreneur has committed its own funds to
implement it. The support envisaged under the project would be available to any
potential exporter of nontraditional exports. Consulting services would be cofmanced
for:



- 18 -
(i)   exploration and development of export opportunities;
(ii)   product adaptation or development of new products for export, including
technology upgrading and quality certification;
(iii)  improvement of productivity/efficiency to compete in an export market;
and
(iv)  strategy and actions to enter the foreign market either directly or indirectly
through associative organizations.
3.7   The Cost-sharing Grants would finance consultant services, acquisition of
information, (including software and reference material), trips by entrepreneurs or their
staff to explore export opportunities, mailing of samples, promotion materials, and other
miscellaneous expenses if they are identified in an export plan.
3.8  Initially, the grant would be set at up to 50%, but it could be reduced gradually
as the use on consultants and specialized services becomes more widely accepted. To
this end, the program would be subject to a yearly review to assess the possibility of
reducing the level of cofinancing. To stimulate the use of consulting services, the
program could provide financing for up to 80% for the first US$2,500 spent in the
identification of the export project. The effectiveness of this level of concessional
cofmancing would be assessed after one year of project implementation. The average
grant size is estimated at US$30,000. The maximum grant size would be US$75,000 for
an individual program and US$125,000 for a firm. One export plan could involve
several consulting services. A firm could submit more than one export plan if different
markets or products are involved.
3.9   Detailed eligibility criteria to gain access to the Cost-sharing Grant Scheme
would be delineated in a Manual of Policies and Procedures (MPP). The list of
eligibility criteria would include, inter alia, the following:
(i)   the firm should have an export plan previously designed or a commitment
to cofinance the services needed to produce an export plan;
(ii)  the firm should demonstrate that it has the financial resources to
implement its export plan;
(iii)  a negative list of export products not eligible under the program would
include: exports of arms, tobacco and tobacco products;
(iv)   only the cost of consulting and specialized services would be eligible. The
program would not finance investment costs. Travel costs to export



- 19 -
markets would be eligible for cofinancing at a rate of up to 50% of the
cost of an economy class ticket and the per-diem established by UNDP,
plus 10%;
(v)   suppliers (indirect exporters) of exporters assisted under the program
would be eligible for assistance;
(vi)  exporters who use trading companies would be considered direct
exporters; and
(vii) work undertaken by a firm using its own resources would be eligible for
purposes of visiting export markets, international fairs, etc, provided that
such activities take place in the context of a written export plan.
3.10 Size of the Cost-sharing Grant Scheme. The number of firms assisted by this
program would be determined by the demand from the firms themselves. As part of
project preparation, an estimation was made of the potential demand for this type of
assistance. The estimations are based on two sources of information: (i) the Customs
Administration, which has a universe of about 9,307 exporters, and (ii) the DGI, which
has a universe of 297,000 taxpaying firms. After a process of elimination that included
culling exporters and producers of commodities, the target group was reduced to 12,200
firms, of which 3,500 are exporters exporting over US$50,000 per year, 500 exporting
less than US$50,000, and 8,700 non-exporters. The Argentine authorities would like to
reach about 3,000 of these firms over a period of four years. However, since there is
little international experience in the use of cost-sharing grants, and most of the schemes
are too recent to be able to fully assess their success in stimulating exports, it was
decided that this project would finance the first stage of the scheme, with the objective
of assisting about 900 firms over 30 months.
3.11  Second-Phase of the Program. The Bank would consider initiating the
preparation of a follow-up operation a year after effectiveness or when half of the funds
have been disbursed, whichever comes first. Negotiation of the follow-up operation
would be contingent on a positive evaluation of the scheme by the Bank and the
Borrower 18 months after effectiveness or after two-thirds of the funds have been
disbursed (whichever comes first). Early preparation of a follow-up operation would
make new funds available to continue the scheme without interruptions. The evaluation
of the success of the scheme within 18 months of its launching could be difficult because
it would be too early to measure its effects in terms of additional exports generated.
Therefore, the evaluation would center on the effectiveness of the management
arrangements and evidence of changes of behavior at the firn level as a result of the
consulting services received. Some criteria for this Mid-Term evaluation are presented
in para. 4.29.



- 20 -
3.12 Directory of Consultants. Firms that apply for a cost-sharing grant would have
access to a Directory of Consultants and Market Information Suppliers. The
Directory would be in a format to ensure easy access by Argentine exporters to
information about these services worldwide. It would provide some basic data about
consultants and information brokers, provided by the consultants themselves, on
qualifications, experience, and level of fees. The program would be publicized to
service suppliers worldwide and interested consultants would be able to register. The
Directory would remain in operation, on a self-financing basis, after the cost-sharing
grant scheme has ended.
(b) Institutional Strengthening Component
3.13 The Institutional Strengthening Component would support the Government's
efforts to simplify procedures and improve performance of government agencies involved
in the export process (see Annex E). During project preparation, the Government
undertook a systematic analysis of the key agencies involved in export procedures and
certification (public and private) to identify their institutional capacity gaps (ICGs),
utilizing a methodology proposed by the Bank. The results of this analysis are the basis
for the specific institutional strengthening programs in the following three areas:
(i)  Simplification of Procedures. Procedures would be streamlined and time reduced
in processing an export order, an import (temporary admission regime) order,
and in obtaining the reimbursement of taxes. Agencies involved include: ANA,
DGI, SENASA, IASCAV, INAL, and INTI. The expected results of this
subcomponent would be a reduction of time involved in customs procedures from
an average of 8 days to 2 days by end of 1997; a reduction of time involved in
certification procedures from an average of four days to one day by the end of
1997; elimination of some certification requirements; and reduction of the time
involved in the devolution of taxes from 30 to 3 days;
(ii)  Strengthening the Ouality Control System. This would involve the improvement
of public and private laboratories that provide quality control certifications for
exports. It would finance curriculum development, training and laboratory
accreditation (for IS09000 certification). The agencies involved would be INTI
and IRAM and selected private laboratories. The expected results would be the
accreditation of 4 laboratories for quality control during 1996 and of additional
laboratories during 1997; and
(iii)  Strengthening Policy Formulation in Export Promotion. This subcomponent
would provide technical assistance to the Coordinating Unit for Export Promotion
Policies (UCPFE). The expected results would be the rationalization of export
promotion agencies and programs by the end of 1997.



- 21 -
(iv) Strengthening Commercial Services provided by Fundaci6n ExportAr. Technical
assistance would be provided to Fundaci6n ExportAr to improve the quality of
the support it gives to exporters through exhibits (booths or stands) for Argentine
exporters and products in international trade fairs.
(v) Streng-thening the Administrative Capability of the Program Administration Unit
(UAP). Technical assistance would be provided to the UAP to improve its
capability to carry out its coordinating, controlling and evaluating functions.
3.14  Under this component, funds would be made available to finance consultants,
training, computer equipment and software, and printing of informational or didactic
material to improve the capacities of these agencies. The expected results would be: a
simplified export process measured by reduction in the quantity and complexity of
procedures and the time taken to process exports: and sharper focus on the needs of
exporters by better qualified staff. An institutional strengthening program to overcome
the identified ICGs would cost about US$11.4 million, to be implemented over a four-
year period. The proposed project would finance the first two years of this program at
an estimated cost of US$8.4 million. Some of the ICGs identified would be addressed in
coordination with other ongoing Bank projects. The simplification of procedures for the
devolution of the VAT to exporters by the General Tax Directorate (DGI) would be
coordinated with an ongoing Bank project: Tax Administration [I (Loan 3460-AR). The
ongoing Capital Markets Technical Assistance Project (Loan 3710-AR) would act upon
the recommendation of providing training of commercial banks in state-of-the-art trade
financing techniques.
C. Project Costs
3.15 The project cost is estimated at US$74.2 million, with a foreign exchange
component of US$33.5 million. The project would be financed by the proposed Bank
loan of US$38.5 million equivalent (52% of total project cost); US$8.7 million by the
Government of Argentina (12% of total project cost); and US$27 million by the
beneficiary firms (36% of total project cost). The Cost-sharing Grant Scheme would
amount to US$54 million--US$27 million from the program and US$27 million from the
enterprises themselves (to meet the needs of about 900 enterprises during a 30-month
period, at an average cost of US$60,000 per export plan). The Cost-sharing Grant
Scheme and the Directory of Consultants would be administered by management service
contractors (MSCs) through management service agreements (MSAs). The cost of the
MSAs is estimated at about US$6.0 million and US$1 million, respectively, including
contingencies. The Institutional Strengthening Component would cost about US$7.3
million in technical assistance to key agencies involved in the export process, and
US$1.1 million to strengthen the project implementation agency. Total administrative
costs of the project (without the MSA) would amount to about US$2 million. The
Govemment would finance these administrative costs from counterpart funds. The



- 22 -
Govemment would also finance the advertising and promotion costs of the Cost-Sharing
Grant Scheme.
Table 3.1: PROJECT COST
(USS Millions)
LOCAL           FOREIGN             TOTAL
Progrsm Administration UAP                          2.00                                2.00
Advertising/Promotion                               1.50                                1.50
Enterprise Assistance Program:
Cost-Sharing Grant                                32.00             22.00             54.00
MSA                                               1.30*               4.50             5.80
Directory of Consultants                           0.30              0.70              1.00
Institutional Strengthening
Strengthening of UAP                                0.44               0.78             1.10
Policy Fonnulation                                  0.29               0.46             0.75
UCPFE
Fundaci6n ExportAr                                  0.22               0.52             0.74
Sinplification of Procedures
ANA/DGI                                           0.81               1.89             2.70
INTI                                              0.13               0.30             0.43
SENASA                                            0.20               0.46             0.66
IASCAV                                            0.01               0.03             0.05
INAL                                              0.04               0.08             0.12
Quality Control
INTI/IRAM                                         0.56               1.30             1.85
Sub Total
2.30              5.00              7.30
Base Cost                                          39.70              33.00            72.70
Price Contingencies                                 1.00               0.50             L.S0
Total                                      40.70              33.50            74.20
* This includes Value Added Tax (VAT) for about USS1.3 million.
Table 3.2: FINANCING PLAN
(US$ Millions)
Local            Foreign              Total       %_l
Government                   8.70                                  8.70           12
Beneficiaries               27.00               -                 27.00           36
Bank                         5.00              33.50              38.50          52
Total                   40.70              33.50              74.20          100



- 23 -
IV. DIPLEMENTATION AND SUPERVISION ARRANGEMENTS
A. Institutional Responsibilities
4.1   The overall responsibility for project implementation would be in the Program
Administration Unit (UAP) created within the Secretariat of Commerce and Investment
(SCI) of the Ministry of Economy. The UAP would be responsible for implementing the
project in accordance with the Project Implementation Plan (PIP) and with policies,
criteria and methodologies specified in the Manual of Policies and Procedures. The
UAP would have the following main responsibilities:
- oversee the work of the MSC managing the Cost-sharing Grant Scheme;
- provide the no-objection of export plans proposed by the MSC
- oversee the work of the MSC managing the Directory of Consultants;
- oversee the implementation of the subprograms of the Institutional Strengthening
Component;
- make arrangements for the transfer of the Government's counterpart funds;
- ensure that budgetary, procurement, contracting, disbursement, administrative,
accounting, auditing and reporting arrangements are carried out in accordance
with the Loan Agreement;
- prepare detailed Annual Operating Plans (AOP) for the Cost-sharing Grant
Scheme and each subcomponent of the Institutional Strengthening Component, in
coordination with the implementing agencies;
- assemble and send to the Bank Semi-Annual Project Implementation Reports; and
- subcontract, in coordination with the Bank, impact assessment studies.
4.2   The Subsecretariat of Economic Organization and Deregulation (SDOE) would be
responsible for the coordination of technical assistance programs under the Simplification
of Procedures subcomponent. This involves the following beneficiary agencies: ANA,
DGI, SENASA, IASCAV, INAL and INTI. To this end, the UAP would enter into an
Implementation Agreement with the SDOE and, in turn, the SDOE would enter into
individual implementation agreements with each of the beneficiary agencies for the
execution of this subcomponent.



- 24 -
4.3   The UAP would directly coordinate the technical assistance programs under the
other subcomponents of the Institutional Strengthening Component, involving INTI (for
quality control), UCPFE, and Fundaci6n ExportAr. The UAP would also sign
implementation agreements with these agencies.
4.4   The policies and procedures guiding the implementation of the Project would be
spelled out in a Manual of Policies and Procedures (MiPP), with two sections: one for
the Cost-sharing Grant Scheme and the other for the Institutional Strengthening
component). An advanced draft of the MPP was reviewed during negotiations, when it
was agreed the final version, approved by the Bank, would not be amended without the
Bank's prior consent.
4.5   The UAP would be responsible for the preparation of the AOPs for each
subcomponent of the institutional strengthening component, in coordination with the
respective beneficiary agencies. Each AOP includes a detailed description and timetable
for delivery of outputs, activities, and technical assistance inputs. The first-year AOPs
and the tenrs of reference for the consulting work involved were discussed during
negotiations. A revised version of the first year AOP for the UCPFE and of the terms
of reference for the consulting work involved would be agreed with the Bank prior to
signing the Loan Agreement. The second year AOPs would be discussed and agreed
with the Bank during the mid-term review.
B. Organization and Management
4.6   The UAP would be headed by an experienced project coordinator and have
administrative structures, processes, and staffing conducive to an efficient administration
of the project. An international consultant has been selected to assist in the design of the
UAP's organizational structure, processes, staffing and budgetary requirements. During
negotiations, it was agreed that the formal establishment of the UAP and an agreement
between the Borrower and the Bank on the staffing and budget of the UAP would be a
condition of loan effectiveness. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the
Government would support the UAP in the implementation of its responsibilities under
the Project.
4.7   Management of the Cost-Sharing Grant Scheme. The administration of the
Cost-sharing Grant Scheme would be contracted out to a private MSC, through an MSA.
The Bank would approve the selection procedure, the terms of reference, the short list,
and the contract with the MSC (see Annex II). Retroactive financing would be provided
to cover the costs of selecting the contractor. The draft terms of reference for the
selection of the MSC would be agreed with the Bank prior to finalization of the
documents for approval by Bank management. During negotiations it was agreed that
signature of the MSA would be a condition of loan effectiveness.



- 25 -
4.8   The MSC would be required to establish offices in Buenos Aires and in other
major industrial centers of the country. In more distant areas, enterprises would be able
to get in contact with the program through "attention centers" located in other public or
private institutions. The Directory of Consultants would be accessible from all MSC
offices. These offices also would be connected to other national and international data
bases related to exports. The MSC would have a Manager and a team of Account
Executives (AE) who would work directly with the enterprises in developing their export
plans and in selecting the specialized service contractors needed to implement such plans.
The AEs would do the follow-up of the assisted firm's export plan until the firm is able
to export. The main functions of the MSC would be to:
(i)   promote the program among potential beneficiaries;
(ii)   help the firms in the diagnosis of their assistance requirements and in the
preparation of their export plans;
(iii)  review and submit for its no-objection to the UAP the firm's export plan
and the information and consulting service requirements identified in it--
following the established eligibility criteria;
(iv)   assist the firms in the selection of the consultants and approve the terms
and conditions of the contracts between the firm and the providers,
ensuring that the firm finances its share of the cost;
(v)   submit its recommendations to the UAP for its no-objection and oversee
the formalization of the contracts with the selected consultants and service
providers;
(vi)  request disbursement of the grants to reimburse the firm; and
(vii)  monitor the implementation of each firm's export plan.
4.9   The administration of the scheme by a private MSC is a prerequisite for its
success. Vital to the effectiveness of this type of schemes is a high degree of trust in the
technical capability of the administering agency, active promotion of export opportunities
among managers of prospective client firms, as well as provision of "free technical
assistance" by staff administering the scheme to prospective clients in the development of
export plans, how to organize the process of selecting and contracting specialized
services, and how to obtain the most from these services. The use of an MSC would
allow the scheme to draw on the resources of specialized international consultants for the
provision of the above elements, while avoiding permanent expansion of the public
sector to implement a transitory program. During negotiations it was agreed that failure
of the MSC to perform any of its obligations or undertakings under the MSA would be



- 26 -
cause for suspension of disbursements, unless such failure has been remedied by the
MSC, the Borrower, or any agency designated by the Borrower.
4.10 Management of the Directory of Consultants and Service Providers. The task
of compiling the Directory, putting the information on a "Windows-type" program,
checking references, and running it would be awarded to a private MSC under a MSA.
Retroactive financing would be provided to cover the cost of selecting the contractor.
The intention is to continue the supply of that service by a private sector operator after
the Cost-sharing Grant Scheme has been phased out.
C. Implementation Plan
4.11 The Government of Argentina, through the UAP, would implement the Project in
accordance with the PIP and the Implementation Schedule (see Annex VI) agreed with
the Bank. The main elements of the PIP are the following:
(a) Establishment/Strengthening of the UAP
(i)   The SCI will select an international consulting firm to help define the
organizational structure, processes, procedures, and staffing for the UAP,
(ii)   The Government of Argentina, through the SCI, will formally establish
the UAP, confirm the position of Project Coordinator and agree with the
Bank, prior to loan effectiveness, on the UAP's staffing and budget,
(iii)  The UAP will establish an efficient project monitoring system to oversee
project implementation effectively,
(iv)   The UAP will contract technical assistance to help launch the Cost-sharing
Grant Scheme and ensure that informnation about the scheme reaches
potential beneficiaries.
(v)   The UAP will establish the Special Account and adopt fund transfer
procedures as agreed with the Bank.
(b) Cost-sharing Grant Scheme
(i)   Selection of the MSC: The UAP, with the help of an international
consulting firm, will initiate selection procedures for the MSC, in
accordance with Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. The terms
of reference, the short list and the draft contract with the MSC will be
submitted for Bank approval. The selection would be made on the basis
of technical and economic criteria.



- 27 -
(ii)   After Bank approval of the contract award, and after Loan signature, the
UAP wifl sign the contract with the MSC. The contract will be for 30
months.
(iii)  The UAP will ensure that the MSC is promptly established in the field
with the staff and facilities required to do its work.
(c) Directory of Consultants and Service Providers
(i)   Selection of the MSC: The UAP wi  initiate selection procedures for the
MSC, in accordance with Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.
The terms of reference, the short list, and the draft contract with the MSC
will be submitted for Bank approval. The selection would be made on the
basis of technical and economic criteria.
(ii)   After Bank approval of the contract award, the UAP wi  sign the contract
with the MSC.
(iii)  The UAP wi  ensure that the MSC is promptly established in the field
with the staff and facilities required to do its work.
(d) Monitoring of the Cost-sharing Grant Scheme
(i)   The UAP will approve, on a no-objection basis, a list of the cost-sharing
grants reviewed and approved by the MSC during an agreed period. The
UAP will have 10 days to approve the list. If the UAP does not respond
within this period, the MSC will assume that the list has been approved.
The UAP will inform the Bank about cases of disagreement between the
UAP and the MSC on the approval of cost-sharing grants. The UAP wifl
submit, for prior Bank approval, contracts between the beneficiaries of
cost-sharing grants and consultants or service providers of US$50,000 or
more involving individual consultants and of US$100,000 or more
involving consulting firms.
(ii)   The MSC will ensure that contracts with consultants under the cost-sharing
grant scheme follow the standard models agreed with the Bank, consistent
with Bank Guidelines. The UAP wil review contracts from time to time,
on an ex-post basis, to ensure that the Bank Guidelines are being
followed.
(iii)  The UAP will assemble and send to the Bank a Semi-annual Project
Implementation Reports on the Cost-sharing Grant Scheme, describing
progress against targets established in the AOP. The UAP will also



- 28 -
coordinate the work of the consultants in charge of the impact assessment
reviews 12, 18 and 36 months after effectiveness. Semi-annual reports
that coincide with the impact assessment reviews would focus on the
findings of the impact assessment review.
(iv)  The projected schedule of cost-sharing grants approval is as follows:
by 06/30/96: 100 grants
by 12/31/96: 200 grants
by 06/30/97: 250 grants
by 12/31/97: 350 grants
(e) Siaplification of Procedures
(i)   The UAP, in coordination with the beneficiary agencies, will prepare and
agree with the Bank, the first year AOP, and the terms of reference for
the consulting work identified in the AOP.
(ii)   The UAP will sign an Implementation Agreement with the SDOE. The
agreement will be backed by the SCI, under which UAP operates, and the
Subsecretariat of Economic Programming, under which SDOE operates.
The agreement will specify the following: that the SDOE will have a
major role in the design and coordination of the assistance provided to the
beneficiary agencies under this subcomponent; the obligation of the SDOE
to follow the procedures established in the MPP, including procurement
requirements; the obligation of the SDOE to maintain records and submit
progress reports; and the right of the UAP and the Bank to supervise and
review the work of the SDOE.
(iii)  The SDOE will sign similar agreements with each of the beneficiary
institutions: ANA, SENASA, IASCAV, DGI, INAL, INTI. These
agreements will indicate that the agencies will be responsible for the
adoption of the agreed new procedures under the coordination of the
SDOE.
(iv)   The UAP will ensure that the SDOE executes the following during 1996:
(i) assembles a team to coordinate the work with the beneficiary agencies;
(ii) undertakes, through consultants, a detailed diagnosis of the work and
procedures of the agencies and proposes new or simplified procedures;
reaches agreements with the beneficiary agencies on the adoption of new
procedures; and hires consultants to elaborate new procedural manuals.
During 1996, most of the consulting work will focus on detailed diagnosis
of the agencies involved and the elaboration of proposals for new



- 29 -
procedures and administrative arrangements, the development of manuals
and guidelines incorporating these changes.
(v)   The UAP, in coordination with the SDOE, will prepare the second year
AOP to be agreed with the Bank. Implementation of the reforms proposed
during the first year of execution of this subcomponent, training of the
staff, and acquisition of equipment will take place during the second year
of project execution. The targets at the end of the second year will be: (i)
reduction in processing an export operation from 8 to 2 days on average;
(ii) reduction in the devolution of taxes from 30 to 3 days on average; (iii)
reduction in the time required to issue certificates from 4 to one day on
average; and (iv) elimination of the number of certifications required.
(f) Strengthening the Quality Control System
(i)   The UAP, in coordination with INTI, will prepare and agree with the
Bank, on the first year AOP and the terms of reference for the consulting
work identified in the AOP.
(ii)   The UAP will sign an Implementation Agreement with INTI for the
execution of this subcomponent.
(iii) The UAP, in coordination with INTI, will take the following actions
during 1996: (i) hire a consulting firm to do a diagnosis of INTl's
laboratories; (ii) based on the diagnosis, implement a training program for
laboratory auditors and technicians; and (iii) invite and fund an
international accreditation agency to valuate and subsequently accredit 4 of
INTI's labortories
(iv)  The UAP in coordination with the INTI will prepare the second year AOP
to be agreed with the Bank. Assistance to IRAM and accreditation of
additional laboratories would take place during the second year of project
implementation.
(g) Strengthening Export Promotion Policy Formulation
(i)   The UAP, in coordination with the UCPFE, will prepare and agree with
the Bank the first year AOP and terms of reference for the consulting
work identified in the AOP.
(ii)   The UAP will enter into an Implementation Agreement with the UCPFE
for execution of this subcomponent.



- 30 -
(iii) The UAP will ensure that the UCPFE assembles a qualified team to work
on this subcomponent.
(iv)  The UAP, in coordination with the UCPFE, will hire consultants to
review existing export promotion programs (at the federal and provincial
level) and propose a rationalization of these activities in accordance to the
objectives of the Government of Argentina in this area.
(h) Strengthening Commercial Promotion Services Provided by ExportAr
(i)   The UAP in coordination with Fundaci6n ExportAr, will prepare and
agree with the Bank the first year AOP and the terms of reference for the
consulting work identified in the AOP.
(ii)   The UAP will enter into an Implementation Agreement with Fundaci6n
ExportAr for the execution of this subcomponent. The agreement will be
backed by the SCI and the Ministry of External Relations under which
Fundaci6n ExportAr operates.
(iii) Fundaci6n ExportAr will hire consultants to assist the participation of
ExportAr (and private exporters) in two international fairs in the USA and
South Africa, in 1996. The consultants would provide assistance with the
participation strategy, design and construction of exhibits, running of the
exhibits, and preparation of information material.
(iv)  The UAP, in coordination with Fundaci6n ExportAr, will prepare the
second year AOP to be agreed with the Bank. This will envisage support
for participation of Fundaci6n ExportAr in international fairs in 1997.
D. Procurement
4.12 Procurement carried out by national agencies follows the Constitution and
applicable federal laws: the Financial Management Law (Ley de Administraci6n
Financiera), which supersedes the General Accounting Law (Ley de Contabilidad) and
the Public Works Law (Ley de Obras Publicas). Procedures set out under this legal
framework have been found to be broadly generally consistent with Bank Guidelines
(January 1995).
4.13 The Borrower, through the UAP, would be responsible for ensuring the use of
procedures agreed with the Bank for procurement of all goods and services aimed at
obtaining competitive quality and price. The UAP has experience in procurement under
several large IDB and FONPLATA loans and has hired the services of a procurement
specialist. The UAP would receive assistance under the project on procurement issues,



- 31 -
particularly with respect to the selection and drafting of the contract with the MSC.
Furthermore, arrangements are under way for assistance of UAP staff to future Bank
procurement seminars.
4.14  The project would finance the following:
- under the Enterprise Assistance Program: consulting services, acquisition of
information (including software and reference material), trips by entrepreneurs or
their staff to explore export opportunities, mailing of samples, promotion
materials and other miscellaneous expenses, provided they are identified in an
export plan; and the MSAs to manage the grant scheme and the Directory of
Consultants.
- under the Institutional Strengthening Component: consulting contracts; computer
equipment and software; training; seminars, and promotion and didactic material.
4.15 The selection and hiring of consultants under the Cost-sharing Grant and
Institutional Strengthening Components would be done according to the Bank Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants (August 1981). Also, the selection and hiring of the MSCs to
manage the Cost-sharing Grant Scheme and the Directory of Consultants would be done
according to Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants of August 1981, with prior
Bank review of the terms of reference, short list of consultants, the letter of invitation,
and the draft contract agreement. Since the Argentine authorities wish to advance the
implementation of the project, part of the initial cost of the MSAs would be covered by
retroactive financing.
4.16 The procurement of goods under the project would be limited to computer
systems and software to support the technical assistance provided to six government
agencies under the Institutional Strengthening Component. Given that computer
hardware and software contract packages would have an estimated cost between
US$40,000 and US$150,000, such packages would be procured through LIB or national
or international shopping procedures following Bank procurement guidelines. LIEB
among equipment manufacturers with established servicing facilities in Argentina would
be used for packages valued at US$100,000 or more, and national or international
shopping would be used for packages below US$100,000, up to an aggregate value of
US$0.6 million. Bank standard bidding documents would be used for Limited
International Bidding (LIB).
4.17 Review by the Bank of Project Documentation. Prior review by the Bank of
all documentation would be required for LIB contracts for computer equipment and for
consulting contracts estimated to cost US$50,000 or more for individual consultants and
US$100,000 or more for consulting firms. Prior review would cover about 25% of all
contracts. The Cost-sharing Grant Scheme would finance a large number--between



- 32 -
1,500 and 2,000--of small consulting contracts valued below US$50,000 in most cases.
To facilitate Bank review, the Bank would approve: (i) generic terms of reference for
consultant's services related to exports; (ii) standard conditions for contracts; (iii)
standard model of contract; and (iv) qualification matrix for the Directory of
Consultants. During supervision, the Bank would review all the documentation of
contracts on a sample basis. Also, there would be an Audit Program for grants carried
out by an independent auditor. The audit program for the Grants would include specific
opinions on the procurement procedures followed by the beneficiaries and the
reasonableness of contracted prices.
Table 4.1: PROClUREENT METHOD BY CATEGORY
(US$ million)
PROCUREMENT METHOD
CATEGORY                                                     N.B.F.      TOTAL
ICB         NCB       OTHER                    COST
Consulting Services '
Cost-sharing MSA                                           7.3                      7.3
(5.0)                   (5.0)
Grants                                                    54.0                     54.0
(27.0)                 (27.0)
Directory MSA                                              1.0                      1.0
(0.7)                  (0.7)
Technical Assistance                                       7.5                      5.5
(5.2)                   (5.2)
Training                                                     0.2                      0.2
(0.1)                   (0.1)
Goods bl                                                     0.7                      0.7
l __________________________                __________       (0.5)                    (0.5)
Recurrent Admin. Costs                                                  3.5           3.5
Total Costs                                                 70.7        3.5          74.2
l__________  ___________     (38.5)                  (38.5)
Note:   Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
N.B.F.- Not Bank-financed; ICB - International Comipetitive Bidding; NCB - National Competitive
Bidding;
a/ Selected according to Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
b! LIB - Limited International Bidding (US$400,000); Other - National or International Shopping
(US$300,000).



- 33 -
Table 412: SUMMARY OF PROCUREMENT REVIEW PROCEDURES
CATEGORY             PROCEDURE         PRIOR UAP        PRIOR BANK
REVIEW           REVIEW
Goods
Less than USS100,000     Shopping        AD                N.A.
US$100,000 or more       LIB              AD                AU
Consulting Services
a) Individual
Less than US$50,000     Contract         1/                I/
US$50,000 or more       Contract         All               All
b) Firms
Less than USS100,000    Contract         1/                1/
USS100,000 or more      Contract         All               All
Training                  Contract         All               N.A.
1/    Contracts would be based on Bank pre-approved models of TORs, contracts, and qualification
matrix for eligible consultants.
E. Disbursements
4.18 The expected completion date would be January 31, 1998 and the Closing Date
July 31, 1998. Forecasts of expenditures and disbursements are shown in Annex VI.
Allocation of Loan proceeds are shown in Table 4.3 below.
4.19 The UAP would monitor disbursements over the life of the project. To facilitate
Project execution, a Special Account in US dollars would be established in Banco de la
Naci6n Argentina. This Special Account would be managed by the UAP and have an
authorized allocation of US$3.5 million. However, this allocation would be limited to
an equivalent to US$2.5 million until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the
Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into
by the Bank are equal to or exceed the equivalent of US$7.5 million.
4.20 All disbursements against contracts for less than US$100,000 for goods, for less
than US$100,000 for consultant firms, and for less than US$50,000 for individual
consultants, and for all training expenditures would be on the basis of Certified
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). The documentation for SOEs would not be sent to
the Bank but would be retained by the UAP and made available for inspection by Bank
staff. Other disbursements would be made against standard documentation. The UAP
would submit to the Bank a monthly statement of transactions of the Special Account.



- 34 -
4.21 The procedures for use of the grant funds would be as follows: First, after
approving an export plan presented by the enterprise, the MSC, on behalf of the
Borrower, and with the no-objection of the UAP, would sign an agreement with the
enterprise specifying the consulting services that would be contracted by the firm,
including terms and conditions of the contracts. The firm would send a copy of the
contract signed with the consultant to the MSC. The MSC would obtain the necessary
funds from the UAP to reimburse the firm for the cost of the consulting services, subject
to the Bank's prior-review requirements specified in para. 4.17. If the contract with the
consultant stipulates two or three payments, the MSC would reimburse the firm for up to
half of each of the payments made to the consultant. The MSC would submit to the
UAP monthly reports on the use of these funds. All disbursement procedures would be
specified in the Bank's Disbursement Letter.
Table 4.3: DISBURSEMENT OF LOAN PROCEEDS
(in US$ millions)
Category                Amount in USS        % of expenditures
I _____________________________        million            to  be  financed
Consultants' Services
Cost-sharing grants                 27.0                  50%
Institutional Strengthening          3.3                   70%
Management Services Agreement
Cost-sharing MSA                     5.0                  70%
Directory MSA                        0.7                  70%
Goods                                   1.8          70% procured locally
100% foreign
Training                                0.7                   70%
Total                                 38.5
4.22 Given the interest of the Government in an early implementation of the project,
retroactive financing for expenditures incurred after July 1, 1995 (but not earlier than 12
months before loan signing) in an amount not to exceed US$2.0 million (5 % of the Loan
amount) is recommended.
4.23 The time required to commit and disburse the loan would depend on the demand
from the enterprises. The key to implementation success and timely disbursement would
depend on the effectiveness of the management arrangements for the cost-sharing grant
component and the institutional capacity to develop and implement the AOPs by the
institutions involved. These disbursement arrangements would be incorporated into the



- 35 -
Manuals of Policies and Procedures that would guide the implementation of the project.
F. Project Monitoring and Supervision
4.24 Accounting. The UAP, the MSC administering the Cost-sharing Grant Scheme,
and the MSC administering the Directory of Consultants would maintain separate Project
records and accounts, including for the Special Account, adequate to reflect the
operations and financial situation of the Project, in accordance with accounting principles
consistently applied and in a form satisfactory to the Bank.
4.25 Auditing. These accounts would be audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank. Audit reports on project accounts and the MSCs' financial
statements would be submitted within six months after the end of the Government's
fiscal year. They would include opinions inter alia as to the reliability of SOEs to
support claims for disbursements and to properly reflect the expenditures eligible for
financing under the Loan Agreement.
4.26 Supervision and Reporting. The UAP would be responsible for the supervision
of the implementation of all Project components; for reporting to the Bank; and for the
disbursement arrangements. The UAP would assemble and send to the Bank the Semi-
Annual Project Implementation Report, prepared with the collaboration of each
implementing agency. The Implementation Reports would describe progress against
targets established in the AOP and give particular attention to indicators regarding the
results of the Cost-sharing Grant Scheme, the simplification of export procedures, and
the rationalization of export promotion programs. The Implementation Reports would
include calculations of agreed Key Indicators of Project Perfornance. The
implementation schedule for the project is presented in Annex V.
4.27 Impact Assessment. The effectiveness of the Cost-sharing Grant Scheme would
be subject to reviews at specific stages of implementation (see para. 3.9). The review
schedule for the scheme would be as follows:
A Mid-Term Review would be carried out 12 months after effectiveness or after
half of the cost-sharing grant funds have been disbursed, whichever comes first.
At this early stage, it would be difficult to assess the effect of the scheme in
increasing productivity, product quality, or in generating additional exports;
therefore, the assessment would focus on the effectiveness of the management
arrangements. A firn level survey would be carried out as part of this
assessment to confirm that the grant funds are being used for the purposes
intended and to receive feedback from the firms concerning the operation of the
scheme. The detailed performance indicators and the weight that each of them
would have in the assessment would be agreed beforehand with the Bank. Based



- 36 -
on the results of this review, the Bank would consider initiating the preparation of
a follow-up operation, as indicated in para. 3.11.
Another review would be carried out 18 months after effectiveness or when two-
thirds of the funds have been disbursed, whichever comes first. The evaluation
of the scheme at this stage would focus on the effectiveness of the management
arrangements and evidence of behavioral changes in the firms that have received
the assistance as compared to a group of similar firms that have not been assisted
by the program. Indices used to measure impact at the behavioral level would
include the adoption of measures to improve competitiveness such as cost-
reduction programs, hiring specialized staff, establishing quality control
procedures, improving product quality, and adopting a formal export
programming process. The detailed performance indicators and the weight that
each of them would have in the assessment would be agreed beforehand with the
Bank.
A full impact assessment would be carried out three years after effectiveness.
At this stage, the main indicators of the success of the cost-sharing grant scheme
would be in terms of competitive improvements, improvements in product
quality, and export growth. The assessment would be conducted based on a
survey of firms including assisted firms and a control group of similar fimns. As
for the previous assessments, the detailed performance indicators and the weight
that each of them would have in the full impact assessment would be agreed
beforehand with the Bank.
(i)    Competitiveness Improvements: the survey would compare
competitiveness indicators of assisted firms with those of a control group,
including productivity indicators (such as output per unit of labor); market
share; and production costs. Other indicators of would include the
adoption of new management processes, new price setting methods, new
distribution channels, launch of new products, and use of consultants as a
method of solving problems.
(ii)   Quality Improvements: the survey would compare secondary indicators
of quality improvement among assisted firms and the control group, such
as the number of assisted firms that have obtained quality certifications,
including IS09000, compared to the control group.
(iii)  Increased Exports: this would be measured using two indicators:
- the achievement of an average annual export performance equivalent to
a multiple of the cost of the grants paid to the firms (dollar of
additional exports/dollar of grants provided). The grant multiplier



- 37 -
should be no less than seven per year, allowing at least a year and a
half after the grant has been awarded; and
- a larger average increase in exports among firms in the program as
compared to the control group.
4.28 The MSC would monitor the productivity and product quality improvements and
the export performance of assisted firms every six months after approval of a grant for a
three-year period. However, the impact assessment based on sample surveys would be
carried out by independent consultants.
4.29 The Bank would hold a project launch workshop in Buenos Aires shortly after
loan signing to review start-up actions in order to avoid delays. Bank staff would
supervise project implementation through receipt and review of the AOP, and monitoring
of Semi-Annual Implementation Reports against such Plans, including regular
supervision missions to Argentina. Inputs needed to supervise the Project are estimated
at about 12 staff-weeks per year and to require the involvement of Bank staff specialists
in trade and institutional development, as well as outside expertise in export promotion.
V. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A. Project Benefits
5.1   The main benefit of the project would be greater international competitiveness of
Argentine finns that would lead to an accelerated and broadened export response.
Important benefits of the Cost-sharing Grant Scheme would be product quality
improvements through the adoption of internationally recognized quality standards, and
productivity improvements through the adoption of intemational best practices in
production, management, and marketing know-how. Another benefit would be the
development of a more structured approach to exports by Argentine frins, which would
allow them to move up in the value chain. In the longer term, however, the project
would be evaluated in terms of the incremental benefits it would generate in the form of
additional exports. Although the program would assist a limited number of firms, it
would have a spillover effect on other firms through indirect exporter links and
demonstration effects. The Institutional Strengthening Component would help create a
better business climate for exporters by reducing remaining institutional constraints to
exports and improving the efficiency of govenmment agencies involved in the export
process.
5.2   A scheme of direct and indirect support to exporters can be seen as an insurance
for policy reformers that they will be able to continue in the same direction. A robust
export response would reduce the demands for policy reversals and special protection--



- 38 -
particularly as local demand begins to slow down--and thus help support the reform
agenda. Also, in the face of rising international interest rates, a strong export
performance would signal a greater efficiency of Argentina's economy and help reduce
the country risk premium.
5.3   The proposed Cost-sharing Grant Scheme does not contravene the Uruguay
Round's agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures. First, the proposed
scheme parallels the infonnation provided to potential exporters by most countries as
well as many states, provinces and even municipalities. These foreign commercial
services are widespread and are not subject to GATT intervention. Second, given the
one-time nature of the grants for any enterprise, it would be unlikely that they would be
subject to countervailing duty action. Third, restrictions on export subsidies will not
apply to Argentina until eight years from the date of entry into force of the WTO, and
the project and its possible extensions will cover a maximum of four or five years from
the beginning of 1996. Finally, the Uruguay Round Agreement's "stand-still" provision,
which stipulates that export subsidies may not be increased, uses 1986 as its base, a time
when Argentina had in place an extensive program of export subsidies. These subsidies
have been largely dismantled; hence, the minor sums involved in the grant program
would not violate the terms of this agreement.
B. Project Risks
5.4   The main risk for this operation is that the administrative arrangements could fail
and that subsidies would be granted to anyone who asks, independently of whether they
support feasible export plans. This risk is being addressed by giving the management of
the Cost-sharing Grant Scheme to a private sector contractor with knowledge of the
export business and by basing part of the contractor's remuneration on performance
indicators that measure results other than the number of grants awarded. This risk is
being addressed also by supporting only the first stage of the government's program
under this project and linking Bank support for subsequent stages to a positive review of
the administrative arrangements. Other risks are that firms may not be willing to pay
for export-related consulting services, and that the grants could fund activities that firms
might have undertaken anyway. The first risk could come about if there is a resurgence
of local consumption and firms that are not export-oriented become less interested in
finding export opportunities. Although this risk is outside the control of the project, it is
reduced by the size of the first stage of the Cost-sharing Grant Scheme, which would
cover only a fraction of the expected demand. This risk is reduced also by the evidence
provided by the enterprise survey, which indicates a willingness to pay for part of the
costs; by amply publicizing the program; and by establishing an efficient delivery
mechanism that would provide access to information on services available worldwide to
a large number of firms. The second risk would be mitigated by requiring firms to
provide significant cost-sharing, by making payments on a reimbursement basis, and by
adopting strict evaluation and monitoring procedures. Successful project implementation



- 39 -
will depend on continued borrower ownership. Borrower ownership is anticipated given
the heavy involvement of the authorities in project design and the widely shared view of
the priority of increasing exports.
5.5   A risk to the success of the institutional strengthening component would be
resistance of the agencies involved to the proposed reforms, which involve changes in
attitudes, procedures, and staffing. This risk is reduced by giving the management of
the most sensitive reforms to SDOE, which has a track record in implementing sweeping
deregulations at different levels of government. Also, the implementation plan
contemplates the organization of consensus-building seminars with the agencies involved
to discuss proposed organizational and staffing changes. Finally, there is a risk that
policy reversals could produce a more protected trade regime, in which case there would
be little justification for an exporter support project. As part of the Mid-Term Review,
the Bank would assess the Government's performance in maintaining an open trade
regime. A substantial departure from this objective would reduce the justification for a
foUow-up operation.
VI. AGREEM1ENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1   Agreements. During negotiations, agreements were reached on the following:
(a) the Project objectives and description (paras. 3.4 to 3.14);
(b) the Project costs and financing plan (para. 3.15);
(c) that the UAP in the Ministry of Economy would continue to be adequately
staffed, as agreed with the Bank, and otherwise supported in the
implementation of its responsibility under the project (para. 4.6);
(d) that the UAP would sign implementation agreements with the SDOE and the
agencies participating in institutional strengthening programs (paras. 4.2 and
4.3);
(e) that the national government would open and maintain a Special Account in
US dollars to be managed by the UAP (para. 4.19);
(f) that the project accounts would be audited with audit arrangements
acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.25);
(g) that the project would be subject to periodic evaluations under terms of
reference satisfactoiy to the Bank (paras. 4.26 and 4.27); and



- 40 -
(h) the reporting arrangements, including the obligation of the UAP to prepare
Annual Operating Plans and Semi-Annual Implementation Reports to be
adhered to and sent to the Bank for approval (para. 4.29).
Condition of Signature of the Loan Agreement:
(i)  the AOP and terms of reference for the Institutional Strengthening
subcomponent of the UCPFE agreed with the Bank (para. 4.5).
Conditions of Loan Effectiveness:
(j) the formal establishment of the UAP and the agreement between the
Borrower and the Bank on the staffing and budget of the UAP (para. 4.6);
and
(k) signing of a contract with an MSC for the administration of the Cost-sharing
Grant Scheme, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para.
4.7).
Events of Suspension of Loan Disbursements:
(1) that the Manual of Policies and Procedures (MPP), or any provision thereof,
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived without
prior agreement of the Bank (para. 4.4); and
(m) that the MSC for the administration of the Cost-sharing Grant Scheme, shall
have failed to perform any of its obligations or undertakings under the
respective MSA and such failure shall not have been remedied by said MSC,
by the Borrower, or by any agency of the Borrower or other party
designated by the Borrower (para. 4.9).
6.2   Recommendation. With the above assurances and conditions, the proposed
project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$38.5 million equivalent to be repaid
over a period of 15 years, including a grace period of five years, at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate and fees. Retroactive financing for expenditures incurred after July
1, 1995 (but not earlier than 12 months before loan signing) in an amount not to exceed
US$2.0 million (5 % of the Loan amount) is recommended.



- 41-                                       ANNEX I
TRADE STATISTICS
Table 1: IMPORTS. EXPORTS AND TRADE BALANCE (1985-1994)
(USS Mil.)
Year                Exports                 Imports                      Trade Balance
1985                8.396                    3.814                          4.582
1986                6.852                    4.724                          2.128
1987                6.360                    5.818                            542
1988                9.135                    5.322                          3.813
1989                9.579                    4.203                          5.376
1990               12.353                    4.078                          8.276
1991               11.978                    8.275                          3.703
1992               12.235                   14.872                          -2.637
1993               13.118                   16.784                          -3.666
1994               15.739                   21.544                          -5.805
Source: Instituto Nacional de Estadistica y Censos (INDEC).
Table 2: VOLUME OF TRADE WITH MERCOSUR AND CHILE (1985-1994)
Export to          Import from            Export to           Import from
Year              Mercosur              Mercosur               Chile                Chile
(US$ MUl.)           (USS Mil.)           (USS Mil.)           (USS Mil.)
1985                 667                  698                   111                  84
1986                 894                  831                   137                  149
1987                 768                1.003                   146                  153
1988                 875                1.170                  259                   147
1989               1.428                  869                   360                  ill
1990               1.833                  875                  462                   112
1991               1.978                1.804                  488                   381
1992               2.327                3.755                  581                   646
1993               3.662                4.214                  591                   706
1994               4.740                5.129                  986                   826
Source: Instituto Nacional de Estadfstica y Censos (INDEC).



- 42 -                                     ANNEXI
Table 3: EVOLUTION OF INTERNATIONAL TRADE (1985-1994)
Year                           (USS Mil.)                          % GDP
1985                             12.210                             13.8
1986                             11.576                             10.9
1987                             12.178                             11.2
1988                             14.457                             11.4
1989                             13.782                             16.7
1990                             16.430                             11.6
1991                             20.253                             10.7
1992                             27.107                             11.9
1993                             29.902                             11.6
1994                             37.283                             13.3
Source: Secretaria de Programaci6n Econ6mnica del MEOSP; Insatuto Nacional de Estadistica y Censos
(INDEC) and Estadisticas Financieras Internacionales (FMI).
Table 4: OPENNESS OF THE ECONOMY
COUNTRY *                   % GDP
Korea                              50.2
Chile                              46.6
Australia                          31.1
Spain                              30.4
Argentina                          13.3
Brazil                             13.0
I (Exports + Imports)/GDP.
* For Argentina the information corresponds to
1994, for the rest of the countries to 1993.



- 43 -                           ANNEX I
Table 5: MAIN EXPORTS
Products                          % of Total Exports
Fuel                                                   10.3
Oils                                                    9.7
Residual Food Products                                  8.5
Cereals                                                 8.4
Seeds and Fruits                                        6.0
Meat                                                    5.8
Transport Materials                                     5.7
Machinery and Electrical Equipment                      5.4
Metals and Manufactures                                 5.0
Skins and Leather                                       4.8
Sub Total                                  69.8
Other Products                                         30.2
TOTAL                                     100.0
Source: Instituto Nacional de Estadistica y Censos (INDEC).



- 44 -                               ANNEX I
Table 6: MAIN EXPORTS BY DESTINATION (1987-1994)
Share in Total Export Value
Destination
1987    1988    1989    1990        1991      1992      1993     1994
Brazil         8.5      6.7     11.7    11.5       12.4      13.8      21.3     22.8
USA           14.6    13.3    12.4    13.8         10.4      11.1       9.6     10.8
Netherlands    9.7     11.9    10.3    11.1        11.1      10.0       9.7      7.5
Italy          3.6      3.7      3.0      4.2       4.8       4.3       3.9      4.1
Germany        6.0      5.3      4.3      5.2       6.1       6.0       4.8      3.9
Subtotal     42.5    41.0    41.8    45.8        44.8      45.2      49.3      49.2
Others        57.5    59.0    58.2    54.2         55.2      54.8      50.7     50.8
TOTAL       100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0        100.0     100.0     100.0    100.0
Source: Instituto Nacional de Estadistica y Censos (INDEC).



- 45 -                          ANNEX H
SELECTION PROCEDURE FOR MANAGEMENT SERVICE CONTRACTOR
MSC)
I. Selection Procedure
Step 1:     Invitation of Esxpression of Interest
The Ministry advertises in the international media and sends out letters to
a targeted group of potential candidates. At this stage only the broad
details of the project and the scope (TORs) of the tasks involved are
outlined.
Step 2:     Preparation of a Short-list of MSCs
From the list of interested MSCs, a short list of technically capable parties
is prepared. This list will be based on a set of eligibility criteria such as
the firm's experience in undertaking similar projects, quality of personnel
available for this project and the proposed methodology for achieving the
project objectives.
Step 3:     Request for the Base Management Services Agreement (MSA)
The short-listed MSCs will be asked to prepare a base (prototype) MSA to
achieve project objectives using the guidelines provided by the Ministry.
In addition, a brief write up on the proposed strategy for achieving the
project objectives will be required from the short-listed candidates.
The key element of this base MSA will be a performance evaluation
system which will be used by the Ministry as a basis for the incentive
scheme. At the minimum, this evaluation system will have to specify the
criteria for evaluation, their relative importance (criteria weights), targets
(criteria values).
Step 4:     Finalization of the Final Management Service Agreement
The Ministry (with the assistance of the consultants) will decide on the
final MSA based on the suggestions contained in the base MSAs of the
short-listed candidates. The ministry may also discuss the draft of the
proposed MSA with the short-listed MSCs before finalizing it.



- 46 -                         ANNEX 1I
Step 5:     *nvitation of Bids for Award of the Contract
The Ministry will invite the short-listed parties to make offers containing
two separate parts:
Financial:      Specifying the (minimum) management fee acceptable to
them to achieve the project objectives as imbedded in
the performance evaluation and accountability system of
the MSA.
Management:   Outlining the exact strategy to achieve the project
objectives.
Step 6:     Selection of Management Service Contractor
First, the Ministry will decide which "Management" proposals are
acceptable. There will be no ranking of this list of proposals. Second,
the "lowest" financial bid will be accepted from this list of finalists.
II.   Rationale for the Proposed Selection Procedure
1.    The process will not only be transparent but will also be seen to be
transparent: It is important that a project of this size be widely publicized to
ensure that the best possible management service contractors (MSCs) compete for
the contract.
2.    The process will ensure access to the widest possible range of inputs in the
design and implementation of the Project: By involving the leading MSCs in
the design of the MSA, the Ministry will be assured of having considered all
possible ideas from competent parties. These ideas are likely to be more
practical and realistic as they would come from MSCs who have to implement the
project and not merely design it.
3.    Simple criteria for the final selection will prevent any controversy: The
selection of the MSC from the list of finalist will be based on a single number
(the minimum amount of money acceptable to execute the proposed project and
be held accountable to the embedded performance evaluation system).
4.    The embedded performance evaluation system in the MSA will ensure high
degree of accountability for the contractor: Every aspect of performance
evaluation would be quantified and decided in conjunction (and consultation) with
the MSCs.



-47-                            ANNEX..I
m.   Brief Description of the Proposed Performance Evaluation System for the
Management Service Agreement (MSA)
1.    The proposed performance evaluation system for the MSA will consist of the
following four parts:
Part 1: Criterion Selection
Part 2: Criterion Weight Selection
Part 3: Criterion Value Selection
Part 4: Decision on the Scoring System: Calculation of Composite Score.
2.    First three parts are designed at the beginning of the year and the last part is
executed at the end of the year.
Part 1: Selection of Performance Criteria
In this part, the criteria for evaluating performance of the MSA are
specified. In order to select an appropriate set of criteria, one needs to
ensure that they are "fair" to the MSC and "fair" to the Government
(country).
Part 2: Criterion Weight Selection
Whenever there is more than one indicator, we must decide what are the
relative priorities so the MSC can allocate its time more effectively in
achieving those priorities.
Part 3: Criterion Value Selection
The third part in the performance evaluation system relates to criteria
value selection, i.e., the level of performance expected with respect to
different indicators. One way to do so is to have a 5-point scale, where:
I = Excellent
2 = Very Good
3 = Good
4 = Fair
5 = Poor



- 48 -                         ANNEX
Part 4: Performance Evaluation at the End of the Year
The fourth and the final step is taken at the end of the year, when we look
at the achievements of the MSC and compare them with the criteria values
and determine the composite score--reflecting overll performance.



- 49 -                          ANNEX U
SUMMARY OF TERMS OF REFERENCE
MANAGEMENT SERVICE CONTRACTOR (MSC)
(COST-SHARING GRANT SCHEME)
The draft terms of reference for the Management Service Contractor in charge of
the Cost-sharing Grant Scheme are in the Project File. The main elements of the terms
of reference are the following:
1.    Description of the Program
1.1   Basis of the Program
1.2   Components of the Program
1.3   Description of the Enterprise Assistance Program
a) Objectives
b) Description
c) Steps in the Assistance to the Enterprise
d) Cofinancing modalities
e) Eligibility Criteria for the Enterprises
f) Evaluation of Impact
g) Strategy of Implementation
h) Maximum Size of Grants
2.    Organizational Context and Relations
2.1   Organizational Context
2.2   Functional Relations
2.2.1 Description of the Principal Processes
2.2.2 Characteristics of the Principal Processes
2.2.3 Subprocesses
3.    Functions and Responsibilities of the MSC
3.1   Functions of the MSC
3.2   Responsibilities of the MSC
4.    Minimum Technical Requirements of the MSC
4.1   Enterprise Assistance Capacity
4.1.1 Geographic Coverage



- 50 -                         ANnEX 11
4.1.2 Information Infrastructure
Staff Productivity
Management Information System
Administrative Support
Data Processing
Communications
4.1.3 Organizational Structure
4.1.4 Human Resources
General Manager
Account Executives
4.2   Proposed Work Plan
4.3  Implementation Schedule
Sections 1 and 2 reflect the design of the project as described in the SAR. The
subsequent sections are summarized in this Annex.
3.    Functions and Responsibilities of the Management Service Contractor (MSC)
3.1   Functions of the MSC
*   Promote the Program among the target group of SMEs in accordance with
its business and marketing strategy, but following the basic guidelines
established by the UAP.
*   Collaborate with the firms's management in the diagnosis of the firm's
export opportunities and needs for technical assistance and associated
commercial promotion. If this function scapes the capacities or
possibilities of the MSC, the Program contemplates the possibility of
subcontracting the services of a consultant with a subsidy of 80% of the
cost up to a maximum of US$2,500.
*   Assist the firm to access the Directory of Consultants and orient it in the
selection of the service providers (consultants, information brokers, etc.)
to request price estimates.
*   Assist the firm in the forrnulation and presentation of its Export Plan.
Evaluate the firm's Export Plan and propose its approval or rejection to
the UAP.
*   Assist the firmn in hiring the service providers and facilitate the relations
between the firm and the service providers until the services have been
provided
*   Assist the firm to prepare the Closing Document (schedule of
actions/targets to be met by the firmn in order to export. Will be an
instrument to evaluate the effectiveness of the Program in the medium
term).



- 51 -                         ANNEX II
3.2   Responsibilities of the MSC
* Provide adequate accessibility to clients, with emphasis on continuous
improvement.
*  Provided the information requested by the firms about the scope and
characteristics of the Program.
* Facilitate to the firms that so request models of Export Plans.
*  Evaluate the firm's Export Plan, and inform its recommendation of
approval or disapproval to the UAP. If the UAP has not reacted within a
five days period, the MSC will assume that the UAP has no objection to
its recommendation.
*  Provide models of the standard contracts and terms of reference for the
use of consultants to the firms whose Export Plans have been approved by
the UAP.
*  Provide to the firms models of the Letter of Commitment to Provide
Information (to the MSC and the UAP) and of the Closing Document.
* Reimburse the cofinanced funds to the firms on behalf of the UAP against
presentation of the following documents:
- payment receipts on completion of services by the service provider.
- Closing Document
- Letter of Commitment to Provide Information
* Submit monthly reports with the information necessary to calculate the
MSC's remuneration:
- Amount of Grants provided (as reimbursements made) Minimum
number of Grants approved in the first 12 months: 300; minimum number
of grants approved after 24 months: 900
- Regional diversification
- Diversification according to previous export experience
- Diversification according to export markets
* Submit quarterly reports on the advances of the Program.
4.    Minimum Technical Requirements of the MSC
4.1   Enterprise Assistance Capability
The MSC should have all the elements and conditions needed to provide
adequate assistance to the enterprises, including:
-  Geographic coverage through a net of offices.
-  Information infrastructure, including communication between offices.
-  Organizational Structure
-  Human resources



- 52 -                         ANNEX I
4.1.1 Geographic Coverture
- The MSC should open at least 4 offices in different provinces, each
of them headed by an Account Executive. In provinces not
covered by the regional offices, the MSC should make
arrangements for the provision of the following services:
- Reception of expressions of interest from the firms.
- Distribution of basic documents about the Program.
- Direct communication between the entrepreneur and an Account
Executive when needed.
4.1.2 Information and Data Processing Capability
- The MSC should provide the technological infrastructure to support
the activities of the MSC in the following areas:
- Office technology and equipment: the MSC will provide its staff
with the adequate instruments to promote its productivity such as
word processing, calculators, etc.
- Management Information System: the MSC will provide the
appropriate software for the analysis and presentation of
information to support management level decisions.
- Administrative Support: The MSC will have the application tools
(software) to guarantee efficiency in the following functional areas:
accounting
financial analysis
human resources management
project evaluation
marketing/client administration
- Data Processing Capability: The MSC will necessary equipment to
process information and run the above applications.
- Communications technology: The MSC will provide the hardware
and software to: link its network of offices, to access the
information of the Directory of Service Suppliers, and link
electronically with the UAP (the costs of this linkage would be
shared with the UAP).
4.1.3 Organizational Structure
The MSC should describe the proposed organizational structure to
carry out the above described functions, including:



- 53 -                         ANNEX H
- Initial and projected organigram of the MSC for the duration of
the Program.
- Definition and description of the functional areas specifying
objectives, allocated resources, and activities in each of them.
4.1.4 Human Resources
The MSC should present a description of the staff required to carry
out each of the activities necessary to carry out the Program
expressed in men/months. The MSC should describe the profile of
the staff it would assign to the Program indicating the following:
Manager of the MSC:
- Academic credentials in relevant areas
- Professional experience in the formation and management of
working teams made of highly qualified professionals.
- Professional experience in the area of assistance to SMEs.
- Additional experience in the following areas would be considered
valuable:
Specific experience in the area of exports
Specific experience in the area of technical assistance to SMEs.
Specific experience in the area of export promotion.
Knowledge of languages.
Account Executives:
- Academic credentials in areas related to the types of services
required by potential exporters.
- Professional experience in the elaboration and evaluation of
projects.
- Experience in enterprise management
- Experience in the area of exports
- Experience in consulting services in the areas of commercial
promotion and technical assistance
- Additional experience in the following areas would be
considered valuable:
Academic experience in business administration, trade, export
projects.
Work experience in international corporations
Knowledge of languages.
4.3   Proposed Work Plan
The MSC should carry out the activities described in the Terms of
Reference following a Work Plan agreed with the UAP. This Work Plan



- 54 -                        ANNEX II
will detail the approach, the methodology and the resources that the MSC
will use to meet the objectives of the Program.
4.4   Proposed Implementation Schedule
The MSC should be ready to initiate operations in Buenos Aires no later
than 40 working days after the signature of the contract. Attention offices
in Cordoba, Rosario and Mendoza (in that order) should be established
every two months.



- 55 -                         ANNEX m
INSTMTTIONAL STRENGTHENING COMPONENT
A. Summary of Institutional Capacity Analysis'
1.    The main objective of the Institutional Strengthening Component of the Enterprise
Export Development Project is to strengthen the institutional capability of the agencies
directly involved in the export process. This strengthening would involve the
simplification of export procedures and the reduction of processing time for exports.
2.    The institutions that have been identified as having critical roles in the export
process are the following: Customs Administration (ANA), the Tax Administration
(DGI), the National Animal Health Service (SENASA), the Argentine Institute of
Vegetal Health and Quality (IASCAV), the National Institute of Industrial Technology
(INTI), the Superintendency of Borders (SF), and the National Institute of Food (INAL).
Other agencies involved in policy formulation such as the Unidad Coordinadora de
Fomento a las Exportaciones (UCPFE) and of promotion such as Fundaci6n ExportAr,
also have important roles in the types of assistance provided to exporters.
3.    The Institutional Development Analysis and Development System (ICADS)
methodology has been applied to identify the agencies' institutional capacity gaps (ICGs)
as the basis for the design of institutional strengthening programs involving technical
assistance, training and the introduction of computerized systems to improve their
efficiency. The ICADS methodology consists of a number of systematic steps to identify
the ICGs, starting from the identification of the tasks and resources necessary to achieve
the objectives of the project; comparing them with the actual capabilities of the
institutions (ICs). The differences are the institutional capacity gaps (ICGs), task by
task. The ICGs are the result of five types of causes:
a)   ICGs resulting from the rules of the game in an ample sense (laws, norms,
and regulations);
b)    ICGs resulting from the inter-institutional relationships among the
agencies involved;
c)    ICGs resulting from the internal organization and the distribution of
functions within the institutions;
d)    ICGs resulting from personnel policies and remuneration systems; and
e)    ICGs resulting from the skills at all levels of management and staff
involved, including the private sector.
1. The Work Document is part of the Project Files.



- 56 -                         ANNEX mI
B. Summary of Identified Institutional Capacity Gaps
4.    The ICADS Working Document (WD), in the Project Files, includes a complete
listing of the identified ICGs. This Annex presents some of the most important ICGs.
The references in parenthesis corresponds to the sections and annexes in the Working
Document.
a) ICGs resulting from rules of the game
5.    The Argentine legislation contains the figure of "custom brokers" as an obligatory
agent to mediate in the relationships between ANA and the exporters. This is a
monopolistic relationship that generates an additional layer of intervention with added
costs and processing time and that provides the opportunity for rent seeking. (see WD.
El: D1.05 and para. 19).
6.    Some export products are subject to reference prices established by different
agencies (such as the Secretary of Agriculture for agricultural products) to calculate the
value of exports and the tax reimbursements of ANA and DGI. The norms guiding the
determination of the reference prices and the calculation of the reimbursements are
unclear and some times contradictory, which generates uncertainty among exporters
about the profit margin of their exports (see WD. El: D1.03 and para. 19).
7.    ANA maintains a system of "extraordinary services" that allows custom agents in
charge of inspections to work outside the normal working hours. However, these
services are regulated by a collective contract that reduces the flexibility of ANA to
provide services during hours that are more convenient for the exporters (see WD. El:
D1.02 and para. 19).
8.    The information requirements and procedures to obtain certificates from control
agencies (SENASA, INTI) are unclear or not widely known by the exporters which
cause delays in the obtention of the certificates. (see WD. E2: D%.02, Annex C No.
3,4, and 8 and Annex E, No. 5).
b) ICGs resulting from interinstitutional relationships
9.    Custom brokers are the ones that submit applications for tax reimbursements to
ANA. They often make calculation errors on the shipment permits and the
reimbursement amounts that delay the payment of the reimbursements (see WD. El:
D2.01; Annex C, No. 10 to 13 and Annex D, No. 1 and 2).
10.   Under the Temporary Admission Regime, the exporter provides a guarantee for
the unpaid duties on imported inputs. This guarantee is liberated by ANA once the
Secretary of Commerce and Investments issues a certificate based on a ruling by [NII



- 57 -                        ANNEX m
certifying the technical relationships between imported inputs and the exported output.
INTI often lacks the technical expertise for issuing this certification and the Secretary of
Commerce and Investment issues a temporary certificate which is used by ANA to
liberate the guarantee, bypassing INTI. This increases the risk of tax evasion. (see WD.
El: D2.02, Annex Al No. 14 and Annex C No. 10 to 13).
c) ICGs resulting from the internal organization
11.   The issuing of fitosanitary certificates for exports of animal origin by SENASA
involves a process in which four departments participate before the definitive certificate
is issued. Often offices in widely dispersed areas are involved requiring different
documentation. This complex process produces delays. (see WD. El: D3.01 and Annex
C No. 1 and 2).
12.   The sanitary control agencies: SENASA, IASCAV and INAL lack adequate
administrative procedures and the necessary equipment to carry out verifications in the
frontier posts, which results in bottlenecks and delays that affect exporters of perishable
products. (see WD. El: D3.01 and D3.02, Annex C, No. 4 and 20 and Annex E, No. 1
and 4).
13.   Many of the institutions (SENASA, INTI, IASCAV, ANA) lack adequate
information and communication systems and technical software to be able to process
quickly the issuing of sanitary certifications, shipment permits and tax reimbursements.
(see WD. El: D3.04, Annex E, No. 7,6,12,2,3,10 and 11).
14.   Tax reimbursements to exporters by ANA and DGI are delayed by problems in
the internal processes involved. In ANA the processes of verification and control
(through Commission 75 and Commission 332) may take several months before
payments are authorized. (see WD. El: D3.05, Annex C, No. 10 to 13).
15.   Some control units within ANA lack personnel (guards, verificators, custom
police) and transport equipment to carry out the verifications efficiently. (see WD. El:
D3.03, Annex C, No. 10 to 13 and Annex E, No. 3).
16.   The Superintendency of Frontiers lack adequate infrastructure and procedures and
its working hours are incompatible with those of ANA, which results in delays in the
passage of products through the frontier posts. (see WD. El: D3.07, Annex C, No. 21).
17.   The IASCAV lacks enough personnel to carry out the habilitation procedures,
checking and auditing of private laboratories able to issue fitosanitary certificates. (see
WD. El, D3.08 and Annex C, No. 21).



-58-                          ANNEX m
18.   The UCPFE lacks the procedures and systems to carry out the tasks of
rationalizing the export promotion programs (see WD. D3.09 and Annex C, No. 16 and
17).
d) ICGs resulting from personnel and remuneration policies
19.   Restrictions on the level of remuneration of public employees affect the ability of
all the agencies analyzed to hire and retain high quality staff. There are normative
restrictions to hiring of new staff and contracts have to be approved by exceptional
decrees.
20.   Low salaries of inspectors and guards in some agencies (ANA, IASCAV) pose
problems of moral hazard when exporters have to provide transportation, meals and
other additional payments to accelerate the provision of services. (see WD. El: D4.01,
para 19 and Annex C, No. 10 to 13).
e) ICGs resulting from skills of management and staff
21.  INTI lacks the technical expertise to issue input-output certificates for many
industrial products (foods, plastics, metal products, cars, paper, chemicals and electronic
products). (see WD. E2: D5.01, Annex C, No. 5 and 9).
22.  INTl and IRAM lack expertise in international quality control standards. (see
WD. E2: D5.04, Annex C No. 19 and Annex D, No. 4 and 5).
C. Institutional Strengthening Component
23.   An institutional strengthening program to overcome the identified ICGs would
involve technical assistance, training and the adoption of computerized systems at an
estimated cost of about US$11.4 million, to be implemented over a four year period.
The proposed project would finance the first two years of such program at an estimated
cost of US$8.4 million. Some of the ICGs identified would be addressed by other
ongoing Bank projects. The simplification of procedures for the devolution of the VAT
to exporters by the General Tax Directorate (DGI) would be supported by an ongoing
Bank project: Tax Administration II (Loan 3460-AR) and training of commercial banks
in state of the art trade financing techniques would be provided by the ongoing Capital
Markets Technical Assistance Project (Loan 3710-AR). The following paragraphs
present the identified consulting, training and computerization needs, whether they would
be coverd by this proposed project, by a follow-up project or by other ongoing Bank
projects.
24.   A management service contractor (MSC) would manage the project's cost-sharing
grant component, under a management service agreement (MSA). Conceptually, the
MSA is part of the institutional strengthening component, since this administrative



- 59 -                        ANN5    m
arrangement will be adopted to overcome the lack of capacity of public sector agencies
to manage effectively a demand driven, private sector program. The description of the
MSC selection strategy and roles is in the main text of the SAR.
25.   Consulting and Technical Assistance. The following technical assistance
requirements have been identified:
diagnosis, evaluation and implementation of new administrative procedures,
programs of institutional change and institutional development at different levels
for about 174 men/months allocated to SENASA (Annex C, No. 1); ANA (No.
10 and 11); CNCE (No. 14); INAL (No. 20) and SF (No. 21).
design and development of information systems, organization and human
resources for about 662 men/months assigned to SENASA (No. 2 and 4); INTI
(No. 8 and 19); ANA (No, 12 and 13); CNCE (No. 15); UCPFE (No. 17); and
UAP.
-    technical assistance in industrial specialties for about 185 men/months for INTI
(No. 5 and 9).
-    technical assistance in trade norms and procedures for 125 men/months for
UCPFE (No. 16) and INTl (No. 6 and 7).
-    Technical assistance in information campaign for 3 men/months for SENASA
(No.3); in laboratory procedures for 12 men/months for IASCAV (No. 18); in
international experts in specific topics for seminars and courses for 14
men/months for Fundacion ExportAr (No. 22); and experts in trade financing for
20 men/months for training of commercial banks (No. 23).
26. Training. The following training requirements have been identified: Training to
eliminate ICGs in the export process would involve training of 1000 public agents and
500 private agents in the new customs information system (MARIA) and on the new and
simplified export processes through 200 courses at a unit cost of about US$4,000 per
course. Training in the area of quality control would comprise 230 courses to forn
2,300 private agents with a unitary cost of about US$7,500 per course.
27.   Computers, software and other materials. The estimated equipment
requirements are the following:
-    computer equipment and accessories for about US$1.4 million for SENASA
(Annex E, No. 1,2 and 3); INTI (No. 6 and 12); ANA (No. 7); CNCE (No. 9);
UCPFE (No. 10); and UAP.



- 60 -                        ANNEX m
Support material for promotional and information campaigns, catalog printing and
improvement of booths in trade fairs for US$700,000 for Fundacion ExportAr
(no. 13).
access to external information sources for US$130,000 for SENASA (No. 4 and
5); CNCE (No. 8); and UCPFE (No. 11).
Management of the Institutional Strengthening Component
28.   The Project Administration Unit (UAP) in the Secretary of Commerce and
Investment would be responsible for the implementation of this component. To this
effect, the UAP would sign implementation agreements with the agencies participating in
the program. The policies and procedures guiding the work of the UAP and the
agencies receiving technical assistance in connection with the institutional strengthening
component, would be spelled out in a Manual of Policies and Procedures (MPP)
approved by the Bank.
29.   The Subsecretariat for Economic Deregulation and Organization (SDOE)
would be responsible for the technical assistance programs and coordination of activities
with the agencies involved in the simplification of export procedures. The UAP would
be responsible for the design of specific technical assistance programs and coordination
of activities for the other agencies involved. The UAP would be responsible for the
preparation of Annual Operating Programs (AOPs) that would reflect the activities that
each agency would carry out to achieve the objectives of the program. The AOPs for
each subcomponent of the institutional strengthening component would be prepared in
coordination with the respective executing agencies. Each AOP would include a detailed
description and timetable for delivery of outputs, activities and technical assistance
inputs. During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Bank on the first year
AOPs covering the period October 1995 to December 1996. The second year AOP
would be discuessed and agreed with the Bank in November 1996.
30.   The UAP would assemble and send to the Bank the Semi-Annual Project
Implementation Report, prepared with the collaboration of each executing agency. The
Implementation Reports would describe progress against targets established in the AOP
and give particular attention to indicators regarding the results of the simplification of
export procedures and the rationalization of export promotion programs. The
Implementation Reports would include calculations of agreed Key Indicators of Project
Performance.



- 61-                       ANNEX  l
Table A.1: INSTITUTONAL STRENGTHENING REQIREMIENTS
(US$ millions)
AGENCIES            Financed under this   Financed under
Project          other Projects
Policy Fornulation
UCPFE                          0.750
Project Administration
UAP                            1.10
Export Promotion
Fundacion ExportAr             0.738                           l
Simplification of Procedures
ANA/DGI                        2.700               0.950
INTI                           0.434
SENASA                         0.660
LASCAV                         0.048
INAL                           0.120
SF                                                 0.150
Quality Control
INTl/IRAM                      1.850               1.200
Trade Financing                                     0.500
CNCE                                                0.200
Total                         8.400               3.000



- 62 -                        ANNEX HI
Progress and Impact Indicators
32.   Progress and impact indicators will be defined as part of each year's AOPs.
They would include the following:
(i)  Simplification of Procedures. Procedures would be streamlined and time reduced
in processing an export order, an import (temporary admission regime) order,
and in obtaining the reimbursement of taxes. Agencies involved include: ANA,
DGI, SENASA, IASCAV, INAL, and INTI. The expected results of this
subcomponent would be a reduction of time involved in customs procedures from
an average of 8 days to 2 days by end of 1997; a reduction of time involved in
certification procedures from an average of four days to one day by the end of
1997; elimination of some certification requirements; and reduction of the time
involved in the devolution of taxes from 30 to 3 days;
(ii)   Strengthening the Ouality Control System. This would involve the improvement
of public and private laboratories that provide quality control certifications for
exports. It would finance curriculum development, training and laboratory
accreditation (for IS09000 certification). The agencies involved would be INTI
and IRAM and selected private laboratories. The expected results would be the
accreditation of 4 laboratories for quality control during 1996 and of additional
laboratories during 1997; and
(iii) Strengthening Policy Formulation in Export Promotion. This subcomponent
would provide technical assistance to the Coordinating Unit for Export Promotion
Policies (UCPFE). The expected results would be the rationalization of export
promotion agencies and programs by the end of 1997.
(iv)  Strengthening Commercial Services provided by Fundaci6n ExportAr. Technical
assistance would be provided to Fundaci6n ExportAr to improve the quality of
the support it gives to exporters through exhibits (booths or stands) for Argentine
exporters and products in international trade fairs.
(v) Strengthening the Administrative Capability of the Project Coordination Unit
(UAP. Technical assistance would be provided to the UAP to improve its
capability to carry out its coordinating, controlling and evaluating functions.
reduction.



- 63 -                                                            ANNEX IV
SllMMARY OF ANNUAL OPERATING PLAN
Institutional Strengthening Component
Subcomponent 21: Simplification of Procedures (SDOE)
Objectives                  Activities                     Results                Amount         Unit Price     Total      World      Counterpart
(in physical     (US$)         Cost        Bank         Funds
units)                      (US$)       Loan         (US$)
(US$)
Siniplification and                                    - Reduction of export
redesign of procedures                                   processing time from 8 to
for: exports, tax                                        2 days by end 1997.
reimbursement,                                         - Reduction of time for tax
sanitary certification                                   reimbursement from 30 to
and certification of                                     3 days.
origin                                                 - Reduction of time for
issuing certificates from 4
to I day average by end
1997.
- Reduction of certification
requirements.
Hiring of consultants and      Coordination and supervision   15 m/m project       8,000      120,000      84,000         36,000
personnel to form a temporary   of the redesign work carried    manager            5,000      225,000     157,500         67,500
executing unit in SDOE: One    out by consultants.          3 coordinators
manager and 3 assistant                                      15 mi/m each
coordinators.                                               30 mlm                 1,150       34,500      24,150         10,350
Acquisition of computers for the   Executing unit able to   S PCs                  4,000       20,000      14,000          6,000
executing unit: 5 PCs and I    process information.
photocopy machine.



- 64 -                                                          ANNEX IV
Subcomponent 21: Simplification of Procedures (SDOE)
(Cont'd)
Objectives                Activities          |         Results              Amount       Unit Price    Total Cost     World      Counterpart
l                            (in physical     (US$)        (US$)      Bank Loan       Funds
I ___________________  ____________________________                                 units)                                   (US$)         (US$)
Hiring of consultants for:     Processes redesigned for
- Redesign of processes in     each agency.               6 m/m               5,000        30,000       21,000         9,000
SENASA.
- Redesign of processes in                                6 m/rn              5,000        30,000       21,000         9,000
INTI.
- Redesign of processes in                                4 m/m               5,000        30,000       14,000         6,000
IASCAV.
- Redesign of processes in                                4 m/m               5,000        30,000       14,000         6,000
INAL
Hiring of consulting firm to:  New processes redesigned   200 n/m             7,920     1,584,000     1,108,800      475,200
Diagnosis of procedures for tax   for ANA and DGI and new
reimbursement and design of    procedural manuals
new procedures.               produced.
- Diagnosis of export
procedures and design of new
procedures.
- Elaboration of procedural
manuals.
Acquisition of computer        Agencies better able to                                    320,000      264,000        56,000
equipment for the beneficiary  process information.
agencies
Coordination and monitoring of   Coordination and                                          23,100       16,200         6,900
activities under this          monitoring provided.
subcomponent. Consensus        Agencies ready to
building for the adoption of the   implement new procedures
new procedures.



-65-                                                         ANNEX IV
SUMMARY OF ANNUAL OPERATING PLAN
Institutional Strengthening Component
Subcomponent 22: Strengthening of Policy, Formulation on Export Promotion: UCPFE
Objectives               Activities               Results           Amount        Unit Price    Total Cost    World Bank   Counterpart
(in physical    (US$)         (US$)          Loan          Funds
l ___________________   .___________________                               units)    . _________u i                   (US$)         (US$)
Rationalzation and    Hiring of 5 consultants to  Reports with proposals   12 m/m           5,000        60,000         42,000        18,000
greater coordination of  review existing export  for coordination and  12 m/m               5,000        60,000         42,000        18,000
export promotion     promotion programs and     rationalization of     12 m/m               5,000        60,000         42,000        18,000
policies at tde national   propose rationalization and  export promotion  12 m/m            5,000         60,000        42,000        18,000
and provincial level.    coordination of programs at   programs.       12 m/m               5,000         60,000        42,000        18,000
the national and provincial
level.
Hiring of 4 junior consultants  The UCPFE able to  48 m/m             2,000        96,000         68,600       29,400
to act as counterpart for the   follow up the
above experts.             consultants' work and
convey it to the export
promotion agencies.
Acquisition of equipment: -   The UCPFE able to  6 PCs & 4                          18,000        12,600        5,400
6 PCs., 4 printers,      process information.   printers
- I photocopy machine, and                                                           5,800         4,060         1,740
- I fax machine.                                                                      700           490           210
Coordination and monitoring   Coordination and                                      12,000         8,400        3,600
of activities under this   monitoring provided.
component. Consensus       Agencies ready to
building for the adoption of   imnplement reforms and
proposed reforms.          to work in
coordination.



- 66 -                                                          ANNEX IV
SUMMARY OF ANNUAL OPERATING PLAN
Institutional Strengthening Component
Subcomponent 23: Strengthening Quality Control Systern: INTl
Objectives                 Activities                    Results         I    Amount       Unit Price I   Total   I   World        Counterpart
(in physical    (US$)        Cost      Bank Loan         Funds
units)                    (USS)        (US$)           (US$)
Improve the            Hiring of consulting firm to   Report describing the      10 m/m                         378,000      264,600           113,400
competitiveness of     carry out a diagnosis of quality    current situation of the
local exporters through   control laboratories and   laboratories and a plan to
access to             formulate a technical assistance    bring them up to
internationally accepted   plan to strengthen them.   international standards.
quality certification
standards.
Hiring of a consulting firm to  Accreditation of 4                                        44,000       30,200            13,200
accredit 4 laboratories following   laboratories, recognized
international standards.      internationally.
Hiring of consultants to train  Auditors trained.         2 m/m                           58,000       40,600            17,400
auditors in selected laboratories.
Implement a program of training
visits for:
- laboratory administrators (2  Administrators trained.                                   15,000         4,500            10,500
for 2 weeks each)
- auditors (4 auditors one month   Auditors trained.                                      45,000        31,500            13,500
each)
- auditors (training in services)    Auditors trained.                                    34,500        24,150            10,350
40 participants from INTI.                  _
Coordination, follow up and    coordination and                                          156,000       109,200           46,800
monitoring of the activities   monitoring provided.
under this component.



- 67 -                                                         ANNEX IV
SUMMARY OF ANNUAL OPERATING PLAN
Institutional Strengthening Component
Subcomponent 24.1: Communication
Objectives                 Activities                   Results             Amount       Unit Price    Total        World       Counterpart
l  (in physical   (USS)        Cost      Bank Loan        Funds
l___________________                                                                units)                   (US$)        (USS)           (USS)
To inform about the   Hiring a consulting fisnn to:
objectives of the
program and promote a  - develop the strategic                                                                72,000                         72,000
change in attitudes of  positioning of the program.
SMEs towards exports.
- develop the identity of the                                                         176,000                        176,000
program.
- provide advertising and                                                             388,000                        388,000
communication services to
promote the program.
Carry out periodic     - assess the impact and image of                                                       80,000                         80,000
evaluations of the      die cost-sharing grant scheme.
program.
- carry out audits of the                                                             100,000                        100,000
accounts and administration of
the program.



- 68 -                                                                 ANNEX IV
Institutional Strengthening Component
Subcomponent 24.2: Strengthening Commercial Services: Fundaci6n ExportAr
Objectives                    Activities                       Results                Amount         Unit Price      Total         World        Counterpart
(in physical      (USS)         Cost        Bank Loan         Funds
l __________________     __________________________         ______________________            units)                        (U S$)        (U S$)          (US$)
Participation, in        Hiring of consulting firms to:
association with
potential exporters, in  - design the strategy of          Report on strategic options,                                      15,000         10,500            4,500
selected international     participation, brochures, and   brochures designed.
trade fairs.               other information material for
participation in USA fair.
- design the strategy of          Report on strategic options,                                     15,000         10,500            4,500
participation, brochures, and   brochures designed.
other inforrnation material for
participation in South Africa
fair.
Hiring of consultant to produce    Brochures and other                                             20,000         14,000            6,000
brochures and information         materials printed.
material.
Hiring of consultant for          Advertising services                                             50,000         35,000           15,000
advertising and production of     provided.
videos.
Renting of space in Trade fairs    Space rented.                                                   93,000         65,100           27,900
in (USA and South Africa)
Hiring of consultants for the     Exhibits designed and                                            75,000         52,500           22,500
construction of exhibits (booths,   constructed.
stands) in USA fair.
Hiring of consultants for the     Exhibits designed and                                            75,000         52,500           22,500
construction of exhibits (booths,   constructed.
stands) in South Africa fair.



- 69 -                                                        ANNEX IV
Subcomponent 24.2: Strengthening Commercial Services: Fundaci6n ExportAr
Objectives                Activities                    Results             Amount       Unit Price    Total       World       Counterpart
(in physical    (USS)       Cost      Bank Loan       Funds
units)                   (USS)        (US$)         (US$)
Hiring of personnel agency to  Services provided.                                       7,000        4,900          2,100
run the exhibits in USA fair.
Hiring of personnel agency to  Services provided.                                       7,000         4,900         2,100
run the exhibits in South Africa.
Trips to USA.                 Trips made.                                              16,500        11,550         4,950
Trips to South Africa.        Trips made.                                              19,500         5,850        13,650
Coordination and monitoring of   Coordination and                                      12,000         8,400         3,600
the activities of this        monitoring provided.
subcomponent.



- 70 -                         ANNEX V
ENTERPRISE EXPORT DEVELOPMENT LOAN
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
First Year
Unit/Activity                Beginning          Completion
UAP
Design organization, procedures    09/04/95           11/10/95
Start-up                           12/15/95
MSC (Cost-Sharing Grant Scheme)
Support consulting                 09/04/95           11/10/95
Invitation expression of interest  08/12/95           09/15/95
Invitation of bids                 09/30/95           01/31/96
Signing MSA                        02/15/96           06/30/98
MSC (Directory of Consultants)
Invitation expression of interest  10/29/95           10/31/95
Invitation of bids                 11/24/95           12/30/96
Signing MSA                        02/15/96
Award of Cost-Sharing Grants
Grants approved: 900
100             03/01/96            06/30/96
200             07/01/96            12/31/96
250             01/01/97            06/30/97
280             07/01/97            12/31/97
70              01/01/98           02/28/98



- 71-                             ANNEX V
Implementation Schedule
Institutional Strengthening Component
First Year
Component                       Beginning        Completion
Simplification of Procedures:
Establishment Implementation Team
(UAP/SDOE)
TORs                                                         09/30/95
Staffing                                                     11/30/95
Equipment                                                    12/30/95
Consultants for SENASA, IASCAV, INTI, INAL
(4 consultants, 20 m/rn)
TORs                                                         12/30/95
Selection consultants                                        02/15/96
Consultant's work
Diagnosis critical processes               02/20/96          06/30/96
Design new structure processes                               08/15/96
Consultant for ANA (90 m/m)
TORs                                                         10/30/95
Selection consultant                                         02/28/96
Consultant's work
Diagnosis critical processes                               05/30/96
Diagnosis adm. procedures                                  08/30/96
Design new critical processes, Manual                      06/30/96
Design adm. procedures                                     11/30/96
Seminars with agencies                            08/30/96          12/30/96
Policy Formulation (UCPFE)
Establishment implementation team (UAP/UCPFE)
TORs                                                         08/30/95
Staffing                                                     12/30/95
Equipment                                                    12/15/95



- 72 -                           ANNEX V
Implementation Schedule
Institutional Strengthening Component
First Year
Component                      Beginning       Completion
Consultants for UCPFE
TORs (5 consultants)                                       09/30/95
Selection consultants                                      01/05/96
Consultant's work
Diagnosis                                                03/30/96
Policy recommendations                                   06/30/96
Quality Control
Establishment implementation team (INTI/UAP)                     11/30/95
Consultant: Laboratory evaluation (10 m/m)
TORs                                                       10/17/95
Selection consultant                                       12/20/95
Consultant's work:
Evaluation and proposal for laboratory
improvement                                            06/30/95
Consultant: Accreditation agent (1 sp/m)
TORs                                                       07/20/96
Selection consultant                                       08/20/96
Consultant's work:                                         09/30/96
Consultant: Elaboration of procedures (3 sp/m)
TORs                                                       07/20/96
Selection consultant                                       08/20/96
Consultant's work:                                         11/30/96
Consultant: Quality control manual (3 sp/m)
TORs                                                       07/20/96
Selection of consultant                                    08/20/96
Consultant's work:                                         11/30/96
Consultant: Equipment calibration (3 sp/m)
TORs                                                       07/20/96
Selection consultant                                       08/20/96
Consultant's work:                                         11/30/96



- 73 -                          ANNEX V
Implementation Schedule
Institutional Strengthening Component
Fust Year
Component                      Beginning      Completion
Consultant: Formation of auditors (2 sp/m)
TORs                                                      07/20/96
Selection consultants                                    08/30/96
Consulting's work:                                        10/30/96
Training:
TORs                                                      03/31/96
Training                                 02/15/96         07/15/96
Implementation Reports                                          03/3U/96
06/30/96
09/30/96
12/30/99
Elaboration AOP 1997                                            09/30/96



- 74 -                         ANNEX VI
ARGENTINA
Enterprise Export Development Project
Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
PROCUREAMENT MEETHOD
CATEGORY                                         N.B.F.  TOTAL
ICB      NCB    OTHER                 COST
Consulting Services a/
Cost-sharing MSA                             7.3                 7.3
(5.0)              (5-0)
Grants                                      54.0                54.0
(27.0)             (27.0)
Directory MSA                                1.0                 1.0
(0.7)              (0.7)
Technical Assistance                         7.5                 5.5
(5.2)              (5.2)
Training                                       0.2                 0.2
(0.1)              (0.1)
Goods bl                                       0.7                 0.7
(0.5)              (0.5)
Recurrent Admin. Costs                                  3.5        3.5
Total Costs                                   70.7      3.5       74.2
(38.5)             (38.5)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
N.B.F.- Not Bank-financed; ICB - International Competitive Bidding; NCB
- National Competitive Bidding;
al Selected according to Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
bl LIB - Limited International Bidding (US$400,000); Other - National or
International Shopping (US$300,000).



- 75 -                      ANNEX VIII
ARGENTINA
Enterprise Export Development Proiect
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ million)
Fiscal Year     Semester    Disbursements in   Cumulative     % of
Ending         Semester        Amount        Total
1996 a/          06/30/96                5.5           5.5      14
1997             12/31/96               8.5           14.0      36
06/30/97              10.5          24.5       64
1998             12/31/97               11.5          36.0      94
06/30/98               2.5          38.5      100
a/   Includes initial deposit of US$3.5 million in the Special Account.



- 76 -                       ANNEX vm
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE
IN THE PROJECT FILE
Survey of Enterprises: Questionnaires, Tabulated Results.
Interviews with Focus Groups: exporters, non-exporters and service providers.
Institutional Structure of the Argentine Government Related to the Export Sector.
September 1994.
Sequence of an Export: Critical Path of the Export Process.
Standard Terms of Reference for Consulting Contracts under the Cost-sharing
Grant Scheme.
Standard Consulting Contract under the Cost-sharing Grant Scheme.
Standard Conditions for Inscription in the Directory of Consultants and Service
Providers.
Institutional Capacity Analysis. Work Document.
Programa de Reconversi6n Empresarial Para las Exportaciones: Fundamentaci6n
y Lineamientos Basicos. Documento de Trabajo, Julio de 1995.
Manual of Policies and Procedures.
First Year AOP.
Terms of Reference for consulting contracts under the Institutional Strengthening
Component: First year of Implementation.
Terms of Reference for the Management Service Contractor in Charge of the
Cost-sharing Grant Scheme.



MAP SECTION






IBRD 26842
70          BOLIVIA                     610       |                               510O
PARAGUAY
San Salvador
0S de Jujuy
Salta00
,Tucum6n
Santiago   Resistencia               >      B R AZ I L
0 del Estero            , Poda
Catamarca (D
La Rilo0 E
30~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  
0 (D      Santa Fe
San Juan0E             C6rdoba      0         J -
-2                            ~~~~~~~   ~     ~~Poranb  o
Mendoza                        0
0        San Luis           Rosario
0                           ( U R UGUAY G
BUENOS AIRES& 
La Plato
Santa Rosao
w                                         Mar del Plota0
-J   \                               Bahia Blanca
0
7   /  Neuquen0
U                                                A R G E N T I N A
Carmende            Selected  Cities               40
Pataganes
Viedma          0    Province Capitals
 03 National Capital
Ra,vsontD                         Province  Boundaries
International Boundaries
MILES 0    100  200   300  400   S00
KILOMETERS 0       200     400     600     BOO
Rio Gollegos                                         The  boundaries, colors.  5O
0                                        denominations and  any
other information shown
on  this  map   do   not
imply, on  the  part of
The World Bank Group,
any judgment on the legal
status  of any  territory,
t <LUshuoia                     or ony  endorsement
or acceptance of such
boundaries
80 0                     70                      60                      5
APRfL 1 995









IIIAGIN'I
Report No:           143:]-3 AL
Type: ".AR



