Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3960-AR
Loan Agreement
(Enterprise Export Development Project)
between
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated March 26, 1996
LOAN NUMBER 3960-AR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 26, 1996, between ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)    The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)    The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the 
United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United 
Page  2
Nations."
(c)    In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a 
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions 
of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)    "ANA" means Administracion Nacional de Aduanas, the Borrower's National 
Customs Administration;
(b)    "Beneficiary" means any exporter or potential exporter to which the 
Borrower, through the Management Services Contractor referred to in Section 3.09 (a), 
proposes to make or has made a Cost-sharing Grant, all in accordance with the Policy 
and Procedures Manual (both as hereinafter defined);
(c)    "Cost-sharing Grant" means a grant made or proposed to be made by the 
Borrower, through the Management Services Contractor referred to in Section 3.09 (a), 
out of the proceeds
of the Loan to a Beneficiary for an Export Plan (as hereinafter defined);
(d)    "Cost-sharing Grant Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in 
paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement;
(e)    "DGI" means the Borrower's Directorate of Taxes;
(f)    "Export Plan" means a plan approved by the Management Services Contractor 
referred to in Section 3.09 (a) of this Agreement for the improvement of the export 
competitiveness of an enterprise;
(g)    "Fundacion Exportar" means the foundation created pursuant to the 
Borrower's Decree No. 2303 of November 10, 1993 for the support of private sector 
commercial activities abroad;
(h)    "Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year which begins on January 1 
and ends on December 31 of each year;
(i)    "IASCAV" means Instituto Argentino de Sanidad y Calidad Vegetal, the 
Borrower's Institute of Plant Health and Quality;
(j)    "INAL" means Instituto Nacional de Alimentos, the Borrower's National 
Food Institute;
(k)    "INTI" means Instituto Nacional de Tecnologia Industrial, the Borrower's 
National Institute of Industrial Technology;
(l)    "Implementation Arrangements" means the arrangements referred to in 
Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement;
(m)    "Implementation Schedule" means the schedule for carrying out the Project 
agreed between the Borrower and the Bank;
(n)    "Implementing Agencies" means ANA, Fundacion Exportar, IASCAV, INAL, 
INTI, IRAM, SDOE, SENASA and UCPFE (the last four as hereinafter defined), and any 
successors to these agencies approved by the Bank;
(o)    "IRAM" means Instituto Argentino de Racionalizacion de Materiales, the 
private sector's institute by that name in the Borrower's territory for certification 
and establishment of standards for materials;
(p)    "Management Services Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to 
in Section 3.09 of this Agreement;
(q)    "Management Services Contractor" means any of the contractors referred to 
in Section 3.09 of this Agreement;
(r)    "Performance Indicators" means the indicators designed to monitor the 
Page  3
progress of the Project agreed between the Borrower and the Bank;
(s)    "Policy and Procedures Manual" means the manual containing policies and 
procedures for the carrying out of the Project agreed between the Borrower and the 
Bank;
(t)    "Project Coordinator" means the coordinator referred to in Section 3.03 
(b) of this Agreement;
(u)    "SCI" means Secretaria de Comercio e Inversiones, the Borrower's 
Secretariat of Commerce and Investment;
(v)    "SDOE" means Subsecretaria de Desregulacion y Organizacion Economica, the 
Undersecretariat of Economic Deregulation and Organization of the Borrower's 
Secretaria de Programacion Economica;
(w)    "SENASA" means Servicio Nacional de Sanidad Animal, the Borrower's 
National Animal Health Service;
(x)    "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(y)    "UAP" means the Unidad Administradora del Programa, the Project 
management unit to be established, and thereafter maintained, in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement; and
(z)    "UCPFE" means the Unidad Coordinadora de Politicas de Fomento de 
Exportaciones, the Borrower's Coordinating Unit of Export Promotion Policies 
established by Joint Resolution dated November 14, 1994 of the Ministries of Economy, 
Public Works and Services and Foreign Relations, International Commerce and Religion 
(MEOSP No. 1408 and MRECIC No. 3588).
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of thirty-eight million five 
hundred thousand Dollars ($38,500,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds 
of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such 
withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of Cost-sharing Grants 
and the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan. 
(b)    The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in Banco de la Nacion Argentina, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be July 31, 1998 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)    As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Page  4
Semester.
(c)    For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank 
has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans 
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest 
rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of 
this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)    On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal 
to the 
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest 
accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
"(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on April 
1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. The Secretary of Commerce and Investment of the Ministry of 
Economy and Public Works and Services, or any other person designated in writing by 
said Secretary, is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of 
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 
2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project, through SCI, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate managerial,  Administrative, foreign trade and environmental practices, 
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
(b)    Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Schedule 
and the Policy and Procedures Manual.
(c)    Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall allocate in each of its annual budgets, and make 
available promptly as needed, the counterpart funds required for Project 
implementation.
Page  5
(d)    Prior to incurring expenditures under Part B of the Project with respect 
to any Implementing Agency, the Borrower, through SCI, shall establish implementation 
arrangements with such Implementing Agency for its participation in the execution of 
Part B of the Project under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
(e)    The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with its obligations 
under the Management Services Agreements and the Implementation Arrangements in such a 
manner as to:
(i)
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank;
 
(ii)
comply with its obligations under this Agreement; and
 
(iii)
achieve the objectives of the Project.
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(a)  procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
(b)  Cost-sharing Grants shall be made in accordance with the procedures and on 
the terms and conditions set forth in the Policy and Procedures Manual.
Section 3.03. (a)  The Borrower shall create, and thereafter maintain during the 
execution of the Project, the UAP within SCI with staffing, budget, functions and 
responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)  The Borrower, through SCI, shall ensure that the UAP is, at all times 
during the execution of the Project, headed by a Project coordinator with 
qualifications, experience, functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, 
assisted by qualified staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.04. With regard to the services of the consultants to be hired under 
Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall, through the UAP:
(a)  promptly after the completion of each service, furnish to the Bank a copy 
of the consultants' findings and recommendations;
(b)  afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on such findings and 
recommendations; and
(c)  review and implement the recommendations of such consultants, taking into 
account the Bank's comments thereon. 
Section 3.05.  (a) Not later than November 30, 1996, or such later date as may 
be agreed with the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank, for its 
review and approval, the operational plan for the implementation of the Project during 
the following calendar year, such plan to comprise:
(i)
the main activities to be carried out under the Project during 
that year, including a detailed description of training activities 
for the Implementing Agencies;
(ii)
the objectives, expected results or outputs of such activities;
 
(iii)
the corresponding cost estimates and budgets, including 
counterpart funds; and
(iv)
the timetables for implementation, All in accordance with the 
Policy and Procedures Manual.
(b)    Upon the Bank's approval, the Borrower shall carry out the plan referred 
to in paragraph (a) above in accordance with its terms.
Section 3.06. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section 
9.07 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)    maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Performance Indicators, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
Page  6
(b)    not later than January 31 and July 31 of each year during the execution 
of the Project, furnish to the Bank, for its review and comments, a report on the 
progress achieved in
the execution of the Project of such scope and in such detail as the Bank may 
reasonably request; and
(c)    notwithstanding the generality of the foregoing:
(i)
the report to be furnished by January 31, 1997 shall include an 
assessment of the effectiveness of the Project management 
arrangements;
(ii)
the report to be furnished by July 31, 1997  shall include, in 
addition to the assessment referred to in subparagraph (i) above, 
an assessment of behavioral changes of the Beneficiaries as a 
result of the assistance provided under Part A of the Project and 
an assessment of the progress achieved in the execution of Part B 
of the Project; and
(iii)
the report referred to in Section 9.07 (c) of the General 
Conditions shall include, in addition to the assessments referred 
to in subparagraphs (i) and (ii) above, an impact assessment of 
the improvements in productivity and quality of the Beneficiaries' 
output, and the increase in exports, as a result of the assistance 
provided under Part A of the Project.
Section 3.07.  Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section 
9.01 of the General Conditions, the Borrower, through UAP, shall:
(a)    review, in conjunction with the Bank, the progress achieved by the 
Borrower in the implementation of the Project on the basis of the report referred to 
in Section 3.06 (c) (i) of this Agreement and consider appropriate measures for the 
subsequent implementation of the Project, including adjustments to the terms and 
conditions of the Cost-sharing Grants; and
(b)    as a result of the above review, take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
taking into account the Bank's views on the matter.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Project shall be implemented in accordance with the procedures and on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 6 to this Agreement and in 
the Policy and Procedures Manual.
(b)    The Borrower shall ensure that the Management Services Contractor 
referred to in Section 3.09 (a) of this Agreement will exercise its rights in relation 
to each Cost-sharing Grant Agreement in such a manner as to:
(i)
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank;
 
(ii)
comply with the Borrower's obligations under this Agreement; and
 
(iii)
achieve the purposes of the Project.
 
Section 3.09. (a) With regard to Part A.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall 
retain, at all times until completion of the Project, a contractor with  experience 
and qualifications acceptable to the Bank, under a management services agreement as 
provided in the Policy and Procedures Manual.
(b)    For the purposes of assisting the Borrower in the carrying out of Part 
A.2 of the Project, not later than July 31, 1996, the Borrower shall hire and 
thereafter retain until completion of the implementation of such Part of the Project, 
a contractor with experience and qualifications acceptable to the Bank, under a 
management services agreement containing terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank.
(c)    The Borrower, through the Management Services Contractor referred to in 
paragraph (a) above, shall ensure that all Cost-sharing Grant Agreements are executed 
by the Beneficiaries in accordance with their terms.
Section 3.10. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, and 
Page  7
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)    prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; and 
(b)    afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of 
the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)    The Borrower shall:
             (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                    paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                    for the Special Account, for each Fiscal Year
                    audited, in accordance with appropriate
                    auditing principles consistently applied, by
                    independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
             (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
                    in any case not later than six months after the
                    end of each such Fiscal Year, the report of
                    such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
                    in such detail as the Bank shall have
                    reasonably requested; and
             (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information
                    concerning said records and accounts and
                    the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
                    time to time reasonably request.
(c)    For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain or cause to be retained, until at least one year after the 
Bank has received the audit report for the Fiscal Year in which 
the last withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out of the 
Special Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
Fiscal Year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
Page  8
(a)    the Policy and Procedures Manual, or any provision thereof, shall have 
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived without the prior agreement of 
the Bank; and
(b)     a Management Services Contractor shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations or undertakings under the respective Management Services Agreement and 
such failure shall not have been remedied by said Management Services Contractor, by 
the Borrower, or by any agency of the Borrower or other party designated by the 
Borrower.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely that any event specified in 
paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall 
continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the 
Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a) the Borrower has entered into the Management Services Agreement referred to 
in Section 3.09 (a) of this Agreement; and
(b) the UAP has been established in accordance with the provisions of Section 
3.03 (a) of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date June 25, 1996 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided by Section 2.08 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Economy and Public Works and Services of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
             Ministerio de Economia y Obras
               y Servicios Publicos
             Hipolito Yrigoyen 250
             Buenos Aires
             Argentina
             Cable address:                    
Telex:
 
                    MINISTERIO ECONOMIA        
121942-AR
                    Baires
      For the Bank:
             International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
             1818 H Street, N.W.
             Washington, D.C. 20433
             United States of America
             Cable address:                    
Telex:
 
                    INTBAFRAD                  
248423 (RCA)
                    Washington, D.C.            
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
Page  9
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Buenos Aires, Argentina as of the day and year first above written.
                           ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
                           By /s/ Domingo F. Cavallo
Authorized Representative
                           INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                             RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                           By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                         Amount of the
                         Loan Allocated             % of
                         (Expressed in          Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Cost-sharing
    Grants                $27,000,000          50% of amounts disbursed
(2) Consultants'           $3,300,000          70%
    Services
(3) Management Services
    Contractors' services
    (a) under Part A.1     $5,000,000          70%
        of the Project
    (b) under Part A.2       $700,000          70%
        of the Project
(4) Goods                  $1,800,000          100% of foreign
                                               expenditures; 70% of
                                               local expenditures
(5) Training                 $700,000          70%
         TOTAL             $38,500,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
Page  10
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of 
$2,000,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1) through (5) of the table set 
forth in said paragraph 1 on account of payments made for expenditures before that 
date but after July 1, 1995.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures:
(a)   for goods under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent;
(b)   for the services of consulting firms under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent;
(c)   for the services of individual consultants under contracts costing less 
than $50,000 equivalent; and
(d)   under Category (5) of the table in paragraph 1 hereof, all under such 
terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in: (a) increasing the 
international competitiveness of small and medium enterprises operating in its 
territory; and (b) improving the performance of export-related agencies of the 
Borrower, so as to facilitate export growth. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Enterprise Assistance Program
 
1.
Establishment and operation of a grant scheme, on a cost-sharing basis, to help 
finance expenditures incurred by enterprises in the preparation and execution of 
Export Plans.
2.
Preparation, publication and dissemination of a directory of export support 
services providers worldwide.
Part B:
Institutional Strengthening
 
1.
Provision of technical assistance to ANA, DGI, IASCAV, INAL, INTI, SENASA and 
SDOE aimed at the simplification of procedures so as to reduce the time involved in 
processing import and export orders, and acquisition of the equipment required 
therefor.
2.
Provision of technical assistance to INTI, IRAM and selected private 
laboratories, aimed at improving quality control certification services for exports, 
and acquisition of the equipment required therefor.
3.
Provision of technical assistance to UCPFE, including policy formulation in the 
area of export promotion and acquisition of appropriate equipment.
4.
Provision of technical assistance to Fundacion Exportar with respect to 
commercial promotion activities.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by January 31, 1998.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
                                             Payment of Principal
    Date Payment Due                        (expressed in Dollars)*
Page  11
    On each April 1 and October 1
    beginning April 1, 2001
    through October 1, 2010                         1,925,000
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent Dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
    Time of Prepayment                              Premium
                                       The interest rate (expressed as a
                                       percentage per annum) applicable
                                       to the Loan on the day of
                                       prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                           0.20
    before maturity
More than three years but                           0.40
    not more than six years
    before maturity
More than six years but                             0.73
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity
More than 11 years but not                          0.87
    more than 13 years
    before maturity
More than 13 years before                           1.00
    maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
General
 
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as 
applicable.
Page  12
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Limited International Bidding
 
(a)   Goods estimated to cost more than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 equivalent, or goods which the Bank 
agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of suppliers, regardless of the 
cost thereof, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
(b)   The bidding procedure for computer hardware and software shall be carried 
out in two stages, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.6 of the 
Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
 
Goods estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $600,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Procurement Planning
 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
 
With respect to each contract for goods awarded under Parts B and C.1 (other 
than those costing $100,000 equivalent or less) hereof, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where 
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms 
of reference for such contracts, except as provided in paragraph 4 of this Schedule; 
(b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, 
as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment 
of consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) 
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the 
Page  13
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
3.
To the extent possible, the Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed 
consulting firms in preference to individual consultants for the provision of 
consultants' services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
4.
With regard to the following consultants' services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of Cost-Sharing Grants, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring 
prior Bank review of terms of reference shall only apply to generic terms of 
reference, as described in the Policy and Procedures Manual:
(a)   contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent each; and
(b)   contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost 
less than $50,000 equivalent each.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)   the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)   the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $3,500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$2,500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $7,500,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible 
Expenditures. 
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
Page  14
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the SpecialAccount, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the Eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.
(a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for Eligible 
Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Procedures for and Terms and Conditions of Cost-sharing
Grants
1.
The Borrower shall ensure that the Cost-sharing Grants are awarded on a 
non-discriminatory, first-come first-served basis to any potential Beneficiary which 
submits an application approved by the UAP, all as provided in the Policy and 
Procedures Manual.
2.
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, each Cost-sharing Grant for any Export 
Plan shall:
Page  15
(a)   cover an amount equivalent up to 80% of the first $2,500 equivalent spent 
in identification of export projects and 50% of any additional amount required for the 
preparation and execution of the Export Plans for such projects; and
(b)   not exceed a maximum amount of $75,000 equivalent per Export Plan 
(provided that each such Export Plan involves different markets or products) and 
$125,000 equivalent per Beneficiary.
3.
Cost-sharing Grants shall be made on terms whereby the Management Services 
Contractor referred to in Section 3.09 (a) shall obtain by a written agreement, rights 
adequate to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank, including the rights 
to:
(a)   require the Beneficiary to carry out the Export Plan with due diligence 
and efficiency and in accordance with sound managerial, administrative, foreign trade 
and environmental standards and to maintain adequate records;
(b)   require that:
(i)
the consultants' services to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Cost-sharing Grant shall be procured in accordance with the 
Policy and Procedures Manual, at a reasonable price, account being 
taken on their quality and the competence of the parties rendering 
them; and
(ii)
such services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the 
Export Plan;
(c)   inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank, if the 
Bank shall so request, the progress in the implementation of the Export Plan, and any 
relevant records and
documents;
(d)   obtain all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request relating 
to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial condition of the 
Beneficiary and to the benefits derived from the Export Plan; and
(e)   after consultation with the UAP, suspend or terminate the right of the 
Beneficiary to the use of the proceeds of the Cost-sharing Grant upon failure by the 
Beneficiary to perform its obligations under the Cost-sharing Grant Agreement.
4.
If the Management Services Contractor referred to in Section 3.09 (a) of this 
Agreement shall have determined at any time that any payment made under a Cost-sharing 
Grant was used by the Beneficiary in any manner contrary to the provisions of the 
respective Cost-sharing Grant Agreement, the Beneficiary shall, promptly upon notice 
from such Contractor, refund to said Contractor an amount equal to the amount so used 
or the portion thereof as specified by said Contractor.
