              Document of
            The World Bank




                                        Report No: 26212

  IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
          (IDA-27980; TF-20777)

                 ON A

                CREDIT

    IN THE AMOUNT OF $12.3 MILLION

          TO THE REPUBLIC OF

               UGANDA

                FOR A

PRIVATE SECTOR COMPETITIVENESS PROJECT




              June 26, 2003

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective May 21, 2003)

                              Currency Unit = Uganda Shilling
                                      UGS 1 = US$ .0005754
                                      US$ 1 = UGS 1,738

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                                   July 1 -   June 30

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BUDS    Business Uganda Development Scheme
CAS     Country Assistance Stradegy
DFCU    Development Finance Company of Uganda
DFCUF   Development Finance Company of Uganda Fund
DRS     Depository Receipt System
EAVCF   East Africa Venture Capital Fund
FDI     Foreign Direct Investment
GOU     Government of Uganda
NGO     Non-Governmental Organization
PSCP    Private Sector Competitiveness Project
PSD     Private Sector Development
PSF     Private Sector Foundation
PSFU    The Private Sector Foundation
SMEs    Small and Medium Enterprizes
UEF     Uganda Equity Facility
UIA     Uganda Investment Authority
UMA     Uganda Manufacturers Association
USAID   United States Agency for International Development



                             Vice President:     Callisto E. Madavo
                 Country Manager/Director:       Judy M. O'Connor
                  Sector Manager/Director:       Demba Ba
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          Lucy Fye

                                           UGANDA
                   PRIVATE SECTOR COMPETITIVENESS PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
9. Partner Comments                                                              14
10. Additional Information                                                       15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            26

Project ID: P035634                                                      Project Name: PRIV. SECTOR COMPETI
Team Leader: Lucy Fye                                                    TL Unit: AFTPS
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 26, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: PRIV. SECTOR COMPETI                                     L/C/TF Number: IDA-27980; TF-20777
   Country/Department: UGANDA                                                             Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: General industry and trade sector (53%); Capital markets (33%);
                            Central government administration (14%)
                  Theme: Other financial and private sector development (P); Export
                            development and competitiveness (P); Small and medium enterprise
                            support (S); Regulation and competition policy (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    03/18/1995                                        Effective: 02/14/1996              02/14/1996
   Appraisal:    06/30/1995                                            MTR: 07/12/1999                07/01/1998
    Approval:    12/14/1995                                         Closing: 06/30/2001               12/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOU/PRIVATE SECTOR FOUNDATION
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             Stephen Denning
Country Director:               Judy M. O'Connor                               James W. Adam
Sector Manager:                 Demba Ba                                       Robert H. Hindle
Team Leader at ICR:             Lucy Fye                                       Stefano Migliorisi
ICR Primary Author:             Michael D. Wong


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:HS

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:H

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:HS


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The objective of the project was to make the Ugandan private sector more competitive so that it can expand
sales to both domestic and international markets. To achieve this objective, the project aimed to:

         (a) help improve the business and investment environment by decreasing policy constraints;
         (b) strengthen institutions which provide services to the private sector;
         (c) enhance the dialogue between the private sector and government, and:
         (d) alleviate problems associated with inadequate know-how and the weak financial sector.

The primary objective of the Bank's assistance strategy at the time was and still is to reduce poverty. Over
the project period the main thrust of the Country Assistance Strategy was to accelerate economic growth,
by among other things, promoting private sector investment and reducing administrative barriers for
business creation or business expansion (page 9/31 CAS, May 9, 1995). This project was an essential
component of the World Bank's strategy over the period as it promoted private sector growth.

Over the same period, Uganda embarked upon a process of comprehensive policy and institutional reform,
designed to deregulate the economy, eliminate direct state involvement in all but essential public services
and improve institutional efficiency. This included, among measures, the reduction of import duties and the
removal of quantitative restrictions on imports, with the aim of transforming the protected domestic market
into a competitive market for the Ugandan private sector.

The objective of the PSCP was therefore responsive to the needs of the Government of Uganda to support
the private sector and ease the transition process for the private sector, thus making the adjustment polices
easier for Government to implement. The project objective is clear, precise, relevant and directly connected
to the project objectives which were reflected in outcome indicators. The project documents noted that a
more competitive private sector would capture a higher market share in the domestic market as well as in
international markets. According to a private sector survey in 1994, 88 percent of firms interviewed
perceived competition to have increased, in response to the liberalization of the economy.

To achieve the project objective, the project included four project components, described below. While
building a competitive private sector requires, (i) a wide range of policies and institutional improvements to
create an appropriate business environment and (ii) high quality supply of factor inputs, the project is not
complex and managed to keep the number of components and institutions directly involved to a minimum.
This was achieved by using the private sector as the focal point for policy dialogue with the various
relevant public institutions. The project supported the Private Sector Foundation of Uganda, provided
direct support to private sector businesses to adapt to new market conditions, and relied on the private
sector itself to provide know-how and technology transfer through business linkages by directly supporting
investment promotion. The project therefore kept the number of components to four and the number of
partner institutions directly involved to three.

The project document discusses risks and detailed assumptions which needed to be met to ensure project
outcome. These included:

         (a) the continuation of political and macro-economic stability;
         (b) Government remaining committed to private sector development and willing to discuss policy
         issues with the private sector;
         (c) the acceleration of the privatization process and substantial improvements in the management of



                                                      - 2 -

        major public utilities;
        (d) a substantial improvement in the functioning of the financial sector.

Assumptions were also made for each component, and included: (1) the associations would be able to work
together within one "apex" institution (the PSF) which would be allowed to act as implementing agency; (2)
firms would be open to external advice; (3) there would be sufficient cooperation among donors; (4) there
were a significant number of profitable projects able to attract equity investments; and (5) a reformed
Investment Code is put in place which would permit the UIA to cease its regulatory functions.

In addition to risk factors mentioned above, weaknesses in the institutional capacity of the "apex body", the
PSF, and the Uganda Investment Authority (UIA) constituted additional risks to the project. The UIA had
major capacity constraints. Instead of being a one stop shop, as intended, it was viewed by many investors
as one more institution to deal with. In addition, UIA was also heavily dependent on a single donor,
USAID, for operating costs which were increasing every year. The member associations of the Private
Sector Foundation, the newly established "apex body", were all generally weak institutions, with the
exception of the Uganda Manufacturers Association. Most of these institutions had a small membership
base, unpaid membership contributions, lacked staff and capacity and were severely under funded. For the
PSF to be successful it would have to avoid domination by a single institution and at the same time avoid
the practices of the weaker member institutions. Although not explicitly noted in the SAR, these risks could
be managed with the technical assistance envisaged and with an appropriate supervision of the project.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The project objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The project components were :

a) Shaping the Business Environment: the Private Sector Foundation Component (total cost US$ 2.5
million, of which US$2.0 million funded by IDA)

This component was managed by the Private Sector Foundation (PSF). The Foundation would advise
Government on policy issues affecting private sector development and implement subsequent initiatives. In
its advocacy role, the PSF was to address policy issues such as taxation and other regulations affecting
private sector development, particularly business licensing and access to industrial land, with short-term
assistance. In its second role as the implementing unit, it was to established a management systems to
execute, monitor and supervise as well as evaluate and learn from the project's performance.

b) Enhancing know-how through Markets: the "Business Uganda" Development Scheme (BUDS)
Component (total cost of US$ 7.5 million, of which US$4.5 million funded by IDA).

The BUDS component intended to support capacity building in Ugandan firms. At the core of BUDS is a
cost sharing grant scheme in which Ugandan firms could receive 50 percent of the costs of using
consultants and other service suppliers. Services cover a range of areas, including marketing, production
and business planning. In addition to the grants, BUDS was to provide free advice to firms on the basics of
business planning; identifying which services are required; the process of selecting a service supplier; and
obtaining the best services from the supplier.

c) Enhancing Know-how through Financial Partners: the Equity Financing Component (total cost of



                                                    - 3 -

US$ 9.0 million, of which US$3.9 million funded by IDA).

The Uganda Equity Facility intended to provide equity resources under a management contract to
participating equity funds, that mobilize resources from private investors and/or reach small and medium
sized enterprises. To become a participating equity fund, strict eligibility criteria were to be met, including
the fund being economically viable with a sound financial structure, having a reputable management with a
demonstrated track record, and a well-defined investment policy and strategy. This project component also
funded the provision of advice to improve the overall environment for equity financing. In particular, as
investors needed to exit their investments, technical assistance and policy advice was also expected to assist
in the establishment of a Depository Receipts System (DRS) on a regional stock market for the exclusive
purpose of increasing exit options for equity investors in Ugandan Companies.

d) Enhancing Know-how through Industrial Partners: the Investment Promotion and Facilitation
Component (component total cost of US$ 1.9 million all of which was funded by IDA).

This component focused on the promotion and facilitation of private investment. The UIA should promote
and facilitate private sector investment in collaboration with an experienced international contractor.
Facilitation services include practical assistance, such as advice to investors on the start-up (e.g.,
regulations and local market conditions) of projects in power, telecommunications and other utilities.
Promotional services should be provided in collaboration with international consultants and include
informational publications, guides and meetings with potential investors (individually and in groups)
overseas and in Uganda.


The project components are clearly linked to the development objective. Increased sales for firms in highly
competitive markets depends on three factors: the operating environment; firm level competitiveness; and
international best practice.

The operating environment: Firms operating in protected markets can easily mitigate inefficiencies in the
operating environment, i.e. corruption, red tape, outdated regulation, by charging higher prices to
consumers. However, in a liberalized market, domestic firms are less able to pass inefficiencies on to
consumers. A different quality of operating environment is therefore required which is created as a result of
a consultative process between the Government and the private sector supported by the project through its
assistance to the Private Sector Foundation.

Firm level competitiveness: Faced with increased competition or changing markets and consumer
preferences, firm level competitiveness will depend on the firm's ability to adapt quickly and to increase
productivity by improving management, skills, etc. The quality of supply from other firms, and the quality
and consistency of inputs, technical support, services, etc will also determine a firm's ability to face
competition. The investment promotion compoent address these needs.

International best practice: Increasing foreign direct investment is directly related to increasing sales,
however there is also an added value by raising the quality and standards of the business culture. Business
practice, the sharing of knowledge in the areas of markets, technology and training of workers, and so
forth, are all spin offs from increased foreign investment that raise the standards of local businesses. The
BUDS and the equity components addressed these needs.

3.4 Revised Components:




                                                     - 4 -

The Equity Fund Component was closed and US$3.9 million allocated to it were cancelled in 1999. The
component required participation from other multilateral financial institutions (US$4 million) and financing
from the private sector (US$1 million) which was not forthcoming (appraisal figures for donor and private
sector contributions). Reasons for the cancellation are discussed in section 4.2 below.


3.5 Quality at Entry:

Quality at entry is rated satisfactory. The project was based on a participatory design approach with the
beneficiaries. It was consistent with both the CAS objectives and the Government of Uganda's overall
policy objectives of creating a liberal market and competitive environment. The CAS objectives and
Government policy are discussed above.

The quality of the design of the project was strengthened by (i) increasing the breadth of the stakeholder
participation with the inclusion of a broad representation of beneficiaries; (ii) increasing the depth of
participation using direct and active involvement methods and a representative beneficiary/borrower/Bank
task Force; and (iii) making stakeholder participation routine and systematic throughout the preparation
and appraisal process as well as building it into implementation and evaluation. The implementation
arrangements were adequate and the weaknesses identified in the implementing institutions addressed
through technical assistance.

Involvement of the Ugandan beneficiaries and counterparts in all aspects of the project processing was an
integral part of the design work. The process started with an identification mission, after which a project
design workshop was held. Over 80 participants from the private sector, the public sector, and the donor
community worked on the project design. A Private Sector Task Force, comprising of five private sector
representatives and four government officials, was designated to work with IDA in project preparation and
appraisal. The task force was supported by consultants and the Bank team. Using the results of the
identification mission as basic guidelines, the task force refined the elements and developed a
comprehensive strategy, refining and adding components.

Project documents spell out an action plan for the project with clear indicators, and although the logical
framework approach had not been introduced in the Bank project documents describe project inputs and
outputs. The project predates the introduction of the Quality Assurance Group and the quality at entry was
not assessed by the Bank.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

Overall, the project is rated satisfactory. The project exceeded all expected outcomes in the key activities, it
is sustainable, and the implementation process was genuinely private sector driven. In terms of impact,
growth in sales and foreign direct investment (FDI) remained at relatively high levels even after the project
period, despite the recent slump in world market prices for Uganda's major export crop coffee.

The purpose of the project was to make the Uganda private sector more competitive so that it could
increase its level of investment, generate higher rates of return and expand sales on both domestic and
international markets. Over the project period, FDI grew from US$43 million in 92/93 to US$247 million
in 00/01. The larger share of FDI, 56 percent in 1999 and 53 percent in 2000 was in the manufacturing
sectors of foods and beverages (33 percent) and agro industry (12 percent). Consistent with the FDI inflow



                                                      - 5 -

increase, the overall per capita GDP growth increased by 6 percent. An analysis carried out in connection
with the ICR assessment of the investment promotion work, discussed below, shows that project activities
had a direct effect on increased investment in the period under consideration. In addition, an impact
assessment carried out by independent consultants in 2001 confirmed sales increases of all beneficiary
firms of up to 90 percent, with firms only indirectly benefiting from the project components increasing
growth of sales by 50 percent. Although the project outcome benefited substantially from high world
market prices in coffee over the period, the recent slump in coffees prices in 2002/3 has not caused a
substantial reduction in sales. This is mainly due to substantive increases in investment in other sectors
such as fish and floriculture over the last five years.

In addition, the project was implemented as planned. The Government of Uganda borrowed funds from
IDA and made a grant to the Private Sector Foundation (PSF) for disbursement to the four components of
the project (the PSF changed its name to the Private Sector Foundation Uganda, PSFU, in 2001, and this
name is used throughout this report). The PSF was to implement the project for the Government of Uganda
The PSF would report to a project steering committee consisting of three members of the PSFU Board and
two Government representatives. The project was implemented under the responsibility of the private sector
without interference from the public sector.

4.2 Outputs by components:

The Private Sector Foundation Uganda (PSFU)

The PSFU component, had four basic objectives: a) to serve as the focus for the Ugandan private sector in
advocating to promote its long-term development; b) to build on, and strengthen, the existing dialogue
between the government and the private sector; c) to take responsibility for the implementation of the
Private Sector Competitiveness Project, on behalf of the Government of Uganda; and d) to coordinate
related efforts and initiatives, including those supported by donors, for private sector development. The
criteria and indicators to assess the performance of the component were well designed; these include
position papers, policy actions implemented and policy advocacy. Despite important accomplishments, the
component is rated unsatisfactory because the PSFU was unable to meet its self-sufficiency target, which
was a reasonable objective.

The PSFU conducted over 26 studies over the project period, it is participating in 24 different coordination
meetings (held quarterly and annually); published 27 different position papers, and participated in 37
different lobbying issues of which approximately 19 were implemented. The meetings cover areas
suggested in the SAR: the legal and regulatory environment for private investment; investment and export
promotion; business entry and it procedures; tax policies; efficient and competitive delivery of public
services; and land policies. The PSFU is also consulted by the Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic
Development in preparing the annual budget.

While the PSFU has performed well on the whole, and in particular has been effective in delivering the
studies and participating in meetings, the organization needs to address several issues to ensure a
sustainable role in the future and ultimately the sustainability of the PSFU. These include:

-The lack of a strategic framework to enable the PSFU to prioritize its work and make more effective use of
its limited resources. The PSFU appears not to have a coherent strategy, which results in a lack of
prioritization and subsequently, the process of allocating resources is not in tune with the strategic direction
of the PSF. For example, the PSFU current has only three professional staff. While the PSF has used these
staff members to participate in numerous coordinating meetings, the number of position papers since 2000



                                                      - 6 -

have declined. In 2000 the PSFU prepared over 13 position papers, while four papers were prepared in
2001 and six in 2002. This suggests that the PSFU is not driving much of the private sector agenda. A
tighter strategic framework would enable the PSFU to allocate the three professional staff members to
priority work.

-Private sector versus public sector focus. The list of regular meetings presented by PSFU suggests that
there are few coordinating meetings between the various bodies of the private sector. The value of the
PSFU as a vehicle for consultations and discussions between different groups (for instance, meetings of
trader and farmer organizations) is not fully utilized by the member associations. At the same time, both the
Government and the donor community appreciate the PSFU's role as a private sector representative body
and seek its advise. Given the PSFU close interactions with Government and the donor community there is
a risk that the PSFU agenda will be driven by concerns of the Government and the donors.

-The financial sustainability of the PFSU. The private sector organizations committed to funding 100
percent of the non-project related operating expenses as noted in the SAR and the project implementation
plan. These were defined as all operating costs excluding the Executive Director and one project officer.
Based on financial information provided by the PSFU team management and the agreed definition, only 45
percent of the PSFU operating expenses are covered by income. If grants and project income are not
considered, only 5 percent of the organization expenses are covered by the member associations.

Further analysis of membership contributions suggests that the actual membership contribution has gone
down by 30 percent since 1995/96. An attempt to address the sustainability of the organization was made
by extending memberships to individual corporations as full members. However financially promising this
may seem, extending the role of corporations from sponsorship to full membership may raise questions of
the legitimacy of the PSFU as an apex institution based on associations. Achieving full sustainability will
be difficult; in fact only one of its member organizations, the Uganda Manufacturers Association, is a
sustainable membership association, covering most of its costs from various income activities independent
of Government and Donors. The PSFU as a fairly young institution needs to develop a well-targeted and
structured approach to be able to create a financial base independent of Government and Donors.

The Business Uganda Development Scheme (BUDS) Component

The component is rated highly satisfactory. The aim of this component was to generate a higher level of
firm level output compared with pre-project growth rates, and in comparison with growth rates of other
firms in the sector. The first output target was to achieve at least US$15 of extra output from US$1 of
consultancy services, compared to other firms' growth in the sector. The second output was to give firms a
"persuasive experience", so that when surveyed, 50 percent would be willing to utilize similar services.
Although the indicators are clear and would measure performance and achievement of output,
implementing and measuring the indicator is difficult because of the reluctance of firms to give accurate
sales data over an exact time period and second, given the small private sector in Uganda and the
popularity of the scheme, very few good firms were not included in the scheme. However, the scheme has
clearly surpassed all targets reaching 538 companies (compared to the appraisal estimate of 300), and
according to an impact survey, sales growth has been 40 percent higher than that of firms outside the
scheme. A visit to some companies during the ICR mission confirms the success as noted in the survey.
Following the scheme's successful implementation, the European Union continued to fund this component
since its completion in 2001.

An impact analysis conducted by Uganda Manufacturers Association concluded furthermore a total of
thirty five (58 percent) respondents acknowledged BUDS' intervention as a significant factor which


                                                      - 7 -

contributed to an increase in sales of their firms. This surpasses the minimum requirement in the manual of
50 percent. A Case Study of a firm funded under the BUDS program is given in Annex 8.

Some 58 percent of beneficiary firms registered significant improvement in their market knowledge and 47
percent confirmed that employee skills had been improved as a result of the activities supported by BUDS.
Another area of activity that has benefited greatly from BUDS funding is improved management systems,
with 42 percent of the respondents signaling their satisfaction with the improvement to their management
systems, resulting from activities undertaken with BUDS assistance. About 52 percent of the respondents
in the sample survey reported that the activity undertaken would not have been possible without the
assistance from BUDS.

Even for the twenty eight (47 percent) respondents who said, "yes" to undertaking the activity without
BUDS support, 46 percent of these admitted that they would not have done so on the same scale without
support. In addition, 54 percent of the same group acknowledged that they would not have carried out the
activity within the same timeframe if they had not accessed support, while 57 percent indicated that the
quality of the activity undertaken would have been compromised if the Scheme was not operational.

BUDS therefore not only helped firms with limited budgets grow, but also helped firms realize their
objectives sooner. Fifty-eight (97 percent) out of the sixty respondents in the surveyed sample reported that
they had acquired new knowledge/expertise as a result of the activities undertaken with BUDS assistance
and that it will have a lasting effect on their businesses. These figures surpass the minimum requirement of
66.7 percent by a margin of 20 percent.

On the requirement that at least two thirds of the clients surveyed should report a willingness to pay full the
price for similar services in the absence of BUDS, the sample has revealed that 65 percent of clients would
be prepared to do that. The figure falls short of the minimal requirement by just 1.7 percent but still
vindicates the Scheme's long-term objective of creating a dynamic and sustainable business community
through acquisition of know-how and expertise

An overwhelming 85 percent of the respondents in the survey said they were satisfied with BUDS's
performance as a cost-sharing organization. The minimum requirement in the manual of a two-thirds
approval was surpassed by 18.3 percent. The status as reflected in the initial two reports was 89.7 percent
and 80 percent respectively.

The Equity Fund Component

The purpose of the equity finance component was to increase Ugandan firms access to capital, with
particular focus on SMEs. This would be achieved by: a) providing additional resources for equity
financing; b) establishing an environment conducive to equity financing; and c) promoting greater
appreciation among Ugandan firms of the advantages and disadvantages of equity finance.

The measurable indicators for the component were: a) to channel US$2.5 into equity investments of
Ugandan companies after three years; b) to attract US$1 million of private sector investment into the fund;
and c) to generate a total of US$10 million investment in Ugandan enterprises after five years.

This component intended to establish the Ugandan Equity Fund (UEF) with US$2.5 million. The UEF
would participate in two separate equity funds, the East Africa Venture Capital Fund (EAVCF) and the
Development Finance Company of Uganda Fund (DFCUF). Participation in the EAVCF was contingent on
its ability to mobilize twice as much from the private sector. The UEF planned to provide US$1 of private


                                                      - 8 -

investment for every US$2 mobilized by the private sector. Total allocation for the EAVCF was planned at
US$0.5.     The promoters of EAVCF (the International Finance Corporation, IFC and the Industrial
Promotion Services, the Aga Khan Group IPS) expected it to invest approximately a third of its resources
in Uganda enterprises, so that a dollar of UEF resources would be translated into a dollar of additional
equity investment. Participation in the DFCUF was contingent on mobilizing twice as much from additional
resources. The DFCUF was intended to invest mainly in small and medium size Ugandan firms. The total
capitalization of the fund was to have been US$6.0 million with US$2 million provided by the project sub
component. The difference between EAVCF and DFCUF was that while matching financing for EAVCF
would come from the private sector, international organizations would provide the matching funds for the
DFCUF. Both the IFC and the DFCU were committed to establishing the funds, although no progress was
made over the first years leading to the closure of the project component .

The cause for not establishing the planned equity funds appear to be primarily due to the lack of
appropriate demand. Following discussions with the private sector, the team was informed that the already
established equity capital fund DFCU had difficulty establishing a performing portfolio. Furthermore,
discussions with the private sector suggest that the lack of equity finance capacity during implementation,
constraints in private sector environment and insufficient adaptation of the equity finance methodology
resulted in the component not being implemented. In addition, the equity finance component and its
approach and methodology, were not fully understood by the PSFU's staff and Steering Committee. .

After the decision was made to close the equity fund program, consideration was given to improving the
equity and investment framework, by identifying and removing regulatory constraints and providing
training on equity financing for this sector. However,         these measures were never implemented, as
beneficiaries did not believe the program would lead to satisfactory reforms.

The Ugandan Investment Authority.

The objective of this component was to increase competitiveness by securing an increased flow of
investment, mainly foreign, to Uganda. The expected impact indicator was clear and precise: for every
US$1 spent on promotion activities, US$10 of investments was expected to be generated. The expected
impact was to be achieved by delivering a series of outputs in: (a) market research and marketing; (b) the
design of marketing strategy, promotional material and advertising; (c) investor lobbying; and (d) investor
aftercare and policy advice.

A broad range of activities were carried out, as described below.

-market research and marketing services: more than nine reports (target ­ minimum six) were completed
and data base of target companies complied. Investment trends were conducted on country basis for nine
countries.
-marketing and advertising:       10,000 investment brochures (target - over 7000) were produced and
distributed, 7000 investors guide produced (target - over 2,000), 3800 sector profiles produced (target ­
over 2,400), and over 10 advertisements run in selected business journal and magazines.
- investment lobbying: over missions in five regions were conducted, and over 360 potential investors met
to discuss opportunities in Uganda (target ­ over 150), over 30 leads established, assistance was provided
to over 30 visiting investors (in bound missions) and 107 projects launched (target - over six).
- investment aftercare: 478 investors were contacted (target over 150) either by phone or in person and
investment after care offered to 500 investors (target over 150 investors).

The project surpassed both its expected outputs. Over the project period, investments of US$ 2,486 million,


                                                     - 9 -

generating 57,760 jobs were registered with the Ugandan Investment Authority. Although the impact
indicator is clear, due to the reluctance of companies to give accurate investment figures, the achievement
of US$10 for every US$1 dollar can only be estimated. Using only the projects implemented to date, at 10
percent of the projects listed with UIA, US$521 was generated by every US$1 spent on investment
promotion. To validate UIA's contribution, the correlation between actions and actual investments listed
was assessed. The detailed analysis confirms that the regions visited and the inward missions carried out
were closely linked to the investors and their origin.

The component achieved most of the results discussed above late in the project period. First, the UIA had to
be restructured to fulfill its investment promotion mission, and second the planned implementation of
activities with a large international consultancy company was not pursued. At the start of the project, the
UIA had become involved in many activities not directly relating to its core function. Between 1991 and
1998, UIA's staff complement grew from 20 to 54 in 1998, its operating budget grew from grew from
Ush522 million in 1991/92 to Ush3.62 billion and the staff budget increased from 31 percent of the total
budget to 73 percent. This expansion coincided with the elimination of the compulsory registration of
investment which was the staff-intensive activity of the UIA. With the appointment of a new chairman of
the UIA Board and subsequently a new executive director in 1999, UIA put in place an action plan aimed
at improving its efficiency by refocusing its activities on its core functions. The measures which included
a reduction in the number of departments from eight to five, and reduction in staff from 54 to 31, creating
a larger non-staff operating budget, resulted in increases in productivity (32 percent of additional staff
time). In addition, the UIA set itself targets well above those planned in the project (225 projects and
US$400 million per year), which were achieved in 2002.

Given the difficulties in recruiting a large consultancy company to conduct investment promotion over the
three years remaining in the project and at the target level planned, the UIA decided, in consultation with
the Bank, to work with country-based investment promotion consultants. After testing the approach in two
countries, this approach has subsequently been implemented in nine other countries. The component
therefore not only achieved the planned objective but also contributed to institutional strengthening of UIA.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

The economic analysis of this type of project is difficult to calculate, as project actions are not directly
related to benefits. Despite these difficulties, an attempt was made by the project design team to quantify
the net benefits of the project. The analysis according to the SAR suggests that a NPV of US$ 7.8 million
(economic rate of return, ERR, 23 percent). While this ICR will not recalculate the NPV it compares
planned outputs with the actual outputs achieved under the project, under which the NPV value of US$ 7.8
million is based. The BUDS component's NPV would fall to zero, if the US$1 injection created only
US$7.5. The impact assessment and firms visited suggest that the target of US$15 of additional output for
US$1 was achieved, surpassing the projected NPV projections. The BUDS component contribution to the
overall NPV was set at 50 percent.

The Equity Facility was never implemented and the budget allocated for this component was also canceled.
The Equity component was set to contribute 20 percent to the overall NPV. The UIA component's NPV
would also fall to zero if only US$7.5 of additional investment was generated from US$1 promotion.
According to the project assessment US$521was generated from US$1. The overall contribution to the
overall NPV estimate is 25 percent. The net benefit for the PSFU was also set at minus US$1.5 million.
Given that the costs for those components implemented spent less (5 percent-10 percent) than budgeted,
and they contribute 75 percent of the NPV calculated, it is safe to say that the project has contributed well



                                                       - 10 -

over 75 percent, (4.85 US million, 23 percent ERR) of the NPV estimate.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The project contributed to the strengthening of key institutions, as described elsewhere in this report. With
activities associated with the project, the Uganda Investment Authority has become an effective promotion
agency and a model in Africa. Despite its limitations, the Private Sector Foundation is among the most
dynamic in Africa, and has contributed considerably in the design of reforms in support of the private
sector. Unlike similar institutions in the Region, the PSFU has developed the capability to administer
support programs for the private sector, understands the need for self-sufficiency and has recovered some
costs, albeit less than had been hoped for at appraisal.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

The major factor contributing to the success of the project is no doubt the boom in international coffee
prices. The liberalization of the coffee market in Uganda, allowing farmers to receive cash for their
produce, increased disposable income at very low income household levels. This increased consumption in
market segments particularly supplied by Ugandan enterprises (beverage, basic foods, etc). A major
negative impact on investors' perception of the region was the continuing conflict in the Northern parts of
Uganda, the crisis in Rwanda and the subsequent crisis in eastern Congo. Uganda's past and the volatile
security in region made it difficult to attract new investors to the region.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Two major factors within government control, affected the project outcome. These were the continuation
of policy reforms and commitment to a private sector-led implementation.

The Government continued its policy and institutional reform program, designed to deregulate the economy,
eliminate direct state involvement in all but essential public services and improve institutional efficiency.
The Government also maintained sound macro-economic policies, by staying within the expenditure
framework which contributed significantly to investor confidence. In addition, the Government maintained
its commitment to allow the private sector to lead the implementation of the project which contributed to
strengthening the government-private sector relations and helped ensure that the policies adopted were
conducive to private investment.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

The Governance bodies of the PSFU and the UIA were committed into achieving a successful outcome and
to make their respective management accountable for implementation of the project.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The total project cost is estimated at US$11.56 million or 55 percent of the appraisal estimate of US$20.93



                                                      - 11 -

million. The difference is explained principally by the cancellation of the Equity Financing Component,
which had an estimated cost at appraisal of US$8.99 million. IDA financing amounted to US$8.03 million,
or 69 percent of project costs compared to the appraisal estimate of US$ 12.3 million or 59 percent of
project costs.    The difference is accounted principally by the cancellation of the Equity Finance
Component, which included substantial financing from other donors and the private sector and where IDA
was to have financed US$3.9 million or 43 percent of component costs. Costs of the Private Sector
Foundation Component were some 27 percent higher than the appraisal estimate, while the Investment
Promotion Services were only 42 percent of costs, in part because activities under the component started
late during project implementation and the promotion work was carried out by consultants in the target
countries rather than by a firm.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The sustainability of the project is rated highly likely. As stated before, the project exceeded all its expected
outcomes in the components that were implemented. In terms of impact, growth in sales and foreign direct
investment (FDI) remained at relatively high levels even after the project period, despite the recent slump in
world market prices for Uganda's major export crop, coffee. Over the project period, FDI grew from
US$43 million in 92/93 to US$ 247 million in 00/01, FDI has remained at high levels after the project
closed in 2002. Consistent with the FDI inflow increase, the overall per capita GDP growth (6 percent)
remains high.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

No arrangements were made to continue project activities as these should be fully supported by the private
sector in the case of the PSFU and by the budget in the case of the UIA. In the case of BUDS, this
component was planned with a sunset clause which was intended to end after the project. However, given
its success and its popularity with private sector companies, other donors have been willing to continue
funding the program. In the case of PSFU further support should be considered, as the organization is still
growing and can still contribute substantially to private sector dialogue. Again the EU is considering a
support to the PSFU. The UIA is been funded by the government budget however with additional funding a
higher level of performance could be achieved without increasing the staff levels.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The Bank's performance in identification, preparation and appraisal of the project was satisfactory. Project
design supported the government's development strategy and the Bank assistance strategy for Uganda. The
design team developed and implemented an elaborate consultation process with stakeholders which is a
distinctive feature of the project and contributed significantly to implementation and the ultimate success of
the project. The quality of the design was thus strengthened by (i) increasing the breadth of the stakeholder
participation with the inclusion of a broad representation of beneficiaries and using consultative methods
which ensured broad representation, including a task force consisting of representatives of the beneficiaries,
the Government and the Bank; and (ii) making stakeholder participation routine and systematic throughout
the preparation and appraisal process as well as building it into implementation and evaluation.
Involvement of the Ugandan beneficiaries and counterparts in all aspects of the project processing was an



                                                      - 12 -

integral part of the design work. The appraisal contains an action plan and progress indicators as well as a
discussion of expected inputs and outputs, even though the project predates the introduction of the logical
framework approach in Bank projects. The Project Implementation Plan, prepared in parallel with the
appraisal report is comprehensive and includes a detailed description and justification of components.

7.2 Supervision:

The Bank's supervision is rated satisfactory. Although the task team leader changed four times, a
graduation process whereby TTLs were previous team members of the project supervision ensured a
smooth project implementation. Senior headquarters staff assigned to the field assisted in supervision,
which increased the follow up and technical support that the Bank could provide. The team was also
flexible and allowed changes in the planned implementation process in agreement with the implementing
agency. This benefited the UIA component substantially which had no implementation progress to show in
the first two years. The BUDS scheme although implemented by consultants benefited from the Bank's
supervision. The team coordinated with bilateral donors after each mission and briefed the donors. This
helped ensure a coordinated and more effective donor support to the private sector. In retrospect, Bank
staff could have been more insistent on the need for PSFU sustainability.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

The Bank's overall performance was satisfactory. In lending activities, comprehensive teams were fielded
with many members maintained throughout supervision. Supervision missions included the required
expertise, local staff and bilateral donors. The supervision team contributed substantially in developing the
PSFU as leading agency for private sector dialogue with donors. It also contributed to linking specific
project activities, to other donor (i.e BUDS with the EU). However, the team's focus on the PSFU more as
an implementing agency, was not helpful for the building PSFU as an institution.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The Borrower's performance in lending is assessed as satisfactory. There was close cooperation at the time
of preparation between the Government, the Bank and the private sector. The Government provided the
private sector with the opportunity to design the project with limited Government influence.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

The Government implementation is satisfactory as it did not interfere with implementation of the project by
the private sector. The necessary supervision was provided when needed. Although funding was provided
by the Government, the PSFU and the issues raised by them were considered and some cases implemented.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The performance of the implementing agencies, the Private Sector Foundation of Uganda and the Uganda
Investment Authority was satisfactory, although delays occurred towards the end due to the appointment of
new executive director who needed time to understand the operational process. Agreed studies were not
always implemented according to plan and on time. However, goods and services were always procured
according to procurement procedures and eligibility criteria as set forth in the legal documents. Project
financial management and reporting was satisfactory. Project accounting was adequate and audits were
generally unqualified. Project account audits as well as the audits of the PSFU were produced on time.




                                                    - 13 -

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

The borrower performance is rated satisfactory, due to its commitment to
implement policies based on issues and constraints raised by the private
sector. The borrower implemented a series of policies in consultation with
the PSFU and based on the analysis provided by the project. The
borrower continues, after the project, to consult with the main
components of the project.

8. Lessons Learned

The key lessons learnt are the participatory process, private sector implementation and donor collaboration,
as discussed below.

The participatory approach for organizing the preparation and appraisal the project holds promise for
broader application. The project provides evidence that under certain conditions, participation can have
valuable development benefits. These benefits take the form of improved project design, early and
sustainable beneficiary commitment and involvement, improved trust among the different parties.

Private sector projects, implemented by the private sector under joint supervision with Government appear
to benefit the implementation process. Project activities were generally implemented on time, procedures
were followed and staff changes were implemented quickly and without major delays to the project. The
issues raised, discussed or implemented were based on broad consultation and ownership of the private
sector.

The project consulted and coordinated with all donors during project design, implementation and in the
review process. This contributed to a harmonization of donor funding and joint or continued funding of
some activities.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

The Government prepared an Implementation Compeltion report, the main conclusions of this
report are summarized below.

The project objective was clear, realistic and important for the development of the private sector
and the country. Besides, it clearly responded to the country's circumstances and development
priorities on private sector development and following privatization. All components were
reasonably related to the objective set forth. However, being the first of its kind in Uganda, there
were no lessons to learn from and some short fall during design could not be avoided. The overall
project performance is rated satisfactory because it achieved three objectives of the implemented
components. the equity component of the project was not implemented.

The BUDS component was rated highly satisfactory. The scheme supported 695 commercial
firms, and close to US$ 2.8 million was disbursed to firms. Annual sales return of US$ 5.6 was
achieved for every dollar support spent on consultancy. The UIA undertook marketing of
Uganda's competitive advantage as a viable investment destination, investment promotion
activities, publicity materials, and carried out market research. The UIA component was therefore


                                                    - 14 -

rated highly satisfactory. The PSFU is rated as highly satisfactory in serving as the focal point for
a regular and structured dialogue between the public and private sector on polices and
regulations, which affect private investments. The key lessons learnt: (i) consultation and
participatory process in designing PSCP led to high commitment of different stakeholders (ii)
sustainability of organizations beyond the project life should be emphasized right from the
beginning and (iii) maintaining coordination amongst development partners is necessary.

The Government has indicated that it concures with the ratings of the project in the ICR prepared
by the Bank (letter of June 19,2003).

(b) Cofinanciers:

The Government of Austria contributed US$0.2 million to the BUDS matching grant program and has
indicated that it is satisfied with its outcome. It has noted that it would like the PSFU to offer something to
its members that they can only obtain through membership. It has noted that the PSFU is not seen as
visible enough.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

The private sector has indicated that it is very satisfied with the BUDS program (see section 4.2 for results
of beneficiary surveys) but would like the PSFU to be more aggressive in representing private sector
interests.

10. Additional Information


                                          A BUDS SUCCESS STORY
                               SAMEG CHEMICAL PRODUCTS LIMITED

Sameg Chemical Products is a sole proprietorship that started its operations in 1990 and is owned by Mr.
and Mrs. Sam Rugambwa. The business is located on plot 35/37 Bukassa Road, Namuwongo ­ Kampala
and employs 5 permanent staff. Over a period of 10 years, Sameg Chemical Products has initiated,
nurtured and consolidated its manufacturing role of detergents, shampoos, bleaches and cosmetics with
much success on the domestic market. The firm has registered over 70 million Ugandan shillings in sales
for 2001/2002 and projects sales of over 80 million Ugandan shillings in the subsequent year.

SAMEG CHEMICAL PRODUCTS AS A BUDS BENEFICIARY

Between 1998 and 2001, Sameg Chemical Products undertook and completed 6 activities with the
assistance of the Business Uganda Development Scheme (BUDS). The Scheme provided a total of US.$
13,997 as cost-sharing grants to Sameg Chemical Products Limited. The following are the activities that
BUDS part funded:

·        Domestic Marketing and sales Promotion - exhibition and launch of new product in 1998. BUDS
reimbursed $ 2,574 (50 percent) for the activity
·        Financial Management Systems - design and installation in February 1999. BUDS reimbursed $
1,840 (50 percent) for the activity
·        International Marketing & Sales Promotion ­ targeting exports to Tanzania in June 1999. The
Scheme reimbursed $ 1,844 (50 percent) for the activity
·        Launching of new product at the Uganda International Trade Fair '99 ­ Lugogo in October 1999.



                                                      - 15 -

Sameg Chemical Products was reimbursed $ 1,710 (50 percent) by             BUDS
·        Domestic Marketing & Sales Promotion - Launching of Mbarara branch outlet and introduction of
new product in April 2000. Sameg Chemical Product was              reimbursed $1,334 (50 percent) for the
activity.
·        Management systems ­ designing and developing new products and training in November 2000.
BUDS reimbursed $ 4,695 (50 percent) for the activity

Ten years after it was established, Sameg Chemical Products has surprised even its founders. It has grown
from obscurity to become one of the leading local producers of liquid detergents. Initially the company
started by producing detergent only, but after six years they launched two more products (shampoo and
bleach). Currently Sameg Chemical Products is manufacturing a range of products including Jireh Bleach,
Jireh Liquid Detergent, Egg Shampoo, Pearlised Shampoo, Herbal Shampoo and Petroleum Jelly. The
company has made a name for itself in the manufacturing circles. SAMEG Chemical products has won
several awards: it has been recognized by the Uganda Manufacturer's Association for its quality products,
and the company also won a trophy as the best chemical exhibitor in 1999 and a certificate of recognition
in 2002.




                                                    - 16 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                 1
               Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
Increase private sector competitiveness so                                                   Foreign Direct investment expanded six-fold
that it can expand domestic and international                                                during project implementation. Expanded
sales.                                                                                       investments related to project actions.
                                                                                             Expansion of investment linked to growth
                                                                                             during the period.
                                                                                             Project beneficiaries expanded sales
                                                                                             substantially




Output Indicators:
                                                                                 1
               Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Private Sector Foundation (PSF)                                                           Ongoing successfully. PSFU participates in
Component:                                                                                   discussions on policy reform with
1 (a) providing GOU/donors with private                                                      Government and comments on budget.
sector views on key PSD issues/projects and
most of its core recommendations are
accepted (by end of project);
1 (b) timely project start (February 1996)
1 (c) PSFU financially self-sufficient
(December 2000); ensuring that work plans,                                                   Done
project reviews and audits are received in
time (each year).                                                                            PSFU can finance only partial of its current
                                                                                             cost, estimated at 50%. Endowment Fund to
                                                                                             assist in resolving self-financing problems
                                              PSF financially self sufficient.               not yet established. PSFU prepares and
                                                                                             submit annual work plans, quarterly reports
                                                                                             and audit reports on time.


2. Business Uganda Development Scheme         300 firms receive services and output          538 firms and organizations have been
(BUDS) Component.:                            increase by $15 over a five year period for    reached of which 60% were from Kampala
300 firms receive services and their output   every dollar spent in consulting services      and 40% from outside Kampala. Enterprises
increase by US$15 over a five-year period for                                                managed by women accounted for 16% of all
every dollar spent in consulting services                                                    BUDS clients versus target of 20%.
(from the year after receiving assistance and                                                Performance indicators achieved except for
lasting for a decade)                                                                        one.
3. Uganda Equity Finance (UEF)                Uganda Equity Fund is established and          Component cancelled. Neither the capacity
Component:                                    operational                                    building program nor the equity fund was
3 (a) US$7.5 million invested in Uganda firms                                                implemented.
by equity funds supported by the facility (by                                                Not Done.
end of 1997);
3 (b) US$1.0 million of private investors'
resources mobilized by equity funds
supported by the facility (by end of 1997).


4. Uganda Investment Authority (UIA)          Additional investment of at least $10 for every
Component:                                    $1 spent on investment promotion.
4 (a) US$10 of additional investment for
every dollar spent by the UIA on investment   At least 150 investors contacted. At least 150
promotion and facilitation (with a one-year   investors receive aftercare                    About $830 million has been invested as a
lag. Investments will have an average life of                                                result of project intervention and only $0.7
10 years);                                                                                   million was spent. Therefore, $1,000 invested
4 (b) good quality promotional materials                                                     per $1 spent by project.
produced in time (each year)                                                                 Done. Web site updated, promotional
 4 (c) over 150 investors in specific sector                                                 material available and promotional campaign
contacted (by end of 1999); investors'                                                       is completed.
aftercare offered to 150 investors (by end of                                                Over 1,800 contacted investors, of which 500
1999).                                                                                       received aftercare through site visits.




                                                                 - 17 -

1End of project




                   - 18 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                           Appraisal    Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                           Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                      Component                           US$ million   US$ million
Private Sector Foundation                                    2.50             4.00             160
Business Uganda Development Scheme                           7.56             6.44            85.2
Equity Financing Component                                   8.99             0.75             8.3
Investment Promotion & Facilitation Services                 1.88             0.71            37.8

Total Baseline Cost                                         20.93           11.90
 Price Contingencies                                         0.00                             56.9
                        Total Project Costs                 20.93           11.90
                          Interest during construction
                                        Front-end fee
                  Total Financing Required                  20.93           11.90


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                                Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB              NCB               2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                                Other
1. Works                           0.00             0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                           0.00           239.00       2500.00        5000.00      7739.00
                                  (0.00)          (161.00)     (2500.00)       (0.00)      (2661.00)
3. Services                        0.00             0.00       7798.00        3000.00      10798.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (7714.00)       (0.00)      (7714.00)
4. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00        180.00         0.00         180.00
Training                          (0.00)           (0.00)      (172.00)        (0.00)      (172.00)
5. Miscellaneous                   0.00           294.00         0.00          0.00         294.00
Printing and Advertising          (0.00)          (272.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)      (272.00)
6. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00        890.00         0.00         890.00
Recurrent Expenditure             (0.00)           (0.00)      (694.00)        (0.00)      (694.00)
   Total                           0.00           533.00       11368.00       8000.00      19901.00
                                  (0.00)          (433.00)    (11080.00)       (0.00)     (11513.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB              NCB               2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                                Other
1. Works                           0.00             0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                           0.00             0.44         0.00          0.00         0.44
                                  (0.00)           (0.33)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.33)
3. Services                        0.00             0.00         8.43          0.00         8.43
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)       (5.45)        (0.00)       (5.45)

                                                - 19 -

   4. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.04             0.00              0.04
   Training                                (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.44)            (0.00)           (0.44)
   5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.53              0.00             0.00              0.53
   Printing and Advertising                (0.00)             (0.49)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.49)
   6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              2.12             0.00              2.12
   Recurrent Expenditure                   (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.17)            (0.00)           (0.17)
       Total                                0.00               0.97             10.59             0.00             11.56
                                           (0.00)             (0.82)            (6.06)            (0.00)           (6.88)

    1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Private Sector Foundation       2.00         0.19         0.31        3.20         0.30       0.50       160.0    157.9    161.3
Business Uganda                 4.50         0.60         0.50        3.83         0.05       3.00       85.1      8.3     600.0
Development Scheme
Equity Financing                3.96         0.03         5.00        0.33         0.00       0.41        8.3      0.0       8.2
Component
Investment Promotion &          1.85         0.03         0.00        0.70         0.01                  37.8      33.3      0.0
Facilitation Services

   Includes Contributions by the private sector and in the case of the Equity Finance Component, it also
   includes other donor financing.




                                                           - 20 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The economic analysis of this type of project is difficult to calculate, as project actions are not directly
related to benefits. Despite these difficulties, an attempt was made by the project design team to quantify
the net benefits of the project. The analysis according to the SAR suggests that a NPV of US$ 7.8 million
(economic rate of return, ERR, 23 percent). While this ICR will not recalculate the NPV it compares
planned outputs with the actual outputs achieved under the project, under which the NPV value of US$ 7.8
million is based. The BUDS component's NPV would fall to zero, if the US$1 injection created only
US$7.5. The impact assessment and firms visited suggest that the target of US$15 of additional output for
US$1 was achieved, surpassing the projected NPV projections. The BUDS component contribution to the
overall NPV was set at 50 percent.

The Equity Facility was never implemented and the budget allocated for this component was also canceled.
The Equity component was set to contribute 20 percent to the overall NPV. The UIA component's NPV
would also fall to zero if only US$7.5 of additional investment was generated from US$1 promotion.
According to the project assessment US$521 was generated from US$1. The overall contribution to the
overall NPV estimate is 25 percent. The net benefit for the PSFU was also set at minus US$1.5 million.
Given that the costs for those components implemented spent less (5 percent-10 percent) than budgeted,
and they contribute 75 percent of the NPV calculated, it is safe to say that the project has contributed well
over 75 percent, (4.85 US million, 23 percent ERR) of the NPV estimate.




                                                      - 21 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year   Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              Dec. 01, 1994
              March 25, 1995

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              June 30, 1995
              November 14, 1995

 Supervision

              05/08/1997                 3    MISSION LEADER (1);              S               S
                                              CONSULTANT (1);
                                              FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
              09/30/1997                 3    MISSION LEADER (1);              S               S
                                              CONSULTANT (1);
                                              FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
              05/16/1998                 2    MISSION LEADER (1);              S               S
                                              OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
              04/16/1999                 3    ECONOMIST (1); PRINC. IND.       S               S
                                              ECONOMIST (1);
                                              OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
              05/06/2000                 3    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                              FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                              PRINC. PSD SPECIALIST (1)
              11/03/2000                 4    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                              FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                              (1); LEAD SPECIALIST PSD
                                              (1); PRIV.SECT.SPECIALIST
                                              (1)
              04/11/2001                 2    TEAM LEADER - PSD SPEC           S               S
                                              (1); SR. PSD SPECIALIST (1)
              11/02/2002                 3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                              SUPPLY-CHAIN SPECIALIST
                                              (1); FINANCIAL SPECIALIST
                                              (1)
              11/01/2002                 3    TEAM LEADER (1); MISSION         S               S
                                              LEADER (1); LEAD PSD
                                              SPECIALIST (1)


 ICR
              03/09/2003                       PSD SPEC(1), SR. PSD
                                               SPECIALIST (1),
                                               CONSULTANT



(b) Staff:



                                               - 22 -

    Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                              No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation             8.8                          29.8
Appraisal/Negotiation                41.6                         203.2
Supervision                         191.0                         407.4
ICR                                      6                           18
Total                                 247                         658.4




                                         - 23 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1. SAR
2. Project Supervision Reports
3. ICR Mission Aide Memoire
4. Implementation Completion Report prepared by the Borrower
5. Quarterly Progress Reports and Annual Reports
6. Minutes of ICR review meeting
7. Back to Office Reports
8. Missions Aide Memoire
9. Subsidiary Agreement
10. Registration of PSFU
11. Project Implementation Plan
12. UIA Project Data Base Report
13. UIA Final Report of Change Management
14. Impact Evaluation of (BUDS)
15. A Quantitative Analysis of the Cost and Benefit of (BUDS)




                                                 - 26 -

- 27 -

