Page  1
                                                            CONFORMED COPY
                                                     CREDIT NUMBER 2798 UG
                           Project Agreement
                 (Private Sector Competitiveness Project)
                                between
                 INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                 and
                       PRIVATE SECTOR FOUNDATION
                        Dated January 30, 1996
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2798 UG
                          PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated January 30, 1996, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and PRIVATE SECTOR
FOUNDATION (PSF).
      WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even
date herewith between The Republic of Uganda (the Borrower) and
the Association, the Association has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
eight million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR  8,300,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that PSF
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as
are set forth in this Agreement;
      (B)   by a Subsidiary  Agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and PSF, the proceeds of the Credit provided for
under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available
as a grant to PSF on the terms and conditions set forth in said
Subsidiary  Agreement; and
      WHEREAS PSF, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the
Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in
this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                ARTICLE I
                               Definitions
      Section 1.01.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the
Page  2
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement and
in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective
meanings therein set forth.
                              ARTICLE II
                       Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01.  (a)  PSF declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial and business
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph
(a) of this Section and except as the Association and PSF shall
otherwise agree, PSF shall carry out the Project in accordance
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
      Section 2.02.  Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
      Section 2.03.  (a)  PSF shall carry out the obligations
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of
the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project
Agreement;
      (b)   PSF shall take all measures necessary to participate
in the review of the Project as provided in Section 3.04 of the
Development Credit Agreement;
      (c)   Not later than sixty days prior to the review
referred to in (b) above PSF shall prepare and furnish to the
Association, for its comments, a report, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the progress and
status of the Project, including an evaluation of the progress
achieved in implementing the various components of the Project,
and a draft plan containing proposals for remedying any
identified deficiencies; and
      (d)   Following such review, PSF shall promptly take any
corrective action deemed necessary to remedy any shortcoming
noted in the implementation of the Project, or to implement
such other measures as may have been agreed upon between the
parties in furtherance of the objectives of the Project. To
this end, PSF shall: (i) prepare an action plan, satisfactory
to the Association, based on the recommendations stemming from
the aforementioned review, and (ii) adopt and implement such
plan for the remainder of the Project implementation period.
      Section 2.04.  PSF shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary  Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, PSF shall not take or concur in any
action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision
thereof.
      Section 2.05.  (a)  PSF shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to
the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement, and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
Page  3
      (b)   PSF shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by PSF of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                 Management and Operations of PSF
      Section 3.01.  (a)  PSF shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial and business practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management  assisted by competent
staff in adequate numbers.
      (b)   To that end, PSF shall retain: (i) at all times, an
Executive Director whose qualifications and terms of reference
shall be satisfactory to the Association, and (ii) until the
completion of Project implementation, a Project Coordinator
whose qualifications and terms of reference shall also be
satisfactory to the Association.
      Section 3.02.  PSF shall at all times operate and maintain
its equipment and other property, and from time to time,
promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound financial and business
practices.
      Section 3.03.  PSF shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to
the Association for, insurance against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
                          ARTICLE IV
                      Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01.  (a)  PSF shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
      (b)   PSF shall:
            (i)    have its records, accounts and financial
                   statements, including those pertaining to the
                   Project (balance sheets, statements of income
                   and expenses and related statements), for each
                   fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                   appropriate auditing principles consistently
                   applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
                   the Association;
            (ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as
                   available, but in any case not later than six
                   months after the end of each such year, (A)
                   certified copies of its financial statements
                   for such year as so audited, and (B) the report
                   of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
                   and in such detail as the Association shall
                   have reasonably requested; and
           (iii)   furnish to the Association such
                   other information concerning said records,
                   accounts and financial statements as well as
                   the audit thereof, as the Association shall
                   from time to time reasonably request.
                               ARTICLE V
                       Effective Date; Termination;
                       Cancellation and Suspension
Page  4
      Section 5.01.  This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
      Section 5.02.  (a)  This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of PSF thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
            (i)    the date on which the Development Credit
                   Agreement shall terminate in accordance with
                   its terms; or
            (ii)   the date fifteen years after the date of this
                   Agreement.
      (b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in
paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall
promptly notify PSF of this event.
      Section 5.03.  All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any
cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.
                           ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 6.01.  Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement
between the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in
writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by
mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which
it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's
address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                  Telex:
                   INDEVAS                  248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.          82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
      For PSF:
            Private Sector Foundation
            Plot 10
            Kalitunsi Road
            P.O. Box 9113
            Kampala, Uganda
            Cable address:                  Telex:
                                            2236145
      Section 6.02.  Any action required or permitted to be
taken, and any document required or permitted to be executed,
under this Agreement on behalf of PSF may be taken or executed
by the Executive Director or such other person or persons as
Page  5
the Executive Director shall designate in writing, and PSF
shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such
person.
      Section 6.03.  This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                 INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                 By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                                    Regional Vice President
                                                                     Africa
                 PRIVATE SECTOR FOUNDATION
                 By /s/ Stephen K. Katenta-Apuli
                                                  Authorized Representative
                               SCHEDULE 1
                 Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:     General
      Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995
(the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section,
as applicable.
Part B:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section,
goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.    The following provisions shall apply to goods to be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
Grouping of contracts
      To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent
or more each.
Page  6
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    National Competitive Bidding
      (a)   Vehicles, equipment, furniture, and materials
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or less per contract up
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $250,000 equivalent; and
      (b)   printing and advertising contracts estimated to cost
$100,000 equivalent or less per contract up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent; may be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.    Items, or group of items, required under Part C.1 of the
Project, estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,800,000
equivalent, shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Part A.2 (a) (v) of Annex 2 to Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
3.    International Shopping
      Goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per
contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.    National Shopping
      Goods estimated to cost $30,000 equivalent or less per
contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Procurement Planning
      Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify
for: bidding or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for
its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all
goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.    Prior Review
      (a)   With respect to each contract for: (a) vehicles,
equipment, furniture, materials, printing and advertising, and
(b) goods in part C of the Project, estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
      (b)   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2 (a)
above, PSF shall furnish to the Association, for its review,
the draft bidding documents for the first three contracts for
the procurement of goods.
3.    Post Review
      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2
of this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.    Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts
Page  7
awarded in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines) and in accordance with the
Project Implementation Plan. For complex, time-based
assignments, such contracts shall be based on the standard form
of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with
such modifications as shall have been agreed by the
Association.  Where no relevant standard contract documents
have been issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable
to the Association shall be used.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Association review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to: (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each, or (b) contracts for
the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent each.  However, said exceptions to prior
Association review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of
reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of
consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as
reasonably determined by the Association, (d) amendments to
contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the
contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e)
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual
consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or
above.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2 above, PSF
shall furnish to the Association, for its review, the draft
letters of invitation for the first three contracts for the
employment of consultants under the Project.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                      Implementation Program
1.    PSF shall be responsible for the implementation of the
Project under the overall guidance of a nine-member Project
Steering Committee (PSC) which shall include all seven members
of the Board of Directors of PSF, and two representatives to be
appointed by the Borrower in accordance with Section 3.03 of
the Development Credit Agreement.
2.    Unless otherwise agreed with the Association, PSC shall in
particular be responsible for (a) approving the annual Project
work plans; and (b) reviewing the full report on each year's
Project performance, including the duly audited financial and
operational reports, and the implication of such reports.
3.    PSF shall (a) prepare and adopt a detailed and
comprehensive plan, satisfactory to the Association, for the
implementation of all components of the Project, including
detailed action plans for each Project component, (b) take all
measures necessary to ensure that the Project is carried out in
conformity with the PIP, and (c) not make any material
amendment to the PIP without  prior consultation with, and the
consent of, the Association.
4.    PSF shall, with effect from its 1996/97 financial year,
review the action plans forming part of the PIP and, by not
later than the first day of May preceding the financial year
covered in the work plan, furnish to the Association a
satisfactory annual work plan for each Project component.
5.    In order to assist PSF in the implementation of Part B of
the Project, PSF shall, under a contract which shall have been
approved by the Association, appoint pursuant to the provisions
of Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement by not later than
Page  8
June 30, 1996, a management contractor who shall, inter alia:
(a) have operational independence; (b) be responsible for
ensuring full compliance with the rules and regulations set out
in the PIP, and the eligibility criteria and the terms and
conditions referred to in Annex 1 to this Schedule; and (c)
prepare and furnish to PSF: (i) quarterly progress reports; and
(ii) an annual report which shall serve as a basis for a formal
annual performance review to be carried out jointly with the
Borrower, PSF and the Association.
6.    (a)    In order to carry out Part C.1 of the Project, PSF
shall enter into share subscription and shareholders§
agreements, with Participating Equity Funds under terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by  the Association,
which shall include, inter alia, the terms and conditions set
forth in Part A.2 of  Annex 2 to this Schedule;
      (b)    PSF shall ensure that, unless the Association shall
otherwise agree, Investments in Investment Enterprises will be
made in accordance with the eligibility criteria set forth or
referred to in Part B of Annex 2 to this Schedule.
7.    PSF shall carry out Part D of the Project through UIA
under an agreement, satisfactory to the Association,  to be
entered into with UIA by not later than June 30, 1996, which
shall, inter alia, require UIA to furnish to PSF quarterly
progress reports on March 31, June 30, September 30, and
December 31 of each year and, not later than the quarter
following the end of the year under consideration,
comprehensive annual performance reports. PSF shall, jointly
with the Borrower and the Association, carry out a formal
review of the annual performance report.
                          Annex 1 to Schedule 2
The Management Contractor (Management Contractor) to be
employed by PSF for the implementation of Part B of the Project
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 5 of Schedule 2
to this Agreement, shall ensure that: (a) recipients of grants
under Part B.1 of the Project shall meet the eligibility
criteria set forth in paragraph 1 below, and (b) such grants
shall be made under the terms and conditions described in
paragraph 2 below.
1.    Eligibility Criteria
In deciding whether an applicant is eligible to obtain
financing under Part B.1 of the Project, the Management
Contractor shall ensure that the following conditions are met:
      (i)   the applicant is an individual entrepreneur, a firm
            or group of entrepreneurs or firms , duly
            established and operating under the laws of the
            Borrower;
      (ii)  the applicant is privately owned and operated (and
            is not fully or partly owned by the Borrower or by
            entities controlled by the Borrower);
     (iii)  the applicant is carrying out operations in the
            industrial , agricultural or service sectors of the
            Borrower's economy except that applicants operating
            in the production of alcoholic beverages, weapons,
            tobacco, and gambling shall not be eligible; and
      (iv)  the applicant has prepared an adequate business plan
            for the attainment of which the applicant intends to
            obtain  business services which business plan shall,
            inter alia, include projected increases in sales
            revenue, the merits of the proposed plan of action
            relative to alternative courses of action, a
            description of the financial resources for its
Page  9
            implementation, the anticipated sources of  funds,
            the proposed time frame of implementation, and the
            benefits expected to be derived.
2.    Terms and Conditions for Approving  Grants
      The Management Contractor shall ensure: (a) that, unless
otherwise agreed by PSF and the Association in their periodic
semi-annual reviews of progress made in the carrying out of
Part B of the Project, no grant(s) for financing one or more
technical assistance shall be made to an individual
entrepreneur or firm from the proceeds of the Credit, if the
aggregate amount of such grant(s) exceeds the equivalent of
$30,000, and (b) that, in any event, the amount of a grant from
the proceeds of the Credit, including any financing from
sources other than those of the recipient, shall not exceed 50%
of the total cost of the proposed technical assistance.
                         Annex 2 to Schedule 2
      PSF shall, by not later than June 30, 1996, establish the
Uganda Equity Facility (UEF) referred to in Part C.1 of the
Project through which it shall make funds available to
Participating Equity Funds operating in the territory of the
Borrower which meet the eligibility criteria set forth in
paragraph 1 below and under the terms and conditions described
in paragraph 2 below.
Part A :
1.    Eligibility Criteria for Participating Equity Funds
      In deciding whether to invest in a Participating Equity
Fund, PSF, as administrator of the UEF, shall ensure that the
following conditions are met:
      (i)   the Participating Equity Fund shall invest UEF funds
            only in shares of companies incorporated in the
            territory of the Borrower;
      (ii)  the Participating Equity Fund is sponsored and is
            managed by reputable operators with substantial
            equity financing expertise and sufficient knowledge
            of the business and corporate environment in the
            territory of the Borrower;
      (iii) the Participating Equity Fund has adopted an
            investment policy acceptable to PSF and the
            Association;
      (iv)  the Participating Equity Fund has prepared an
            adequate business plan identifying a credible
            pipeline of feasible investment opportunities in the
            territory of the Borrower;
      (v)   the Participating Equity Fund is economically viable
            and has a sound financial structure; and
      (vi)  the Participating Equity Fund has suitable
            procedures and an adequate number of suitably
            qualified staff to enable it effectively to appraise
            the financial, technical and economic viability of
            Investment Enterprises and to monitor the activities
            of such Enterprises.
2.    Terms and Conditions of Share Subscription and
Shareholders' Agreements; Use of the proceeds of PSF Share
Subscription
      (a)   Share Subscription and Shareholders§agreements to be
entered into by PSF with Participating Equity Funds pursuant to
paragraph 6 (a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement shall include
Page  10
provisions whereby: (i) PSF, as administrator of the UEF, shall
make investments in Participating Equity Funds in the form of
preference shares (99% of the capital subscription) and
ordinary shares (1%); (ii) Preference shares, denominated in
dollars, shall earn a nominal return of at least 6% annually
and shall be redeemable and cumulative; (iii) Ordinary shares,
denominated in dollars, will be entitled to dividends and
capital gains distributions after the dividends on the
preference shares have been paid and the preference shares
fully redeemed; (iv) PSF, as administrator of the UEF may write
a call option on no more than 90% of its ordinary shares and
shall sell such an option in exchange for a nominal premium
and/or seniority rights for its preference shares from
investors in the Participating Equity Fund; (v) Participating
Equity funds undertake to require Investment Enterprises to
procure the goods and services to be financed out of the
proceeds of the PSF share subscription under procedures
necessary to ensure that such goods and services shall be
purchased at a reasonable price based on comparison of at least
three price quotations, account being taken also of other
relevant factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and
reliability of the goods and availability of maintenance
facilities and spare parts therefor, and, in the case of
services, of their quality and the competence of the parties
rendering them.
      (b)   PSF, as administrator of the UEF, shall not invest
more than the equivalent of two million dollars ($2,000,000) in
any Participating Equity Fund and, in any event, no investment
of more than the equivalent of five hundred thousand dollars
($500,000) shall be made without  the prior approval of the
Association.
Part B :
3.    Eligibility Criteria for Investment Enterprises
      Eligible Investment Enterprises shall be those that meet
the following criteria:
      (i)   be duly established and operating under the laws of
            the Borrower;
      (ii)  be enterprises carrying out operations in the
            industrial, agricultural or service sectors of the
            Borrower's economy, except that enterprises
            operating in real estate, production of alcoholic
            beverages, weapons, tobacco, and gambling shall not
            be eligible;
      (iii) have an adequate number of suitably qualified
            staff to enable it to carry out its operations
            including, carrying out its activities with due
            diligence and efficiency and in accordance with
            sound technical, financial, managerial and
            environmental standards required under the laws of
            the Borrower; and
      (iv)  have adequate financial statements and accounts
            reflecting, in accordance with consistently
            maintained sound accounting practices, the
            operations and financial conditions of the
            Enterprise.
Part C :
4.    Procedures
1.    Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, PSF:
      (a)   when presenting an Investment to the Association for
authorization to make withdrawals from the Credit Account in
Page  11
respect of such Investment, shall furnish to the Association an
application, in form satisfactory to the Association, which
shall contain: (i) a description of the Investment Enterprise
and the activities to which the Investment will be utilized;
(ii) a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and documentation indicating
that the goods used or to be used in carrying out such
activities have been procured  in accordance with Part C.2 of
Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement ; (iii) an undertaking that
such goods shall be used exclusively for the carrying out of
the activities of the Investment Enterprise; (iv) a statement
that the Investment is consistent with the Investment policy of
the Participating Equity Fund; and
      (b)   shall obtain and furnish to the Association all such
information as the Association shall reasonably request
relating to the administration, operations and financial
condition of the Investment Enterprise and to the benefits to
be derived from the Investment.
2.    Promptly after the Association shall have:
      (a)   approved a withdrawal application submitted to the
Association pursuant to paragraph 1 (a) above, and
      (b)   made a disbursement from the proceeds of the Credit
for such amounts as shall have been approved by the Association
under Category  (1) of the table in Schedule 1 to the
Development Credit Agreement for an Investment,
the Participating Equity Fund shall, in accordance with the
Share Subscription and Shareholders' Agreement referred to in
Part A.2 of this Annex, issue to PSF shares in the
Participating Equity Fund in an amount equivalent to the amount
so disbursed.
