Page  1
                                                            CONFORMED COPY
                                                     CREDIT NUMBER 2798 UG
                        Development Credit Agreement
                  (Private Sector Competitiveness Project)
                                   between
                           THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
                                     and
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                           Dated January 30, 1996
                                                     CREDIT NUMBER 2798 UG
                      DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated January 30, 1996, between THE REPUBLIC OF
UGANDA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project;
      (B)   the Association has received a letter dated October
25, 1995 from the Borrower describing a program of actions,
objectives and policies designed to implement a comprehensive
private sector strategy (hereinafter called the Program) and
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the
Project;
      (C)   the Project will be carried out by the Private Sector
Foundation (PSF) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of
such assistance, the Borrower will make available to PSF the
proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower
upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and
in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the
Association and PSF;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                              ARTICLE I
Page  2
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereto set forth below
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:
      (a)   the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   the second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
            "Except as the Association and the Borrower shall
            otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made: (a) on
            account of expenditures in the territories of any
            country which is not a member of the Bank or for
            goods produced in, or services supplied from, such
            territories; or  (b) for the purpose of any payment
            to persons or entities or any imports of goods, if
            such payment or import, to the knowledge of the
            Association is prohibited by a decision of the
            United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter
            VII of the Charter of the United Nations".
         Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires,
the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
      (a) "MFEP" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance and
Economic Planning;
      (b) "Special Account" means each of the accounts referred
to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (c) "Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and PSF pursuant to Section
3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Agreement;
      (d) "PSF" means Private Sector Foundation, a company
limited by guarantee established and existing under the laws of
the Borrower and its Memorandum and Articles of Association
dated August 24, 1995;
      (e) "Memorandum and Articles of Association" mean the
Memorandum and Articles of PSF, dated August 24, 1995;
      (f) "UIA" means the Uganda Investment Authority,
established pursuant to Section 3.07 of the Borrower§s
Investment Code, 1991, Statute Number 1 of 1991;
      (g) "Project Implementation Plan" and "PIP" mean the
comprehensive plan for the implementation of all components of
the Project, referred to in paragraph 3 of Schedule 2 to the
Project Agreement;
      (h) "PSC" means the Project Steering Committee to be
established under paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 to the Project
Agreement;
      (i) "Participating Equity Fund" means an equity fund
meeting the eligibility criteria specified in Annex 2 to
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement in which PSF proposes to
make, or has made, an investment financed, or to be financed,
out of the proceeds of the Credit;
      (j) "Investment" means an investment made or proposed to
be made by a Participating Equity Fund in an Investment
Page  3
Enterprise out of the equivalent of part of the proceeds of the
Credit made available to PSF under the Subsidiary Agreement;
      (k) "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise in which
a Participating Equity Fund proposes to make, or has made, an
Investment; and
      (l) "UEF" means the Uganda Equity Facility to be
established by PSF under Part C.1 of the Project.
                               ARTICLE II
                               The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to eight million three hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 8,300,000).
      Section 2.02. (a)  The amount of the Credit may be
withdrawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars three special deposit accounts
(Special Account A for Part C.1 of the Project, Special Account
B for Part B.1 of the Project, and Special Account C for Parts
A, B.2, C.2 and D of the Project) in a commercial bank on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, each Special Account shall
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
      Section 2.04  (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the
Association a commitment charge on the principal amount of the
Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by
the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed
the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date)
to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by
the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the
accrual date or at such other rates as may be set from time to
time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next
payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii)
without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the
territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified
in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section  2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
Page  4
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07.  (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c)
below, the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 1 and
September 1 commencing March 1, 2006 and ending September 1,
2035. Each installment to and including the installment payable
on September 1, 2015 shall be one percent (1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product
per capita, as determined by the Association, shall have
exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive
years and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent
to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors
of the Association and after due consideration by them of the
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise such modification to include, in
lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed
with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in
the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change
the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms
pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines
that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the
Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform to
the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a)
above.
      Section 2.08  The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE III
                      Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01.  (a)  The Borrower declares its commitment
to the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or
restriction upon any of its other obligations under this
Agreement, shall cause PSF to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of PSF
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable PSF to
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
      (b)   Without limitation on the provisions of paragraph (a)
above, the Borrower shall appoint and maintain a duly qualified
liaison officer within MFEP in order to facilitate the
coordination of cooperation between PSF and the Borrower in the
implementation of the Project.
      (c)   The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
Page  5
available to PSF, as a grant, under a subsidiary agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and PSF, under conditions
which shall have been approved by the Association.
      (d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the
purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 3.02.  Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the procurement of goods, and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule
1 to the Project Agreement.
      Section 3.03.  The Borrower shall appoint two duly
qualified and experienced representatives to serve as members
of the PSC.
      Section 3.04.  The Borrower shall, within thirty months
after the Effective Date, but in any event not later than
December 31, 1998, carry out jointly with the Association and
PSF, a comprehensive review of the Project, during which they
shall exchange views generally on all matters relating to the
progress made in the carrying out of the Project and the
performance by the Borrower of its obligations under this
Agreement including, but not limited to: (i) a review of the
achievements of the Project, (ii) the implementation and
management aspects of the Project, (iii) performance and use of
technical assistance personnel,  (iv) reporting, accounting and
audit performance, (v) disbursement procedures, and (vi) the
sustainability of the Project.
      Section 3.05.  For purposes of Section 9.07 of the General
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six
(6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
      (b)   afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views with the Borrower on said plan.
      Section 3.06.  The Borrower and the Association hereby
agree that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04,
9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) shall be carried out by PSF pursuant to Section
2.03 (a) of the Project Agreement.
                             ARTICLE IV
                         Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01.  (a) For all expenditures with respect to
which withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the
basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain, or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with sound accounting practices,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
            (ii)   ensure that all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures are retained until
                   at least one year after the Association has
Page  6
                   received the audit report for the fiscal year
                   in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
                   Account was made; and
           (iii)   enable the Association's representatives
                   to examine such records.
      (b) The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) (i) of this Section and those for
                   the Special Accounts for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate
                   auditing principles consistently applied, by
                   independent auditors acceptable to the
                   Association;
            (ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as
                   available, but in any case not later than six
                   months after the end of each such year the
                   report of such audit by said auditors, of such
                   scope and in such detail as the Association
                   shall have reasonably requested, including a
                   separate opinion by said auditors as to whether
                   the statements of expenditure submitted during
                   such fiscal year, together with the procedures
                   and internal controls involved in their
                   preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                   related withdrawals; and
           (iii)   furnish to the Association such other
                   information concerning said records and
                   accounts and the audit thereof as the
                   Association shall from time to time reasonably
                   request.
                               ARTICLE V
                      Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   A situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof,
will be carried out;
      (b)   PSF shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement;
      (c)   As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have
arisen which shall make it improbable that PSF will be able to
perform its obligations under the Project Agreement;
      (d)   The Memorandum and Articles of Association of PSF
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of
PSF to perform any of its obligations under the Project
Agreement;
      (e)   The Borrower or any other authority having
jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of PSF or for the suspension of its
operations;
      Section 5.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Page  7
Association to the Borrower; and
      (b)   any event specified in paragraphs (d) or (e) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01.  The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
      (a)   the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly executed by
the Borrower and PSF;
      (b)   the Project Steering Committee has: (i) been
established pursuant to paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 to the
Project Agreement; and (ii) adopted the Project Implementation
Plan referred to in paragraph 3 of Schedule 2 to the Project
Agreement;
      (c)   the Borrower has appointed the liaison officer
referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement.
      Section 6.02.  The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
      (a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by PSF, and is legally binding upon PSF in
accordance with its terms; and
      (b)   that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and PSF and is  legally
binding upon the Borrower and PSF in accordance with its terms.
      Section 6.03.  The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01.  The Minister of Finance and Economic
Planning of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02.  The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
            P.O. Box 8147
            Kampala
            Uganda
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   FINSEC                  61170
                   Kampala
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
Page  8
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.         82987 (FTCC)
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                           197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                         THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
                         By /s/ Stephen K. Katenta-Apuli
                                           Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                                 Regional Vice President
                                                                  Africa
                                SCHEDULE 1
               Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1. The table below sets forth the Categories of items to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation
of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
                                 Amount of the           % of
                                Credit Allocated      Expenditures
                                (Expressed in            to be
      Category                  SDR Equivalent)         financed
(1) Goods and Services             1,680,000            100% of foreign
    under Part C.1 of                                   expenditures and
    the Project                                         90% of local
                                                        expenditures
(2) Vehicles, Equipment              110,000            70%
    and Furniture for
    the Project excluding
    Part C.1 thereof
(3) Consultants'
    Services under:
    (a) Part B.1 of
        the Project               2,010,000             50%
    (b) Part D of
        the Project               1,040,000             100%
    (c) the Project,
Page  9
        excluding
        Parts B.1 and             2,110,000             100%
        D thereof
(4) Printing and                    340,000             95%
    advertising services
(5) Operating Expenditures          730,000             95% in the
                                                        years 1996
                                                        through
                                                        1998; and
                                                        75% thereafter
(6) Unallocated                     280,000
                                  _________
       TOTAL                      8,300,000
                                  =========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;
      (b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower; and
      (c) the term "operating expenditures" means expenditures
incurred on account of the Project for rental of offices,
utilities, Project staff salaries and allowances, office
supplies, fees for legal and other professional services and
the operation and maintenance of vehicles and equipment.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
      (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement;
      (b)   expenditures under Category (3) (b) unless the
Association shall have been  furnished with an institutional
development plan of UIA, satisfactory to the Association, duly
approved by the Borrower and the Board of UIA;
      (c)   expenditures for goods and services for an Investment
under part C.1 of the Project unless the Investment has been
made in accordance with the eligibility criteria and the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in Annex 2 to Schedule
2 to the Project Agreement;
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure
for expenditures for goods under contracts not exceeding
$100,000 equivalent, and consultancy contracts not exceeding
$100,000 equivalent for firms and $50,000 equivalent for
individuals under such terms and conditions as the Association
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                              SCHEDULE 2
                      Description of the Project
      The objective of the Project is to make the private sector
in the territory of the Borrower more competitive so that it
can expand sales in both domestic and international markets. To
this end, the Project will: (a) assist in the improvement of
the business and investment environment through a reduction in
policy constraints, (b) strengthen institutions which support
the private sector, (c) enhance the dialogue between the
private and public sectors, and (d) provide equity financing
Page  10
and support the injection of know-how.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to
such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association
may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objective:
Part A:     Private Sector Foundation
Institutional strengthening of PSF's capability to promote
private sector development through: (1) the provision of
consultants' services and training and (2) the acquisition of
vehicles, furniture and office equipment.
Part B:     "Business Uganda" Development Scheme
1.    Carrying out of a program to assist firms in the
Borrower's territory to acquire know-how and achieve a higher
rate of output growth through: (a) the provision of grants to
finance business support services, including marketing,
production and business planning; and (b) the provision of
grants for technical assistance to firms that deliver business
support services.
2.    (a) Support for the management of the grant program
referred to in Part B.1 above and (b) the provision of
technical advisory services to assist individual firms in the
selection of (i) the most  suitable services, and (ii) the
providers of such services.
Part C:     Equity Financing
1.    Establishment by PSF of an account to be referred to as
the Uganda Equity Facility through which PSF shall make
available equity capital to Participating Equity Funds
investing in Investment Enterprises in the territory of the
Borrower.
2.    Improvement of the environment for equity investment
through: (a) the provision of technical advisory services to
increase the options available to investors to liquidate their
minority shareholdings into cash through the establishment of
a depository receipt scheme on a regional stock exchange; (b)
the implementation of an education and promotion program on the
merits of equity finance as a tool for corporate growth and
development; and (c) technical assistance to undertake legal
and regulatory reforms in private sector development and equity
financing.
Part D:     Investment Promotion and Facilitation
Promotion and facilitation services to foreign and local
investors through: (1) informational publications, guides and
meetings with potential investors; (2) the provision of
practical assistance to investors; and (3) support for local
enterprise development, advertising and public relations
activities.
                                * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.
                              SCHEDULE 3
                            Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement and listed hereunder:
            (i)    Category (1) with respect to Special Account A;
Page  11
           (ii)    Category (3) (a) with respect to Special Account
                   B; and
           (iii)   Categories (2), (3) (b), (3 )(c), (4) and (5)
                   with respect to Special Account C.
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means the amounts of
$500,000, in respect of  Special Account C, and $300,000, in
respect of Special Account A and Special Account B, to be
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the
Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule,
provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount
equivalent to $150,000 in respect of Special Account A, an
amount equivalent to $250,000 in respect of Special Account B
and an amount equivalent to $150,000 in respect of Special
Account C, until (i) in respect of Special Account A, the
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account
allocated to Category (1) plus the total amount of all
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 500,000, (ii) in
respect of Special Account B, the aggregate amount of
withdrawals from the Credit Account allocated to Category (3)
(a) plus the total amount of all outstanding special
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the
equivalent of SDR 700,000, and in respect of Special Account C,
the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account
allocated to Categories (2), (3) (b), (3) (c), (4), (5) and (6)
plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent
of SDR 1,000,000.
2.    Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be
made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with
the provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory
to it that the respective Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account shall
be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests
for a deposit into the respective Special Account of an amount
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the
respective Special Account such amount or amounts as the
Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the respective Special
                   Account, the Borrower shall furnish to the
                   Association requests for deposits into the
                   respective Special Account at such intervals as
                   the Association shall specify.
            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   the documents and other evidence required
Page  12
                   pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for
                   the payment or payments in respect of which
                   replenishment is requested.  On the basis of
                   each such request, the Association shall, on
                   behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
                   Credit Account and deposit into the respective
                   Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the respective Special
                   Account for eligible expenditures.
      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association
from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the
respective Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as
the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into any  Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have
determined that all further withdrawals should be made by the
Borrower directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
      (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section
4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for
the Special Accounts;
      (c)   if, at any time, the Association shall have notified
the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions; or
      (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent
that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account
as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of any  Special Account: (i) was made for
an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if the
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an
Page  13
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion
thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association
into any Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the
case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in any Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association,
refund to the Association all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Accounts.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to
paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be
credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this
Agreement, including the General Conditions.
