Document of                             FLE 
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3485-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$30.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
PUBLIC WORKS MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 11, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit = Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
US$1          = Rp 700
RplOO         = US$0.143
Rp 1,000      = US$1.43
Rp 1 million  = US$1,428.57
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAPPENAS         -  National Development Planning Board
BIDANG DIKLATS - Training Units within the Training Department of the
Ministry of Public Works, which serve the Directorates
General
BINA MARGA       -  Directorate General for Highways, Bridges and Land
Clearing in the Ministry of Public Works
BSP              -  Bureau for Construction Industry Development
in the Ministry of Public Works
CIPTA KARYA      -  Directorate General for Urban and Regional Planning,
Housing and Water Supply in the Ministry of Public
Works
CMDU             -  Curricula and Materials Development Unit to be
established in the Training Department of the
Ministry of Public Works
DPUP             -  Provincial Department of the Ministry of Public Works
GAPENSI          -  Professional Association for Small and Medium-sized
Contractors
GOI              -  Government of Indonesia
LAN              -  Civil Service Training Institute
Mandor           -  Labor subcontractor who directly hires and supervises
construction labor
MPW              -  Ministry of Public Works
PENGAIRAN        -  Directorate General for Water Resource Development
in the MPW
PERBINIKON       -  Project unit in the Bureau for Construction Industry
Development of the MPW
PRD              -  Professional Resources Development Program
PUSDATIK         -  Center for Data Processing and Statistics in the MPW
PUSDIKLAT        -  Training Department in the MPW4
REPELITA         -  National Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita I,
1969-74, Repelita II, 1974-79, Repelita III, 1979-84)
RTC              -  Regional Training Center of the Training Department
of the MPW



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
PUBLIC WORKS MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Republic of Indonesia
Amount:            $30.0 million equivalent (including capitalized front-end
fee)
Terms:             Repayable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace at the
standard variable rate
Project
Description:   The main objective of the project is to improve the
effectiveness of Ministry of Public Works (MPW) construction
activities through manpower training. The project aims to:
(a) strengthen the management of MPW staff training and
related planning activities; (b) establish a Curricula and
Materials Development Unit in the MPW; (c) expand and upgrade
the MPWNs training facilities and staff training program; and
(d) provide experimental training for small and medium-sized
contractors and mandors (labor subcontractors who directly
hire and supervise construction labor). A second objec-
tive is to strengthen Government planning and management
capabilities through provision of fellowships for key staff
of economic and policy-making agencies.
The principal benefits of the project would be improvements
in the execution of MPW projects through increased skill
levels of staff. A related benefit would be enhanced
effectiveness in use of training resources. The contractor
and mandor training would improve the skills of those
trained. Results would be used to develop and provide
larger training programs. The fellowship training would
contribute to improvements in the management of Indonesian
development programs.
The project faces a risk that adequate commitment,
required by the several MPW units involved with staff
training, could not be achieved. To reduce this risk,
management improvements for staff training and improved
courses would be developed jointly; and existing respon-
sibilities for training management would be retained and
enhanced. A related risk is that the central training
authorities would be unable to implement the project
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
effectively while simultaneouisly strengthening the management
and content of training. This risk would be minimiied
through provision of an experienced Project Director
for MPW components and additional staff and consultant
services for facilities' planning, procurement and financial
management. A risk also exists that the contractor and
mandor training would be ineffective. To reduce this risk,
the industry would participate actively in planning the
training.
Estimated Costs /1 /2:
Local     Foreign   Total
------- $ million -------
Management of MPW Training                1.38         5.69    7.06
Activities
Curricula and Materials                   3.44         4.33    7.76
Development
Regional Training Centers                 8.54         5.69   14.22
Contractor and Mandor Training            3.33         1.44    4.76
Professional Resources Development        0.06         3.15    3.21
Fellowship Program
Base Cost                         16.73        20.29   37.02
Physical contingencies                    1.49         1.44    2.93
Price contingencies                       4.19         3.49    7.68
Total Project Cost                  22.41        25.22   47.63
Front-end fee on Bank Loan                -            0.22    0.22
Total Financing Required            22.41        25.44   47.85
/1  Imported equipment and materials would be exempt from duties.  Taxes and
duties on other items are estimated at $1.9 million (4% of project costs).
/2 Totals are rounded.



- iii -
Financing Plan:                               Local    Foreign   Total
------ $ million -------
IBRD                                      4.56      25.44    30.00
Government                               17.85       -       17.85
22.41     25.44    47.85
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY        1984    1985   1986   1987   1988
…--------- $ million -------
Annual                                  1.3      2.6     3.6    9.0   13.5
Cumulative                              1.3     3.9      7.5   16.5   30.0
Rate of Return: Not applicable
Staff Appraisal
Report:         No. 4173-IND dated March 4, 1983.






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THIE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A PUBLIC WORKS MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of $30.0 million (including
the capitalized front-end fee) to help finance a Public Works Manpower
Development Project. The loan would have a term of 20 years, including five
years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.         A basic economic report, "Indonesia:  Growth Patterns, Social
Progress and Development Prospects" (No. 2093-IND dated February 20, 1979),
was distributed to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979, and a
country economic memorandum has been prepared in each subsequent year. The
latest of these, titled "Indonesia: Financial Resources and Human
Development in the Eighties" (No. 3795-IND dated May 3, 1982) was distri-
buted to the Executive Directors on May 6, 1982. Annex I gives selected
social and economic indicators for the country.
Background
3.         The Republic of Indonesia is a highly diverse country spread
across an archipelago of more than 13,000 islands with a land area of about
two million sq km. It now has a population of over 150 million, growing at
about 2.3% p.a., and is the world's fifth most populous nation. The country
has a highly diversified resource base, with plentiful primary energy
resources, significant mineral deposits, large timber potential and a
developed systeim of agricultural commodity production and export. A high
proportion of these primary resources are located on the sparsely populated
islands of Sumatra and Kalimantan, while two-thirds of the population live
on Java which has areas with some of the highest rural population densities
in the world. About 20% of the population live in urban areas in both Java
and the Outer Islands, and the current rate of urban population growth is
over 4% p.a. The 1981 estimate of GNP per capita is $520, which places
Indonesia for the first time amongst middle income countries./2
/1  Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Provincial
Health Project (No. P-3402-IND), circulated under cover of R83-13, dated
January 20, 1983, and approved by the Executive Directors on February 8,
1983.
/2 On the basis of the World Bank's system of country classification and
Atlas methodology for calculation of GNP.



Macroeconomic Developments and Resource Mlanagement
4.         Until 1981, the economy had been growing at almost 8% p.a. for
over a decade. This was associated with rapid increases in public
expenditures, total investment and savings. The initial impetus for this
occurred in the period of recovery from the turbulence of the mid-60s. The
Government took effective action to restore macroeconomic stability,
liberalize the economy, rehabilitate infrastructure, and provide incentives
for domestic and foreign private investment.  Hiowever for the last decade
the dominant external influence has been the huge expansion, and significant
variability, in foreign exchange earnings from oil. Net exports from the
oil and gas sector rose from $0.6 billion in 1973/74 to $10.8 billion in
1980/81, when the current account enjoyed a surplus of $2.5 billion. Oil
receipts also provide about 70%, of Central Government receipts and have
helped finance the sustained increase in demand via the budget. The pattern
of expeniditures has also helped foster diversified growth: of particular
note has been the support for agriculture, through investment in
infrastructure, support services and effective use of subsidies to maintain
producer incentives. This bore fruit in two successive record rice harvests
in 1980 and 1981. During 1971 to 1980 manufacturing has also enjoyed a high
growth rate (of about 14% p.a.) from a very low base, but here sectoral
growth has been in spite of a more restrictive policy environment and
distorted incentives.
5.         In 1981-82 the macroeconomic resource position changed dra-
matically. Depressed international markets and a weak oil price have led to
a turnaround in the current account of about $9 billion in two years, with a
deficit of the order of $7 billion likely for 1982/83. Owing to historically
prudent debt and reserve management, Indonesia does not face problems of the
magnitude of other oil exporters. IHowever, barring a major recovery in oil
prices, there will be a need for adjustment in the economy. The burden of
adjustment will have to fall on import-intensive public expenditures,
leading to some rephasing of existing expenditure plans. This will lead to
some reduction in the growth rate in the short and medium run. Increased
domestic resource mobilization will also be necessary - the significant
reduction in the oil subsidy in January 1983 was an important step in this
direction. At a more fundamental level the change in external prospects
have emphasized the need for substantial structural change in the eighties.
The development of a strong and diversified nonoil production and export
base is essential to realize sustained high growth.
Incomes, Employment and duman Development
6.         Despite the high concentration of the resource windfalls, the
available evidence, from household expenditures surveys, indicates a fairly
wide distribution of the benefits of growth and a reduction in poverty
incidence over the past ten years. This is also borne out in the basic
health indicators, with a 25% reduction in the infant mortality rate and an



increase in life expectancy from 47 to 53./I  These improvements should not,
however, mask the continued existence of widespread poverty.  Almost 50% of
the population are estimated to have been in this condition in 1978. The
core of the poverty problem continues to be in rural Java, where landless
laborers form a large, and possibly rising, fraction of the population, and
where, for most of the 1970s, there is little evidence of any rise in real
agricultural wages. However, in the last two years of good rice harvests it
is likely that significant improvements occurred on Java, while agricultural
incomes on parts of the Other Islands dependent on export crops have
declined in the face of the international recession.
7.        In the future the availability of productive employment will be a
key determinant of the distribution of income. The labor force will grow at
about 3% p.a., equivalent to around 2 million people p.a., in the next
decade. In 1980 agriculture still accounted for 55% of employment, and
industry only 13%; the growth of services employment, from 24% of the total
in 1971 to 32% in 1980, was the main mechanism for providing incremental
employment in the 1970s. The growth in service incomes was partly sustained
by rising oil incomes in the 1970s; if services are to continue to be a
major source of labor income there is again a strong case for diversifying
the pattern of productive growth. The key issue is one of widespread
underemployment in the traditional sectors. To tackle this a sustained rise
in labor demand is crucial - through the maintenance of overall growth and
the encouragement of labor-intensive processes in both the traditional and
the industrial sectors.
8.         In the 1970s there was substantial progress in extending the pro-
vision of social services throughout the population. Universal enrollment
in primary education has been virtually achieved and the enrollment rate in
junior secondary schools is now 35%. However, the weak educational base of
the population continues to be a major obstacle to rapid economic
development and a substantial further expansion of secondary and tertiary
education will be necessary as well as a major effort to raise the quality
of the whole system. The situation is similar in the health sector. There
has been a large expansion in facilities, notably at the sub-district level,
but continued expansion and an improvement in quality will be necessary to
increase effectiveness. This will have to be complemented by a major
expansion in water supply and sanitation if the improvement in indices of
mortality and morbidity in the 1970s is to be maintained. Currently only
18% of the rural and 40% of the urban population have access to safe water /2
compared with Government targets of 60% and 75%, respectively, for 1990.
Policy for Structural Change
9.         Indonesia's past growth performance has been good, but the country
is now faced with the need both to put the nonoil economy on to a viable
/1 On the basis of the 1971 and 1980 population censuses.
/2 Government estimuates for 1981.



- 4-
long-run growth path and to effectively improve the basic needs situation of
the poor. The re-emergence of a significant foreign exchange constraint has
reduced the capacity of the economy to carry a high level of investment.
Policies that promote appropriate investment choices in the public and
private sector will be critical if the structural adjustment process is to
be sustained.
10.       In industry, the Government of Indonesia (GOI) is planning a
program of large-scale natural resource-based investments, in refineries,
LNG, petrochemicals, fertilizer, cement, pulp and paper, basic metals and
mining. This will broaden the industrial base, but will have very limited
employment implications and is very foreign-exchange intensive in the
construction phase. Of greater importance for both employment and exports
is the encouragement of agriculture and the small- and medium-scale private
manufacturing through an improvement in the economic environment. Over the
last year the GOI has allowed the rupiah to depreciate about 10% against the
US dollar, thereby increasing incentives for the production of traded goods.
Furthermore, the GOI has initiated a general review of the trade regime,
with a view to removing the distortions caused by the wide variations in
rates of effective protection. It has also embarked on a program designed
to promote the expansion of nonoil exports, including export financing
arrangements, export insurance, improved ports procedures, export processing
zones and a system of export certificates (duty rebates). However, the
private sector suffers from significant domestic constraints to its
expansion, including a heavy regulatory burden, especially in the area of
investment licensing, and a distorted and poorly developed financial system.
Further policy reforms to alleviate these constraints are needed to create
an environment conducive to private investment.
11.       The energy sector is at the core of the structural adjustment
problem. Oil and gas now account for 98% of domestic consumption of commer-
cial energy and demand has been growing rapidly. If Indonesia is to avoid a
serious reduction in foreign exchange earnings from the oil sector in the
1990s, it is essential to diversify energy usage and improve the efficiency
of energy consumption. This will require both price and investment
measures. In January 1983 domestic oil prices were increased by about 60%,
and this followed a similar increase in January 1982. This was a decisive
step that substantially reduced the differential between domestic prices and
the average opportunity cost; however, price relativities between products
diverge widely from those prevailing on the international market. In
addition a major program of investment is planned, with public and private
participation, in coal exploration and development, exploitation of hydro
and geothermal resources, and a sixfold increase in electric power
generation in the coming decade.
12.       Agriculture will continue to be of great importance for export
revenue (accounting for almost 75% of 1980 nonoil exports), food production
and employment. Rice production has been steadily rising to an estimated
total in 1982 of 23.2 million tons, compared with 13 million a decade
earlier. This achievement is largely a result of the provision of new, and



- 5 -
the rehabilitation of existing, irrigation systems, and the dissemination of
new agricultural technology particularly with respect to the timely delivery
of seeds and fertilizers. Future investment in physical infrastructure,
especially in irrigation and rural roads, combined with a favorable market
environment and good support services will be the main determinants of
further expansion in food production. In the past tree crops have suffered
from relative neglect, and the age structure of the trees is now very old,
but GOI has a highly ambitious program of rehabilitation and replanting,
necessitating substantial investment in manpower and improved organization
of distribution and marketing. Transmigration renmains a high priority
program for promoting development in underpopulated regions, providing
opportunities for landless families on Java, Bali, and Lombok, and relieving
economic and environmental pressures on those densely populated islands.
Financing Development - Domestic Resources and External Capital Flows
13.       With a relative decline in oil incomes, alternative sources of
domestic finance for investment will have to be found. This will require a
major increase in resource mobilization through the public sector, through a
combination of reduced subsidies on petroleum products and increased nonoil
taxes. In 1980 it is estimated that taxes on the domestic economy were only
6% of GDP, if the domestic oil subsidy is netted out, compared with well
over 10% for comparable countries. The 1982/83 budget represented a
significant effort to improve the situation, with a halving in the annual
level of the oil subsidy and a 15% budgeted increase in nonoil taxes, but
this will have to be sustained in following years. In addition to public
resource mobilization it is becoming increasingly important to encourage the
growth and improve the efficiency of distribution of financialized savings,
through an improved financial regime and the development of a domestic
capital market.
14.       Even with effective measures to mobilize domestic resources there
will be a substantial need for foreign savings in the 1980s, especially in the
short-run adjustment to loss in oil income.  The most important component of
this will be in the form of medium- and long-term debt flows. Total disbursed
and outstanding external public debt was almost $16 billion at the end of 1981
and undisbursed debt amounted to an additional $11 billion. The Inter-
Governmental Group on Indonesia remains a principal source of external
capital, including Official Development Assistance, to the country. During
the 1970s, however, Indonesia experienced an unusually rapid transformation
in its public debt structure from a situation of heavy reliance on official
concessional loans to increasing use of private, nonconcessional and
variable interest loans in the second half of the decade. In 1981 private
source debt accounted for 52% of new commitments of public debt. The fact
that Indonesia remains highly creditworthy at the beginning of the 1980s,
and the efficiency with which GOI has managed debt, are clear indicators of
how far the country has progressed. Hlowever, the debt servicing capacity
depends on commodity production rather than a broad industrial base, and
this makes Indonesia somewhat more vulnerable to developments in
international markets. The implication is that debt utilization should



- 6 -
remain very prudent, and that there will be a continued justification for
official debt of long maturities in the 1980s. Present projections indicate
that Indonesia-s financing requirements can be met with the debt service
ratio remaining close to 20% throughout the decade.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA /1
15.       As of September 30, 1982, Indonesia had received 48 IDA credits
totalling $931.8 million, and 75 Bank loans amounting to $4,938.6 million.
IFC investments totalled $136.8 million. The share of the Bank Group in
Indonesia's total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of 1980
was about 10.7%, and the share of debt service about 7.1%. By the end of
1981, these ratios increased to around 11.2% and 7.4%, respectively. Annex
II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans and IFC investments as of
September 30, 1982, as well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
Given the critical importance of agriculture (including transmigration) for
employment, food security and exports, over one-third of Bank Group
supported projects have been in this sector. In addition, loans and credits
have been extended to virtually all other sectors of the economy, including
transportation, education, urban development, water supply, rural develop-
ment, nutrition, industrial development financing (including small-scale
industry), power, telecommunications, population and technical assistance.
16.       During Repelitas I and II, and in line with the objectives of
these first two Five-Year Plans, a high proportion of Bank Group lending was
directed initially toward the rehabilitation and then the expansion of
infrastructure and production facilities. Special attention was also given
to meet the shortage of skilled manpower and technical assistance needed for
preinvestment studies and project execution. Repelita III, published in
early 1979, stressed the need for continued high growth and stability, but
departed from previous plans by placing special emphasis on more equitable
income distribution and poverty alleviation. This focus, which was fully in
line with the conclusions of the basic economic report, required greater
attention to employment generation (particularly in the industrial sector)
and to improvements in basic public services. While Bank lending was
already consistent with these objectives, increased emphasis has been given
to these priorities.
17.       Because the country has moved from a position of resource surplus
to deficit, as discussed in Part I, the development momentum will in all
likelihood decelerate in the short run. To minimize this adverse impact
will require effective policy reform to improve the environment for private
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Provincial
Health Project (No. P-3402-IND), circulated under cover of R83-13, dated
January 20, 1983, and approved by the Executive Directors on February 8,
1983.



- 7 -
investment and to mobilize additional domestic resources so that investments
in industry, infrastructure, tree crop development and human resources
development can continue. The Bank-s program of lending and economic work
is being geared to support the required measures. The primary emphasis of
Bank involvement will be on policy and institutional development and tech-
nical assistance in the key sectors. This will involve a close integration
between sector work and lending and the gradual broadening of lending to the
subsector and sector level in order to assist with policy issues at this
level. The only significant shift in the composition of lending involves a
rapid expansion planned in the education sector, a direct response to the
severe shortage of skilled manpower. In the industrial sector, in-depth
sector work is focused on a policy to promote industrialization which will
build on Indonesia-s comparative advantage in labor and resource intensive
industries. This analysis could lead to those industrial projects which
would facilitate reform in specific subsectors. In energy, sector work and
continued lending is concentrating on policies to diversify Indonesia's
energy base, rationalize pricing and improve sectoral planning. Irrigation
and tree crops will continue to absorb a substantial portion of lending in
view of the importance of these sectors, and continued support for transport
is anticipated. Continued lending in the areas of provision of social
services, in population, health and nutrition, urban development and water
supply will increasingly emphasize institutional support and the development
of innovative low-cost solutions.
18.       The last two years have seen major improvements in the disbursement
ratio /1 from a low of 13% in FY80, compared to a Bank-wide average of 21.31%
in Thailand of 21.2% and in Nigeria of 17.31% in that year, to 18% in FY82.
The poor FY80 ratio was in large part a result of the rapid increase in
commitments during the FY77-79 period when total Bank/IDA commitments to
Indonesia increased by 122% compared to a Bank wide increase of 83%. However,
it also reflected implementation difficulties arising out of GOI's budgetary,
procurement and payment procedures, including issuance of tender documents and
opening of letters of credit. The severe shortage of managerial and technical
manpower of course compounds the problem. A number of steps have been taken
by GOI and the Bank to address these issues. Several special Bank missions
have visited Indonesia to analyze the problems and make recommendations for
simplifying budgetary and financial procedures. The GOI and the Bank have
also instituted formal and regular joint review procedures to identify general
and project specific problems and work out corrective measures. In addition,
procurement seminars were held in Jakarta in September 1979 and November 1981.
As a consequence of these joint initiatives, GOI has taken measures to
streamline some of the complex budgetary and financial procedures affecting
project implementation. The Bank is also helping the GOI in a special effort
to identify problems in the construction industry with a view to developing
/1 The ratio of actual disbursements during the fiscal year to the cumula-
tive undisbursed amount at the beginning of the fiscal year.



- 8 -
appropriate remedial actions and policies. Weaknesses in the domestic
contracting industry have been identified as one of the major causes of
implementation problems in Indonesia. Finally, to reduce initial project
implementation difficulties, many operations are now being presented for Board
consideration at a later stage in the project cycle. As a result of these
efforts, improvements are taking place. This was reflected in an increase in
disbursements from $204.0 million in FY79 to $501.3 million in FY82, and
$301.2 million for the first six months of FY83. It is nevertheless important
that the Bank and GOI maintain their efforts.
19.       From 1968 until 1974, all lending to Indonesia was made through
IDA.' Due to the country-s improved creditworthiness following the commodity
and oil price boom in 1973/74, the bulk of the Bank Group's subsequent
lending has been through IBRD loans, with a modest amount of IDA lending
being justified primarily on poverty grounds, as the per capita GNP was well
below the IDA cutoff of $625. Given Indonesia's much improved credit-
worthiness, IDA lending was discontinued in FY80.
20.        The proposed project constitutes the seventh lending operation
presented to the Executive Directors this fiscal year. Projects under
advanced stage of preparation and appraisal include the Third Agricultural
Training, the Second Nonformal Education, the Second Polytechnics, the East
Java Water Supply projects, and a fifth DFC operation.
PART III. MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT AND THE CONSTRUCTION SECTOR
Introduction
21.       A shortage of qualified technical and managerial manpower is a
major constraint to economic development in Indonesia. While the GOI gives
priority to development of the formal education and training system,
enrollment ratios at the secondary level and above are still the second lowest
in the region. In these circumstances, staff upgrading through inservice
training is needed to compensate for inadequate qualifications and experience.
22.        Indonesia's development strategy for the 1980s stresses the need to
maintain high levels of development expenditure and to generate new oppor-
tunities for employment through investment in infrastructure and services.
This strategy implies a need for expansion of construction activities and a
central role for the domestic construction industry. However, growth in
demand for construction experienced during the 1970s has already strained the
domestic industry. Problems are reflected in low efficiency owing to the
shortage of qualified manpower and in cumbersome contracting procedures. The
GOI plans to revise contract and other administrative practices for construc-
tion (para. 18) and to strengthen manpower. As part of this process emphasis
is being given to upgrading manpower employed by the Ministry of Public Works
(MPW), which generates about half of the value of public sector construction,
or 35% of total construction activities.



- 9-
Public Works Activities and Manpower
23.       The three groups centrally involved in the public works sector are
the Ministry of Public Works (MPW), and the consultants and contractors it
employs. The MPW has three Directorates-General as follows: BINA MARGA,
for roads, bridges and land clearing for transmigration; PENGAIRAN, for water
resource development; and CIPTA KARYA, for urban and regional planning,
housing and water supply. In 1981, these Directorates-General and their
counterpart agencies in the Provincial Departments of Public Works (DPUPs)
managed development projects valued at about $0.75 billion and $0.95 billion
equivalent, respectively. To manage these projects, the MNW employed about
110,800 staff as well as a substantial number of engineering and design
consultants. Nearly all MPW projects are executed under contract by con-
struction firms.  Over 80% of contracts are undertaken by small- and medium-
sized domestic firms, numbering about 23,000. Remaining contracts are
undertaken by 80 large domestic or foreign contractors. The majority of
manpower employed by contractors is supplied by labor subcontractors who
directly hire and supervise construction labor, called mandors, some 40,000 of
whom operate at present. In recent years, the MPW has tried to replace
consultants with staff and to shift increasing responsibilities from the
Directorates-General to the DPUPs. However, the shortage of qualified
manpower in the MPW has limited progress. Major skill deficiencies exist in
program planning and project design, construction supervision, and, at the
provincial level, operations and maintenance. Skill deficiencies are most
pronounced among provincial staff of the MPW (accounting for over 60% of total
staff). The key role of MPW staff in planning and managing the public works
program make them a prime target for upgrading. In the construction industry,
the greatest manpower problems emerge in small- and medium-sized contractors
and mandors in enterprise management, and construction methods and management.
Training for these contractors and mandors, though much needed, is still in an
experimental stage (para. 24).
MPW Manpower Training
24.       In an effort to reduce manpower constraints, the MPW began to
provide in-service training for staff during the mid-1970s. More recently,
the MPW has also supported training for the industry. In 1981, the MPW
budget for staff training amounted about $7.4 million (exclusive of
administrative overheads); 11% of staff participated in short courses
(10,400 staff) or longer training programs, mainly degree and diploma (1,700
staff). About 50% of short courses are delivered in five Regional Training
Centers (RTCs) owned or rented by the central Training Department in MPW,
PUSDIKLAT, and located in Bandung, Surabaya, Yogyakarta, Medan and Ujung
Pandang; and the remaining share is provided in several training facilities
owned or rented by the Directorates-General. Long-term training for MPW
staff is carried out in local universities and overseas. Some 15% of staff
of large domestic construction firms participated in training managed by the
MPW or the firms in 1981. However, experience with training programs for



- 10 -
smaller contractors and for mandors has been limited. A project unit within
the MPW-s Bureau for Construction Industry Development (BSP), arranged pilot
courses for 400 trainees in 1981, in collaboration with GAPENSI (the
Association for Small and Medium-sized Contractors). Costs for contractor
training were shared equally by the MPW and GAPENSI. To date, experience with
this training has been insufficient to guide development of expanded programs
and a gradual transfer of responsibility to the private sector.
25.       Despite the importance placed on manpower upgrading by the MPW, the
effectiveness of staff training is limited by weaknesses in management.  The
PUSDIKLAT is responsible for coordinating training and providing short courses
in cross-sectoral subjects. Three sectoral training units within the
PUSDIKLAT, BIDANG DIKLATS, corresponding to the three Directorates-General,
provide training in the relevant subsectors. The functions and staffing
patterns within the Training Department are inappropriate for effective
coordination, planning, monitoring and evaluation of training activities.
Coordination with recently appointed training liaison officers in the DPUPs is
also generally weak. Shortcomings in MPW staff and program planning further
detract from training effectiveness. Technical support for staff training is
also inadequate. The Training Department lacks a capacity for the regular
development of curricula and materials; the RTCs lack full-time instructors;
an insufficient number of short, job-related courses are provided; and quality
is generally poor. Moreover, available training facilities are inadequate to
support the volume of training provided; and the share of provincial staff
receiving training is low compared to the need.
Bank Lending to the Sector
26.       The Bank supports the GOI strategy to complement pre-service
training with expanded and improved in-service programs in technical and
managerial fields. Although the Bank has not supported a discrete training
project for the construction industry to date, industrial skills development
has been the focus of four education and training projects, for which Bank
Group assistance has amounted to $135.6 million. These projects (Credit
219-IND, Loan 1237-IND, Credit 869-IND and Loan 1904-IND) have been designed
to strengthen and expand technical secondary education, vocational training
programs (pre-service), training for engineering technicians and higher
level technical education. To date, a Project Performance Audit Report has
been prepared for the first of these projects (Credit 219-IND). This audit
(No. 2998, dated June 2, 1980, SecM80-440) stresses the importance of
including fellowships for development of teachers and school administrators,
and appointing key staff for project implementation in a timely manner.
These lessons are reflected in the design of the proposed project.
27.       Project-related training components have also been included in
nine MPW projects supported by the Bank since 1978. Project financing for
these components amounts to about $10 million. A recent Bank report
("Review of Training in Bank-Financed Projects", Report No. 3834 of March 1,
1982) concluded, however, that a more systematic and coordinated approach to



- 11 -
training is generally needed. In line with recommendations of this report,
the proposed project would support development of a comprehensive system to
identify and meet staff training needs in the MPW on a regular basis.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
28.       The proposed project was prepared by the MPW with the assistance
of consultants. Tt was appraised in Mlarch-April 1982 and post-appraised in
October 1982. Negotiations were held in Washington from February 22 to 25,
1983. The Indonesian delegation was led by Mr. Suyono Sosrodarsono,
Secretary General, MPW. The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 4173-IND) is being
circulated separately. Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.
Objectives and Scope
29.       The main objective of the proposed project is to facilitate
execution of the MPW-s construction program by upgrading manpower. This
would be achieved by: (a) strengthening the management of MPW staff
training and related planning activities; (b) establishing a Curricula and
Materials Development Unit in the Training Department; (c) expanding and
rehabilitating the RTCs and providing an expanded program of short courses
for staff; and (d) providing experimental training for small- and medium-
sized contractors and mandors. A second objective is to strengthen general
management capabilities of manpower in key planning and economic posts in
the GOI through provision of fellowships for staff involved with development
planning, financing and related in-service training.
Management of MPW Staff Training Activities
30.       The project would assist the Training Department and the Bureau of
Personnel to introduce improved systems for training management and staff
planning (para. 25). This would be accomplished by provision of office
equipment and materials, several new staff positions, and technical
assistance./l The PUSDIKLAT has been reorganized to facilitiate systematic
coordination and planning of training,including the development of courses,
materials, instructors and facilities. The PUSDIKLAT would also coordinate
regular monitoring and evaluation of MPW training activities; systematic
budgeting and cost-accounting; and related procurement. Staff of the
Sectoral Training Units have been reorganized to facilitate coordination
/1 Technical assistance for this and other project components includes
both foreign and local consultant services. It is expected that the
provisions for local consultants, working with foreign consultants,
would strengthen the skills of domestic firms in manpower planning and
training design and managment, for which considerable demand exists in
Indonesia.



- 12 -
within the PUSDIKLAT for the planning and delivery of sector-specific
training. The Bureau of Personnel would introduce improved procedures for
staff planning and identification of training needs. To support more general
improvements in the management of the MPW work program and training activi-
ties, the project would finance a study to review, consolidate and improve MPW
programming procedures and management information systems. The project also
includes consultant services for studies related to the preparation of future
training projects. At negotiations, it was agreed that staff for new
positions in the PUSDIKLAT, BIDANG DIKLATS, and for staff planning (in the
Bureau of Personnel and in the Personnel and Organization Divisions of the
Directorates General) would be appointed in accordance with a schedule agreed
with the Bank (an understanding was reached that these staff would be formally
appointed by December 31, 1983) (Section 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Curricula and Materials Development Unit (CMDU)
31.       To improve the quality and relevance of short courses for MPW
staff, the project would include the construction, equipping, furnishing and
staffing of a CMDU in the PUSDIKLAT; the development and revision of course
materials; and related technical assistance. The job-related materials
would include case studies and field exercises for cross-sectoral and
sector-specific subjects. They would be prepared mainly by sector special-
ists, in consultation with MPW technical and managerial staff. Course
duration would average 3-4 weeks. Improved courses would be designed to
redress the main skill deficiencies of MPW staff (para. 23). Emphasis would
be given to cross-sectoral and sector-specific courses in program and project
planning and design; surveying and measurement; construction methods,
supervision and quality control; and equipment and plant operations and
maintenance. Refinements in the course development program would be made on
the basis of improved staff planning and monitoring information (para. 30).
In addition, the PUSDIKLAT would evaluate the effectiveness of short courses
in comparison with the longer training programs provided. The GOI has issued
a ministerial decree creating the CMDU and has designated staff for key
positions in the CMDU.  At negotiations, it was agreed that (i) CMDU staff
would be appointed in accordance with a schedule agreed with the Bank (an
understanding was reached that CMDU staff would be formally appointed by
December 31, 1983); (ii) the GOI would design and undertake a comparative
evaluation of MPW training programs in accordance with terms of reference and
a schedule satisfactory to the Bank; and (iii) the GOI would submit for review
by the Bank, at least two months prior to the beginning of each fiscal year,
an annual plan for the development of curricula and materials for short
courses for MPW staff (a schedule for 1983/84 has been prepared and reviewed
by the Bank) (Sections 3.02, 3.03, and 3.04 (a) of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 13 -
The Regional Training Centers (RTCs)
32.        To implement an improved and expanded program of short courses for
MPW staff, the five existing RTCs would be expanded and upgraded under the
project (para. 25). In addition, a new RTC in Jakarta would be constructed,
furnished, equipped and staffed; and two to three full-time instructional
staff would be appointed at each RTC. The project would provide training,
through the CMDU (para. 31), for these instructional staff, who would further
train 800 part-time trainers required to deliver short courses during the
project period. Each RTC would have 270 trainee places, with boarding for
210, and include classrooms, staff houses, a workshop, a laboratory and
related equipment. With use of the expanded facilities, about 80% of the
short courses would be conducted in the RTCs and the number oF staff
participating would nearly double, from about 10,400 in 1981/82 to 20,500 in
1986/87.  By 1986/87, about 14% of MWR  staff would participate In this
training each year. The proportion of provincial staff receiving training
would increase from 7% in 1981/82 to 14% by 1986/37. The GOI has prepared a
plan and budget for the MPW program of short courses for 1983/84 and
designated staff for key positions in the Jakarta RTC. D)uring negotiations,
it was agreed that all staff for the Jakarta RTC and full-time instructional
staff for the existing RTCs would be appointed in accordance with a schedule
agreed with the Bank (an understanding was reached that these staff would be
formally appointed by December 31, 1983); and that the GOI would submit for
review by the Bank, at least two months prior to the start of each fiscal
year, the annual plan and budget for short courses and an overall annual
program for all MPW staff training (Sections 3.02 and 3.04 (b) of the draft
Loan Agreement).
Contractor and Mandor Training
33.        The project would provide an experimental training program  for
small- and medium-sized contractors and mandors to provide a basis for the
development and financing of regular upgrading programs by the private sector
(paras. 23 and 24). The MPW-s BSP would coordinate the training and evaluate
outcomes. The provincial offices of GAPENSI and mandors cooperatives would
prepare annual training plans, select trainees and cooperate in the selection
or revision of training materials to reflect local needs. The courses would
be developed and delivered under contracts placed by the BSP withl local train-
ing entities, and would incorporate experiments with in-plant training in
large firms and on-site advisory services for trainees. The project would
include these contracts, instructional equipment, training for instructors for
mandors courses and related technical assistance. It is expected that the
GAPENSI would continue to contribute about 50% of the financing for contractor
training. About 2,800 contractor staff and 4,550 mandors from all provinces
would participate in the training.  Contractors' courses would cover financial
and contract management, tendering, site supervision and construction techno-
logies; mandors  training would focus on construction methods, measuirement and
site management. Courses would combine classroom and practical experience.
During negotiations, an understanding was reached that as of September 1984 an
interim review of the cost-sharing arrangements for contractor training would
be undertaken. It was also agreed that the GOI would undertake an evaluation



- 14 -
of the training program for contractors and mandors in accordance with terms
of reference and a schedule satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.03 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
Professional Resources Development (PRD) Program
34.       To improve the effectiveness of manpower in key planning and
economic posts in the GOI, the project would also include a program of
overseas fellowship training for staff of the National Development Planning
Board (BAPPENAS), the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of State for
Administrative Reform, the Civil Service Training Institute (LAN4) and
related agencies. Financing for consultant services to assist with program
management would also be provided. The fellowships would be provided in the
fields of planning and management, public administration, economics and
finance. About 113 officials would participate in doctoral, master's or
short-term training programs. The existing Professional Resources
Development (PRD) Program Steering Committee, established under an ongoing
phase of the program (assisted by USAID), would select fellowship candidates
(para. 36). Criteria established for the selection of fellows and fields
of study have been reviewed by the Bank and are satisfactory.
Project Management and Implementation
35.       The project would be managed by existing units in the MPW and by
the PRD Program Steering Committee. The executive authority for management
of the MPW components would be the MPW Secretary General. The Director of
PUSDIKLAT would be supported by a Project Manager and PUSDIKLAT staff to
supervise the planning and implementation of MPW components; design and
manage a progress monitoring system for those components; prepare related
project budgets and maintain project accounts and audits; and procure
project goods and services. A Project Manager, with appropriate
qualifications and experience, has been appointed (Section 3.01 (b) of the
draft Loan Agreement). With the addition of the Project Manager and new
staff under the project (para. 30), the PUSDIKLAT will be fully able to
carry out these responsibilities.
36.       The PRD Program Steering Committee would be responsible for
implementing the fellowship program for government managers. This Steering
Committee comprises senior officials of participating agencies. It is
chaired by the Deputy Chairman for Administration in BAPPENAS and reports to
the Minister of State for Administrative Reform. The Steering Committee has
a technical secretariat which is appropriately staffed to manage the
proposed program.
37.       The project, which would be implemented during mid-1983 to mid-1987,
is in an advanced stage of preparation. The MPW owns the site selected for
the CMDU and new RTC in Jakarta and has completed formalities for its
proposed use. Bid documents for a first phase of construction (including
the CMDU and RTC Jakarta) have been completed to allow construction to begin
in October 1983. The MPW has also prepared master lists for equipment and



- 15 -
furniture and bid documents for a first phase of equipment procurement, to
begin in November 1983. Further, terms of reference, contracts and
invitations to submit proposals for the provision of technical assistance
for all MPW components have been prepared, and are under preparation for the
PRD component, to allow for awards by November 1983.
Costs
38.       The total cost of the project is estimated at $47.85 million,
equivalent. Equipment and materials imported under the project would be
exempt from duties and taxes. Customs duties and taxes on other items are
estimated at about 4% of total costs. Base costs refer to December 1982
prices. Construction costs have been calculated on the basis of recent
tenders for similar facilities in Indonesia. The cost of furniture is
estimated at 10% of construction costs. Equipment costs have been estimated
on the basis of equipment lists prepared by the MPW and reviewed by the
Bank. Technical assistance includes 1,245 man-months of consultant services
(about 732 man-months foreign and 513 man-months local) and 1,598 man-months
of foreign fellowships. Unit costs for technical assistance were estimated
as follows: $12,000 per man-month for foreign consultants (inclusive of
salaries, allowances, and international airfare); $2,140 per man-month for
local consultants and $1,800 per man-month for overseas fellowships. A
physical contingency ($2.9 million), comprising 5% for technical assistance
and 10% for other items, was added to project costs. The price contingency
allowance ($7.7 million) amounts to about 19% of the base cost plus physical
contingencies and was based on the following escalation rates: local-13% in
1983, 10% for 1984 and 7% for 1985-88; foreign-8% in 1983, 7.5% in 1984,
7.0% in 1985 and 6.0% for 1986-88. The proposed Bank loan of $30.0 million
would finance 65% of project costs (net of taxes) including the capitalized
front-end fee of $0.22 million. The GOI, with contributions from GAPENSI
(para. 33) would provide the remaining share of $17.85 million.
39.       The operating costs of the expanded program of short courses for
MPW staff would rise from an estimated $5.0 million in 1982/83 (including
administrative overheads) to about $8.5 million by 1986/87. While
expenditures on training materials would more than double, expenditures for
outside boarding and subsistence would be reduced as a result of the
provision of expanded training and boarding facilities under the project.
Consequently, the average unit cost for training (based on direct training
costs) would remain constant, at about $300 per trainee month.
Procurement
40.       The CMDU and the new RTC in Jakarta would be constructed on the
same site and tendered as a single package with a value of about $2.8 mil-
lion. The value of renovation and expansion for the five existing RTCs
would be about $1.0 million per contract. Based on past experience in
Indonesia, these relatively small and geographically scattered contracts
would not attract international bidders. The six contracts (estimated
total value $7.8 million, including contingencies) would be thus awarded on
the basis of local competitive bidding procedures. Contracts for equipment



- 16 -
and materials would be grouped to the extent practicable to form attractive
bid packages. Those costing $150,000 equivalent or more (estimated total
value $3.0 million), would be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. In bid
comparison, local manufacturers would be given a preferential margin of 15%
or the customs duty, whichever is lower, over the c.i.f. cost of competing
imports. Materials and equipment which cannot be grouped to form packages
of $150,000 equivalent or more, (estimated total value $1.5 million), would
be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding procedures.
Miscellaneous items, in packages not exceeding $25,000 equivalent, and
subject to an aggregate limit of $0.5 million, would be purchased on the
basis of at least three price quotations. Books and other printed materials
would be procured through direct purchase after negotiations for discounts.
Furniture contracts (estimated total value $0.7 million) would be awarded on
the basis of local competitive bidding procedures. Prior Bank review would
be required on awards of $150,000 equivalent or more for equipment and
materials contracts (expected to account for about 60% of value). Technical
assistance, including consultant services and services for arranging
overseas fellowships, would be obtained from consulting organizations.
Employment of consultants would be carried out in accordance with Bank Group
Guidelines on the use of consultants.
Disbursements
41.       Loan disbursements would be made on the basis of:  (a) 55% of the
costs of civil works; (b) 100% of the c.i.f. costs of imported equipment,
materials and furniture; 100% of the ex-factory costs of locally manufactured
equipment, materials and furniture; and 65% of imported equipment,
materials and furniture procured locally; (c) 100% of the costs of
consultant services, fellowships and MPW staff travel costs (incremental)
for short courses; and (d) 50% of the costs of materials development and
production for the program of short courses for MPW staff and for the
preparation and delivery of contractor and mandor training. The
disbursements schedule is based on disbursement experience with other
education and training projects in the region. It shows an above-average
disbursement rate owing to a shorter implementation period and the advanced
state of preparation. Disbursements are expected to be completed by
mid-1988.
42.       For disbursements for travel and materials development and
production for MPW staff training, and for contractor and mandor training,
submission of the numerous contracts, invoices and receipts required for
these relatively small items (amounting to about 15% of the loan amount)
would be unduly costly for the GOI and the Bank. Disbursements for these
items would therefore be made on the basis of statements of expenditure
(SOEs), consolidated on a quarterly basis. Disbursements against other
small local expenditures for equipment and materials, each less than $1,000,
would also be made against SOEs. Supporting documents would be retained by
the PUSDIKLAT at Jakarta and made available for review, as requested, by
visiting Bank missions. Disbursements against remaining project
expenditures would be made against full documentation.



- 17 -
Accounts and Auditing
43.        The Training Department and the PRD Steering Committee would
establish and maintain separate, project-related accounts. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that project accounts would be maintained in
accordance with sound and generally recognized accounting principles and
practices satisfactory to the Bank; that the accounts would be audited
annually in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank, including a
separate audit of accounts related to disbursement against SOEs; and that
the audited accounts would be sent to the Bank not later than six months
after the end of each fiscal year (Section 4.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
44.        The proposed project comprises an important part of the GOITs
strategy for manpower development for construction. The principal benefit of
the proposed MPW staff training components would be improvements in execution
of MPW projects through increased skill levels of staff. Related benefits
would include enhanced efficiency in the identification of training require-
ments and use of training resources. The main benefits of the experimental
contractor and mandor training would be improved skills of those trained and
experience gained in the planning and delivery of such training. Results
would be used to develop larger, cost-effective training programs with a
gradual shift of responsibility to the private sector. The PRD Program is
expected to improve the effectiveness of management in key planning and
economic agencies.
45.        Under the project, the number of MPW trainees in short courses
would nearly double and the share of training provided for provincial staff
would increase (para. 32). Increased expenditures for the expanded program
of short-term training would be offset by improvements in efficiency and
quality. The experiment with contractor and mandor training would increase
the number of trainees from about 400 in 1981/82 to about 1,700 in 1986/87;
about 113 officials from core government agencies would participate in the
PRD Program.
46.        The development of an improved management system for job-related
training for MPW staff would require strong central support and commitment
from the three Directorates-General and the DPUPs. A risk exists that
commitment would be inadequate. To reduce this risk, the improved
management system has been designed to encourage coordination: training
needs would be identified within the operating units, practicing engineers
and managers would be fully involved in course design and in training; and
the existing training activities of the Directorates-General and provincial
liaison officers would be continued and enhanced through the joint develop-
ment of better standards, methods and training courses. The strengthening
of evaluation and monitoring arrangements would be an integral part of these
improvements. A related risk is that the PUSDIKLAT and the RTCs would be
unable to manage project implementation effectively while simultaneously
developing and introducing improved management practices and courses. This



- 18 -
risk would be minimized by the provision of an experienced Project Manager,
new staff to be appointed to PUSDIKLAT (including staff for facilities
planning, procurement and financial management), and related consultant
services.
47.        In the case of contractor and mandor training, a risk exists that
the planned courses would be ineffective. To reduce this risk, the main
responsibility for identification of training needs, trainees, and necessary
course revisions would be placed on contractors and mandors through the
professional associations.
DART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
48.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and the
Bank and the report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. Special conditions of the project are listed in
Section III of Annex III.
49.        I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
50.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
March 11, 1983
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
- 19 -                                      Page I of 5 pages
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDONESIA                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV7RAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                   - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) a
TOTAL           1919.3                                           MOST RECENT       LOW INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL     316.5                   1960  lb    1970 /b      ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC         ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                       80.0        140.0           430.0             261.4                  890.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)          124.7        121.9           225.4             448.7                  701.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)      94680.0    116143.0         146557.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)      14.6         17.1            20.2              17.3                   32.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULArION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                                 216.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                                   376.3
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                             2110
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                            49.3         60.5            74.6             158.1                  255.9
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND         355.9        378.8           452.4             355.9                 1748.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                              40.7         44.0            40.1              36.8                   39.9
15-64 YRS.                              56.2        53.4             56.9              59.7                   56.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                        3.1          2.5             3.1               3.5                    3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                   2.1          2.0             2.3               2.0                    2.3
URBAN                                   3.7          3.6             4.0               3.3                    3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)          46.8         40.7            35.3              29.3                   31.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)          24.5         17.2            13.3              11.0                    9.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                   2.8          2.7             2.2               2.0                    2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)            ..        181.1          2216.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)         ..          0.2            27.1              19.3                   36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)               93.0       102.0            113.0             108.1                  115.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OP
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                        86.3        93.9            101.7/c            97.3                  106.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)               38.2         42.4            44.8/c            56.9                   54.4
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE             5.6          6.2             6.67E            20.0                   13.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE          22.9         16.8            11.3              10.9                    6.7
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)         41.2         47.3            53.1              57.8                   59.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               149.9        120.9            92.7              89.1                   63.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                    ..          3.0            12.0/d            32.9                   32.0
URBAN                                    ..         10.0            35.07-            70.7                   51.9
RURAL                                    ..          1.0             6.07d            22.2                   20.5
ACCESS TO EXCEETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                    ..         12.0            15.0/e            18.1                   37.7
URBAN                                    ..         50.0            60.0CT            72.7                   65.7
RURAL                                    ..          4.0             5.O7e             4.7                   24.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              46778.7      26498.5         13674.6            3297.8                 8540.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          4517.0       7672.8          8871.6            4929.3                 4829.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                1360.3       1644.6          1609.9/d          1100.4                 1047.5
URBAN                                 251.8           ..           699.0/d           301.3                  651.6
RURAL                                    ..           ..          3166.8/d          5815.7                 2597.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                 ..          ..             22.4/e             ..                   27.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                   4.4          4.8
URBAN                                   4.9          5.3
RURAL                                   4.3          4.7
AVERAGE NUMfBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                    ..          1.5
URBAN                                    ..          1.6              ..
RURAL                                    ..          1.5              ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                    ..           ..              ..
URBAN                                    ..           ..              ..
RURAL                                    ..           ..               ..



ANNEX I
- 20-                                               Page 2 of 5 pages
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDONESIA                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT      LOW INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b      ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC         ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                      71.0        78.0             94.0              97.4                   96.2
MALE                      86.0         83.0            100.0            101.0                    99.8
FEMALE                    58.0         73.0            89.0              87.8                    92.1
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                       6.0        16.0             22.0              53.0                   37.6
MALE                      10.0         21.0            27.0               63.8                   41.1
FEMALE                     3.0         11.0            18.0              41.3                    34.1
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)        20.4        22.1             19.8               1.7                   20.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                                38.8         28.9             37.2              37.7                   35.5
SECONDARY                               14.0        13.1             17.0              20.2                   25.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)             39.0        56.6             62.0              52.1                   73.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                               1.1         2.1              3.5/c             1.5                    9.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                              7.2         22.0             41.9              35.4                  116.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                              0.1          0.8              8.6               3.2                   37.6
NEWSPAPER (-DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                       11.0           ..            17.7/d            16.4                   53.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA        2.8                          o 0.87W           3.6                    2.8
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)         34791.4      41069.9          52582.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                       27.8         30.9             29.3              29.5                   33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                   75.0        66.0             58.0              70.0                   52.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                      8.0         10.0             12.0              15.0                   17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                     36.7        35.4             35.9              40.0                   38.5
MALE                                      54.2        49.5             51.0              51.8                   50.5
FEMALE                                    20.0        21.6             20.9              23.8                   26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                    1.2         1.3              1.2               1.0                    1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS           ..          ..             23.5/d
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS         ..           ..             49.47.
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS           ..          ..              6.6/d
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS           ..          ..             14.4Td
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                     ..          ..            136.0             133.8                  194.7
RURAL                                    ..           ..            112.0             111.5                  155.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                    ..           ..            119.0                ..                  178.2
RURAL                                     ..          ..             98.0                ..                  164.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                    ..           ..             28.0              43.8                   24.4
RURAL                                    ..           ..             51.0              51.7                   41.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/aa China included in total only.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977; /d 1976; /e 1975.
may, 1982



-21 -                                                        ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5 pages
DPtONiTCCSo OF SOCtL, iINDICATOe
lotte:  k.lthousit the do   .   drot-  fro  sorc .gatreily judged the mastouhoritettee ed reliable, it should  ito he note  that they may non he intr--
nationally cne5crbli hecane  of the ioni of etodardi.ed definitiono             o end .oncptS nod by different c--tine Ln colleting the dote.  The date ste.ne
theirs..  nf o1 to de..cribe order. of tg    itu ..idicate trend.. end che-cteisa cetain m-J.r difftere-e  betner co-trie.
The refen-r  group  or  ii () the tou  cootry group of the euhiret country end (2) a coutry groep with   nhthigh..r o-gs income that the ecootr  poop
of the  tje7tn ceotry  (_nept to-   "High Incm          oil Enpornar" grop ther  "Niddle I-m   -tom   Africa end Middle Lent  Ia chose  htcomt of  tne..g-r
eoco-oloeiefiorte) It thel rinto-   group dat  oh   vcae   r  ppuletion meightnd erinh-ic atone for each iodiceto  end ehe  cly the
maoIty othe ......ctnic  in arcp bee date foc that idtcatr.  nc-. the c-nores  of couuccie  uncu  theintetr  depode onbth  eviluhility of doto
and Le not -uif oe  coIo Lnt toe nouritd int.. rietsn                    ofrae   cin  indicutor noanthr   The. en -eces  are only onofol incooo   the valu  of
oe tndi-ennc eta  ti-n    ng the  ountry ond refernc...        ,.n
AeRA  Ithoeond eq.ke.)                                                                          Populution pen tieine  ted - total. unhet. end tnl-Ppltc    tt
Tona  - To1 -f-eroc  ae   1oceglnd tne cud inland cetera; 1979 date.                            urban, and roro1l dvided by themi eepctia    ehe  of boepito1 had.
Asri-ol-1e  - fatiatte of ugri-ulun1  -n  otnd truPorarily or Pe.n--nty                         evetlabin in Pablic Antd Pniv-tr  genra  and epciolined hoepite1 andne
for cr-P., paatnree.  -mna  end kitchen gerdno  or to lie fallen; 1979 deta.                  hobilcenion-- cener .ioPittnl  ac  netbiliebhence prnmaennl  tnetf
by et   ee..t one PbYatoi-c  te-bliebm-nt  pronidiog crincipelipcy to
GNP? PEU CAPITA (US$) - it?Pe  ca .pita               .....t...a curren t mro  pctna,-             dialcr  ur   onioldd   nrl  opiot  heoe.inld  hnalth
nn1ettd icy -ea  co-eric  method ne W-rId tnOtle  (197840 hesie); 19I0.                         and  mele   munsnt _pntrtly *tfttd b                   hy.cict   (hut by
1970. cud 1980 dAta.                                                                             nd Ical essat   oe.sd n  etc.) tthinc oftf   n-aietaco
detion ed prnotdn a liniced rnrof mdicu1 tentlitire.  fo  no-            s
tINUf  COSUMPlnTION PMk InpIT, - A-nalcnemtinof  -onta.  -cugy (cool                              lit-e  poryonee  -rh- hoepitale inclde taOe pri_ctpel/gsoure1 hoepitola.
end l1ignt., pstn-le.fnaturel gas end hydr-. nucea  andl geohouele-                             end roro1 h.sttuls. loclor1 rore1 hoep ita1  oud medical end metnity
tnictty) In kilogra  cicol eqoi-eIrt psr rapine; 190.17. ndi19                                  cst .  SP:nleliend h-oPitttla  ar  ulu1drd oly uder-oal
data.                                                                                         Admineicte car  Ptoeita  ted - Oct1 -ntorfc eduiesiono   otor deche-gne
trthniaedinided by tin nctrr ci bed..
POPULATIONI Att VITAL STATISTICS
ToaMooaio   id-TY-  (tic-nde) -       of c  July 1; 1960. 1970. and 1980          HOUttnc
UrbanPouacc  (cren             oa)-Rtic of orhen no total populanict;                           A hO..!,dcotat,f   gOP of ioiiulno    hant lacing qo-tree
dii tersondnfiniclcn    of - uchnuu    ey offIrct  ow ...bility of dune                 and their auo Inolt.  A bs-dnr or lodgc may or   nonot hr included ic
aeng  ontrite;1960. 1970. urd 1980 dote.                                                     the ho...ehold forsatsiclporp..n..
tonat npuenonby ege od sen end their  -tnolity and fnctil ity  ete.tdetne   npcity    ,nlneonuocrroettunran
P-ojr-nio  par-tntrr  for  -atlioy cat.  oupi   of thnro 1-lronlaeo_                        -.onn pled ports.
ire life e-p--tn     en hitrth i-crnating  Ith ....r'arycopino Income                     Acc.a. to Z-ectic ity tycocni c  doLlIon         - .tte, -rta..adrua.
level, and team   lifrrnpncnnncyncnhiiiringes  70.5 yrnnc. ~~The  er-      Cocoent .. toaldeIL'nI nich niectictty In lInIng quaters a  p--rne
mannaton feriiy  aeuloho  trrloetnoigd-c1in  inofton   -b ..hor, nd cure  d-rtligein-pe-fney
fn-tiltcya-c-dttg on  occ-  It=o  ned poet tautly -I'n..o yng        tnane
techfcootny is hb: see igod on: c  tIme nineccknetn of  -ernaity                       tOIICATIOT
nd  tetilicy trnd    -rprletlnpopoe.                                                    Adjouced Oc-11-o  cotton
Stt..tunosy pnoloo-n tnntiotey   poplacion ctron Is cc gr-nh et                               Plan   coo     ttl  a-Ir and fre1l  - Crone total, melt en  fale
the hitch nts. it eqoal to the deat  rota. ond eno the 5e, 'nICt""  o-                        noclatc   l  gs.  at the pnti-y 1-vr  as percocntgr  of crepetine
eut- oetocetn .  Thin In achieved only otter fenlicY tarts dn.ltn  no                         Pnln  ecool-ege popolu-lone; nor-aly i-oloden ohjl d-n need h-il
the roplcemeIt Lnonl of uni net reproduction tte,  hhemo  de-e-ti-t                           yernho  odjoetd ton dIff-rnn   lengths of Prinny ndcontin; for
of ennn neplcee toeif roctly.The  tutinne    popolantorue  u                        roire  olh i_eoa  education enrolmen  ny eceed 100 percent
natatd  nciehut  of the Pro jected char... iatcof the population                     sInc   ou   otl.r  brine or eh-r hr ottico1 echool tgr.
intb  Year 20009. ad the ntst ni dnclicc of fortiliny rte to replac-icoaysho-                                 cotol,1 -in end freuIt - Cutpttd Pt abone; necodacy
_acc tene.                                                                                    ndcotiin reuie  on bust four ye-r  of epprved piory insrution;
Yest utotionr   Lonano   is--nhd - Thit yea   h- etaticury population                           ,r-dagueo,ontonl   rteher:: i.                         icton  oe  n  ppl
tire vil he  .ochd.oualY of 12 cc 17 5mc ogf   cnneodrne -                                                                                            nner  fnoa-
Population tnal,y                                                                                 -ocldrd.
Pen so. ke. - id-y-a  pnpol-oionP per ..oat~ kilneet-  (Ill heotert..  of                   Inoiolerllet(non   f ucondan,y)     oainlisiuin
Octe  ame; 19c. 170 and1979 dene.                                                     iocldr    h.iticl   od-ttn,ioL, or othe   pRga   notch opertet 1ndaprd-
Pm  eq. in. ognicuore  len~d - CosPutnd en cho- for agri-lt-rl laud                            -ntynn0  dryotcnott of nacodary iocnuo~ioti_
only;  960, 170 and1979 deco.                           ~Ppil-teaher  et.ti - ptnooy. sod tconder_-Totnl  -tdnnttrnI'lled to
Poynloion hr Otnocurn(penneI) - Child-n  (0-li yearn). e-kitog-gon  (12-                 Prier  ot .d n-ocdey leo1i  diolded icy o-tc-  ofceachere in the
hi Yearn ), ed retired065 pr-r  nod oe)s   conor   fnid-peen p.p.-                            coornPondioctnes
laIIo; 1960. 1970,t and 190desAduit.lit--en-t. (croce-t) - Lit--onrdolts  tahlr no tend and ccitt)
Porulotioc Ir-ni  mt.n toencent   --1ne  - uncool g-nh -sn- of totai rid-                                         ofpceccec  ct-t adult ruruliaoio  a0td 15 .n... .ndout
prnpouaio   u  1950-60, 19h0-70, and 1970-60.
Poruloin. month  _o_c trncnn                _ -uranO .oa   gronh ren   f -bhan poyc-        CONS2ITION
leioeto  19500, 1960-70. and 1970.80.                                                  Pitienta   oe(e  choco,nod rpuni)-Pornecnecpis    ie
crodr ninthtsr(rthoad               Annol lion hittthn per thou...nd of tid-y-O                 cr  erotcg  enacha  rihh.ioa   o tu~doahlacthersan
population; 1960, 1970, end 1980 data.                                                        ailntoryo-hol-i
Crude lanih tune (P.,rthuo.e.d..    Mont dsotha par cth...aod  of rnd-y-a                     naic tncclcnr  (p-rnhn...a.dArrinio              llpiyyt of r-j-dernfcc radio
popolet1on;, 1i9.60,' 1900, and 1980 date.                                                    bnoodcos.ts to Beoonnal ~puh~ito pet cho.udofpoplation; e...oeso-
osRprducio   tenr-ico-rgr number of d-ushtrrsonaoill haur in                              Ii .c..ard rece-toesin tncieu nod Icpsosin ryg-erani    of  .edi.
her, oa --    prI d-onorpet-       If ch,speIII'es prelel Ige-eproif   fr-                    "rnno  to rIn tect; daaton f- nocyn-r  ny con bheco-.brnhirenct
...cyrce;unIn flo-Year sotaeeding in 11960. 19702..ud 1980.                           en        t oonirs  bholishnd lcoi
PFaily Plnn1iog A-icc -por. An-ie  (thcua..ndnl - ona       bo-ie  of occoptons               2Otnnor  lr  ituan          0nlnc) -TO  enursinbro-dnat to
of hirb-coonol doitn cder copie   of taloni fesily pienniug profru-                      go-rceli ptIc p-r thouan  popolaton  toI        oe   nio-nd TV  ericere
Pselly  lenninaUnrrr lercenoIf tarriedjen) - Pencrcege, of tarriedt                    in  outresod in  ernY-   nh.n roit iof TV 09 nts ne in nffsot.
ene   f chil-hrnritgtg   (15_44byan   a   n    trth-cItr    delet                         nnaerCruaio(e  chSoudprtain       ho.tnheuoeregeoir-
alt taried coe  to s-e  age soop.                                                             -ulot. locof "doil  ge,%nera  itrrs   repr,deficed as    pridinol
publi-titon drooted poitatly to  -rodiuf gseto  noa.I  Jac.             edee
POOD ANst NOTtITION                                                                               tc be 'dotty' if in  IP..e  to l_ne  fou  niLi  ove
Indet o.f Pood    1 Prdoic  per-d Ceit (199-7 1.17)    oIdeno"    ancpc'uco                   Cionee hencl itnendac-r Prc Inpil p-c Oru  - Bt..ed on nh, ouero
productiondopfal  food ooanitoa.  Prcducnoonruclodeefnsed'end fend ond                       clnircke  -cd during thn y-ar, lntlditgoditslocno.'.d in_-in cieu_n
in ot caledar yea  hbia.  Cofdini-sc--e  prisry goods(e.g.. euga..oo.                         nod abilt units.
itoutnd of iarehich ore ndiblr and  ..n.. octiit(e.g otfes. and
t:ireae  nludcd     Ageaepnootion of eth coctry in hond.. dLABOR FOtCf
otinlerarpnodncsr pri~ticenighte;19614),19170. nod 1980 data.                     Toto1 Loho  Ports (th .....ndu) - Eco.ono-co1y octtce  -rrone  toudio
Per o.pino  -upIl  of c tiorie  (perenc  carnote) - CO'   td.rn.refrr  en-d  -cterlyedho1                                           ot171b      onotes  ooeno  ec,
--rgy  q.utal-t of er  food acoptliou  -oofiehi  In conr-e`           npt                      oni p~  Rpopltioofci  g.                iticoca  c curiou  o-oncies  r
Pot day.  innilaiirbrl     in  oore  doe-to prodoctic."  leportn lean                         cct  -p-blah; 1960. 1970 cod i980 d-n..
nnycrnt. adntne  Itsok.tn ppllne enludn anion teed, aerda,                                    -oae(eno)-ftl   eo   ooa  pncr-cgn ci noon1 lborfoce
quntte  cud in fodII         oeeng   nd loners In dntinunib-n.  Requit-                      Aotclcr  (eonn   - laho  fore tofario,foir 11, hu1ntin  ond
-rntrrenttrd by F0O hosed on phyiloogcc  cord  fo   or-o  ucti-                           fitting aa -pr tnirf  of otoIL  lahor to=; 1960, 170 cod 1980 den..
cit~y andLheath cnidering anvinntcnt treeor,hd~y eniht.  age                                  lodu      cacc)-Labor force it ninJog.  -Osictico  tnftuing
cod Se  dintributino of pcoolnri-n  and a11ning 1 tc  -rrcen   f -coero                         aud niactricity, ea te  nod gnonptr-etagr of nott laortoe
hoonehold le-t; 1961465. 1970 acd 19727dote.                                                    1960. 1970 and 1980 dens
PnrcupEitc .0pml of p-connaos per -;dey) - Pnunrinoo--nc   of pan c-pIn                       Ponc~fiPtyni- coon  tpnc)- 1nn, tale, cod foam   - Pnntciipation o
nnoply  tfo   pr     -a.   Pe oyl   f fodIReiado   hc.I-                                  scivityra...tenercsp.ted to toto1, note, and fanlo labc tore-u
qort tfor nit c---ti-ra     . cooite  ty  OO  provide ton "ni"un                        y-cntugca of noo. nat  nod  .innate  popotailo  of all age  -encti_rly;
uloeoe   ci 600r-  of total  protin  -m dey nod 20 gran  ofb_a   0                       90   90   nd18   aa    irnunhtd cn 71.0' ip-arbip.ticcuIrt-
poirn connin.0n hath 10 ge- sbol.d hr anita   rti.Thasod                                lcic8nn-o   unun             ftrpopoluioc. and long time nro
Ins 'cllc ta  ch.-osecf7  grae  of col yroccio und 03  fr- o                          n  c-nint-i    fron canin..nu.. -cnn..
nniaa  protnn on -c __ccg  for iha  -ncid, p.c...rd by Pun 'i.nzch  Tir                    tocaotoolocdo    oi  - cutio of popolonion ocd- 15 and it5 nod o
Wnrld Pood Iccocy; 1961-65. 1970 and 1977 dta,                                                to cha total labcr to...cr.
Prcanito protil enply frt0 noadco  rl-Protoin  sopply of food da-
riced fros -niel  sod poetin g=uepen doy;191-65, 1970 o.d 1977 dota.                     19C009 DIStTRIiUTION
Child (aur  1-4) teoh tan  (pr  chunod    A- hea  deatho pot tho...cod ic                     baocacc   rnc   noe(oth in och ucd hind) -  eotod by ctctre
agr grop1-year.t   hldcoin Ohio  S ag- np, tot mai droctoy lg -0cc-  '                        5 yen-toni  rittat~IO22 pcoc, po--tu 20 yrc-- ..ud yc-t-  40 p-cent
oteti  dece dented fo   Ife             1960; i, 1970 ond 19cc dons.                          of ht...aboldo.
L.ife toEtPtacy an Birnh (yeoar(   A-Aoeccgeouhar   of y--r of lift retininThtlotog                          nu hato  rcoc%yyonItIecatn    f pcocci p1mtto
ent birth; 1960. 1970 and 1960 dc.                                                             nd th-uld ha i--or-nnod 4h  cidablcito
Intent Ihur-litto coon (c- tho..n.d) -   -ouo  deothe of itfennuun.d- one yar                 nucitaca~d Ataloont Poory ct  loca  (U91 yent clout. - crbc ond rual-1
Aof  ge per thi.....d 10cc tbtho; 1060, 0970 and 1000 dota                                     Oholo t ocn   conio)iina   cotitltao   tc                               tia
..re  to gem~ Wennr Icoc--  of popooto  -tnl uban,  I,d c..uI - Ot-                           con-iccollyaduoodaplsnccalo-fdrnlcncoi   c
bar of prople  nnl   -nc,an   ua ) oichnronc .h...oteacoefe                                   uffordohr.
n--e .u.h      th nOo  tloc prcnccd b-orhulno..,  'nprigt  ad soloyolt   e                    cRcin-aic 1ur p  ccner  t   n-third of e...ugn yen tapi,,
p__-tur   t  hi -       eaeoic pI'lll e-.icnnb-nrapclcPerecol icce                                             hf  i  counicy   00bcc modonI       atudfr_  nt   ct
t -ontl  or --udys  t-totadi .cut mae thot11 mcaenfaho rtohrlailtit odjannoct f-un g~' -l0ec  onc  lining in -rbocuca
cooaidrrndl sob hem0  ithin  ecos, it  oocre_ of chat h..u..e.     -tonior1                 Ettlion-d Pnlto   no    iocrPccyIon   L.-t (Py-oca                         -b
crasooctln acent ocoOd io ty cbco the-tceItao.    nbr  of nhc  o-rahold                acdr-t-1   P--ac  of pPopleti-c tc-b- and cora) ot   cc'h.            tn
do coo I'vl no  ,,Id adiuynoyorioon-  ypc  of thc doy  to fanchlng ttchco
Nui  I..cpt  (ot l,obo.-  nod curd   or-od by ---et  di.poIulon1
o_.... f ttorrnyetlnn_ icyoluc toot -n fcc diepo-l auy locudc
the  oletlo  ad dispceel, noth or ~init-  ocoao.of h-t.cror-t
no   .sc-su -by c-n-b-rn tyo-es  or nt~  -n cf pin pcioiouod  iuin-
Popclutico con PhXnloli- - Poputottoc dlnodod by nonb- ot  -tclioic0  htynn-                                                        Ococi  ccd botie1 Dc liciolio
otunt q-liftad f-n  I acdical school             ......rni   lend                                                            t1cci    ,cuyic  o  yr)cnno  eorat_
P 1oulac fon   N...Ocring P-cuoo    Pcy-ui- Onddby cunbnt of yroci.itcoi   1982
no_ienndtcalc grudto  Ioottoaeo-in-onItco.ycn-lca-Irn nad



- 22 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5 pages
Population         147.4 million (mid-1980)
GNP per Capita:  US$520 (1981 estimate)
INDONESIA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Annual growth rate (2)
Amount                                   (at constant 1973 prices)
(million US$ at
current prices)                        Actual                          Estimate            Projected
Indicator                             1980            1975   1976   1977   1978  1979         1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product /a          70,024            5.0    6.9    8.8       6.9     5.3    9.7      7.5    2.1    4.8       5.0    5.0
Agriculture                      18,003            0.0    4.7      1.3     5.2     4.0    5.5    3.5    3.1    1.7         1.6    2.2
Industry                         29,227            5.6   11.1   14.2    5.9        5.5    9.0    8.7   -5.5        7.0   10.0    6.0
Services                         22,794           10.1     5.9   12.0    8.9       6.9    8.5    9.0    7.0        5.0    5.0      5.0
Consumption                        48,976            6.9     6.4    7.9      8.5    9.9   11.6    6.6   10.3    2.3    2.4    3.6
Gross investment                   15,176           14.6    6.0   16.0   15.0    4.4   17.8   23.0    6.3            1.0   -1.0      4.3
Exports of GNFS                    21,365           -9.7    12.5   22.4    1.9   -1.0   -4.2  -10.5  -11.5           1.9   15.0    6.7
Imports of GNFS                    15,494            7.9     8.1   22.2   15.6   13.9   13.6         6.0    8.0   -2.0       2.0     2.0
Gross national savings             17,576          -19.7   12.0   33.3   -2.1    37.1   -2.1         8.0     3.0    2.0    4.0       5.0
PRICES
GDP deflator (1973 = 100)                            166    190    214    237        311    400    440    493    542    591    638
Exchange rate                                        415    415    415    442    623    625    625    625    625    625    625
Share of GDP at market prices (x)                            Average annual increase (%)
(at current prices)                                     (at constant 1973 prices)
1960   1970   1975   1980   1985   1990           1960-70     1970-75      1975-80    1980-85       1985-90
Gross domestic product        100    100    100    100    100    100               3.9          8.4          7.5          5.0         5.0
Agriculture                   54     47      32      26      22      17          2.7          4.1          4.1         2.5          3.5
Industry                     14      18      34      42      44      46          5.2         12.0          9.7         5.5          6.5
Services                     32      35      35      33      36      36          4.8          9.7          9.0         6.5          5.0
Consumption                  91      89      79      70      74      74          4.1          8.4          8.9         5.0          5.0
Gross investment              8      14      20      22      26      27          4.8         18.3         11.7         6.0          4.5
Exports of GNFS              13      13      23      31      23      18          3.6          9.2          8.7        -2.4          1.8
Imports of GNFS             -13    -16    -22    -22    -23    -19               3.2         22.1         14.0         2.5          3.5
Gross national savings        8       9      17      25      25      22          6.1         23.1         14.4         4.8          5.3
As % of GDP
1960           1970             1975            1980
PUBLIC FINANCE /b
Current revenues                                                             11.7            10.1            10.5            23.4
Current expenditures                                                         14.0             8.4             9.3            13 3
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                                   -2.3            +1.6            +7.1           i10.1
Capital expenditure                                                           n.a.            5.0            10.7            13.5
Foreign financing                                                             0.2             3.5             3.7             3.4
1960-70          1970-75             1975-80          1980-85          1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
Annual GNP growth rate (x)                                 4.5              7.6                  6.9              4.9              4.8
Annual GNP per capita growth rate (%)                      2.4              5.1                  4.5              2.5              2.4
Annual energy consumption growth rate (2)                  2.9             16.0                 15.0              7.0              6.0
ICOR                                                       2.2              2.2                  3.1              4.5              4.3
Marginal savings rate                                      0.30             0.48                 0.30             0.2              0.3
Import elasticity                                          1.2              2.8                  1.9              1.2              0.7
/a At market prices.
/b Central Government only, on an April-to-March fiscal year basis.
East Asia and Pacific Programs
January 3, 1983



- 23 -
Population    :  147.4 million (mid-1980)                                                                             ANNEX I
GNP per Capita:  US$520 (1981 estimate)                                                                               Page 5 of 5 pages
INDONESIA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(Millions US$ at current prtces)
Actual                      Estimate                 Projected
Indicator                   1977      1978      1979     1980      1981      1982       1983      1984      1985     1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS /a
1.  Exports                             10,861   11,353   17,494   22,245   20,295    20,698   24,125   27,829   42,761   50,179
(a)  Oil & LNG (gross)              7,354    7,374   11,323   16,661   16,541    16,550   19,033   21,772   32,824   38,308
(b)  Nonoil                         3,507    3,979    6,171    5,584    3,754          4,148    5,092    6,057    9,937   11,871
2.  Imports (including net NFS)        -10,686  -11,493  -14,035  -18,649  -23,541   -22,683  -23,507  -25,358  -34,514  -41,856
(a)  Oil sector                    -2,909   -3,364   -4,348   -5,884   -5,572    -5,053   -4,682   -4,706   -6,591   -7,164
(b)  Nonoil imports                -7,241   -7,543   -9.028  -11,790  -15,340   -15,340  -16,466  -18,561  -25,521  -32,022
(c)  NFS (net)                       -536      -586      -659      -975   -2,629    -2,290   -2,359   -2,091   -2,402   -2,670
3.  Resource balance                       175      -140    3,459    3,596   -3,246    -1,985          618    2,470    8,248    7,816
4.  Factor services                       -865   -1,015   -1,261   -1,205   -3,852    -4,482   -5,210   -6,267   -9,141  -10,719
(a)  Interest public debt            -441      -514      -772      -819   -1,118    -1,319   -1,617   -1,953   -2,605   -2,836
(b)  Other (net)                     -424      -501      -489      -386   -2,734    -3,163   -3,593   -4,314   -6,536   -7,883
5.  Capital grants                          66        46        52       76       100        100       100       100       100      100
6.  Balance on current account            -624   -1,109    2,250    2,467   -7,000    -6,357   -4,491   -3,698           -794   -2,804
7.  Direct foreign investment              285       271       217       140      276        350       450       600      800    1,000
8.  Public M & LT loans
(a)  Disbursement                   1,956    2,205    1,865    2,536    5,180          5,922    6,384    6,473    6,234    7,091
(b)  Amortization                    -825   -1,548   -1,329        -953   -1,376    -1,720   -2,042   -2,440   -4,052   -5,120
(c)  Net disbursements               1,131      657       536    1,583    3,803        4,202    4,342    4,033    2,182    1,971
9.  Other capital (net)                   -140       891   -1,261   -1,454    1,274        1,897       456      -202     -210       -22
10.  Change in reserves (- increase)    -651         -708   -1,690   -2,736    1,645          -82      -757      -733    1,977       -45
11.  Net official reserves                2,208    2,916    4,606    7,342    4,709         4,791    5,548    6,282   11,180   12,148
Reserves in months of nonoil
imports + NFS                        3.4      4.3       5.6       6.9       3.7        3.8      4.0       4.1       5.3       4.6
Memorandum Item
Net foreign assets of the banking
system /d                                 -         -    6,906   10,787    8,509        7,091    7,348    8,082   12,980   13,948
Total reserves in months of nonoil
imports + NFS                           3.4       4.3      8.6      10.1       6.7        5.6       5.3       5.3      6.2       5.3
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT /b
Gross Disbursements                     1,956    2,205    1,865    2,536    2,356
Concessional Loans                        442       484       433       679      802
Bilateral                               381       448       399      631       729
IDA                                      49        29        30       42        68
Other                                    12         6         5         6        5
Nonconcessional Loans                   1,514    1,721    1,432    1,858    1,552
Official export credits                 218       271        61       25       154
I8RD                                    191       168       199      331       106
Other multilateral                       16        12        46       52        86
Private - source                      1,089    1,270    1,126    1,450    1,206
External Debt (fixed-term)
Debt outstanding & disbursed /d   11,658   13,107   13,233   14,882   15,529
Official - source                   7,077    8,390    8,434    9,400    9,746
Private  - source                   4,583    4,717    4,799    5,482    5,783
Undisbursed debt                      4,475    5,839    7,932    9,454   11,288
Debt Service
Total service payments                1,262    2,062    2,101    1,772    1,974
Interest                              441       514      771       819       973
Payments as % exports /e               11.6      18.2      12.0      8.0       9.0
Average Interest Rate on New Loans
(%)                                     6.3      7.6       6.6       8.4       9.1
Official - source                       5.4       4.6       5.0      5.0       7.8
Private  - source                       8.6      10.2      8.6      12.8      10.4
Average Maturity of New Loans
(Years)                                20.5     18.7      19.1      19.0      15.6
Official - source                      23.9      30.1      25.8     24.8      20.8
Private  - source                      10.4       8.6      11.1     10.0      10.7
As % of debt outstanding at end of 1981
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                                                                30.9
Maturities due within 10 years                                                                               60.2
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                                                                4.1
/a  On an April-to-March fiscal year basis.
7b  Excludes private nonguaranteed loans.
Ic  Includes foreign assets of deposit money banks in addition to official reserves.
Jd  At end of period.                                                                                   East Asia and Pacific Programs
Ie  Oil exports treated on gross basis.                                                                         February 3, 1983



ANNEX II
- 24 -                      Page 1 of 29 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1982)
US$ million
Loan/                                                              Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                              (less cancellations)
Number   Year              Purpose                       Bank     IDA   Undisbursed
Twelve Loans and thirty-four Credits fully disbursed  559.3   491.5
400     1973   Smallholder and Private Estate Tea         -       7.8         1.4
428     1974   Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate              -      16.5         7.5
479     1974   Bali Tourism                               -      16.0         1.9
514     1975   Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension             -      30.0         1.6
1100     1975   Sixth Irrigation                          65.0     -           7.6
1179     1976   Agricultural Research & Extension         21.5     -           1.3
1197     1976   National Resource Survey & Mapping        13.0     -           4.0
1236     1976   Fourth Highway                           130.0     -          19.8
1237     1976   Fourth Education                          37.0     -           6.2
1250     1976   Second Shipping                           54.0     -           4.7
1267     1976   National Food Crops Extension             22.0     -           2.2
1268     1976   Seventh Irrigation                        33.0     -           8.0
1318     1977   Transmigration and Rural Development   30.0        -           3.5
1336     1977   Second Urban Development                  52.5     -           7.0
1337     1977   Tanjung Priok Port                        32.0     -           9.3
1365     1977   Sixth Power                              116.0     -          31.5
1373     1977   Nutrition Development                     13.0     -           4.5
1433     1977   Teacher Training-Fifth Education.         19.0     -           7.7
1434     1977   Eighth Irrigation                         63.0     -          36.3
1435     1977   Ninth Irrigation                          35.0     -           6.7
1472     1977   Second Population                         24.5     -          12.8
1486     1978   Non-Formal Education                      15.0     -           4.9
1499     1978   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I        65.0     -          25.4
1513     1978   Seventh Power                             94.0     -          33.9
785     1978   Small Enterprise Development               -      40.0         9.2
1578     1978   Tenth Irrigation                         140.0     -         115.2
1579     1978   Eleventh Irrigation                       31.0     -          17.5
827     1978   Rural Credit                               -      30.0         3.7
1604     1978   Nucleus Estates & Smallholders II         65.0     -          51.8
869     1979   Polytechnic                                -      49.0        36.9



ANNEX II
- 25 -                        Page 2 of 29 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                                Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
1645    1979   Twelfth Irrigation                         77.0      -          52.0
1653    1979   Third Urban Development                    54.0      -          28.5
898    1979   Fifth Technical Assistance                  -       10.0         9.2
1691    1979   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control          50.0      -          35.8
1692    1979   Second Agricultural Training               42.0      -          22.7
1696    1979   Fifth Highway                             123.2      -          83.5
1703    1979   Fourth BAPINDO                             50.0      -          10.9
919    1979   Transmigration II                           -       67.0        30.0
1707    1979   Transmigration II                          90.0      -          89.5
1708    1979   Eighth Power                              175.0      -         104.1
1709    1979   Second Water Supply                        36.0      -          28.9
946    1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development                -       12.0        10.3
1751    1980   Nucleus Estates & Smallholders III         99.0      -          69.9
984    1980   Smallholder Rubber Development              -       45.0        36.3
995    1980   Fifteenth Irrigation                        -       45.0        33.2
996    1980   National Agriculture Extension II           -       42.0        40.9
1811    1980   Fourteenth Irrigation                     116.0      -          95.0
1835    1980   Nucleus Estates & Smallholders IV          42.0      -          35.8
1840    1980   National Agricultural Research             35.0      -          35.0
1014    1980   National Agricultural Research              -       30.0        28.1
1869    1980   Third Population                           35.0      -          34.5
1872    1980   Ninth Power                               253.0      -         224.9
1898    1981   Smallholder Coconut Development            46.0      -          43.9
1904    1981   University Development                     45.0      -          44.1
1950    1981   Tenth Power                               250.0      -         205.5
1958    1981   Swamp Reclamation                          22.0      -          19.6
1972    1981   Fourth Urban Development                   43.0      -          41.3
2007    1981   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder V          161.0      -         155.7
2011    1981   Second Small Enterprise Development   106.0          -          53.3
2049    1982   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway                   85.0      -          85.0
2056    1982   Eleventh Power                            170.0      -         170.0
2066    1982   Second Seeds                               15.0      -          15.0
2079    1982   Bukit Asam Coal Mining
Development & Transport                185.0     -         167.7
2083    1982   Rural Roads Development                   100.0      -         100.0
2101    1982   Second Teacher Training                    80.0      -          80.0
2102    1982   Second Textbook                            25.0      -          25.0
2118    1982   Sixteenth Irrigation                       37.0      -          37.0
2119    1982   Seventeenth Irrigation                     70.0      -          70.0
2120    1982   National Fertilizer Distribution /1    66.0          -          66.0
2126    1982   Nucleus Est. & Smallholders VI             68.1      -          67.1
2153    1982   Coal Exploration Engineering /1            25.0      -          25.0
2199    1982   Central Java Paper and Pul. /1              5.5      -           5.5
/1  Not yet effective.



- 26 -                      ANNEX II
Page 3 of 29 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                                  Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                 (less cancellations)
Number   Year                Purpose                        Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Total Bank loans and IDA credits                4,611.60  931.80
Of which has been repaid                      -162.60   -5.93
Total now outstanding                          4,449.00  925.87
Amount sold to third party              28.24
Amount repaid by third party          -27.21       -1.03
Total now held by Bank and IDA /a               4,447.97  925.87
Total undisbursed                              2,813.9   250.20   3,064.10
/a Prior to exchange adjustment.



- 27 -                        ANNEX II
Page 4 of 29 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1982)
Fiscal                                Type of            Loan    Equity    Total
year          Obligor                business           ---- (US$ million) ----
1971   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement              10.6       2.5       13.1
1971   P.T. Unitex                  Textiles             2.5       0.8        3.3
1971   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles               2.0       0.5        2.5
1971   P.T. Kabel Indonesia         Cable                2.8       0.4        3.2
1972   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.         Textiles             4.5       1.5        6.0
1973   P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel    Tourism               11.0         -       11.0
1973   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement               5.4       0.7        6.1
1974   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles               2.0       0.3        2.3
1974   P.T. Monsanto Pan            Electronics          0.9         -        0.9
1974   P.T. PDFCI                   Devel. Fin. Co.        -       0.5        0.5
1974   P.T. Kamaltex                Textiles             2.4       0.6        3.0
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement               5.0       1.5        6.5
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement                 -       1.1        1.1
1977   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.         Textiles             0.4         -        0.4
1977   P.T. Kamaltex                Textiles             1.3       0.2        1.5
1979   P.T. Daralon                 Textiles             0.9         -        0.9
1980   P.T. Papan Sejahtera         Capital Market       4.0       1.2        5.2
1980   P.T. Indo American
Industries           Glass Dinnerware  11.1         0.9       12.0
1980   P.T. Semen Andalas           Cement and
Indonesia            Construction
Material           48.0       5.0       53.0
1982   P.T. Saseka Gelora Leasing Capital Market         4.0       0.3        4.3
Total gross commitments                            118.8      18.0     136.8
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled                 78.6       5.7      84.3
Total held by IFC                                   40.2      12.3       52.5
Undisbursed (including participant's portion)   30.82          0.3      31.12



- 28 -                       ANNEX II
Page 5 of 29 pages
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
As of September 30, 1982
These notes are arranged by sectors in the following order:
Page No.
Agriculture
Irrigation (514, 1100, 1268, 1434, 1435, 1578,                              6-10
1579, 1645, 1691, 1811, 995, 1958, 2118 and 2119)
Other Agricultural Projects   (400, 1318, 1707/919, 1499,                  10-14
1604, 1751, 1835, 984, 1898 and
2007, 2126)
Agriculture Support Services (1179, 1267, 996, 1840/1014 and 2066)   14-16
Rural Development (946)                                                       16
Agro-Business and Credit (785, 827 and 2011)                                 16-17
Education (869, 1237, 1433, 1486, 1692, 1904, 2101 and 2102)                 17-20
Energy (1365, 1513, 1708, 1872, 1950, 2056, 2079 and 2153)                   20-22
Industrial Development and Finance
Industrial Estates (428)                                                      22
Development Finance Companies (1703)                                       22-23
Population and Nutrition
Population (1472 and 1869)                                                 23-24
Nutrition (1373)                                                              24
Technical Assistance (898 and 1197)                                          24-25
Transportation
Fertilizer Distribution (2120)                                                25
Highways (1236, 1696, 2049 and 2083)                                       25-26
Marine Transport (1250)                                                    26-27
Ports (1337)                                                                  27
Tourism (479)                                                                   27
Urban Development (1336, 1653 and 1972)                                      28-29
Water Supply (1709)                                                             29
/1  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -                       ANNEX II
Page 6 of 29 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
AGRICULTURE
Irrigation
Credit No. 514 Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension: $30 Million Credit of
October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 10, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Initial organizational difficulties, extensive changes in the design
of project works and delays in awarding civil works contracts are expected to
substantially delay project completion by four years. All major contracts
for civil works have been awarded, and the last of these is expected to
be completed by mid-1984. The total project cost is currently estimated
to be about 90% over the appraisal estimate, mostly because of delays. Dis-
bursements at the end of June 1982 were about 94% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1100   Sixth Irrigation:  $65 Million Loan of April 10, 1975;
Effective Date: June 20, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is currently expected to be completed by March 1985,
about four years behind the original completion date. This is mainly due to a
delay of more than one year in the completion of bidding documents, followed
by a delay of about two years due to delayed land acquisition, delayed
payments to contractors and the effects of the 1978 Rupiah devaluation.
Another year's delay has been added lately by the postponement of drainage
works in both Rentang and Cirebon subprojects due to budget constraints.
Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 88% of the appraisal
estimate. Because of the continuing delays the Closing Date has been
postponed by two years.
Loan No. 1268   Seventh Irrigation:  $33 Million Loan of June 4, 1976;
Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
The main components of the project are tertiary development on an
area of 100,000 ha served by irrigation systems rehabilitated under previous
projects and the construction of 6,000 ha of a new irrigation system in the
Sadang area of South Sulawesi. The construction of tertiaries has progressed
well and gained such a momentum that the scope of work was increased to
115,000 ha. About 111,000 ha have been completed and the balance was
expected to be completed by March 1982. The construction of North Sadang
has suffered a delay of about four years due to design revisions and late
award of contracts. Completion of the project is expected by March 1984.
Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 75% of appraisal estimate.



- 30-                      ANNEX II
Page 7 of 29 pages
Loan No. 1434   Eiglhth Irrigation:  $63 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The main components of the project are rehabilitation of the Madiun
Irrigation System (Stage I) serving an area of about 75,000 ha, including
30,000 ha of tertiary development, a pilot ground water scheme for 2,800 ha in
the Madiun-Solo area and the improvement of flood control, drainage and road
networks on 5,700 ha of coastal land in Ciujung.  Only the drainage works and
road improvement in both the Ciujung and Madiun subprojects are expected to be
delayed due to budget constraints and lack of experienced staffing. GOI has
mobilized additional engineers and foreign consultants for construction
supervision at Ciujung and has tapped additional sources of funds to keep the
Madiun works on schedule. Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were 40. of
the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1435   Ninth Irrigation:  $35 Million Loan of June 6, 1977; Effective
Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The project includes (a) rehabilitation of 8,000 ha of irrigation
system, drainage rehabilitation on 19,000 ha of the Sedeku area in Central
Java; (b) new irrigation pumping system on 3,280 ha at Sungai Dareh-Sitiung
(Stage I) in West Samatra for transmigrants; and (c) feasibility studies of
ten small to medium irrigation projects and of the Sungai Dareh-Sitiung
(Stage II), with detailed designs. Delay in completion of the Sedeku
irrigation drainage rehabilitation by about three years continues, compared
to appraisal estimate. The Sungai Dareh-Sitiung (Stage I) construction has
progressed well, with pumps commissioned and trial runs made. The main and
secondary canals are completed, the tertiary network is 80% completed, but
land development is lagging. Feasibility studies of the ten small to medium
irrigation systems have been completed. The Situing Stage II system studies
and designs are completed, and construction was financed under Ln. 2118-IND
(Irrigation XVI). Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 78% of
appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1578   Tenth Irrigation:  $140 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
The project includes:  (a) rehabilitation and improvements of about
34,700 ha of Kali Progo irrigation system; (b) improvements of about 19,900 ha
of Way Seputih; (c) improvements and expansion of about 63,100 ha of Way
Sekampung irrigation projects; (d) studies and detailed designs of two dams
associated with (b) and (c) above; (e) studies of Dumnoga and Gumbasa irriga-
tion projects; and (f) consulting services for the above and also studies of
two dams in the Kali Progo project area and extension of irrigation to Bekri,
West Rumbia, Way Kandis and Way Ketibung in Lampung Province. Due to initial
delays in survey and mapping of the irrigation service areas, delay in decid-
ing canal capacities till completion of the dam studies and staff shortage
during the years 1979 and 1980, the implem entation of Way Seputih and Way
Sekampung components are behind schedule by abouIt two years. However, the
field surveys and the dam studies have now been completed and the staffing
situation has improved.  The construction tempo and standard of construction
in the Kali Progo area has also improved. The GOI has decided to delay



- 31 -                       ANNEX II
Page 8 of 29 pages
construction of the Batutegi Dam to serve the Way Sekamping system since other
dams on Java appear of higher priority. Downstream works will therefore be
restricted until dam construction starts to ensure an adequate rate of return.
The Dumoga irrigation project studies were completed and construction
financed in Irrigation XV (Credit 995-IND).  Dilsbursements at the end of June
1982 were 35% appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1579   Eleventh Irrigation:  $31 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The Cipamingkis irrigation subproject, to serve an area of about
7,600 ha is progressing well, the headworks with intake structure were com-
pleted by end 1981. The main and secondary canals to serve 3,820 ha are pro-
gressing on schedule, but there is a setback of nine months in the rest.
A delay of 9-12 months is expected in assigning consultants for tertiary
design, with a consequent delay in tertiary construction. The project is
currently estimated to be completed by mid 1984, a delay of 18 months compared
to appraisal estimate. The hydrological measurement program is expected to be
completed by March 1984, with a delay of about 2 1/2 years. It is expected
that there will be $4 million savings which will be used to finance the
tertiaries for the Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension Project (Credit 514-IND)
which did not cater for the higher intensity of canals now adopted in all
systems. Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 53% of appraisal
estimate.
Loan No. 1645   Twelfth Irrigation:  $77 Million Loan of December 29, 1978.
Effective Date: May 10, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
The project includes: tertiary development on about 186,000 ha of
the Jatiluhur Irrigation System, W. Java; drainage improvement in the Cisedane
irrigation area including upgrading of roads in W. Java; and studies of
drainage and flood control in Pemali-Comal and Sadang irrigation areas; tidal
and swamp lands development for about 350,000 ha in the Lalang and Mesuji
areas of S. Sumatra, and the Sebangau area in Kalimantan; and detailed
designs for reclamation of about 110,000 ha of swamp land in Karang Agung of
S. Sumatra. The area of tertiary development has been increased to 205,800
ha. All the civil works contracts of Cisedane drainage and roads improvement
are awarded, currently estimated to be completed by March 1985; a delay of
over two years over appraisal estimate. Studies are mostly completed; the
remaining are expected to be finalized by 1982. Disbursements at the end of
June 1982 were about 40% of the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1691   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control:  $50 Million Loan of
May 7, 1979; Effective Date: October 16, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
The main components of the project are flood protection levees,
bank stabilization and river training works on the lower Cimanuk river,
widening of the Rambatan Channel and construction of a hydraulic control



- 32 -                       ANNEX II
Page 9 of 29 pages
structure at Bangkir, the Cimanuk river estuary study and the flood control
operating and flood forecasting study. Good progress has been made on the
civil works and various studies. Civil works are expected to be completed
by mid-1984. The latest supervision mission recommended that the
implementing agency should consider using the savings for procurement of
additional operation and maintenance equipment such as dredgers, dozers,
draglines, dump trucks and loaders. The equipment will be useful for
emergency repairs of other rivers such as Cisanggarung which causes damage
during the wet season. The latest project cost estimates indicate that $6-8
million loan funds will remain unused by the completion of the project. The
list of equipment to be procured using the savings under the Loan is being
reviewed.  Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 59% of appraisal
estimate.
Loans No. 1811 Fourteenth Irrigation: $116 Million Loan of April 3, 1980;
Effective Date: July 3, 1980; Closing Date: January 31, 1986
The main components of the project are construction and rehabilita-
tion of drainage and flood protection works on the Serang River to reduce
flooding of some 61,000 ha of farm land, rehabilitation of '-he Madiun
Irrigation System (Stage II) serving about a 65,000 ha area and tertiary
development serving a 120,000 ha area in the Pemali-Comal and Pekalen Sampean
subprojects. The project contracts for flood mitigation works for the Serang
River have been awarded after one year's delay. Works in the Madiun area
and the tertiary development are progressing well ahead of schedule. Dis--
bursements at the end of June 1982 were about 72% of appraisal estimate.
Credit No. 995 Fifteenth Irrigation: $45 Million Credit of April 3, 1980
Effective Date: July 3, 1980; Closing Date: January 31, 1985
The project includes (a) completion of Kosinggolan Irrigation
System on about 5,000 ha and construction of the new Toraut Irrigation system
for 6,600 ha; catchment protection and nature reserve on an area of about
100,000 ha; institutional support through consultancy services and training;
and studies and investigations of four irrigation systems. Construction of
the Toraut headworks and the first 2 Km of the main canal which commenced in
January 1981 were greatly delayed but the contractor has now agreed to work
to a revised program to be completed by May/June 1983. Award of two ICB
contracts is behind appraisal schedule by 15-18 months. This subproject is
currently estimated to be completed by June '1985 compared to March 1984 in
the appraisal estimate.  GOI has commenced implementing the "Dumoga-Bone
National Park" master plan covering an area of about 270,000 ha. The Bank
will review progress in late 1982 before finally agreeing with the GOI
proposal to finance US$1.1 million from the credit for the expanded National
Park as against US$0.7 million provided for the Nature Reserve. Four
studies included in the project should be completed by early 1983, present
progress is about 50%.  Institutional support program willl continue up to
June 1984. Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 60% of
appraisal estimate.



ANNEX II
- 33 -                    Page 10 of 29 pages
Loan No. 1958 Swamp Reclamation: $22 Million Loan of March 31, 1981;
Effective Date: July 9, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The project assists GOI's effort to reclaim and settle swamps by
implementing a 9,000 ha swamp reclamation and settlement project at Karang
Agung, South Sumatra. In addition to physical works, the project comprises
the preparation of future swamp investments, an ecological impact study, an
investigation of groundwater for drinking, and project monitoring. The major
works contract for construction of canals was awarded end-1981 and consultants
for construction supervision were assigned in March 1982. Consultants for
studies are being recruited. The project completion is likely to be delayed
due to the eight months' delay in the start of construction. Disbursements
at the end of June 1982 were about 75% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 2118  Sixteenth Irrigation:  $37 Million Loan of April 5,
1982; Effective Date: August 9, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1987.
The project will complete construction of the Sitiung Irrigation
System (Stage II) in Sumatra to serve about 7,600 ha of transmigrant and
local farmer lands; improvement of management systems of the Directorate
General of Water Resources Development (DGWRD); training and support for
water users and their associations; expansion of DGWRD's basic hydrological
data network; and studies for development of the Cisanggarung River Basin
and detailed design of the Jatigede Dam.
Loan No. 2119 Seventeenth Irrigation (East Java Province): $70 Million Loan
of April 5, 1982; Effective Date: Not yet effective; Closing
Date: December 31, 1988.
This is the first irrigation project to be concentrated in a
single province and implemented through a provincial irrigation service. It
will rehabilitate existing surface irrigation systems serving about 50,000
ha; develop groundwater irrigation systems to serve about 13,000 ha; upgrade
operation and maintenance for about 140,000 ha of irrigation systems already
rehabilitated; and strengthen the East Java Provincial Irrigation Service.
Other Agricultural Projects
Credit No. 400 Smallholder and Private Estate Tea: $7.8 Million Credit
of June 22, 1973; Effective Date: November 30, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project provides for credit through Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI)
to improve productivity on 10,000 ha smallholder tea and 3,200 ha private
estates (PTPs) tea, rehabilitation of five private estate tea factories,
construction of two new factories for smallholder leaf; training of extension
staff and tea growers, studies for marketing, diversification and BRI



- 34 -                       ANNEX II
Page 11 of 29 pages
management. The project is making a substantial contribution to smallholder
tea industry with 8,500 participants against the appraisal estimate of
7,000. Of the five private tea estates participating, two are excellent,
two are fair and one is poor. Progress on construction of the PTP XII
factory, to process smallholder and estate tea, is satisfactory. Extension
and training has helped about 16,000 smallholders. The project still
suffers from weak management, loan collection is deteriorating and many
scattered borrowers make loan servicing difficult. Disbursement at the end
of June 1982 were about 70% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1318   Transmigration and Rural Development:  $30 Million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Effective Date: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
After a slow start which resulted in extension of the Closing Date
to December 31, 1982, the project has shown continuous progress since
mid-1980 and is expected to be completely disbursed by end-1982. In
Baturaja, 4,400 families (98% of target) have been settled and 1,300 shal:Low
wells (91% of revised target) have been established. The pasture develop--
ment program is well established in Baturaja and Way Abung and 8,800 cattle
(93% of target) have been distributed in both sites. Rubber development is
almost completed with only 400 ha (6% of target) to be planted in 1982.
Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 88% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1707   Transmigration II:  $90 Million Loan and $67 Million Credit of
(Cr. No. 919)   June 1, 1979; Effective Date:  October 4, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
About 800 families have been settled to date and an estimted 3,000
of the proposed 30,000 families will be settled by the end of the next fiscal
year. Sufficient land has been mapped in Jambi province for 20,000 families
but half of these sites have been excluded from the project because they lie
in production forests.   No other areas in Jambi province are likely to be
suitable for large scale settlement and land has been identified in South
Sumatra for 10,000 families. Because of the importance of land identifica-
tion, about $50 million has been allocated from the Transmigration II
project for site selection and evaluation for the GOI program. Delays in
settlement and rehabilitation components have led to slow disbursement and
cost overruns and much remains to be done to ensure sustainable food crop
production. Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 1.7% of
appraisal estimate. Agencies are better informed about the project than
they were previously and are working conscientiously. To circumvent
problems of land shortage and increasing implementation de'lays: (a)
settlement targets should be reduced to 20,000 families, (b) about
one-fourth of project funds should be allocated to mapping and consultancy
services; and (c) current disbursement rates should be maintained. To speed
implementation, the size of land clearing contracts should be reduced and
contracts should be tendered for each site as it is prepared.
Recommendations have also been made which



35                           ANNEX II
Page 12 of 29 pages
would permit action on Singkut rehabilitation and simplify procurement. To
improve incomes, actions should be taken to reinforce agricultural services
and introduce tree crops into existing and new communities. To accomplish
these objectives changes in the loan documents would be necessary.
Loan No. 1499   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders I:  $65 Million Loan
of November 18, 1977; Effective Date: January 12, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The nucleus estates have planted about 60% of the 11,500 ha of
rubber to be established for smallholders and will complete about 72% by the
end of the current planting season; have constructed about 3,400 settler
houses and settled about 1,035 families. In their own estates, the nucleus
estates have rehabilitated 18,400 ha of rubber, planted 7,200 ha of rubber,
3,700 ha of coconuts, and 5,600 ha of oil palm, exceeding project targets
for rubber planting and rehabilitation. Three rubber factories and one palm
oil mill have been constructed. However, as there were start-up delays in
some smallholder planting, and some civil works construction will not be
completed on schedule, the Closing Date has been extended to June 30, 1984.
Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 58% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1604   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders II:  $65 Million Loan of
July 12, 1978; Effective Date: September 13, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Progress with rubber and infrastructure development has slowed
but construction of settler houses, preparation of food crop areas and the
enrollment of settlers are on target. Action has been taken to speed up the
lagging operations and the project is expected to be mostly completed by
June 1985, except for the rubber replanting component in Jambi Province
where farmer response has been poor. Particular efforts are being made to
encourage farmer participation but the 4,500 ha replanting target is
unlikely to be achieved by that date. The project Closing Date will
probably have to be extended to June 30, 1985. Disbursements at the end of
June 1982 were about 30% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1751   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders III:  $99 Million Loan of
August 13, 1979; Effective Date: November 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
All implementing agencies have made good progress. Although some
components are slightly behind schedule, the overall project is on or slightly
ahead of schedule. About 7,500 ha of rubber have been planted, half of which
is for smallholders. About 420 settler houses are occupied and garden lots
established. In 1982, one of the estates, PTP I, was upgraded to take over
responsibility for completing the Alue Iemerah smallholder component under
NES I (1499-IND). Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 55% of
appraisal estimate.



ANNEX II
- 36 -                        Page 13 of 29 pages
Loan No. 1835   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders IV:  $42 Million
Loan of May 16, 1980: Effective Date: August 11, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
Smallholder oil palm planting is on schedule and of excellent
quality. Village layout, settler house construction, and road development
are a little behind schedule due to problems of land availability. However,
these problems are being actively addressed by the implementing estate
(PTP X) and the Project Coordinating Committee, and project completion is
likely by target date. Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 66%
of appraisal estimate.
Credit No. 984 Smallholder Rubber Development: $45 Million Credit
of April 3, 1980; Effective Date: May 23, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
The project continues to progress satisfactorily, by early 1982 over
9,700 ha rubber or 85% of plan was planted. Delays in road construction are
affecting project implementation and supervision, and measures to speed up
progress are under review. Training of field staff and smallholders will be
kept strictly practical; visual aids are being prepared. Creation of a
trainer/coordinator position at provincial level but working at the Project
Management Unit level is being considered. The creation of an internal audit
unit and timely recruitment of staff to deal with financial matters is
urgently required. Four studies, including a feasibility study, for an
eventual second project are nearing completion and after review by GOI will
be submitted to the Bank for review and comment. There are no major problems
with this project, apart from the requirement to strengthen management and
the seriously delayed procurement of vehicles. Disbursements at the end of
June 1982 were about 101% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1898   Smallholder Coconut Development:  $46 Million Loan of Augast
25, 1980; Effective Date: November 25, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
Although the planting programs of tall and hybrid coconuts under
the project seem reasonably on target, the results being achieved are gener-
ally not satisfactory. Problems relate to lack of control of project manage-
ment in Head Office, Provincial Offices (PO) and Coconut Working Centers
(CWC) regarding the selection of suitable planting areas and participating
smallholders, technical control and supervision of planting and maintenance
standards, timely supply of seednuts and of essential inputs, and slow
release of project funds, and thus a slow rate of withdrawal application
and disbursements. To improve control of field operations some restructur-
ing of the project in its scope and management structure is needed, by
reducing the project area and reorganizing the PO/CWC management system.
GOI agrees in principle with this recommendation and proposes to take
necessary action. Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 19% of
appraisal estimate.



- 37 -                      ANNEX II
Page 14 of 29 pages
Loan No. 2007   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder V:  $161 Million Loan of
June 26, 1981; Effective Date: October 21, 1981;
Closing date: June 30, 1988
The project would develop about 53,000 ha of tree crops (rubber, oil
palm, coconuts), food crops and house gardens in West Java, West Kalimantan
and Bengkulu provinces with public sector estates as implementing agents. The
project has made a good start including the nurseries establishment, initial
planting for the smallholders in West Java, construction of some roads,
estates offices and smallholders' houses. Disbursements at the end of June
1982 were about 115% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 2126   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder VI:  $68.1 Million Loan of
April 23, 1982; Effective Date: July 23, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1988
This loan was declared effective on July 23, 1982. The project
will assist the GOI's nucleus estates and smallholders development program
by establishing 28,200 ha of tree crops (rubber and coconuts), food crops and
house gardens in West Java, Bengkulu and Maluku provinces with public sector
estates as implementing agents.
Agriculture Support Services
Loan No. 1179   Agricultural Research and Extension I:  $21.5 Million
Loan of December 19, 1975; Effective Date: February 23,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project will close on December 31, 1982. Civil works in Sungai
Putih and Sembawa (rubber) and Sukamandi (rice and palawija) were behind
schedule and are now almost complete. Most of of the field and workshop
equipment, furniture and vehicles have been received and contracts for
laboratory equipment and chemicals for Margahayu (highland vegetables) and for
Sungai Putih and Sembawa have been awarded. Ten agricultural information
centers (AICs) under the Agency for Agricultural Education, Training and
Extension have been constructed, furnished and equipped. Two additional
centers at Aceh and Ambon are under construction and will have to be financed
from another project after closing of this project. Extension materials are
being produced and distributed from the completed AICs. Loan proceeds are
expected to be almost fully disbursed at the closing of the project.
Loan No. 1267   National Food Crops Extension; $22 Million Loan of
June 4, 1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The targetted programs for construction, equipment procurement and
training have been achieved. Some additional activities in these fields
which are included in the follow-up project, the Second National Agricultural
Extension Project (Cr. 996-IND) are currently being undertaken. These are
expected to be completed within the revised closing date for the Loan of
December 31, 1982. Overall the project continues to make satisfactory
progress.



- 38                       ANNEX II
Page 15 of 29 pages
Credit No. 996 Second National Agricultural Extension: S42 Million
Credit of April 3, 1980; Effective Date: July 3, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
Substantial progess has been made with the construction and reha-
bilitation program for the Rural Extension Centers and the Training and
Visits System is progressively gaining more strength.  Contact farmers and
their associated farmers groups are responding to the two-weekly meetings
with the field extension workers. Staff shortages in the field extension
workers and extension subject matter specialists cadres and shortages of
motor cycles for field staff are continuing problems; also, the strengthen-
ing of training in extension packages in nonrice crops needs early actions.
The project unit is aware of these deficiencies and steps are expected to be
taken to address the problems; although the staff shortfall may continue
into the next fiscal year. A unified extension system embracing other
subsectors has not yet begun to function although keen interest in this
approach is evident in some Provinces and could form the basis for
developing a workable system.  Overall, the project is making satisfactory
progress.
Loan No. 1840   National Agricultural Research:  $35 Million Loan and $30
(Cr. No. 1014) Million Credit of May 16, 1980; Effective Date: July 16,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1990
The project is the second phase in the strengthening of the overall
institutional framework of the Agency for Agricultural Research and Develop-
ment (AARD)
for agricultural research in fruits, lowland vegetables, livestock,
fisheries, forestry and estate crops other than rubber and industrial crops.
Directors for the Central Research Institutes and for Research Institutes
and Centers already approved by the Minister of Agriculture have been
appointed. Civil works for the six locations planned for 1980/81 are going
ahead and contracts for most of the civil works planned for 1981/82 have been
awarded. More than fifty candidates for long-term local fellowships have been
selected. A contract for consultancy services has been executed between AARD
and the International Agricultural Development service.
Loan No. 2066   Second Seeds :  $15 Million Loan of January 15, 1982;
Effective Date: March 11, 1982; Closing Date: June 30,
1989
This project provides for: establishment of 18 medium Seed
Processing Centers (SPCs) for the National Seed Corporation, P. T. Pertani
and Cooperatives; six small SPCs for Cooperatives; additional equipment and
facilities for five Food Crops Research Institutes (FCRIs), Provincial Seed
Farms and Seed Control and Certification Services; establishment of a
diploma course on seed technology at the Bogor Agricultural Institute; and
in-service training, technical assistance and studies for strengthening the
institutions operating in the seed subsector. Locations for the five medium
SPCs to be constructed in the first year have been decided on and land



ANNEX II
-    -                        Page 16 of 29 pages
acquisition is in progress. Tender documents for the SPCs are being
finalized for issue of tender shortly. Long-term consultants are also
expected to be appointed shortly. The first supervision mission has been
recently fielded.
Rural Development
Credit No. 946 Yogyakarta Rural Development: $12 Million Credit of
August 13, 1979; Effective Date: December 5, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1987
The improving trend in overall project performance discerned
during the October 1981 supervision has continued. Activity targets are now
being substantially met with the exception of the Small Scale Industries (SSI)
and Village Health Components. Firm recommendations have been given to
improve performance of these two components which should yield early,
positive results. If, however, results are not forthcoming, firm steps should
be taken either to terminate them or simplify their objectives and scope.
Project performance rating has been upgraded to 2.2.
AGRO-BUSINESS AND CREDIT
Credit No. 785 Small Enterprise Development: $40 Million Credit
of April 7, 1978; Effective Date: August 17, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This project provides technical assistance to strengthen GOI's small
credit programs, KIK/KMKP, and credit assistance to small-scale enterprises
(SSEs) in West Sumatra and East and Central Java which account for about a
third of countrywide KIK/KMKP loan approvals. Satisfactory experience with
this first Bank-assisted pilot project has led to a nationwide SSE develop-
ment project which is supported by the Second Small Enterprise Development
Project (Loan 2011-IND). The credit component is fully disbursed.
Credit No. 827 Rural Credit: $30 Million Credit of June 23, 1978;
Effective Date: November 3, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985
This project provides long-term credit to about 40,000 smallholders,
primarily for fisheries, perennial crops and livestock, and technical assis-
tance to Bank Rakyat Indonesia for program development, training in term
lending, credit procedures and accounting and management information
systems. Due primarily to delays in obtaining consultancy services, the
project is about nine months behind schedule. Following extension of the
project to cover additional provinces and commodities, it is rapidly
catching up.



ANNEX II
Page 17 of 29 pages
Loan No. 2011   Second Small Enterprise Development:  $106 Million Loan of
June 26, 1981; Effective Date: October 16, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31,1984
From the three regions covered under SEDP I the project has expanded
to cover all 27 regions in Indonesia where the Small Investment (KIK)/Small
Permanent Working Capital Credit (KMKP) program is being implemented. Small
credit lending financed under the project continues to expand rapidly. Annual
loan approvals of over $1 billion in 1981 reached about 12-14% of known
small-scale enterprises throughout the country. In addition to technical
assistance designed to strengthen banks' small credit operations, the project
also provides for industrial extension services under the Directorate General
of Small-Scale Industries (Ministry of Industry). The loan became effective
on October 16, 1981 and disbursements are on schedule.
EDUCATION
Credit No. 869 Polytechnic: $49 Million Credit of December 29, 1978;
Effective Date: May 11, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project objectives are to establish a new system for training
engineering technicians, improve the quality of accountancy training and
practices, and assist in strengthening education planning and management. The
project would establish a Technician Education Development Center (TEDC), six
polytechnics and four accountancy development centers and include technical
assistance and associated studies. The project is making good progress and
implementation is on schedule without a cost overrun. The TEDC building has
been completed and construction of the six polytechnics is near completion.
Equipment contracts for the TEDC and the six polytechnics have been awarded.
The first batch of students was enrolled in the six polytechnics in 1982.
The expert services and fellowship program are progressing satisfactorily.
The accountancy component after initial delays, is now making good progress.
Three study contracts have been awarded and two are being awarded.
Disbursements are on schedule.
Loan No. 1237   Fourth Education:  $37 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: June 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1983
The loan is helping to finance physical facilities and related
technical assistance for: (a) two faculties of technology at existing
teacher training colleges and four new centralized workshops for technical
training for the Ministry of Education and Culture (MEC); (b) 17 new
vocational training centers, an existing instructor training center and
25 mobile training units for the Ministry of Manpower (MOM); and (c) new
premises for the National Institute of Administration (LAN), the country's
principal civil service training institution.  The completed MEC subproject
is problem-free and facilities are operating satisfactorily. The MOM
subproject has made some progress but is about two and a half years behind



ANNEX II
- 41 -                  Page 18 of 29 pages
schedule with a 16% cost overrun. Problems faced include poor equipment
procurement management, shortage of funds, low utilization of completed
facilities, poor quality of training (less than 50% of trainees placed in
employment), and partial compliance on covenants. The LAN component has
made no progress for three years and is now about three and a half years
behind schedule, mainly due to the default of the civil works contractor for
price escalation disputes with GOI. After retendering, a new contract has
been approved recently and construction of the remaining unfinished portion
of the building is expected to be completed in late 1983. Furniture and
equipment procurement has not commenced. It is unlikely that this component
will be completed by the present Closing Date. The GOI has been informed of
the overall status and urged to take remedial actions. A second extension
of the Closing Date to December 31, 1983, has been approved. Disbursements
at the end of June 1982 were about 81% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1433   Teacher Training:  $19 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project is now progressing satisfactorily.  Approximately 88%
of the civil works program has been completed. Phase I is complete and 90%
of the construction in Phase II is finished. Overall, 50% of furniture and
equipment has been procured and delivered. The first cycle of teacher
training has been completed and the second cycle is in process with all
training expected to be concluded by October 1982. Disbursements at the end
of June 1982 were about 52% of appraisal estimate due principally to lags
in disbursement for civil works and delays in procurement of books,
equipment, and furniture. It is expected that disbursements will accelerate
during the coming months. Despite delays and the current low disbursement
level, it is expected that the project will be completed on time.
Loan No. 1486   Non-Formal Education:  $15 Million Loan of
September 14, 1977; Effective Date: November 4, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project aims at strengthening the Department of Education's
nonformal education programs in seven provinces. Financing would cover:
civil works to renovate two existing and establish four new provincial
centers, instructional equipment and vehicles, in-service training, materials
development, a basic learning fund, and related technical assistance.
Construction of the six Balai PENMAS (directorates for out-of-school
education) centers, has been completed. All furniture and equipment are
already on site. About 90% of the staff training program is meeting
appraisal targets and production and distribution of pretested learning
materials is accelerating. The technical assistance program is on schedule;
local staff have replaced foreign consultants. Disbursements at the end of
June 1982 were about 57% of appraisal estimate and are expected to continue
to accelerate in the next few months.



-42-                        ANNEX II
Page 19 of 29 pages
Loan No. 1692   Second Agricultural Training:  $42 Million Loan of May 7,
1979; Effective Date: July 31, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project constitutes the second phase of GOI's long-term strategy
to improve the quality and supply of middle level agricultural manpower. Good
progress continues to be made. Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were
540% of the appraisal estimate. The FAO technical assistance team is now
in place and fellowship utilization remains up to schedule. Implementation
of a tracer study of agricultural secondary school graduates was planned to
begin in June/July 1982.
Loan No. 1904   University Development:  $45 Million Loan of
November 13, 1980; Effective Date: January 22, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The project is the first phase of a long-term university development
program. Its main objectives are to increase the output of high level man-
power and improve the quality of university education in the fields of
engineering, science, agriculture, and economics (including business admin-
istration and accountancy), as well as strengthen the management of the
overall university system. The additional land required for the University
of Gadjah Mada and the new site for the University of Andalas have been
acquired. The campus master plan for the University of Indonesia has been
completed, and the Universities of Gadjah Mada and Andalas are expected to
be completed by early 1983. The initiation of technical assistance
provisions are about eighteen months behind schedule. A contract is being
negotiated with an external agency to administer the program of fellowships
and visiting professors. Two contracts were signed with the British Council
for the training of university administrators and textbook editors. Work is
in progress to establish a Management Information System and a Monitoring
Evaluation System in the Directorate General of Higher Education and in each
project university. There have been no indications to suggest that project
costs will be other than estimated at appraisal. Disbursements at the end
of June 1982 were about 27% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 2101   Second Teacher Training:  $80 Million Loan of April 5,
1982; Effective Date: May 24, 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1988
The project seeks to improve the skills, competence and
effectiveness of the education staff involved in primary and secondary
education and educational administration.
Loan No. 2102   Second Textbook:  $25 Million Loan of April 5,
1982; Effective Date: June 14, 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
The project will support the establishment of the Integrated Text-
book Project, a permanent organization to plan and manage textbook development



- 43-                        ANNEX II
Page 20 of 29 pages
activities; a Center for Curriculum Development, which would develop improved
curricula for primary and secondary schools, and an improved national
distribution system for all textbooks for primary and secondary schools.
ENERGY
Loan No. 1365   Sixth Power:  $116 Million Loan of February 4, 1977;
Effective Date: June 6, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Construction work on the project has reached its final stage. The
200 MW Unit No. 4 was synchronized on November 26, 1981 and has been in com-
mercial operation since March 1982. Unit No. 5 went into commercial operation
in August 1982. The associated studies have been completed.
Loan No. 1513   Seventh Power:  $109 Million Loan of February 3, 1978
($15 million cancelled November 30, 1980); Effective Date:
June 30, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
All contracts were awarded at highly competitive costs with a sub-
stantial reduction in foreign costs and, therefore, $15 million of the origi-
nal loan of $109 million has been cancelled. The Bank also agreed to the
inclusion of the following additional studies in the scope of the project:
(a) Sunda Strait submarine cable feasibility; (b) optimization of location of
future thermal plants: (c) power sector management information system design.
Construction work at the site has been delayed by about 21 months. Commercial
operation of the 200 MW generating unit is expected early in 1984. Construc-
tion of the associated transmission lines is progressing satisfactorily. The
feasibility study of the East Java coal-fired thermal power station site has
progressed to the point of selection of a suitable site. Contracts for the
studies (a), (b) and (c) mentioned above have been signed, and work is
progressing satisfactorily. Disbursements at the end of June, 1982 were about
60% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1708   Eighth Power:  $175 Million Loan of June 1, 1979; Effective
Date: November 5, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project encountered a number of problems and slipped nearly
eleven months behind schedule by September 1981. However, progress since then
has improved and the estimated delay has not increased. The main causes of
the delay of one year were: (a) late finalization of contracts, and (b) tardy
performance of the local contractor for piling work. Most contract awards
have now been made and the commissioning date for Unit No. 1 at Suralaya is
expected to be October 1984. Disbursements, though much lower than the
appraisal estimates, are in line with the revised projections prepared in July
1981. The project cost is expected to remain within the appraisal estimate.



ANNEX II
- 44 -                      Page 21 of 29 pages
Loan No. 1872   Ninth Power:  $253 Million Loan of June 13, 1980; Effective
Date: October 24, 1980; Closing Date: September 30, 1985
This project is experiencing delays. However, the commissioning
date of the second unit of Suralaya is now expected to be June 1985, i.e. six
months behind schedule. The EHV project is delayed by almost one year due to
delay in finalizing contract awards. All major contracts are expected to be
finalized. Progress of land acquisition for the substation and the
transmission lines is satisfactory. Disbursement at the end of June were
about 24% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1950   Tenth Power:  $250 Million Loan of March 6, 1981;
Effective Date: April 23,- 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1987
All major contracts for construction and installation of generating
equipment required for the Saguling hydroelectric project have been placed
with an estimated saving in total project costs of about $99 million. Con-
struction work started at the main dam site in August 1981, and encountered
problems in regard to timely completion of diversion tunnels. River diver-
sion planned for end-May 1982 was not achieved. However, steps have been
taken to divert the river in December 1982 and so modify the later
construction program as to ensure that original dam construction targets are
met. Other project subcomponents are progressing with 3-6 months delays,
some of which are expected to be recovered. No cost overruns are expected.
Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 42% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 2056   Eleventh Power:  $170 Million Loan of
November 16, 1981; Effective Date: April 15, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Implementation of the project is proceeding on schedule. Contracts
worth about $50 million have already been evaluated and approved by the Bank.
Contracts valued at $100 million have been evaluated by PLN and are presently
under review by GOI. PLN is planning to issue, in December 1982, another
invitation to bid for the balance of the distribution equipment estimated
at $20 million.
Loan No. 2079   Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development and Transportation:
$185 Million Loan of January 22, 1982; Effective Date:
May 25, 1982; Closing Date: September 30, 1987
Project implementation has commenced. Thus far no delays have
occurred which would affect the project completion date. The consultants are
now fully mobilized. Soil investigation and geological work is ongoing at
the mine site. The bids for the main mining equipment have been received.
The turnkey contract for the Tarahan terminal were signed and procurement of
the ship is in progress. During the initial startup moderate problems have
been noted in respect to project management and concerns have arisen with



ANNEX II
- 45 -                     Page 22 of 29 pages
respect to the procedure for procurement of packages not financed by the
Bank. These matters received close attention from the first supervision
mission and they will remain a focus of subsequent supervision missions.
Loan No. 2153   Coal Exploration Engineering:  $25 Million Loan of June 14,
1982; Effective Date: Not Yet Effective; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
The project will evaluate coal reserves and assess the viability
of specific coal deposits in South Sumatra and other promising areas in
Indonesia. The project will be aimed at providing GOI and its agencies with
a coal reserve inventory of its major coal-bearing areas and feasibility/
prefeasibility studies of attractive deposits, thus enabling it to establish
investment priorities and define policies for its short, medium and
long-term strategy for coal production and coal use.
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCE
Industrial Estates
Credit No. 428 Pulo Cadung Industrial Estate: $16.5 Million Credit of
September 14, 1973; Effective Date: November 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The Credit was for the development of an industrial estate at the
eastern border of Jakarta. Land acquisition difficulties have persisted
since project inception and have eventually resulted in a substantial project
delay. Consequently, disbursement of the Credit has been slow, and the
Closing Date of the Credit has been extended to December 31, 1982 to enable
the remaining funds to be used for the development of an export processing
zone and related studies. As of September 15, 1982, a total of $8.9 million
has been disbursed. Full disbursement of the Credit is expected by the new
closing date.
Development Finance Companies
Loan No. 1703   Fourth BAPINDO:  $50 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: September 25, 1979; Closing Date:
September 30, 1983
BAPINDO continues to make significant progress in both operations
and institutional developments: its operations in terms of new loan and
equity investment approvals more than doubled compared to 1979; its financial
position and performance recorded a marked improvement; and the portfolio
quality showed signs of reduced loan arrears in relation to the portfolio.
Moreover, BAPINDO continued to make progress in implementing the agreed
Action Program of 1977 and other programs for further strengthening its



ANNEX II
- 46 -                    Page 23 of 29 pages
organization and increasing its project promotion activities as agreed during
the last loan negotiations in April 1979. BAPINDO put into effect on April 1,
1981 a General Improvement Program involving a number of organizational
reforms and staff training and deployment. This was done in order to enable
BAPINDO to play a larger role in promoting the country's industrial develop-
ment as well as increasing its operational capabilities. Commitments and
disbursements under the loan, which were slow at the beginning have
accelerated during the past year and the loan may be disbursed on schedule.
POPULATION AND NUTRITION
Population
Loan No. 1472 Second Population: $24.5 Million Loan of July 6, 1977;
Effective Date: August 4, 1977; Closing Date: April 30,
1983
All civil works are completed and the buildings are occupied and
operational. The mobile service units provided under the project are making a
significant contribution to the recruitment of contraceptive acceptors.
Training and population education are scheduled to be completed by the end
of 1982.  The research components -- the contraceptive raw materials study
and the community incentive scheme -- will not be completed before the loan
closing date and an extension is likely to be requested by the Government.
A loan saving of $7.0 million has been reallocated for the purchase of
equipment in support of project activities and procurement is expected to be
completed by December 1982. A further savings of $3.3 million is antici-
pated and the Government intends to request Bank approval for reallocation.
Only about $11.2 million, or 48%, has been disbursed out of the loan. A
sizeable proportion of the balance will be disbursed by the Closing Date,
but not the full loan amount.
Loan No. 1869 Third Population: $35 Million Loan of June 13, 1980;
Effective Date: September 10, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1985
Progress on the health components of this project, particularly
training, has been very good. Training is ahead of the appraisal schedule
and the construction of health center annexes is underway. Population
components have, however, made less than satisfactory progress. While the
procurement of vehicles and audio-visual equipment for mobile information
units is in process, the implementation of civil works has been delayed
considerably. As a result of recent GOIs efforts, this component is
beginning to make some progress. A sizeable number of contracts are
expected to be awarded by December 1982 and construction should start in
early 1983. Population education has also been delayed pending decisions on
the recommendations of an evaluation which was completed in July; a report
on this was submitted to the Government in August. A detailed program for



ANNEX II
- 47                       Page 24 of 29 pages
training teachers was also required before funds could be released.  A
recent Bank mission has reveiwed these issues with the concerned agencies
and it is expected that implementation will start soon. Because of delays
in physical implementation, disbursement is lagging behind appraisal
estimates.
Nutrition
Loan No. 1373   Nutrition Development:  $13 Million Loan of March 14,
1977; Effective Date:  March 31, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
The pace of project implementation has increased considerably,
with the construction of the laboratory at the Nutrition Academy now completed
and the construction of the Nutrition Training Center currently underway
and is expected to be completed by end of 1982. Contracts for unprocured
equipment have been awarded and delivery is expected to be completed in early
1983. More than 80% of project fellowships and over 60% of consultancy months
have either been utilized or committed. The project was evaluated by an
independent team in July/August, the findings of which are quite positive.
Bank staff have reviewed the findings with Government and made pertinent
observations. Physical progress during the past twelve months has been faster
than ever before. This rapid progress is reflected in a sharp increase in the
level of cumulative disbursement from $4.3 million as of August 31, 1981 to
$8.3 million by August 31, 1982. A further saving of $800,000 has been
reallocated from the category vehicles and equipment to consultants services,
fellowships and salaries of local experts for the staff of the Project
Director. The project is expected to be completed by December 1982 and no
further extension in closing date date will be required.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit No. 898 Fifth Technical Assistance: $10 Million Credit of May 7,
1979; Effective Date: September 5, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
Progress under this project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1197   National Resource Survey and Mapping:  $13 Million Loan
of February 5, 1976; Effective Date: April 2, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The National Coordinating Agency for Surveys and Mapping
(BAKOSURTANAL) complex at Cibinong is completed, and most of the cartographic
photographic processing, including color photo processing equipment and
printing equipment required to produce maps, are installed. Computer
equipment for resource analysis including a topographic data bank and flatbed



ANNEX II
- 48 -                    Page 25 of 29 pages
plotter has been installed. Various resource evaluation activities have been
undertaken using these facilities. Recruitment and training of new staff,
particularly at junior and middle level has recently been accelerated. The
new photography operation financed under the parallel Canadian Project was
delayed as a result of which the Bank agreed to extend the Closing Date
until December 31, 1983. The photography operation started in July 1981 and
is expected to be completed by the new Closing Date.
TRANSPORTATION
Fertilizer Distribution
Loan No. 2120 National Fertilizer Distribution: $66 Million Loan of April 5,
1982; Effective Date: September 27, 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
This project will increase agricultural production in Indonesia by
substantially expanding the capacity to distribute fertilizer to farmers.
Funds are also provided for preparation of future maritime transport projects,
including master plans and detailed engineering for several ports.
Highways
Loan No. 1236   Fourth Highway:  $130 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: August 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project although now substantially completed has been under
implementation for nearly six years. Because of slow execution, the Closing
Date was postponed by two years to December 31, 1982. The only component
still ongoing is the road betterment program and the related consultancies for
works supervision. Other consultancies have been completed satisfactorily,
sometimes with substantial delays. Four road sections have been transferred
from the Fifth to the Fourth Highway Project. Bank participation in
expenditures to be incurred in 1982 on these contracts would fully utilize the
surplus.
Loan No. 1696   Fifth Highway:  $130 Million Loan of June 1, 1979 ($6.8 Mil-
lion cancelled June 30, 1981); Effective Date: August 28,
1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Project implementation, which started nearly three years ago, is
substantially behind schedule. The project is about 25% completed compared
to 70% scheduled. The causes for delay are: (a) the ambitious project
objectives, which translate into program-type components and numerous
consultancies; (b) overcentralization of the Directorate General of Highways
(DGH); (c) a shift of senior staff within DGH; and (d) new development
guidelines of the GOI under Repelita III emphasizing the spread of investments



49                       ANNEX II
Page 26 of 29 pages
over a larger number of projects with reduced standards.   However, work is
now underway on nearly all project components, and there is still a reasonable
chance of completing the project with a total delay of only one year. The
Provincial Departments of Public Works programs of support works were just
started in January 1982 with mobilization of consultants and after road
maintenance equipment had been ordered. $6.8 million of the loan has been
cancelled due to misprocurement of road maintenance equipment.
Loan No. 2049   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway: $85 million Loan of October 9, 1981;
Effective Date: February 9, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1987
The project will increase road capacity between Jakarta and
Cikampek (about 70 km to the east) by construction of a new toll road and by
improvements to the existing highway. Consultants have been selected for
construction supervision, and contract negotiations have been concluded.
Bid opening for the four sections of road works took place in late May 1982,
somewhat behind schedule. The bid evaluation report is being reviewed by
the Government. Land acquisition has been completed up to and including
negotiations with property owners, and payment of compensation is underway.
Negotiations are about to begin with consultants to provide technical assist-
ance to the Indonesia toll road corporation, P. T. Jasa Marga.
Loan No. 2083 Rural Roads Development: $100 Million Loan of January 22,
1982; Effective Date: August 11, 1982. Closing Date:
December 31, 1986
The project will improve rural road infrastructure in selected
provinces by strengthening the capacity of the district public works agencies
and implementing an expanded program of rural roads works; and supporting
a rural road development program for a three-year period in five Indonesian
provinces. The project also contains components for training and technical
assistance. Implementation of the various project components is still at an
early stage. Bids were received in March 1982 for road construction and
maintenance equipment and bid evaluation has been completed for about half of
the items. Consultants are now being mobilized to provide technical
assistance to the district public works agencies and to assist the Directorate
General of Highways in preparing further rural roads programs.
Marine Transport
Loan No. 1250   Second Shipping:  $54 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project is part of the first phase of the Government s Inter-
Island Fleet Development Program and is designed to modernize, expand and
improve the efficiency of the inter-island fleet. All funds for ship
procurement ($48.0 million) have been disbursed and the balance of



ANNEX II
- 50 -                      Page 27 of 29 pages
funds for technical assistance ($6.0 million) have been disbursed or allo-
cated. It is expected that all funds will be disbursed by loan closing date.
All of the operations under the loan appear to have been carried out satis-
factorily.
Ports
Loan No. 1337   Tanjung Priok Port:  $32 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date- March 3, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The Government-financed works in Basin III, delayed due to the
impact of the 1978 Rupiah devaluation, the Basin III civil works financed by
the Bank loan, also delayed due to the devaluation, and civil works financed
by the Bank loan in the Regional Harbor, are completed. Several Bank-financed
studies which are proposed or have been completed, will enable the GOI to
identify components of a further ports project suitable for Bank financing
probably in FY84. Overall estimated project costs remain approximately at
appraisal levels despite an increase in civil works costs.
TOURISM
Credit No. 479 Bali Tourism: $16 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: December 4, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1983
All works on the infrastructures and the amenity core at Nusa Dua
were completed in June 1982. The access road to Nusa Dua from the airport
and the Denpasar bypass road were completed and opened for traffic in
December 1980. The hotel training school was completed in July 1979 and has
been in operation since then. The preparation of possible participation by
the Bali Tourism Development Corporation in hotel investment utilizing the
uncommitted portion-of the credit is expected to be finalized by the end of
September 1982. The market for tourism to Bali has been good and in-
ternational standard hotels in Bali have been achieving high occupancies. The
construction of a first hotel (450 rooms) by Garuda at Nusa Dua is progressing
well for completion in March 1983. The construction of a second hotel (250
rooms) by Anchol Group at Nusa Dua has just started. Disbursements at the end
of June 1982 were about 81% of appraisal estimate.



ANNEX II
- 51 -                     Page 28 of 29 pages
URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Loan No. 1336   Second Urban Development:  $52.5 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 28, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project aims at providing basic infrastructural facilities
including footpaths, drainage, water supply and human waste disposal to
about 3,000 ha of densely populated slum areas (kampungs) in Jakarta and
374 ha in Surabaya. The physical program is now complete with a coverage
of about 3,434 ha kampungs in Jakarta and 441 ha in Surabaya. Supplementary
technical assistance studies related to future projects preparation and
utilizing the accrued loan residual have been recently agreed upon. To
facilitate the financing of these studies, the Bank, in December 1981,
extended the loan Closing Date from December 31, 1981 to June 30, 1983.
Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 85% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1653. Third Urban Development: $54 Million loan of January 31,
1979; Effective Date: September 26, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project extends the slum (kampung) improvement programs (KIP)
under the Second Urban Development Project (Loan 1336-IND) in the cities of
Jakarta (750 ha) and Surabaya (580 ha), and also provides for similar basic
infrastructural facilities in three additional cities -- Ujung Pandang (375
ha), Semarang (310 ha) and Surakarta (170 ha) -- with the KIP coverage in each
city ranging between 15 to 37% of total kampung areas to be upgraded. Also
included in the project is a comprehensive solid waste management program
(SWIP) in Jakarta, and Surabaya and macro-drainage improvements in Surabaya.
The KIP component is nearing completion in all cities with its actual coverage
exceeding the target levels in Jakarta and Surabaya. SWIP implementation is
progressing well in Surabaya but has just started in Jakarta due to earlier
start-up delays in pilot testing. The Surabaya drainage component is in the
construction stage which is somewhat beset with land acquisition problems (for
canal dredging schemes) warranting local government-s more intensive
participation and an increased allocation of funds for the program. The
overall project is expected to be implemented within the appraisal projected
dated of December 31, 1984. Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about
59% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1972 Fourth Urban Development: $43 Million Loan of
May 8, 1981; Effective Date: September 9, 1981;
Closing Date: September 30, 1986.
The project further expands Bank-s assistance to GOI-s slum impro-
vement programs (KIP) under the earlier urban projects to six nationwide pro-
vincial capital cities with a total target KIP area of 2,000 ha and with a
coverage in each city representing about 15 to 33% of total KIP area to be up-
graded. Sites and sevices schemes, aimed at providing affordable core housing



ANNEX II
- 52 -                   Page 29 of 29 pages
units to the low-income population, will be developed for a total of about
11,000 plots in some six to seven cities. Sectoral programs comprising of
solid waste improvement, and improved water supply are also included in one
of the project cities. A national urban mapping program covering 125 cities
will be undertaken providing base data for future city planning, land regis-
tration and valuation programs. The developoment of the housing and mortgage
financing institutions is a prominent feature of the project. Technical
assistance for project management, training and feasibility studies to various
urban authorities and agencies will be provided. The sites and services pro-
gram is proceeding satifactorily. The start-up delays in the implementation
of the KIP programs have been overcome and the progress of these programs
should significantly improve with the consultants currently being appointed.
The first phase of the urban mapping contracts covering some 45 cities will
commence in October 1982. Technical assistance programs are proceeding
satisfactorily. Disbursements at the end of June 1982 were about 35% of
appraisal estimate.
WATER SUPPLY
Loan No. 1709   Second Water Supply:  $36 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: February 29, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project expands and improves existing water supply and distri-
bution systems in the cities of Tangerang and Surabaya (both in Java),
Jember (Sumatra), Pare-Pare (Sulawesi) and Ambon (Moluku), and provides for
the construction of new systems in Klaten and Purwakarta (both in Java).
The total increase in raw water yield in the cities as a result of the
project is projected at 1,770 lit/sec and the total installation of trans-
mission and distribution mains will amount to about 375 kms with house
connections targetted at a total of 40,000 in the project cities. The
project is also aimed at establishing water enterprises (WEs) in the project
cities and strengthening the skills of WE's staff, as well as the Cipta
Karya (Housing and Urban Development) staff, in the areas of administration,
financial and operational performance of the enterprises. After consider-
able delays (up to 18 months) the award of most of the International
Competitive Bidding procurement contracts for the supply of pipes and
materials is now complete and procurement is in progress. The construction
of the civil works in the project cities is currently underway. The
organizational and management training for the WEs has been underway since
September 1981 and is proceeding satisfactorily. Disbursements at the end
of June 1982 were about 28% of appraisal estimate.



- 53 -
ANNEX III
INDONESIA
PUBLIC WORKS MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I:  Timetable  of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:  1-1/2 years
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:  MPW with consultant assistance
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:       January 1981
(d) Main Bank identification/
preparation mission:                September 1981
(e) Date of departure of appraisal
mission:                            March 1982
(f) Date of departure of postappraisal
mission:                            October 1982
(g)  Date of completion of negotiations: February 1983
(h)  Planned date of effectiveness:        July 1983
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
The GOI would:
(a) appoint, in accordance with a schedule agreed with the Bank,
staff for new positions in the PUSDIKLAT, BIDANG DIKLATS, CMDU,
RTCs, the Division for Manpower Planning and the Personnel and
Organization Divisions of the Directorates General of MPW;
and, a Project Manager with appropriate qualifications
(paras. 30, 32 and 35);
(b) submit to the Bank for review and comment, no later than two
months prior to the beginning of each of its fiscal years, an
annual plan for development of curricula and materials for
short courses for MPW staff, an annual plan and budget for
short courses and an overall annual program for all MPW staff
training (paras. 31 and 32); and
(c) undertake evaluations of MPW staff training activities and of
contractor and mandor training in accordance with terms of
reference and a schedule satisfactory to the Bank (paras. 31
and 33).






IBRD 16891
----\THAILAND~\(TO                                                                                                                                                                                             TNAST SE
A-                                                                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INDONESIA
PATIK    CA,~~~~~~~~~o   j       ~~~~~s-'~~~~~               PHILIPPINES  VPUBLIC WORK
---               7                            ~~~~~~~~MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MALAYSIA                 ~~~~~00                     BRUNEI,                   (i:Ri
\                                                 _____                                                                              CA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAITT
]~~~ 2A(k~~~~~~IDXN   /    / ~~~~~~~MALAYSIA                      )       r                                                                                           CTE-DTE AD ERDEUT~RRU
2 1~ ~ ~ ~~UT1
INGAPORE                        -r~~~~~~~~~~~~U0A /                                                                                                               C
26 
1AUTAUEA~ ~ ~~~T                                           'UAWS 1ff 
PROVINCES                                                                            )l          y              T7ST
IACEH                   RI2                                                                                                                                                                  
RATIAUTPA'                          7                                                                                             b,K-d- H~                    DD     ~     N                        RA N   JAYA 
TAMEI                                                                                                                                              N
BENG' 'U  C,~     ~           ~          ~ ~ ~ ~~N.                                                                                                            -
9  SUECTAL SMTFRTI    A KAR/T/
7CENTALJAVA                         NTIDME'                              SA                                                                                              I 111,U      a- 
H'    EATMUN -A/,C                                                                                                AMTET
lO5WE'ST TUSATUN GA<A                                                            /                             .       -.1 
17 IRIAN AYA                                13~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NI
ITCENTALTAUUR/
IS CAUTH TASA                                         URDASEE                 /                                                                   Ad      27
2S WEAST KAUMANA TNSA                                     TA                                                                                                                                          o      2UN  N  ~
24 "'T' "L"                                                                                                                             "MO,                                                 MILES WT    N  ~
26 EAST NASIA TTAUUN                                   .-           0.                                                                                                                                go-C         40 '
17IDATUU--.-C5 AR1------N.-
T8 MACAE  TIMOR
19NRT  AIWD                                                          '----------6-<A
CENTRAL SWASSESI  /SP~~~~~~~/TES~~9g~~j  'B/AT  JTOSUDAA        *                                           ANN  ~~~~~~~   K  ~~



