Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4173-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
PUBLIC WORKS MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 4, 1983
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit = Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
US$1          = Rp 700
RplOO         = US$0.143
Rp 1,000      = US$1.43
Rp 1 million  = US$1,428.57
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BAPPENAS        -  National Development Planning Board
BIDANG DIKLATS - Training Units within the Training Department of the
Ministry of Public Works, which serve the Directorates
General
BINA MARGA      -  Directorate General for Highways, Bridges and Land
Clearing in the Ministry of Public Works
BSP             -  Bureau for Construction Industry Development
in the Ministry of Public Works
CIPTA KARYA     -  Directorate General for Urban and Regional Planning,
Housing and Water Supply in the Ministry of Public
Works
CMDU            -  Curricula and Materials Development Unit to be
established in the Training Department of the
Ministry of Public Works
DPUP            -  Provincial Department of the Ministry of Public Works
GAPENSI         -  Professional Association for Small and Medium-sized
Contractors
KADIN           -  Indonesian Chamber of Commerce
LAN             -  Civil Service Training Institute
Mandor          -  Labor subcontractor in the construction industry
MPW             -  Ministry of Public Works
PENGAIRAN       -  Directorate General for Water Resource Development
in the MPW
PERBINIKON      -  Project unit in the Bureau for Construction Industry
Development of the MPW
PRD             -  Professional Resources Development Program
PUSDATIK        -  Center for Data Processing and Statistics in the MPW
PUSDIKLAT       -  Training Department in the MPW
RTC             -  Regional Training Center of the Training Department
of the MPW



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA: PUBLIC WORKS MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA
1.  THE MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS AND MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT  . . . .           1
Sector Setting. . .................... .                              1
The Ministry of Public Works (MPW) . . . . . . . . . . . . .          2
Issues in MPW Manpower Training  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          7
Development Strategy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    10
2. THE PROJECT .12
Objectives and Scope ................... .   12
Management of MPW Staff Training Activities  . . . . . . . .   13
Curricula and Materials Development Unit (CMDU)  . . . . . .   16
The Regional Training Centers (RTCs) . . . . . . . . . . . .   21
Contractor and Mandor Training . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   22
Professional Resources Development (PRD) Program . . . . . .   25
3.  PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION . . . . . . . . . .   26
Costs    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  26
Financing   . ....................... .  29
Recurrent Operating Costs   ...  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   29
Project Management and Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . .   30
Status of Project Preparation ...  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   32
Procurement   . .  ..................... .  33
Disbursements    ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   34
Accounts, Auditing and Reporting  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   35
4. BENEFITS AND RISKS .35
Benefits   .    .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .   .  .  .   .  .  35
Risks    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  36
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
Indonesia in March/April 1982, comprising E.L. Schreiber (mission leader),
H. Baritsch (technical educator, Unesco) and C. Hammerschmidt (architect,
consultant); and a postappraisal mission in October 1982 comprising
Schreiber, G. Hunting (vocational trainer) and Hammerschmidt.
This doument has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
5.  AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  . . . . . . . . .  36
TABLES IN TEXT
1.1 Ministry of Public Works (MPW) - Profile of Centrally
Managed Contracts (1981/82)  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   2
1.2  Educational Attainment of MPW Staff (1980) . . . . . . . . . .   4
1.3 MPW Staff Training Program (1981/82) . . . . . . . . . . . . .   5
2.1  Fields for Curricula and Materials Development for MPW
Staff Training ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   18
2.2  CMDU Program of Curricula and Materials Development (1983/84)   19
2.3  Schedule for Training Instructional Staff (1983/84-1986/87)   20
2.4 Expansion of Short Course Training by Category of MPW Staff
1981/82-1986/87  .2.1. .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  2
2.5  Distribution of MPW Short Courses by Type of Curriculum
1981/82 and 1986/87  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  22
2.6 Training Plan for Contractor Staff and Mandors . . . . . . . .  24
3.1  Summary of Project Costs by Component  . . . . . . . . . . . .  27
3.2  Summary of Project Costs by Category of Expenditure  . . . . .  28
3.3  Summary of Construction Items, Areas and Base Costs  . . .    29
3.4 Analysis of Recurrent Costs for MPW Staff Training (Short
Courses) ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   30
3.5  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements . . . . . . . . . . . . .  35
CHART IN TEXT:  Project Management Responsibilities . . . . . . . .  31
ANNEXES TO TEXT
1.  Comparative Education Indicators. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  38
2  Organization of the MPW (Chart) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  40
3.  Organization of the MPW Training Department - Existing and
Proposed  (Chart).    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  41
4. MPW Training Department and RTCs-Staff Positions (Existing
and  Proposed)   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  42
5.  Technical Assistance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  45
6. MPW Short Course Training - Planned Program for 1983/84 . . . .  47
7.  Detailed Project Costs by Component and Category of
Expenditure   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  50
8.  Detailed Construction Costs by Type of Expenditure  . . . . . .  52
9.  Proposed Allocation of Loan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  53
10. Implementation Schedule . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  54
11. List of Materials Available in the Project File . . . . . . . .  55
MAP



INDONIESIA
PUBLIC WORKS MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Basic Data /a
GENERAL /b
Population (mlns)                                                      147.4
Annual Growth (%)                                                      2.2
Labor Force (mlns)                                                      54.3
Participation Rate (%)                                                52.6
Employment by Sector
Agriculture (%)                                                         55
Industry (%)                                                            13
Services (%)                                                            32
GDP per Capita (US$)                                                     475
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY
Employment and Productivity
Employment (mlns)                                                      1.7
Share of Total Employment (%)                                          3
Classification of Labor Employed
Professional/Technical (%)                                             1
Skilled (%)                                                           11
Semiskilled/Unskilled (%)                                             88
Average Productivity of Labor (US$ p.a.)                             2,900
Contribution to GDP (US$ billions)                                       5
Share for Public Works (%)                                            70
Training (Provided by the Ministry of Public Works) /c
Expenditure on MPW Staff Training (US$ mlns)                         7.4
Estimated Number of Staff Receiving Training                    12,140
Share of Total Staff (%)                                            11
Expenditure on Training for Contractors (US$ mlns)                   2.1
Estimated Number of Contractor Staff Receiving Training          1,400
Share of Total Staff (%)                                             1
/a  Data are for 1981 unless otherwise noted.
/b  General data are for 1980.
/c  Comparative data on formal education are shown in Annex 1.






INDONESIA
PUBLIC WORKS MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1. THE MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS AND MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT
Sector Setting
1.01      Largely as a result of increasing development expenditures, the
value of construction in Indonesia's economy grew by 16% per year during the
1970s. Total value amounted to US$5 billion in 1981, 70% of which was
financed by the public sector. Indonesian development strategy for the
1980s stresses the need to maintain relatively high levels of development
expenditure and to generate new opportunities for employment. Priority is
given to investment in infrastructure and services. This strategy implies
continued rapid growth for construction activities during the 1980s, and a
central role for the domestic industry. However, the growth in demand for
construction experienced over the past decade has already strained the
domestic industry. Problems are reflected in low efficiency and in the
relatively large share of the market, about 50% of value, captured by
foreign construction firms. Cumbersome administrative procedures, and a
shortage of qualified manpower largely explain inefficiencies in the
domestic industry. If the industry is to contribute successfully to the
execution of development projects and programs, Indonesia must give priority
to its development. As a step in this direction, the Government is planning
to introduce revised contract and other administrative practices and measures
to strengthen professional practices and manpower in the industry. Emphasis
should be given to upgrading manpower employed by the Ministry of Public
Works (MPW), which generates about 50% of the value of public sector
construction. /
/1 Of the remaining 50% of value, about 20% is generated through
construction activities of state enterprises, principally in the
energy sector; and 30%, in roughly equal shares, is attributable to
a primary school building program, other local works programs, and
building activities of agencies other than the MPW.



-2-
The MPW
1.02      The MPW has three Directorates General, responsible for civil works
as follows: BINA MARGA, roads, bridges and land clearing for transmigration;
PENGAIRAN, water resource development; and CIPTA KARYA, urban and regional
planning, housing and water supply (Annex 2 shows the organizational struc-
ture of the MPW.) These Directorates General and their counterpart agencies
in the Provincial Departments of Public Works (DPUPs) together managed a
development budget of about US$1.7 billion in 1981/82 (April-March). Most
MPW projects are designed by consultants and nearly all are executed under
contract by construction firms. A contract profile for centrally managed
projects in 1981/82 is shown in Table 1.1, below; the Directorates General
managed about 44% of the 1981 project budget (including contracts, consultant
fees and overhead) and the DPUPs managed the remainder. The value of DPUP
contracts amounted to about US$820 million during 1981/82, US$340 million for
roads, bridges and land clearing and US$480 million for water resource
development (most CIPTA KARYA projects are centrally managed).
Table 1.1: MPW - PROFILE OF
CENTRALLY MANAGED CONTRACTS (1981/82)
Total         Average
value of        value of
Range of contract          No. of         contracts       contracts
values             contracts       (US$'000)       (US$ 000)
> US$0.8 million              210         485,000/a         2,309
% total                       9              75
US$0.3-0.8 million            200          95,000/b           475
% total                       9              15
< US$0.3 million            1,900          65,000/c            34
% total                      82              10
Total               2,310         645,000             279
/a  Of which 75% BINA MARGA, 25% PENGAIRAN.
/b  Of which 70% PENGAIRAN, 20% BINA MARGA, 10% CIPTA KARYA.
/c  Of which 85% CIPTA KARYA.
Source: MPW.



-3-
MPW Manpower
1.03      The MPW employed a staff of about 110,800 in 1981.  Included were:
12,200 permanent staff at the central level; 70,300 permanent staff in the
DPUPs; and 28,300 staff in temporary positions, appointed to carry out
specific project assignments. In addition, the MPW has routinely retained
consultants to carry out various planning and supervisory tasks. Domestic
consultants are drawn from some 240 design and engineering firms in
Indonesia, with an average staff size of 30. In addition, foreign
consultants are retained. The MPW's reliance on consultants has resulted
largely from shortages of higher- and middle-level technical and managerial
staff with qualifications and experience in the areas of planning and
programming; project planning and design; construction supervision; equip-
ment and plant management; and operations and maintenance.
1.04      The MPII employs both domestic and foreign contractors to execute
projects. The domestic contracting industry comprises a relatively large
number of small firms. In 1981, about 23,000 firms were registered with the
DPUPs. Of the total, only 80 firms employed a permanent staff of 100 or
m'ore. About 14,000 firms employed an average of ten staff, and 9,000 firms
comprised one to two staff./l Contractors are classified and prequalified
by the value of work they are permitted to undertake based broadly on size,
qualifications and experience. The 80 large firms, which include eight
state enterprises established primarily to work with the MPW, are prequal-
ified to undertake contracts valued at US$300,000 or higher. These
contractors, together with foreign firms, undertake work on large and
complex projects managed mainly by the Directorates General. While such
projects account for a substantial share of the value of MPW contracts (90%
at the central level, Table 1.1), they account for a relatively small share
of the number of MPW contracts (18% at the central level). The majority of
contracts are undertaken by medium-sized firms (prequalified to contract or
subcontract for works valued from US$80,000 to US$300,000), and small firms
(prequalified for works valued at US$80,000 or less). Labor is supplied to
contractors mainly by subcontractors, called mandors. Some 40,000 mandors
operate in Indonesia at present, supplying almost all unskilled and a share
of semi-skilled and skilled labor, or an estimated 85% of labor employed in
the construction industry. While mandors supervise labor on the job, most
lack expertise in construction methods. A shortage of experienced managers,
engineers and technicians, in both the larger and smaller firms, and skill
weaknesses among mandors complicate the supervisory tasks of the MPW and
contribute to inefficiencies and quality problems in the execution of
projects. Manpower weaknesses are primarily evident in the areas of firm
and contract management, scheduling and measurement, construction tech-
niques and site supervision.
/1 The majority of these small firms have been established recently, in
response to a Government policy to award smaller contracts to local,
provincial firms.



- 4-
1.05      The shortage of qualified manpower in the MPW and in the con-
struction industry generally is reflected in the relatively low qualifications
of manpower employed. Table 1.2 below shows the educational profile of MPW
staff. About half the staff enter employment after attending or completing
general or technical secondary education; and the educational profile of
provincial and project staff is notably lower than that of central staff,
particularly in respect of postsecondary qualifications. However, the
shortfall of qualified manpower is more pronounced within the industry than
within the MPW.  Based on a sample of 1980 census data, only 1.4% of labor
employed in construction were reported in the standard professional technical
and managerial occupations./1 This manpower weakness is manifest in low labor
productivity in the industry, at about US$2,900 per worker in 1981./2 In
recent years, the NPW has initiated efforts to replace consultants with staff
and to shift increasing project reponsibilities from the Directorates General
to the DPUPs. However, deficiencies in the qualifications and experience of
staff, contractors and labor employed have generally limited progress.
Table 1.2: EDUCATIONAL ATTAINMENT OF MPW STAFF (1980)
(%)
Post-
Number    No              Secondary    secondary   University
Category           of    educa-  Pri-   Gen-  Tech-  Gen-  Tech-  Gen-  Tech-
of staff         staff    tion   mary   eral  nical  eral  nical  eral  nical
Permanent
Staff
Central        12,200    -       13     34    23      10      8      9      3
Provincial    70,300    -        52      16    27       1     3       -     1
Project
Staff           28,300    4       24     28    39        1     2      -      2
Total      110,800    1       40     21    30       2      3       1     2
Source: MPW.
/1 This compares with an average share of 6% for a 20 country sample
which includes industrialized and developing countries during the early
1970s.
/2 For purposes of comparison, this level of productivity is equivalent to
about 15% of that for Singapore in 1970.



-5-
MPW Manpower Training
1.06      Staff Training.  The manpower constraints in the MPW and the
construction industry are explained largely by an imbalance between economic
growth and human resource development in Indonesia. Graduates of education
and training institutions lag considerably behind demand, both in terms of
quantity and effectiveness./l Owing to the pressing need for qualified
manpower, the MPW began to provide regular in-service training for staff
during the mid-1970s.  By 1981, the MPW's budget for staff training amounted
to about US$7.4 million with an estimated 11% of staff participating.
Table 1.3 provides an overview of budgeted activities by type of training and
number of trainees. Training in local universities (degree and diploma) and
overseas training (degree and nondegree) account for about half of trainee
months and 60% of the budget provided. Short courses, conducted by the MPW,
account for the remaining 40%.
Table 1.3: MPW STAFF TRAINING PROGRAM (1981/82)
-- Budgeted Expenditure ---
Approxi-      Average                            Approxi-
mate num-     duration                           mate cost
Type of              ber of      of training        US$       %     per trainee
training            trainees/a (months/trainee) million /b total        (US$)
Short courses
Cross-sectoral        6,000         1.8             1.4       19         230
Sector-specific
BINA MARGA          1,700         1.0             0.6       8          350
PENGAIRAN             800         1.0             0.3        4         375
CIPTA KARYA         1,900         0.5             0.7       9          370
Subtotal        10,400            -             3.0      40            -
University-based      1,500         9.0             1.0       14         670
Overseas Training         240         8.0             3.4       46      13,600
Total            12,140           -             7.4     100            -
/a  Excluding staff of muncipal governments working in public works fields and
users in irrigation, for whom the MPW has also initiated training.
/b Excluding indirect training costs (i.e., MPW overheads), estimated at
about US$1.5 million.
Source: MPW.
/1  Enrollments at the secondary level and above are the second lowest in
the region (Annex 1).



- 6 -
1.07      The management structure for MPW staff training (an organizational
chart is provided in Annex 3) is headed by a central Training Department, the
PUSDIKLAT, which reports to the Secretary General. The PUSDIKLAT is
responsible for coordinating training programs in the MPW and for providing
short courses in cross-sectoral subjects for central, project and provincial
staff. Three subunits, BIDANG DIKLATS, corresponding with the three
Directorates General, PENGAIRAN, BINA MARGA and CIPTA KARYA, are responsible
for arranging training related directly to the relevant subsector. In the
case of CIPTA KARYA, however, training is mainly arranged by Directorates
within the Directorate General. Training, including administrative costs, is
financed mainly through development budgets allocated to the PUSDIKLAT and the
Directorates General. The DPUPs also contribute to financing of training for
provincial staff. Short courses are delivered mainly at five Regional
Training Centers (RTCs) owned or rented by the PUSDIKLAT and located in
Bandung, Surabaya, Yogyakarta, Medan and Ujung Pandang;/l several other train-
ing facilities, owned or leased and operated by the Directorates General, are
also used. Long-term training is provided through arrangements with the
Ministry of Education, at universities and technical institutes./2 Overseas
training is financed and arranged largely through externally assisted
projects.
1.08      Training for Contractors and Mandors.  While a regular system of
staff upgrading for firms has not been established, a sizeable training
program has been provided over the last few years for large contractors. In
1981, the MPW managed a program of training for about 730 managers and engi-
neers in connection with contract work in the Middle East. Trainees were
selected from a consortium of 12 private and five public firms. Training
units in individual firms also provided local and overseas training for some
470 staff working in Indonesia. Total costs amounted to nearly US$2 million.
In view of the small number of large contractors (para. 1.04), these
training efforts have covered a significant share of the staff of these
firms (an estimated 15% annually). In addition, joint venture operations
between domestic and experienced foreign firms, including training
arrangements, are being encouraged as a regular form of upgrading for the
large, domestic contractors.
1.09      By contrast, training efforts have thus far been limited for the
majority of small- to medium-sized contractors and for mandors. With the
exception of the Indonesian Contractors Association (for large firms), the
/1 Cross-sectoral courses are also provided in the Jakarta offices of the
PUSDIKLAT.
/2 These programs, arranged mainly with the Institutes of Technology at
Bandung, Surabaya and Yogyakarta, include degree programs in civil
engineering and non-degree technician training. Some postgraduate
specializations (e.g., river engineering at Bandung) have also been
arranged.



- 7 -
professional associations in the industry - including the Association of
Small- and Medium-sized Contractors (GAPENSI), the Construction Bureau of
Chamber of Commerce (KADIN), and mandors cooperatives - are in initial stages
of development. Moreover, skill standards for the construction trades are
lacking. As a result, systematic demand for upgrading has not yet been
established. In 1981/82, however, PERBINIKON, a project unit within the MPW's
Bureau for Construction Industry Development (BSP), initiated pilot training
programs for 400 staff of smaller firms and for mandors. The training was
developed and delivered under contract by local universities in collaboration
with GAPENSI and the state-owned contractors. Costs amounted to US$160,000
and were equally shared by the MPW and GAPENSI offices in the provinces.
Issues in MPW Manpower Training
1.10      Despite the importance placed on manpower upgrading by the MPW,
the effectiveness of training provided is limited by: (a) poor coordination
and inefficiencies in the planning and management of staff training; (b)
inadequate technical support for the provision of short, job-related courses
for staff, and for related materials development and instructor training;
(c) insufficient facilities to cater for the volume of training required by
staff; and (d) inadequate experience with the provision of training for
smaller contractors and mandors.
Management of MPW Training Activities
1.11      The Training Department.  The present functions and staff strength
of the MPW Training Department are inadequate to manage the systematic
development of training programs. While the PUSDIKLAT (para. 1.07) is
responsible for overall management of MPW staff training, its staff focus
largely on annual planning and scheduling for cross-sectoral courses (Annex
4 shows existing staff in the Training Department). Systematic procedures
for the planning, monitoring and evaluation of the several types of training
provided are lacking; and guidelines and reporting requirements for the
financing of training, including the development and use of training
resources, have not been established.
1.12      In the absence of systematic guidance, staff of the BIDANG DIKLATs
plan and implement training courses in the relevant subsector independently
of the PUSDIKLAT. Many of these staff have experience with the adminis-
tration and execution of public works projects. However, they lack
expertise with training design and techniques, and the BIDANG DIKLAT CIPTA
KARYA is insufficiently staffed to coordinate training provided by the
Directorate General.
1.13      Coordination between the Training Department and the DPUPs has
also been limited. Training needs of DPUP staff have not been
systematically identified and courses are organized and implemented on an ad
hoc basis. To improve coordination between the Training Department and



- 8-
provincial staff, the MPW has recently appointed training liaison officers
in the DPUPs. These officers are to assist the Training Department to
better identify the training needs of DPUP staff and to channel information
on available training programs to these staff.
1.14      Among consequences of inadequate coordination and management
support for MPW staff training are weaknesses in the average efficiency and
relevance of training, and incomplete information on training provided and
related expenditures. To improve management effectiveness, the PUSDIKLAT
and BIDANG DIKLATS should be strengthened to introduce systematic procedures
for the planning, evaluation and implementation of staff training programs.
To introduce these improvements, additional staff would be required within
the Training Department. Related staff upgrading and training for the
provincial liaison officers would also be required.
1.15      The Manpower Planning Division.  The responsibility for
coordinating staff planning in the MPW is assigned to the Division for
Manpower Planning in the Bureau of Personnel. The Directorates General,
DPUPs and other MPW units are directly responsible for hiring and deploying
staff. At present, procedures for reviewing staffing requirements against
the available pool of staff skills vary from unit to unit and give
inadequate attention to changing emphases in the MPW's work program. This
approach contributes to inefficiencies in use of staff and training
resources. To begin to correct these weaknesses, the Division for Manpower
Planning should be strengthened to enable it to introduce systematic
procedures for medium-term staff planning.
1.16      Program Planning and Information Management.  Responsibilities for
programming and budgeting for the MPW are divided among several authorities.
The Bureau of Planning has responsibility for coordinating programming
activities; and the Directorates General plan and monitor activities in the
subsectors. Variations in planning criteria and information management
systems employed by the Directorates General limit the capacity of the
Bureau of Planning to carry out integrated programming over the medium-term
and contribute to incomplete identification of staffing and training needs.
The MPW needs to assess and consolidate its programming and information man-
agement capabilities to improve planning effectiveness. More general weak-
nesses in overall economic planning and management also impinge on the
effectiveness of MPW planning and programmming; and upgrading and training for
staff of the main economic and planning agencies in Indonesia are also
required.
Curricula, Materials and Instructional Staff
1.17      More immediate improvements in MPW staff performance could be
expected from short, job-related courses than from degree or diploma
training. At present, however, considerable emphasis is given to longer-term
training (para. 1.06) and the effectiveness of short courses is limited by



- 9 -
inadequate support for materials preparation and instructor training.
Training and preparation of course materials are carried out by part-time
instructors (mainly MPW staff), most of whom lack orientation to training
techniques and methods. The Training Department lacks a capacity for the
systematic development of job-related training curricula and materials; and
the RTCs lack permanent instructional staff to provide orientation for
part-time trainers. These weaknesses are reflected in course content, which
emphasizes general subject areas rather than particular skills required by
MPW staff./l 1fanagement and civil service subjects account for about 50% of
trainee months provided.  The main results of inadequate support for course
and instructor development are: an insufficient number of courses by
comparison with the variety of job responsibilities and training
requirements of MPW staff; and weaknesses in the quality of training. To
develop and support implementation of an improved and expanded program of
short courses, the Training Department would need to be strengthened to
undertake regular curricula and materials development and instructor
training. Additional staff, including full-time instructional staff for the
RTCs, and related staff upgrading would be required to carry out these
activities and support part-time trainers.
Training Facilities
1.18      The RTCs, constructed, rented or purchased by the IIPW as temporary
facilities, are generally inadequate. Classroom and boarding space are
insufficient by comparision with the present number of trainees (by about
50%). The costs of room and board account for nearly half of training
costs. The difference between RTC accommodation and rental or hotel space
largely explains the differences in unit costs for training, shown in Table
1.3. In addition, housing shortages for staff result in vacant positions in
the RTCs. Appropriate laboratory and workshop space, together with
equipment required for practical training, are also lacking.
1.19      Training for DPUP staff lags behind that for central and project
staff. The distribution of trainees in short courses as planned for 1981/82
was approximately as follows: 1,700 central staff (14% of total); 3,450
project staff (12% of total); and 5,250 provincial staff (7% of total). In
view of skill deficiencies in the DPUPs and plans to devolve further
project responsibilities to the provincial level (para. 1.05), training
opportunities for DPUP staff need to be increased. The RTCs would need to
/1  Exceptions include preparation of curricula and materials for training
for gate openers for irrigation (provided under a Bank-assisted
irrigation project, Loan 2118-IND) and for training in water supply
(Loan 1309 and the proposed East Java WJater Supply Project); and a
USAID-assisted program of management training for central staff,
initiated in 1982.



- 10 -
be expanded and upgraded to keep pace with normal staff growth and to
support increased provision of training for provincial staff and
improvements in quality.
Contractor and Mandor Training
1.20      In anticipation of increased demand for improved productivity in
the industry (para. 1.01) and for related upgrading among smaller firms and
mandors, the BSP should support further training experiments. The pilot
training arranged by the BSP during 1981 for staff of small- and
medium-sized contracting firms and mandors addressed priority training needs
identified both by contractors and MPW (paras. 1.04 and 1.09). The training
for contractors focussed on financial and contract management techniques.
The mandor training focussed on technical and administrative aspects of site
management. While curricula and materials for these courses were
job-specific in design, experience with training for smaller contractors and
mandors has thus far been limited; and the strengths and weaknesses of the
training provided have not been reviewed. BSP training objectives should
center on identifying cost-ef'ective models for training management, delivery
and content. Firms, or the relevant associations, should take the lead in
these efforts as feasible. Further experimentation should draw on available
training capacity in larger firms and the education and training sector
generally. Training content should be broadened to cover identified
training needs not yet addressed, including supervisory and construction
techniques for contractors.
Development Strategy
Government Strategy
1.21      The shortage of qualified technical and managerial manpower in
Indonesia is a major constraint to effective execution of development
programs. Government is thus supporting a medium- and long-term effort to
expand and improve the quality of formal education and training programs and
in-service upgrading in technical and managerial fields. Owing to the
urgent need for qualified manpower in construction, the Government also
plans to take immediate measures to strengthen and expand in-service
training programs for staff of Government agencies involved with
construction, with initial emphasis on MPW manpower; and to encourage the
industry to participate more in training. Based largely on the findings of
a construction sector review carried out by the MPW (and financed under a
Bank-assisted highways project, Loan 1696-IND),/l the Government is also
considering proposals for introducing skill standards and accreditation
schemes for the industry and for strengthening the professional
associations.
/1 "A Plan for Development of the Domestic Construction Industry," Public
Administration Service, January 1981 (included in the Project File,
Annex 11).



- 11 -
Bank Participation
1.22      The Bank supports Indonesia's strategy for the development of
technical and managerial manpower, with particular emphasis on construction.
Related assistance has been provided through earlier Bank-supported projects
for pre-service training in technical fields as well as project-related
training for construction. Industrial skills development has been the focus
of four education and training projects, for which Bank Group assistance
lending has amounted to US$135.6 million. TJnder the first of these
projects, assisted through Credit 219-IND, five centralized workshops were
established for practical training for students from nearby secondary
technical schools. The second project (Loan 1237-IND) supported development
of vocational training programs (pre-service) provided by the Ministry of
Manpower. The third project (Credit 869-IND) is supporting establishment of
a polytechnic system to train engineering technicians for construction as
well as other sectors. The fourth project (Loan 1904-IND) supports the
first phase of a development program for the university system, designed to
improve the efficiency and quality of higher-level technical and managerial
education.l/
1.23      Project-related training components have been included in the nine
MPW projects for highways (one) irrigation (five) urban development (two)
and water supply (one) supported by the Bank since 1978. Financing for
these components has amounted to about US$10 million. The training compo-
nents center on upgrading for MPW planners and managers and include opera-
tions training for irrigation and water supply and management of water
enterprises. In several cases, assistance for manpower planning and
identification of training requirements was also included. The project-
related training has been designed to reduce particular manpower
constraints, identified in large part during implementation of previous
Bank-assisted projects. However, a recent OED report ("Review of Training
in Bank-Financed Projects", Report No. 3834 of March 1, 1982, p. iv.)
concluded that a more systematic and coordinated approach to training is
generally needed. In line with recommendations of this report, a
comprehensive system for staff training should be developed in the MPW.
Both project-specific and other MPW training requirements would be
identified and met on a continuous basis through this system.
/1 To date, an OED Project Performance Audit Report has been prepared for
the first of these projects (supported by Credit 219-IND). This audit
(No. 2998, dated June 2, 1980, SecM80-440) stresses the importance of:
including fellowships for development of teachers and school adminis-
trators; and appointing key staff for project implementation in a
timely manner. These lessons have been incorporated in the design of
the proposed project, discussed below.



- 12 -
2. THE PROJECT
Objectives and Scope
2.01      The main objective of the proposed project is to facilitate
effective execution of the MPW's construction program by upgrading manpower./l
This would be achieved through provision of an improved and expanded program
of short courses for staff, and experimental training for contractors and
mandors. A second objective is to strengthen general management capabilities
of the Government through provision of fellowships for staff involved with
development planning, financing and related training.
2.02      The project would include civil works, equipment, materials,
furniture, additional staff and technical assistance, as appropriate to:
(a) Management of MPW Staff Training Activities.
(i) Strengthen the Training Department of the MPW to improve
planning and management for staff training.
(ii) Strengthen the Manpower Planning Division in the MPW-s
Bureau of Personnel in order to establish an improved
system for identifying staffing requirements and related
training needs.
(iii) Study, and recommend improvements for, program planning
and information management in the MPW and prepare future
training projects.
(b)  Curricula and Materials Development Unit.  Establish a Curricula
and Materials Development Unit (CMDU) in the Training Department
of the MPW, develop and provide improved curricula and
instructional materials for staff training and provide related
training for instructional staff.
(c)  Regional Training Centers (RTCs).  Rehabilitate/expand five
existing RTCs, construct a sixth RTC in Jakarta, and provide
short courses for 20,500 MPW staff annually by 1986/87.
(d)  Contractor and Mandor Training.  Experiment with preparation
and delivery of a training program for small- and medium-sized
contractors and for mandors.
/1 The project was prepared mainly by the MPW, with assistance from consul-
tants, on the basis of a study of manpower training requirements com-
pleted by the MPW in January 1981 (and included in the project file,
Annex 11).



- 13 -
In addition, the project would include a Professional Resources Development
(PRD) Program. This program would provide fellowships in management fields
for staff of the National Development Planning Board (BAPPENAS), the Ministry
of Finance and the Civil Service Training Institute (LAN).
Management of MPW Staff Training Activities (proposed outlay US$7.06 million,
excluding contingencies)
2.03      The Training Department.  To improve administrative and technical
support for MPW staff training, the project would assist the Training
Department (i.e., the PUSDIKLAT and BIDANG DIKLATs) to introduce a revised
management system. The revised system would be based on improved procedures
for planning; program development, monitoring and evaluation; and financing.
It would enable the Training Department to guide the development and
provision of staff training programs in a cost-effective manner (paras.
1.11-1.14). To ensure support for the new procedures, they would be
developed cooperatively by the PUSDIKLAT and BIDANG DIKLATs, in consultation
with the DPUPs.
2.04      To introduce the revised management system, the Training
Department has been reorganized along functional lines (see Annex 3). The
new responsibilities of the PUSDIKLAT Divisions would be as follows:
(a)  Training Division.  In addition to organizing cross-sectoral
courses for central and provincial staff, the Training Division
would be responsible for overall coordination of MPW staff
training including:
(i) annual and medium-term planning for staff training (in
cooperation with the Bureau for Planning and the Manpower
Planning Division of the Bureau of Personnel);
(ii) planning for the systematic development of staff training
programs and materials, and training for instructional staff;
and
(iii) planning for the development and efficient utiliza-
tion of MPW training facilities.
The Training Division would also liaise with other agencies
providing training in the construction sector.
(b)  Monitoring and Evaluation Division.  This Division would be
responsible for the regular monitoring and evaluation of the
efficiency and effectiveness of MPW training. Findings would
be used by the Training Division to formulate technical and
financial guidelines for the development and use of staff training
resources.



- 14 -
(c) Finance Division. The Finance Division would be responsible for
systematic budgeting, cost-accounting and auditing for training
provided through the PUSDIKLAT and for monitoring use of procedures
established for budgeting, accounting and auditing for training
financed by the BIDANG DIKLATS and the DPUPs.
(d) Administration Division. This Division would be responsible for
staffing and for the procurement of goods and services required by
the PUSDIKLAT and the RTCs. It would also monitor guidelines
established for procurement by the BIDANG DIKLATS.
2.05      Staff of the BIDANG DIKLATS have been reorganized to manage sector-
specific training coordinated by the PUSDIKLAT. The expanded responsibili-
ties of BIDANG DIKLATS would parallel those of the PUSDIKLAT and center on
the planning, implementation, monitoring and financing of training and
related reporting. For the planning of sector-related courses for provin-
cial staff, the BIDANG DIKLATS would work directly with the training liaison
officers in the DPUPs.
2.06      The project would provide office equipment, materials and additional
staff to assist the Training Department to introduce the new management
system. For the PUSDIKLAT, seven additional positions would be established
for planning of training (two), evaluation (two); budget and accounting
management (one); and facilities development and procurement (two). For the
BIDANG DIKLATS, nine new positions would be provided for an Assistant Chief
for the BIDANG DIKLAT CIPTA KARYA and for planning, accounting and instruc-
tional staff (two positions for BINA MARGA, two for PENGAIRAN, and four for
CIPTA KARYA) (Annex 4 provides details on staff positions to be created under
the project). Establishment of the improved management system and related
upgrading for staff would also be supported through technical assistance,
including 234 man-months of consultant services (138 man-months foreign,
96 man-months local) and fellowships (54 man-months) for key staff in the
PUSDIKLAT and BIDANG DIKLATS in the following areas: planning; monitoring and
evaluation; training design and methods; financial control; and facilities
planning and procurement (Annex 5 provides details on technical assistance).
The consultants would also assist the Training Department to train its staff
and training liaison officers in the DPUPs and to orient them to the revised
management practices. The provision for local consultants, to work with
foreign consultants (in this and other project components), would build
the capabilities of domestic firms in manpower planning, training and
training management. The skills developed by participating firms could be
used to meet a more general need for assistance with manpower planning and
training management in the public and private sectors. Draft terms of
reference, a contract and an invitation for proposals for the provision of
consultant and fellowship management services were prepared by the MPW and
reviewed during negotiations. At negotiations an understanding was reached
that staff for new positions in the PUSDIKLAT and BIDANG DIKLATs would be
designated by October 31, 1983 and formally appointed by December 31, 1983.



-15 -
2.07      The Manpower Planning Division.  To improve the MPW's capacity to
assess staffing needs and identify training requirements, the project would
assist the Division for Manpower Planning in the Bureau of Personnel to
introduce systematic planning procedures. These procedures would be designed
to define skills required on MPW jobs, to forecast staffing needs and to
identify related training needs (para. 1.15).  The Division would also orient
staff of the Directorates General and other personnel divisions at the central
and provincial levels on the implementation of the system. To provide
sufficient staff to develop and introduce the system, nine existing positions
within the Bureau of Personnel have been transferred to the Division for
Manpower Planning (three for job analysts and three for staff planners) and to
the Personnel and Organization Divisions of the Directorates General (one job
analyst for each Directorate General).
2.08      The staff planning system would be based on:
(a) an inventory of the skills, qualifications and experience of
existing central, projects and provincial works staff; and
(b) an inventory of existing and planned MPW jobs and related skills
and numbers of staff required.
The inventory of MWi staff skills, qualifications and experience would be
compiled from staff records currently maintained by the individual personnel
and project units. These would be standardized and updated on a regular
basis.  Job inventories would include descriptions of the main skills required
for individuals (or groups) carrying out specific jobs, skills required to
improve performance in these jobs, and skills required for new types of work.
The staff and job inventories, together with planned work programs, would be
used to forecast medium-term (i.e., five-year) staffing requirements and to
identify priority training needs. Updating would be undertaken on an annual
basis, as necessary. The revised staff planning system would be developed and
tested during 1983/84 and introduced fully during 1985/86.
2.09      The project would provide office equipment, materials and a program
of technical assistance to assist the Manpower Planning Division to introduce
systematic staff planning procedures. The technical assistance, including
246 man-months of consultant services (150 man-months foreign, 96 man-months
local) and short-term fellowships for key staff (52 man-months) would be pro-
vided in the areas of overall system development, manpower planning and fore-
casting, job classification and evaluation, and staff assessment (see
Annex 5). Draft terms of reference, a contract and an invitation for
provision of technical assistance were reviewed during negotiations. The
Government has also designated staff for the new positions in the Division for
Manpower Planning and the Personnel and Organization Divisions of the
Directorates General. During negotiations an understanding was reached that
these staff would be formally appointed by October 31, 1983.



- 16 -
2.10      Program Planning and Information Management Studies.  To support
more general improvements in the management of the MPW work program, the pro-
ject would include a two-part study on planning and information management.
The first part of the study, to be undertaken by the Bureau of Planning, would
be designed to assess: the MPWs organizational structure, staffing and
procedures for planning (i.e., programming and budgeting); and the allocation
of related responsibilities. On the basis of findings, measures would be
effected to improve coordination and the effectiveness of planning and
related progress monitoring for MPW activities (para. 1.16). The second
part of the study, to be conducted by the MPW's Center for Data Processing and
Statistics (PUSDATIK), would assess alternatives for consolidating and
improving MPW information systems at the central and provincial levels,
including systems for personnel, financial and operations management.
Existing organizational responsibilities and staffing patterns, as well as
computer equipment and software, would be reviewed and strengthened on the
basis of results. The project would include 225 man-months of consultant
services for the study (50 man-months foreign for planning, and 75 man-months
foreign and 100 man-months local for information management). Computer sup-
port materials and equipment required for the information management review
would also be provided. Draft terms of reference and a contract for the
study, which is expected to be completed by 1985, were prepared by the MPW and
reviewed during negotiations. In addition, the project includes about 60
man-months of consultant services for the preparation of future projects (see
Annex 5).
Curricula and Materials Development Unit (CMDU) (proposed outlay
US$7.76 million, excluding contingencies)
2.11      To improve the quality and relevance of training for MPW staff, a
CMDU has been established to prepare job-related courses and materials and to
provide training for permanent instructional staff to be appointed to the RTCs
(para. 1.17). The CMDU, created within the existing PUSDIKLAT organization,
comprises five Divisions for: Curricula and Materials Development; Materials
Design and Production; Instructor Training; Administration; and Finance.
Seventeen new positions would be created for key staff for the CMDU (as shown
in Annex 4). Included would be positions for a Chief and one to three staff
for each Division. The project would include the construction, equipping and
furnishing of a building for the CMDU, which would be located in Jakarta.
(Until the building is completed, work would be carried out in existing
facilities of the MPW.) It would also provide for the staffing of the CMDU.
The MPW has issued an executive (ministerial) decree to create the CMDU and
designated six staff, including the Director and Division Chiefs. During
negotiations, an understanding was reached that these six staff would be for-
mally appointed by October 31, 1983, and that remaining staff would be desig-
nated and appointed by October 31, 1983 and December 31, 1983, respectively.
2.12      Curricula and Materials Development.  The CMDU would establish
panels, comprising representatives of the Directorates General, DPUPs and



- 17 -
MPW Bureaus, as appropriate, to guide the development of curricula and
materials for short courses for staff. The detailed preparation of
materials would be undertaken mainly by subject specialists recruited on a
short-term, contract basis (equivalent to 15 full-time positions) and
managed by the CMDU. The new curricula and materials would be developed on
a modular basis. Each unit would comprise a self-contained set of
job-related skills and would normally be designed for completion in a one
week period. The modules could be readily combined to meet the training
needs of an individual or groups performing a given task. The curricula and
materials would relate specifically to the practices and techniques which
are in use or being developed by the MPW. The training modules would
incorporate exercises and case studies based on work regularly carried out
by staff and, where practicable, field experience (i.e., activities on
project sites).
2.13       Table 2.1 below, provides a list of subject areas for which
courses and learning materials would be developed. Modules would be
developed for both cross-sectoral and sector-specific courses, normally at
introductory, intermediate and advanced levels./l Course duration would
average 25 days and range from a week to about four months. Training for
senior level staff in management and technical fields would normally be of
shorter duration than that for new or junior level staff.
2.14       Annual schedules for the development of new or improved courses
would be refined on the basis of improved staff planning and evaluation
information (paras. 2.04 and 2.07), once available. The planned program for
development of curricula and materials for the first year of project
implementation (mid-1983-mid-1984) is shown in Table 2.2. It addresses
subjects for which skill deficiencies have been identified among MPW staff
(para. 1.03).
2.15      All new and revised course curricula and materials would be intro-
duced on a pilot basis, tested and, if necessary, revised prior to general
introduction. The relevance, quality and efficiency of short courses would
be monitored by the Training Department (paras. 2.04 and 2.05). In
addition, the PUSDIKLAT would review the effectiveness of MPW short courses,
new curricula and materials by comparison with similar courses offered
elsewhere in Indonesia and overseas. The PUSDIKLAT would also carry out an
evaluation of the effectiveness of short courses by comparison with
longer-term local and overseas training programs (para. 1.17). Results
would be used to guide the activities of the CMDU. Technical assistance for
design and execution of monitoring and evaluation activities would be
provided through the consultant services and fellowships for the Training
Department (para. 2.06).
/1 Where training modules are already under preparation (e.g. for water
supply training, para. 1.17), the Training Department, through the
CMDU, would coordinate the work to ensure compatibility and prevent
duplication of effort.



- 18 -
Table 2.1: FIELDS FOR CURRICULA AND MATERIALS DEVELOPMENT FOR MPW STAFF TRAINING
Urban development and
Cross-sectoral                   Roads and bridges         Irrigation                          water supply
I. Technical
Surveying and mapping   Land survey; survey        Survey of irrigation             Urban planning survey
of roads                  schemes
Drafting and cost         Drafting (roads and      Drafting and cost                Cost estimating for building
estimating             bridges)                  estimates (irrigation)          construction
Highway and traffic       Soil and water con-
engineering              servation; swamp area            Regional, urban, area, city
development; irrig-             planning
ation systems;
hydrology
Road and bridge           Irrigation construc-            Building methods, standards,
construction methods,   tion methods and                  building codes; construction
repair and supervision  supervision                       supervision
Road and bridge          Design of irrigation             Construction and design
design                   systems                          of low cost housing;
rural housing; water
supply systems;
design and construction of
water and sewage systems
Equipment and plant       Construction equip-      Irrigation and                   Construction equipment,
ment and plant            construction equip-             building services
ment and plant
Materials, testing        Asphalt, concrete and   Construction of                   Building materials, testing
and quality control   other road construc-    irrigation systems,                quality control
tion materials, test-   materials, testing,
ing, quality control    quality control
Soil survey, tests       Soil survey, tests,             Water quality testing
Maintenance systems      Maintenance of roads    Irrigation systems                Management of water enter-
operations and                  prises and systems
maintenance
Mechanics (upgrading)   Maintenance of             Maintenance of equip-           Maintenance of plant
equipment                ment and plant                   and equipment
II. Management and Supervisory
(Cross-sectoral and sector-specific modules to be developed in all
fields)
Program management
Project management and supervision; feasibility studies; planning; programming; economic analysis; monitor-
ing and evaluation (time, labor, materials, quality and cost control)
Management information systems
Productivity planning and development
Logistics; contract procedures; procurement; stores; supplies management
Financial management; accounting, auditing, budgeting, cost accounting
Computing and data processing; programming; systems analysis; applications in design, modeling, forecasting,
project monitoring and control
Safety and labor relations
Language training (functional)



- 19 -
Table 2.2: CMDU PROGRAM OF CURRICULA AND MATERIALS
DEVELOPMENT (1983/84)
Number of modules
to be developed
I. Cross-sectoral Training
1. Induction training for technical
secondary school graduates:
Surveying and mapping                                  12-15
Drafting and cost estimating                           12-15
Construction supervision and
operations and maintenance                           12-15
2. Other training:
Surveying & mapping                                     3-6
Supplies management                                     4-6
II. Sector-specific Training
3. PENGAIRAN:
Irrigation, construction and
supervision methods (induction)                       4-12
Surveying & mapping (for irrigation)                   10-12
Swamp development techniques                            4-6
4. BINA MARGA:
Construction supervision (for roads)                   10-12
Supervision for road maintenance                       12-15
Surveying and measurement (for roads)                  12-15
5. CIPTA KARYA:
Construction supervision (for buildings)               12-15
Building survey                                        12-15
2.16      To assist the CMDU to initiate its development activities, the
project would provide about 324 man-months of consultant services (172
foreign, 152 local) and 52 man-months of fellowships for staff in the areas of
curricula and materials development for management and technical training,
materials design and production, and instructor training, discussed below (see
Annex 5 for details on technical assistance). Draft terms of reference, a
contract and an invitation to submit proposals for providing this technical
assistance were prepared by the MPW and reviewed during negotiations. The



- 20 -
project would also include financing for consumable materials (e.g., paper,
films) and contract services for the development of course materials, the
production of special print and audiovisual materials and consumable materials
for trainees. Most print materials would be produced in the CMDU, using
printing and other equipment to be provided under the project; and some films
would be produced in an audiovisual center in Surabaya, provided in connection
with the development of training for gate openers in irrigation (para. 1.17).
During negotiations, it was agreed that the Government would: submit for
review by the Bank, at least two months prior to the beginning of each of its
fiscal years, an annual plan for the development of curricula and materials
for short courses for MPW staff; and prepare a design for, and undertake, a
comparative evaluation of MPW training programs in accordance with terms of
reference and a schedule satisfactory to the Bank.
2.17      Development of Instructional Staff.  To support effective use of the
improved course materials, two to three permanent instructional staff would be
assigned to each RTC (para. 1.17 and Annex 4). The CMDU would provide a
program of training for these staff, which would focus on training methods and
technical subject matter. The RTC instructional staff would be responsible
for providing orientation and training for some 800 part-time trainers
required to deliver courses during 1983/84-1986/87.' This training would cover
the use of course materials and teaching methods. A schedule for the training
of instructional staff is provided in Table 2.3, below. The project would
include financing for permanent instructional staff for the RTCs and for
training for these staff and the part-time trainers. The training would be
developed with assistance of consultants to be assigned to the CMDU
(para. 2.16). During negotiations, an understanding was reached that staff
for full-time instructional positions in the RTCs would be designated by
October 31, 1983 and formally appointed by December 31, 1983.
Table 2.3: SCHEDULE FOR TRAINING INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF (1983/84-1986/87)
1983/84            1984/85             1985/86             1986/87
No. of Trainee- No. of Trainee- No. of Trainee- No. of Trainee-
trainees months trainees months trainees months trainees months
RTC
instruct.
staff        13       39          13      39         -         -         -         -
Part-time
trainers   100        25         250      60        250       60       200        50



- 21 -
The Regional Training Centers (RTCs) (proposed outlay US$14.22 million,
excluding contingencies)
2.18      In order to implement an improved and expanded program of short
courses, the five existing RTCs would be enlarged and upgraded, and a new RTC
would be established in Jakarta. The new RTC would have 24 positions for key
staff, including a Director and instructional staff (para. 2.17). Nineteen
existing positions within the Training Department would be transferred to the
Jakarta RTC and five new positions would be established (see Annex 4). Each
RTC would have 270 trainee places (with boarding facilities for 210), and
include classrooms, a workshop, a laboratory and related equipment (para.
1.18). Staff houses would also be provided. It is planned that about 80% of
the short-course training (discussed below) would be carried out in the RTCs.
The remaining 20% would be carried out in the facilities of the Directorates
General (para. 1.07).
2.19      Under the project, the number of staff participating in short
courses would nearly double, from about 10,400 in 1981/82 to 20,500 in
1986/87. By 1986/87, about 14% of MPW staff would receive such training each
year and the share of provincial trainees would increase from 77% of DPUP staff
in 1981/82 to 14% by 1986/87, as shown in Table 2.4.
Table 2.4: EXPA4SION OF SHIORT-COURSE TRAINING BY CATEGORY OF MPW STAFF
(1981/82-1986/87)
Number of staff
1981/82 (actual)   1983/84 (projected)  1986/87 (projected) /a
In                    In                      In
Category       In      short         In       short          In       short
of staff    post /a  courses  %  post /a  courses  %   post /a  courses
Central       12,200   1,700  14   15,400   2,000  13    17,800   2,500  14
Project       28,300   3,450  12   32,900   4,000  12    38,100   5,500  14
Provincial   70,300   5,250   7   75,900   9,800  13    88,000  12,500  14
Total  110,800  10,400  10  124,200  15,800  13   143,900  20,500  14
/a  MPW staff numbers grew at about 7% p.a. during the 1970s and are pro-
jected to grow at a rate of about 5% through the mid-1980s.
Training would be provided for about 50% of new staff (estimated at about
5,500 by 1986/87) annually and for about 12% of existing staff. As a result
of course and materials development activities to be carried out by the CMDU,
the focus of the training would be shifted from general courses to an
increased number of job-related courses (para. 1.17) within the subject areas
shown in Table 2.5.



- 22 -
Table 2.5: DISTRIBUTION OF MPW SHORT COURSES
BY TYPE OF CURRICULUM
(1981/82 and 1986/87)
Trainee-months
1981/82 (actual)  1986/87 (planned)
Type of training                 (%)                   (%)
Management                        20                    20
Supervision                       14                    20
Construction technology/
engineering                     21                    25
Operations/maintenance            13                    25
Civil service and related         32                    10
100                  100
2.20      The project would include financing for construction, equipment, and
furniture for the upgrading and expansion of the five existing RTCs and for
the new RTC in Jakarta, and for the five new staff positions to be established
for the new RTC. The cost of trainers honoraria and subsistence and travel
for trainees under the expanded program would also be included in the project.
The MPW has prepared a plan and a budget for the MPW program of short courses
for 1983/84 (Annex 6 shows the planned program of courses) and designated six
staff, including the Director, for the RTC to be established in Jakarta.
During negotiations, an understanding was reached that these staff would be
formally appointed by October 31, 1983 and that the remaining staff, including
permanent instructional staff for the new RTC, would be designated and
appointed by October 31, 1983 and December 31, 1983, respectively. During
negotiations, it was agreed that the Government would submit for review by the
Bank, at least two months prior to the start of each fiscal year, the annual
plan and budget for short courses for MPW staff and an overall plan for all
MPW staff training.
Contractor and Mandor Training (proposed outlay US$4.76 million, excluding
contingencies).
2.21      The project would include an experimental training program for
small- and medium-sized contractors and mandors to provide a basis for the
development and financing of regular upgrading programs by the private
sector (para. 1.20). The relevant professional associations, the GAPENSI
and mandors- cooperatives, would be actively involved in planning,
implementing and evaluating the training. The MPW's Bureau for Construction



- 23 -
Industry Development, through PERBINIKON (para. 1.09), would coordinate the
training program. Courses would be developed in a range of subjects,
incorporating different training methods and arrangements. In total, about
2,800 contractor staff and 4,550 mandors from all provinces would
participate in the training, as shown in Table 2.6 below.
2.22      Management.  The provincial offices of the GAPENSI and the mandors'
cooperatives (or a group of mandors with GAPENSI assistance, where
cooperatives have not yet been established) would be primarily responsible for
the preparation of annual training plans and the selection of trainees. They
would also cooperate in the selection or revision of training materials to
reflect local needs. PERBINIKON would coordinate training plans on a national
basis. It would also coordinate the development of curricula and training
materials, establish criteria for the selection of trainees, monitor the
implementation of training courses, and undertake an evaluation of results.
Course and materials development would be carried out under contracts placed
by the BSP with local training entities (e.g., universities, polytechnics, the
training units of the state construction companies).
2.23      Course Content.  Contractors' courses (with a duration of 14 days),
would include an improved version of the course on financial and project
management introduced during 1981. This course covered numerous topics (e.g.,
project planning and control, accounting and budgeting, bank loans, taxation
and contract regulations) in nine days. In addition, new courses in estima-
ting and tendering, supervision and quality control, and specific aspects of
construction technology and practice would be developed and implemented. The
mandors' course would last for 20 days and would be based on a 16 day course
introduced in 1981/82. The training would focus on technical subjects
(including construction methods, measurement, costing, and equipment and
materials management) and cover supporting skills (including safety, the
role of the mandors' cooperatives, and on-the-job training methods). Course
materials would be introduced on a trial basis and revised in the light of
early experience.
2.24      Training Methods.  All training would combine classroom and
practical activities. As part of the experimental approach, some courses
would be delivered through in-plant training and others would include
on-site advisory and follow-up services. The in-plant training would be
undertaken by the state contractors. The advisory and follow-up services
would take the form of instructors' visits to trainee work sites, both
during training and several months after training. Each of these approaches
would be adopted in at least six contractor and nine mandor courses. Course
schedules would be arranged to suit contractors and mandors during morning,
afternoon, evening or weekend sessions. Theoretical classes would be given in
available classroom facilities (e.g., of the Ministries of Education, Public
Works or Manpower) and practical training would be conducted on construction
sites. Instructors appointed by the training entity for contractor training
would be required to have construction management experience. About 90



- 24 -
Table 2.6: TRAINING PLAN FOR CONTRACTOR STAFF AND MANDORS
---------------------Number of Participants--------------------
Courses for Contractors
Financial   Estimating  Supervision                               Courses
Region              and project       and      and quality  Construction                  for
management   tendering    control         techniques   Total    mandors
1983/84
Jakarta                           35             35           35              35         140       210
West Java                          -             35           35              35         105       210
Central Java                       -             35           35             35          105      210
Yogyakarta                        35              -           35             35          105       210
East Java                         35             35           35              35         140       210
North Sumatera                    35             35            -              -           70         -
South Sulawesi                    35            35             -              -          70       210
Subtotal                   175            210          175             175         735    1,260
1984/85
North Sumatera                     -             -            35             35           70      175
South Sulawesi                     -             -            35             35           70         -
Riau                              35             35           35               -         105       175
South Sumatera                    35             35            -             35         105       210
East Kalimantan                   35              -           35             35          105       175
South Kalimantan                   -             35           35             35         105       210
Jambi                             35             35           35              -          105      210
Subtotal                   140            140          210             175         665    1,155
1985/86
Aceh                              35             -            35             35         105       175
West Sumatera                      -             35           35             35         105       175
Bali                               -            35            35             35         105       175
Lampung                           35            35            35              -         105       175
West Kalimantan                    -             35           35             35         105       175
West Nusa Tenggara                35              -            -             35           70      140
North Sulawesi                    35              -           35             35         105       140
Subtotal                   140            140          210             210         700    1,155
1986/87
Bengkulu                          35            35             -             35         105       175
Central Kalimantan                35            35             -             35         105       140
Central Sulawesi                  35             -            35             35         105       175
Sulawesi Tenggara                 35            35            35              -         105       175
East Nusa Tenggara                35             35            -             35         105       175
Maluku                            35            35            35              -         105        70
Irian Jaya                        35            35             -              -          70        70
Subtotal                   245            210          105              140        700       980
Total                      700            700          700              700      2,800    4,550



- 25 -
instructors required for mandor training would be drawn from supervisory staff
and project managers employed by the large-scale contractors. Training
courses of about two weeks duration would be provided at the Technical Teacher
Training Center in Bandung (under a contract with the Ministry of Education)
for these instructors.
2.25      The project would include financing for contracts for development of
curricula and materials and delivery of the experimental training courses for
contractors and mandors; for instructional equipment; and for instructor
training for the mandor courses. It is expected that the GAPENSI would
continue to finance, in cash or kind, about 50% of the costs of contractor
training (para. 1.09). During negotiations, an understanding was reached that
as of September 1984 an interim study of the cost sharing arrangements for
contractor training would be undertaken by the MPW and the Bank. Financing
would also be provided for 114 man-months of consultant services (45 foreign,
69 local) to assist with developing the training curriculum and materials in
construction management and foremanship and the training evaluation (Annex 5).
Draft terms of reference and a contract for the provision of technical
assistance were reviewed during negotiations. At negotiations, it was agreed
that the Government would undertake an evaluation of the training program for
contractors and mandors in accordance with terms of reference and a schedule
satisfactory to the Bank.
Professional Resources Development (PRD) Program (proposed outlay,
US$3.21 million excluding contingencies)
2.26      To improve the effectiveness of manpower in key planning and
economic posts in the Government, the project would include a program of
overseas fellowship training for staff of BAPPENAS, the Ministry of Finance,
LAN, the Ministry of State for Administrative Reform and related agencies
(para. 1.16). This program would represent a continuation of overseas
fellowship training initiated with USAID support. The fellowships would be
provided in the fields of planning and management, public administration,
economics and finance. About 113 officials would participate (Annex 5). Some
eight candidates would complete requirements for doctoral degrees, 25 candi-
dates would earn master-s degrees, and 80 candidates would participate in
short-term training programs (average duration three months). Language
training would be included, as necessary, as part of the overseas training.
An existing PRD Steering Committee would select fellowship candidates. The
project would include financing for the fellowship program and for consultant
services (42 man-months foreign) to assist with program management and local
provision of language training. Criteria established for the selection of
fellows and fields of study have been reviewed by the Bank and are satis-
factory; and draft terms of reference and a contract for the provision of
consultant services are under preparation.



- 26 -
3. PROJECT COSTS AND IMPLEMENTATION
Costs
3.01       The total cost of the project, including the capitalized front-end
fee, is estimated at US$47.85 million equivalent.  The estimated cost b-y
project item is summarized in Table 3.1 and by type of expenditure :n.
Table 3.2 (for detailed costs by type of expenditure and project component
Annex 7).
3.02       Base costs refer to December 1982 prices and are reasonable.
Construction costs, which have been calculated on the basis of recent tenders
for similar facilities in Indonesia, vary by geographic location from
US$235 per sq m to US$265 equivalent per sq m for academic and communal
spaces, and from US$180 per sq m to US$210 per sq m for housing. Site
development costs are estimated at 10%-15% of building costs. The cost of
professional services is estimated at 10% of the cost of civil works. The
cost of furniture is estimated at 10% of construction costs.  Equipment costs
have been estimated on the basis of equipment lists prepared by the MPW and
reviewed by the Bank. Technical assistance includes 1,245 man-months of
consultant services (732 man-months foreign and 513 man-months local) and
1,598 man-months of foreign fellowships.  Unit costs for technical assistance
were estimated as follows: US$12,000 per man-month for foreign consultants
(inclusive of salaries, allowances, and international airfare); US$2,140 per
man-month for local consultants; and US$1,800 per man-month for overseas
fellowships.
3.03       For the RTCs, the average cost per trainee place, including
buildings, site works, housing, furniture and equipment, would be US$5,140 and
would range from US$4,600 for rehabilitation and expansion of existing RTCs,
to US$7,810 for the new RTC. The costs per trainee place are lower than the
median cost of US$12,000 (1980 prices) per new place for similar technical
education facilities financed under recent Bank-assisted projects. The lower
costs are due mainly to emphasis on rehabilitation of existing buildings and
planned use of project sites and available MPW equipment for training which
reduce the need for laboratories, workshops and equipment. Construction units
and costs are summarized in Table 3.3, below (see Annex 8 for details).



- 27 -
Table 3.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT /a
Foreign
Costs
For-                     For-         as x
Component                   Local  eign    Total  Local   eign  Total Total
--- (Rp billions) --  -- (US$ million) --
A. Management of MPW Training
Activities
Administration of training   .54    1.23    1.77   0.77   1.75   2.53    69
Staff planning                 .15    1.24    1.38    .21   1.77   1.98    89
Related studies                 .27    1.52    1.79    .39   2.17   2.56    85
Subtotal                    .96    3.98    4.94   1.38   5.69   7.06    81
B. Curricula and Materials
Development
CMDU                           .46      .68    1.14    .66    .97   1.63    59
Curricula and materials
development                 1.76    2.08    3.84   2.52   2.97   5.48    54
Instructor training            .18      .28      .46    .26    .40    .66    60
Subtotal                   2.41    3.03    5.43   3.44   4.33   7.76    56
C. Regional Training Centers   5.97    3.98    9.96   8.54   5.69  14.22    40
D. Contractor and Mandor
Training                    2.33    1.00    3.33   3.33   1.44   4.76    30
E. PRD Fellowship Program          .04    2.21    2.25    .06   3.15   3.21    98
Total Base Cost         11.71   14.20   25.92  16.73  20.29  37.02    55
Physical contingencies        1.04    1.01    2.05   1.49   1.44   2.93    49
Price contingencies           2.93    2.44    5.37   4.19   3.49   7.68    45
Total Project Cost    15.69   17.65   33.34  22.41  25.22  47.63    53
Front-end fee on Bank Loan       -      .15      .15      -    .22    .22   100
Total Financing Required   15.69   17.80   33.49  22.41  25.44  47.85    52
/a  Discrepancies in summary are due to rounding.



- 28 -
Table 3.2: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURES /a
For-                    For-
Local   eign    Total  Local  eign   Total
Category of expenditure                   --- (Rp billions) ---  - (US$ millions) --
Investment Costs
Civil Works
Construction                          2.29    1.29    3.58   3.27   1.84   5.11
Site works                              .48     .27      .75    .69    .39   1.07
Professional services                   .23      .06     .29    .33    .09    .41
Subtotal                             3.00    1.62    4.62   4.29   2.32   6.60
Furniture, Equipment and Materials
Furniture                               .24      .13     .37    .34   0.19       .53
Equipment                               .36    2.11    2.47   0.51   3.01   3.53
Subtotal                               .60    2.24    2.84   0.86   3.20   4.06
Technical Assistance
Consultant services (foreign)           .59    5.61    6.20    .84   8.01   8.86
Consultant services (local)             .54      .14     .68    .77    .20    .97
Fellowships                               -    2.06    2.06        -   2.94   2.94
Subtotal                             1.13    7.81    8.94   1.61  11.16  12.77
Total Investment Costs               4.73   11.67   16.40   6.76  16.67  23.43
Incremental Operating Costs
Materials development for MPW training
Materials development &
production /b                         .84     .89    1.73   1.20   1.27   2.47
Contract staff                          .58     .15      .73    .83    .21   1.04
Subtotal                             1.42    1.04    2.46   2.03   1.48   3.51
Permanent Staff                           .91      .24    1.15   1.30    .34   1.64
Other Incremental Training Costs
MPW staff training /c                  2.48      .66    3.14   3.54   0.94   4.49
Contractor and Mandor
Training /d                         2.20      .58    2.78   3.14   0.83   3.97
Subtotal                             4.68    1.24    5.92   6.68   1.77   8.46
Total Incremental Operating
Costs                              7.01    2.52    9.53  10.01   3.60  13.61
Total Base                          11.71   14.20   25.92  16.73  20.29  37.02
Physical contingencies                     1.04    1.01    2.05   1.49   1.44   2.93
Price contingencies                        2.93    2.44    5.37   4.19   3.49   7.68
Total Project Cost                  15.69   17.65   33.34  22.41  25.22  47.63
Front-end fee                                 -      .15      .15      -    .22    .22
Total Financing Required            15.69   17.80   33.49  22.41  25.44  47.85
/a  Discrepancies in summary are due to rounding.
lb  Includes instructor training.
7&  Includes costs of honoraria for trainers and travel and subsistence for MPW
trainees in short courses.
/d  Includes costs of preparation of courses and training materials, instructor
training and delivery of training for contractors and mandors.



- 29 -
Table 3.3: SUMMARY OF CONSTRUCTION ITEMS, AREAS AND BASE COSTS
Training/office      Boarding
Rehabili-        Rehabili-  Housing
New   tation    New   tation         New     Total
Regional Training Centers
No. of places/units              1,620           832     428        17
Area (sq m)               7,145   9,766    6,795   4,285    1,320   29,611
Cost (US$ million)           1.80      .53      1.72      .14      .26      4.45
CMDU
No. of units                                       8                 6
Area (sq m)               1,890        -       115       -       485    2,490
Cost (US$ million)            .49        -      0.03       -      0.11       .63
Total Costs (US$ mln.)  2.29        .53     1.75      .14       .37      5.08
3.04      The contingency allowance of US$10.61 million includes physical
contingencies of 5% for technical assistance and 10% for other categories.
Price contingencies were calculated on base costs plus physical contingencies
and estimated on the basis of the implementation schedule and the following
expected annual increases in prices:
Rate (%)
Year          Local  Foreign
1983           13      8.0
1984           10      7.5
1985            7      7.0
1986-88         7      6.0
3.05      Equipment and materials imported under the project would be exempt
from duties and taxes.  Customs duties and taxes on other items are estimated
at about US$1.9 million, or 4% of total project costs.
Financing
3.06      The proposed Bank loan of US$30.0 million would finance 65% of the
total cost of the project (net of taxes) including the capitalized front-
end fee of US$.22 million. The Government, with contributions from GAPENSI
(para. 2.25), would be responsible for the remaining share of US$17.85 million
equivalent. The proposed allocation of the loan is shown in Annex 9.
Recurrent Operating Costs
3.07      The total costs of the expanded program of short courses for MPW
would rise from about US$5.0 million in 1982/83 (including overheads) to about



- 30 -
US$8.5 million by 1987. While expenditures on training materials would more
than double, expenditures for outside boarding and subsistence would be
reduced as a result of the provision of expanded training and boarding
facilities under the project. As a result, the average unit cost for training
(direct training costs only) would remain constant, at about US$300 per
trainee month. The composition of unit costs for the training in 1981/82 is
compared with that expected for 1986/87 in Table 3.4, below.
Table 3.4: ANALYSIS OF RECURRENT COSTS FOR MPW STAFF TRAINING
(Short Courses)
Distribution of costs (%)
Actual       Planned
1981/82       1986/87
Trainers' honoraria/salaries             14          15
Trainees- allowances/board
and lodging                            49          38
Training materials                       15          25
Trainees- transport/other
transport                              20          20
Other direct                              2           2
100         100
Project Management and Implementation
3.08      The project would be managed by existing units in the MPW and the
PRD Steering Committee. The executive authority for management of the project
components under the authority of the MPW would be the Secretary General,
responsible to the Minister. The Director of PUSDIKLAT would be supported
by a Project Manager and PUSDIKLAT staff who would manage MPW project
components, including improvements in management procedures, training
evaluations, other studies and the project activities of the CMDU and the RTCs
(see chart below). The PUSDIKLAT Training Division would supervise planning
and execution of curricula and materials development activities to be carried
out by the CMDU, and short course training carried out in the RTCs and other
facilities. The Monitoring and Evaluation Division would design and manage a
progress monitoring system for the project, in addition to undertaking an
evaluation of the effectiveness MPW training programs (para. 2.16). The
Finance Division would be responsible for preparing annual project budgets and
for maintaining project accounts and audits; and the Administration Division
would be responsible for procuring civil works, goods and services for the MPW



- 31 -
PUJBLIC WORKS
MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Management Responsibilities
STAFF
MPG T9AINING & MANAGEMENT        I         PLANNING                  CONTRACTOR &
MAIN RESPONSIEILITY                 I              COMPONENTS                I        COMPONENT                 MANDOR TRAJNING                      MANAGEMENT STUDIES
EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY                                                                     SecretorT 
GeoeO 
-------                                -----------                                                                      ___-------- -------------
OVERALL MANAGEMENT & COORDINATIONDecto of                                                     o
PUSDIKLAT                                                           Coestotler
Development
---1-----                1-                                                                                                                             
SUPERVISION/IMPLEMENTATION/         I                        T
MONITORING OF                      I                        Traning
IMPROVEMENTS IN MPW TRAJNING                               Devision                   Mpee                                                                       _ 
MANAGEMENT                                                                           Mnavr                                                   BeudCentrsrforDa)ra
MPW STAFF PLANNING                l                                         l         Panning'                    PERBINIKON                                     Processng &
STUDIES                                                                                D,  n                      P                                                  stics
PREPARATION OF COURSES & MATERIALS                  _     Maotoring
RAIN NG PROGRAMS                  IDi,sio
I-------------tT-                                                                                                              --------___--
l                            l       ~~~~~~~~~~~~Adrrr,r srrconiofl  Artmi trio
Ad-nonce                    &
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT                                                                    & Fvnrts                     Divons
& CONTROL                                                                          DksD
(ALL MPW COMPONENTS)                                _
-------                   I____  T____                                    _                                                    - - - T-- -- --  -------_
PROCUREMENT                                           Admnssafion
(ALL MPG COMPONENTS)               I                         Div,so'                 
Wor d Bank--24b52 i



- 32 -
project components. The staff planning component and the contractor and
mandor training program would be implemented by the Bureau of Personnel and
the Bureau of Construction Industry Development, respectively, under the
administration of the Project Manager.
3.09      The PUSDIKLAT is, in general, adequately staffed to carry out
project management responsibilities. The addition of new staff under the
project (para. 2.06) would serve to strengthen project management capabili-
ties, particularly in respect of procurement and financing. In addition, the
MPW has appointed a suitably qualified and experienced Project Manager.
3.10      The PRD Steering Committee would be responsible for implementing the
fellowship program for Government managers (para. 2.26). This Steering
Committee comprises senior officials of participating agencies. It is chaired
by the Deputy Chairman for Administration in BAPPENAS and reports to the
Minister of State for Administrative Reform. The Steering Committee has a
technical secretariat which has been responsible for managing the ongoing PRD
program. This secretariat is appropriately staffed to manage the proposed
program.
3.11      A proposed implementation schedule for the project is shown in
Annex 10. The project would be implemented over the four-year period mid-1983
to mid-1987. Civil works and related equipment and furniture procurement
would be carried out in phases. The first phase of construction, to begin in
October 1983, would comprise the CMDU and the new RTC in Jakarta. The
rehabilitation and expansion of the five existing RTCs would commence
thereafter at intervals of about one month. Equipment procurement would be
carried out in two phases. The first, for which contract awards would be made
by November 1983, would comprise initial equipment for the training centers
and account for about 50% of the total value of equipment. The second phase
of equipment procurement would comprise specialized items for which
specifications would be prepared with the assistance of consultants to be
appointed under the project. Furniture contracts would be awarded by March
1984. Construction activities and furniture delivery would be completed by
late 1984, and equipment delivery by late 1985. All other project activities
are scheduled to be underway by November 1983.
Status of Project Preparation
3.12      The project is in a generally advanced stage of preparation.  The
MPW engaged architects who have completed survey work, detailed architectural
plans and bid documents for the first phase of construction./l The MPW owns
/1 Financing for these professional services is being provided through
use of US$200,000 transferred from available funds under an MPW urban
project assisted by the Bank (Loan 1336-IND of 1976).



- 33 -
the site selected for the CMDU and new RTC in Jakarta and has completed the
formalities for its proposed use. The MPW has prepared master lists for
equipment, and draft specifications and related bid documents for the first
phase of equipment procurement. The MPW has further prepared invitations and
draft contracts for the provision of technical assistance. Proposals would be
invited from selected organizations by April 1983, to allow for contract award
and start-up by November 1983. The MPW has also designated key staff for new
institutions to be created under the project, appointed a Project Director for
MPW components and established the CMDU. The contract for consultant services
for the PRD program is expected to be completed to permit award during
November 1983.
Procurement
3.13      Civil Works.  The CMDU and the new RTC in Jakarta would be built on
the same site and tendered as a single package with a value of about
US$2.8 million. The value of the renovation/expansion works for the five
existing RTCs would be about US$1.0 million per contract. Based on past
experience in Indonesia, the geographic spread of sites and the relatively
small contract values would not attract international bidders. The six
contracts (estimated total value US$7.8 million) would thus be awarded on the
basis of local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
3.14      Equipment, Materials and Furniture.  Contracts for equipment would
be grouped to the extent practicable to form attractive bid packages. Those
costing US$150,000 equivalent or more (estimated total value US$3.0 million)
would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding, in accor-
dance with Bank Group Guidelines. In bid comparison, local manufacturers
would be given a preferential margin of 15% or the customs duty, whichever is
lower, over the c.i.f. cost of competing imports. Materials and equipment
which cannot be grouped to form packages of US$150,000 equivalent or more
(estimated total value US$1.5 million) would be awarded on the basis of local
competitive bidding procedures which are acceptable to the Bank. Misscellan-
eous items, in packages not exceeding US$25,000 equivalent, and subject to an
aggregate limit of US$0.5 million equivalent, would be purchased on the basis
of at least three price quotations. Books and other published materials would
be procured through direct purchase after negotiations for discounts. Prior
Bank review would be required on awards of US$150,000 equivalent or more for
equipment contracts. Such contracts are expected to account for about 60% of
the value of equipment and materials to be procured. Furniture contracts
(estimated value $0.7 million) would be awarded on the basis of local
competitive bidding procedures.
3.15      Technical Assistance.  Technical assistance, including consultant
services and services for arranging overseas fellowships, would be obtained
from consulting organizations. Employment of consultants would be carried
out in accordance with Bank Group guidelines on the use of consultants.



- 34 -
Disbursements
3.16      Loan disbursements would be made on the basis of:
(a) 55% of the costs of civil works;
(b)  100% of the c.i.f. costs of imported equipment, materials and
furniture; 100% of the exfactory costs of locally manufactured
equipment, materials and furniture; and 65% of the costs of
imported equipment, materials and furniture procured locally;
(c) 100% of the costs of consultant services and fellowships and
MPW staff travel costs (incremental) for short courses;
(d) 50% of the costs of:
(i) materials development and production for the program
of short courses for MPW staff; and
(ii) the contractor and mandor training program.
3.17      Disbursements for trainee travel and materials for the MPW short
courses, (c) and (d)(i) above, would be based on invoices, contracts with
local firms and individual specialists for the development and production of
training materials, and related expenditures on consumable materials.
Disbursements for contractor and mandor training, (d)(ii), would include
contracts for course development and delivery and for instructor training.
Submission of the numerous contracts, invoices and receipts for these
relatively small items (which account for about 15% of the loan amount)
would be unduly costly for the Government and the Bank. Disbursements for
these items would therefore be made on the basis of statements of expenditure
(SOEs) submitted quarterly and normally aggregated to amounts not less than
US$25,000 per withdrawal. Disbursements against other small local expendi-
tures for equipment and materials, each less than US$1,000, would also be
made against SOEs. Supporting documents would be retained by the PUSDIKLAT
at Jakarta and made available for review, as requested, by visiting Bank
missions. Disbursements against remaining project expenditures would be
made against full documentation.
3.18      The estimated schedule of disbursements, shown in Table 3.5, is
based on the planned four-year implementation schedule and disbursement
experience with other education and training projects in the region. The
profile shows an above-average disbursement rate, owing to a shorter project
implementation period and the advanced level of preparation for civil works
and equipment procurement and for arrangements for technical assistance.
Disbursements are scheduled to be completed by June 30, 1988.



- 35 -
Table 3.5: ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENT
IBRD                                   Regional education project
fiscal   Cumulative disbursements         disbursement profile /a
year    US$ million                                %
84          1.3               5                   1.4
85          3.9              13                   6.9
86          7.5              25                  17.1
87         16.5              55                  32.2
88         30.0             100                  49.8
/a  The profile is based on historical data for 36 projects over the
period FY71-81, and represents the initial 5 years of an average
disbursement period of 9 years.
Accounts, Auditing and Reporting
3.19      The Training Department and the PRD Steering Committee would
establish and maintain separate, project-related accounts. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the accounts would be maintained in accordance
with sound and generally recognized accounting principles and practice
satisfactory to the Bank; that the accounts would be audited annually in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank, including separate audit
of accounts related to disbursement against SOEs; and that the audited
accounts would be presented to the Bank not later than six months after the
close of each Indonesian fiscal year. The Training Department and BAPPENAS
would prepare detailed project completion reports and submit them to the Bank
not later than six months after the closing date.
4. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
4.01      The proposed project comprises an important part of the Government s
strategy for manpower development for construction. The principal benefit of
the proposed MPW staff training components would be improvements in execution
of MPW projects through increased skill levels of staff. Related benefits
would include enhanced effectiveness in the use of training resources by the
MPW and in the identification of manpower and training requirements by local
consultants. The benefits anticipated from the experimental contractor and
mandor training program include improved skills of those trained and
experience gained. Results would be used to develop larger, cost-effective
training programs with a gradual shift of responsibility to the private



- 36 -
sector. The PRD Program is expected to improve the effectiveness of manage-
ment in key planning and economic agencies of the Government.
4.02      Under the project, the number of MPW trainees in short courses would
nearly double, from about 10,400 staff in 1981/82 to 20,500 by 1986/87. This
level of expansion would correspond with normal growth of MPW staff over the
period and an increase in the share of training provided for provincial staff.
Overall expenditures for short-term training for MPW staff would increase by
70% during project implementation. Through improvements to be effected in
efficiency, however, quality improvements would be achieved without increasing
the average unit costs for the training. The experiment with contractor and
mandor training would increase the number of trainees from about 400 in
1981/82 to 1,680 in 1986/87; and about 113 Government officials would
participate in the PRD Program.
Risks
4.03      The development of an improved management system for job-related
training for MPW staff would require strong central support and commitment
from the three Directorates General and the DPUPs. A risk exists that
commitment would be inaequate. To reduce this risk, the improved management
system has been designed to encourage coordination: training needs would be
identified within the operating units; practicing engineers and managers would
be fully involved in course design and in training; and the existing training
activities of the Directorates General and provincial liaison officers would
be continued and enhanced through the joint development of better standards,
methods and training courses. The strengthening of evaluation and monitoring
arrangements would be an integral part of these improvements. A related risk
is that the Training Department and the RTCs would be unable to effectively
manage project implementation while simultaneously developing and introducing
improved management practices and courses. This risk would be minimized by
the provision of an experienced Project Manager, additional staff for
facilities planning, procurement and financial management and related
consultant services.
4.04      In the case of contractor and mandor training a risk exists that the
planned courses would be ineffective. To reduce this risk, the main
responsibility for identification of training needs, trainees and necessary
course revisions would be placed on contractors and mandors through the
professional associations.
5. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01      During negotiations, understandings were reached on the following
items:



- 3/ -
,a) appointing the staff designated for new positions in the
CMDU and the Jakarta RTC, and for staff planning by October 31,
1983; and designating and appointing other new staff for the MPW
training system by October 31, 1983 and December 31, 1983,
respectively (paras. 2.06, 2.09, 2.11, 2.17, and 2.20); and
(b) undertaking an interim review of the cost sharing arrangements
for contractor training (para. 2.25).
5.02      During negotiations, agreement was reached that the Government
would:
(a) appoint staff to new positions in the MPW training system, for
staff planning, and a qualified Project Manager in accordance
with a schedule agreed with the Bank (paras. 2.06, 2.09, 2.11,
2.17, 2.20 and 3.09);
(b) undertake evaluations of MPW staff training activities and of the
contractor and mandor training program in accordance with terms
of reference and schedule agreed with the Bank (paras. 2.16,
2.25);
(c) submit for review by the Bank, at least two months prior to the
start of each of its fiscal years (i.e., April), an annual plan
for the development of curricula and materials for short courses
for MPW staff and an annual plan and budget for short courses for
MPW staff and an overall Plan for all MPW staff training (paras.
2.16, 2.20); and
(d) maintain project accounts in accordance with sound accounting
procedures, applying procedures acceptable to the Bank (including
separate opinions with regard to disbursements made on the basis
of SOEs) on an annual basis during project implementation
(para. 3.19).
5.03      Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project would
constitute a suitable basis for a loan of US$30.0 million equivalent to the
Government of Indonesia, for a term of 20 years, including five-years of grace
at the standard variable rate.



Stototo> totototo to totototototofltotototo tototow Htototo> to>to0Ofltotototo totototo tocotoototo to> to rtoto>tototol, totototototo>
c-to c-to tortoCto>toto tototo-to  --ito                    i--toto                  o-c,>-',o- to> toto'-Z H a>> oto  totoi-iiii
-  Zr-' H to  to> >c,fl-. HZr-i    otoi.,zotocrtoo                                        toto>to>totorto,oZtoritoto HO   totoH
tototo   0    tot-ito to>>   to  tototoi--itoc. to-to,>  to    oto->--'  totototo   >0   totototo  to   too-i-.  rtoto>tooHc-to>>-o-toto   rdr-'toto
ioCitoco. toHto to - i-i> rr-w-,-'Pto ii-> roiooirr ito>totoiZ0>- ioriH to> i-i toi-l0ztoto toto-li-itooto
to>->  to  - too>   to too toto    to  riototo.-i            toi-   H       to  to        to  to  ti-to  to>,-   O toH>toto  totototo too
to iii> to
toi            c-i              to>                       0>   to  to-to                0   to          -    to>   to>toi-iHifli-itoto         too
0       to   to                                to>      0   >       >-
i-'iii  0  to    -      to                  to            to     ii      to               to
to                    to      to               to  H   to       to   to                    to                  to       to              to   to>*
to  to                   -  to                  H                    to                                           to   tototo    to
H                          to                  to                                          -
to                                             to                                          i-i                                           i-i
to                                             to                                          to                                            to
-toto-4-4-4 to to     -i-4>--, to totototo    toto        totototo-o to toto-to-Jto            to totototototo-4to tototo-itototototototo    tototototototo            to
tototototototoototo>o-cototototocoo-tototo>to>   to>                tototo-too-tototoo-toto>        tototototototototototo     tototototo,-->    totototo.-                 to
to                                                                                                                      to
to                                                                                                                 ---to
to       to                                                                                                                       to
to   to       to                     tototo      to>             to           to                        to-to  to  to           toto                 tototo                 0
to totototototo>toto tototototototototototototo tototo totototototototototototo COo-to> toto totototo tototototototototocii-totoo-to tototototo
*                                                           *             toto.
tototototototototototototottototototooto>totow to too-totototoo-.toto> tototototoS- toto> -itotoo-toto totototo tototoi.itototototototototototo
too-     to       to   too-'                              too-  to                to    too-  to   to  too-c-to         to  to  to      to   to                  to>
to                                                                                           to  -to                    to>
to totototoo-  -to       totoo--'to,-totototo                             i--'    to                               i-  -                        totototototo      to  totototo
-    .-.---.---'                                          -    -                                to - -                                   -
totoi-totototototo totototool totototototototo      totototototototo>tototoo-tototototo       -Otototototo-.itototo>totoo-to>totototototoo-to to                       H>
toto,-.tototo>totototo toi-' tototoito tototototo-m     to totototoototototo to to> tototo tototo    tototototototototoc tototo-toto to totototototototo                    to>
toototoooo-tototoo>oo>to,totoo>tototoo                  too>tooooto>to>tototoo>tooto                too-to>>>  totototoootootoo>otoo             too-to>>                      to
to                      too-                              too-  to-to             to   too-c, to        co-too-to  to  to       to      to   to
too-to
to> totoi-totoo-toc,too-i-.tototo ci cototocic-tototi    totototo tototoototo toc-tototoi.4totoo-    too- to, totototototoo-totoc,-totototo> to   totototototo     to  OH>
-toto totototo-itototo>--, to tototototototototo--ito    tototo tototototo tototototo-itototototo   -to>, to-too Otototototototototototo         ototoa---,to       
4   to  oto                                                                                                                                                        -'--'  i-itoH
to    c-o-cc-toto        to  cc           co-to  -'-to  to    etoco-etoc-oc             -cc      c   C         Otocto   co-to         C     tic          to
4  -'<        CC        to        to  ctocto                                                  C                             toH to
totoH     too-to
-       toiOtototototoH
to> tototoi-to-itotototototoditotoi-.toto tototototo    tototoitototototototo I totototototototo    totototototoitototototototototototo to>      totototototo           tot-'toto>
tok-totoi&toO  toto>too-o--itotoi-.> tortotototo    toto ototototototo to  totooto-. toO to   to.-'Oi-toto  tototototototo totototototo    totol-toto to            to  ciXtocito-o
too-to    too-    toc too-to  -o       to  cc           c.c to     c  to      too-to to tocto             4                      too                    cc         >-  H> >to>i-o
4    to      tototo   4                            to        to                 to  to                                                               to            totototoHe>
-         toHHi-ii-.>i-O
> 00 oto
to
I totototoitot.i toto I I to> I I totoltoitototo     totoitoltotototototoito  I I I 'too         too- totototototoi.4totototototototototot-    tototoito             tototototo
I >>>  I o---i>.-' I I c-to, I totoitoltoo-totoitoltototototo.o  ,o-,  I I I toto    totototototototoototo tototoi-to Otototo                 .-toto I>,            toOtotoito
I       ci      c            I'      I   I c   c       ii    I c  c        c    liii  c                to        c                                  'ci             i-ito-on>
to>>
ii   to ltotoi  iito toto    totoitobtotototoo-toito  '''ito>              totototoo-totoo-to..totototo.-tototototo        totoitoi         to  >tototoH
I totototo i totototo   itotol  Ito>,    itoi-.      toto tol totototototo  to, i i itol        tototototototo tototototototototo 0>>>        to-.to  to,       to  toHtototo
I,        ci      c   ,,       ii        I,  c   c        ci   it,  to    c,  ciii,  c                    to        c                  to               'ci             to>
to-
'itoii  totoitoitotoi-.         totoitolito>.-.>  i           ''ito            >to>.>toto-too-..-toto-.totoito  i                                ciioio
I I totototo i totototo I  -'Jo-i ito>i to toi-to    i-Jo- ito I totototototo ito' i i i toto    totototototo* to> to-'ctototototo.tototo    tototo itoi              i-ito>
ii          i     c   ii       ii      i   i ci  c        ci   i c  c        c, ciii'  c                  to    -   ci             c.                   'ci               -                    to  -
to                        ----         too-
to                       to  Ito
totototototototoncito i i tototo tototoi Jtoto>to      ito-to  i  tototototoito  Ii>  iii.                                                                i       to  totoHil>                 to  10
>O-'citototototo>0to,  itoi-.--itototoitotototow        itotooitototototo>i>,  itoiito              too-o-tototototoi>totototoo-i-toitoito       tototototol        to  tot-Otototo      -                     (A)
too-      to,i             to,     too-to    i   to  i   to   to  i to, i   i , to   totototototototoito totototototo Ototo           toto>totoi         -to
too-    too-  o-i to  to           i   to    too-too-to            o-                       to             CD
-4               to                        to..
to to>
-to                          to,-    to        .                                                                                                    to    o-i-.    to  totototoci
>>tototototototototototototoItototototoJ>toto totototo i totototototototo i itoitoto totototototototoitototototototototototo tototo>>> to tOtototo -
tototototototo to>> tototoitoto totototo>> to too-too- ito>>> 00--to' itoitoto totototototototo I totototototototo tototo totototototo to --totoi--'
too- c-to to too-to to tocitoto to co-i to too-i 'to, to -Octotoco-, 0 to 00 0 ccc ton
0     lito            to     0       ii      oto                            tocto          0
iito>Hto                   0
itototo,  i  to>-'.-'    -to-,,  ,totoitoootoito,  ii  itoto        tototoo-tototoi  i              i itoto-j     00>>>>             to  iitoCt>I                 ito
too-toio-totoi-iioI  1>1,          iii  c                 ii  c   i                    t6>totoo-toto           to tototototo   1toto 0    tototo0o          -to  -   onto>
I tototoi ii tototo    tooi,  ito>, too-to11                                                                                                  --itoH
 to to> to
totototooto       to-io-o-o---i i >totototooto>to-,to        o-.->'           >   S
to     too-    to  too-    ito       toctoto          too-  to, c   to       o-o-c-to  oto            0     to  o-i   to  to                   c      i               ii-  to>
to     to  toto        to   toto             to>   to       to       totototo  to                  to                                                        to  H>
0>>>>>
to to to> to>
I I>>ZIctoI ii>, totoio-itoi I >> ,totoitototoitoi 'lito a>' itoto.->, ototociototo to>> o-.--toi>i to toto
to to-to  to to too      to   to to  to            to>>             to>                too                                         0>0       tototo  to
'0                              to -t    to to  ,                  i -           c    >>   >-Oo- to-tototo>>..to totototototo
to too-to>>
ci            -i-too   >>
to            H>>   HH
totototo i totototo i too-ton to-li ito. to-to>> itototototo to ito itol I toto toi--o-tototoo-toi-'-itoi.itoo- i tototo ,
itotototoltotototoitototoitotoi  ito  to> to              -                                                                                    to-   -to         to
ci      cc,         '      i i ci           >>>>  totoo-toto i toito'  ito>           totototototototo   to>>>>-,  >>>             >>>>
c               toe   to,              '       o                        ---   ot  0>
totototo
to    to                                                                                                                                       to
to> -.>to>to> i o-too-i-'tototoo-itoto >o->>>to>i>>>totoo-o->itoo->>>>>totoo-io->>to>>o-toi-itotototoo-i to to >0
tototo.>totototo itototo.i tototototo ito> to tototototototo i too- to>totoi-ito i to> iJtototo 0totoi tototototo> tototo i toto to to to>
I       too-        'too-   i        tocito            to       to  i            too-  i    -                       tototoI-'to   0           c      i           to  ii  to>
toto          toto                                        toto                                                          to                to  to  H>                            .1,
-4                        DC)
to         to tototototototo  totototototo    to   too- to>>>> OO>>i I totototo toI    to-o                                                                   it                                      0J.1
totoi-  to' -                to' -tototototo  ii>                                                               -   I                             toto--toi,I>      to   to
to to' -i-too, totototototototo ito>>->>' ito Ototototototototototo i I tot->0-to cici.-tooto- to' oooaoo-, too-i---. toi-.-i-r-r-ito I - to>
.I
too >00  ototototo>>>  toototototo  to  totooo-,o-otooo   >0>006                                                                 -.to-to,,->o-                 ,  t,2S2
too - to -4 o--o- to co-to> too- too--i-to to cc cc-to C to to to ioii I to .-
-o     to           to    to  to   to>                  toto  to    to    to     to to    to          -4                  to                   to-i                                                     .i41



- 39 -
ANNEX 1
COMPARATIVVE EDUCATION INDICATORS                                                            page   2
PEBRUARY 17, 1983
CENTRAL
GOVERNMENT
EXPENDITURE                                      COMPLETION            RECURRENT
ON EDUCATION  EDUCATION       ADULT    PRIMARY RATE FOR                UNIT COST  PROGRESSION SECONDARY               HIGHER
GNP PER              AS PERCENT    RECURRENT        LITERACY ENROLL. PRIMARY       PRIMARY  PRIMARY    RATE PROM   ENROLL.   SECONDARY ENROLL.
BASE  POP.  CAPITA  PERCENT GNP TOTAL CENTRAL EXPENDITURES  RATE           RATIO   SCHOOL       STUDENTS EDUCATION  PRIMARY TO  RATIO         STUDENTS  RATIO
YEAR MILLS. (US$)   DEVOTED TO  GOVERNMENT    ALLOCATED TO:   (I)    (NET)   CYCLE              PER       AS PERCENT SECONDARY   (NET)        PER        (GROSS)
(1979) (1979)   EDUCATION  EXPENDITURE   PRI  SEC  H1   (1976)    (1)             (y)     TEACHER  GNP/CAPITA       (5)         (1)    TEAChER       (%)
(1)     (2)        (3)           (4)            (5)          (6)       (7)       (8)       (9)         (10)         (11)        (12)       (13)    (14)
EAST ASIA AND TSE PACIFIC
CHINA              79   981.8   , 260        3.3          6.6        29   34   27      66        93        64         27         8.0          83          47        19        2.80
INDONESIA          81   142.9       370     3.0          9.18W      66   39   --       32b       940-      68         34         1.4          44          23'       16       2.00a
KOREA              82    39.3b  1,636b    7.72           20.8        34   34   31      96        99        98         43        19.0          98          84        38      21.80
MALAYSIA           80    14.2b  1.460b    5.2            22.0        39   32   13      60b       96f       94         28        ---           84          65        27        3.70
PAPUA N.G.         79      2.9      760      5.4V        16.4      ---  ---  ---    --           N 58S    73         31         1.1          ---         64bx      23       ---
PHILIPPINES        79    48.3b    690b    298w           14.0       64   36***---    75b         84        65         31         7.1          89          55        36      21.00
SINGAPORE          80      2.4   4,420      2.7          6.7        39   40   16       83        92        82         31         8.8          96          55        22        8.00
SOLOMON ISL.       80      0.2      460     4.2P         10.0o      41   34   20                 60        go         26        ---           35          18        ---     ---
THAILAND           80    47.3b    723b    3.4            20.9        59   15   13      86b       96        ---        17         9.3          59          58        22        4.00
SOUTH ASIA
BANGLADESH         79    92.3b       90     1.1P         10.1ay      51   17   20      22b       63Y       ---        53         5.6          ---         14        23        1.43
INDIA              77   659.6       210     2.9Y          9,g9y      ---  ---  ---    36         792       --         41        ---           ---         282       ---       8.30D3
NEPAL              80    14.3b    140b    2.4            9.9        27   18   36       19        88'       30         38'       ---           64          14i2      20'      2.088F
PAKISTAN           79    79.7       270     2.02Y         S.iy       39   26   27      24        56'       80*        48         6.5          51          20'       17        6.00
EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA
AFGHANISTAN        77    15.5       --       1.7          3.7        47   19   15      12        31by      69         37b 6      --           62           8        22by      1.ooY
ALGERIA            79    18.3   1,770        3.8W        12.3        348  26-  21a    35         83Y       458        37         7.0?         559         29Y       26        3.703
EGYPT              81    43.0b    580b    3.18a           4.5        318  35-  26'    44         84x       808        34         9.86         838         43        19       15.008
GREECE             76      9.3   4,140       2.62        10.6b       37   26   21      ---       97by 67     -        29b        6.2?         ---         79b.      27by    17.80by
IRAN               79    36.9       ---     5.78Y       14.1 Y  ---  ---  ---    50            101=       ---        32        ---           ---         44-       248      4.908Y
IEAO               79    12.6   2,710       4.3ay        6.9Y  ---  ---  ---    ---           1OOY        ---        28        ---           ---         453Y      29Y       9.308Y
IRELAND            81      3.4b  4,480      6.3Y        11.8ay       ---  ---  ---    98         93        94         29        ---           98          81        14      11.00
JORDAN             81      2.2b  1,4206    4.92          10.2        19   44   18      70b      108'       85         32         7.2          91          82'       25       19.00
LEBANON            79      2.3      ---   --            18.68sY    --           ---  ---    ---  96'     ---        19        ---           ---         46'       ---     27.808Y
MOROCCO            80    19.5       740      6.3*2       17.59       36   44   20      28        560y      35         39        19.7          40          25'       21        4.50
OMAN               79      0.9   3,530      3.782y        4.98'      ---  ---  ---    ---        459Y      ---        238       ---           ---          72        9      ---
PORTUGAL           79      9.8b  2,060      3.6          22.2       50   28   11       78        97        20         19.       12.8          88          45Y       178       8.308
ROMANIA            78    22.1   2,100        3.9by        6.2y      ---  ---  ---    98         106b6      ---        23b       ---           98          84b6      22b      10,60by
SPAIN              76    37.0   4,920       2.1Y         16.8y      ---  ---  ---    ---         98by      ---        29b       _-_           ---         67by      ---     24.10by
SYRIA              78      8.6   1,170      4.4P        10.3        39   25   26       58        87by      80         35b       ---           68         41bY       21b     12.60
TUNISIA            79      6.4   1,130       7.0P        19.0        42   39   18      62b      1008       80         39b       12.8          30          308       30        6.00
TURIEY             79-    4.3   1,380       3.6&Ny       18.6       ---      - --     60       1092'      ---        30        --            ---         41'       27        7.07-Y
YEMEN A.R.         80      6.8      420      5.OW        12.0        94    7    7      21b       37        12'        38Y       67.0          85           3        20        1.10 -
YEMEN P.D.R.       80      1.9      424      6.0         10.3        63   14    8      40b       65        53         24        22.4          81          22        16        2.50
SYMBOLS:                                                           FOOTNOTES:
---  DATUM UNAVAILABIE                                                A - DATUM PRIOR TO BASE YEAR
...  MAGNITUDE NIL OR NEGLIGIBLE                                     B - DATUM MORE RECENT TRAN EASE YEAR
S  DATUM QUESTIONABLE                                              N - CURRENT PRICES
*  INCLUDES PART-TINE STUDENTS                                     P - GDP
0  CODBINED WITH PRIMARY                                           Q - INCLUDES POREIGN AID
2*.  COMBINED WITH HIGHER                                             I - CENTRAL GOVERNMENT ONLY
S - MINISTRY OF EDUCATION (MOE) ONLY
T - MOE AND STATE GOVERNMENT ONLY
W - PUBLIC EXPENDITURE ONLY
X - INCLUDES OVER-AGE STUDENTS
Y - UNESCO SOURCES
SOURCES:
Columns 1 and 2: World Bank Atlas or IBRB missions.
Columns 3 to 14:  IBRD missions, Goveroment sources and/or UneSco Etatistical Yearbook.
Comparative EducCtion Data are useful in the evaluation of various education system  and analysis of relative stages of educational development between various
countries. Hovever, on the besis of the present data, cros-national comparison should be approached with great caution. Data presented in the above table have
been collected largely by Bank missions froms overnenn  sources; the reminder are staff estimates or data from  Unesco.  Efforts have been mde to standardize
definitions and, within limits, to check the accuracy of the data. Nevertheless, such data are still imperfect in several respects and the bank is working to
improve them progressively on the occasion of its operational work. In the use of these data, the following qualification. ahould be kept in icd:
(1)  'Education" as defined In the table includes all edecation and training, both formal and non-forml.
(2)  "Primary" education refers to education at the first level and 'secondary" education refers to all education at the secondary level regardless of type
(e.g.. general, technical, agricultural).
(3)  "Literacy rates' (col. 6) are often obtained from  country cenauses.  In  ny countries they are only approsimations and it is doubtful that any oniform
definition of 'literate' has been followed consiatently.
(4)  "Public expenditure in educatioo' (cola. 4 and 5) refers to a11 capital and recurrent empenditurea devoted to edocation by public end quasi-public
agencies.
(5)  "EnrolLment ratios- (cola. 7, 12 and 14) refer to school year and are the percentage of eligible children enrolled full-ti.e in the appropriate school,
public and private by level. They are often subject to a wide mrgin of error in the developing countries owing to variations in the accuracy of basic
data (i.e.. age-specific population and enrollments). Enrollment figures frequently are higher than the number of students actually in school. Over-aged
students whose inclusion is indicated by footnotes also c-n inflate the ratios.



ANNEX 2
- 40 -
INDONESIA
PUBLIC WORKS MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization of the Ministry of Public Works
Minister
Inspector General                                                                     Secretary General
D    Bureau of       L G         Bureou of
a  Planning H   H                Personnel a
Bureau of                   ueuo
Resac &Finance  Tai              Losticis c
i'i    |    Buresu of       L   L   ~~~~Bureau of Const.|
DevelopmntEducaionDat Pro essing  A s lo Industry Devt
Provincial ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ Gnra Afar
Center for                   Center for                  |      Center for       |         Center for Heavy
Research &                    Training &                         Statistics &                 Equipment
rDevelopment                   Education                       Data Processing                Development
Provincial_
Public Works
(DR_PS)
World Bank-24499



- 41 -                                                                                 ANNEX 3
INDONESIA
PUBLIC WORKS MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization of the MPW Training Department
Minister
Secretory General
Director of MPW
Training Department
r  --------- --                                                      ll 
| Tanig           Monitoring a   I     Genera              Finance
I                                              Diviision    || Eauto          || Adm nistrarion  | |        sia
I                                                Divisjon~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~ Division
Curricula a n
Materials
Development
BidangBidxn a D  i         a      Bidang DikRat         RTC I             RTC II           RTC i11           RTC IV            RTC V       I    RTC VI
Bina Marga      Cipta Ka ya        Pengalron          Medon            Badn            Ygaara.            Srssa          Ujn   anog| Jokartan 2
rL        Propsd
L--J                                                                                                                                         World Bank-24498



- 42 -                           ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDONESIA
PUBLIC WORKS MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
A. MPW Training Department
Staff Positions (Existing and Proposed)
No. of      No. of           Title
existing    key new          of new
staff /a   positions /a    positions
PUSDIKLAT
Director                              1           -
Training Division                  10           2      1 assistant chief,
1 program planner
Monitoring & Evaluation            10           2      1 assistant chief,
Division                                             I training evaluation
officer
Finance Division                   14           1      1 accounting officer
General Administration             18           2      1 staffing officer
Division                                             1 facilities/equipment
planner
BIDANG DIKLATS
Chief BINA MARGA                      1            -
Chief CIPTA KARYA                     1            1      Assistant Chief
Chief PENGAIRAN                       l            -
Subdivision Planning
BINA MARGA                          4            1      program planner
CIPTA KARYA                         2            1      program planner
PENGAIRAN                           4            1      program planner
Subdivision Implementation
BINA MARGA                          5            1      trainer
CIPTA KARYA                         2            1      trainer
PENGAIRAN                          10            1      trainer
Subdivision Administration
BINA MARGA                         17            -
CIPTA KARYA                         1            2      1 budget & accounting
officer,
1 logistics officer
PENGAIRAN                          10            -



-43-                              ANNEX 4
Page 2
No. of      No. of            Title
existing    key new           of new
staff /a   positions         positions
DPUPs
Training Liaison Officers             27           -
Subtotal:  new positions             -          16
CDMU /b
Chief                                  -           1       chief
Curricula & Materials Development
Division                             -           4       1 chief,
3 curricula & materials
development officers
Production Division                    -           4       1 chief
1 print officer
2 audio-visual officers
Instructor Training Division           -           3       1 chief
2 instructor training
officers
Finance Division                        -          2       1 chief/budget officer
1 accountant
Administration Division                 -          3       1 chief
1 procurement/distri-
bution officer
1 personnel officer
Subtotal:  new positions           -           17
/a Professional staff positions only; excludes existing and new supporting
staff.
/b Excluding 15 full-time equivalent contract staff to be retained to prepare
materials and comprising technical and subject matter specialists.



- 44 -                            ANNEX 4
Page 3
B. RTCs
Staff Positions (Existing and Proposed)
-------------- RTCs -------------
Yogya- Sura- Ujung
Medan  Bandung   karta   baya   Padang  Jakarta
Director
Existing staff (number)           1       1         1       1       1
New positions                     -       -         -       -       -       1
Planning Units
Existing staff                    3       8        16       6       4       4 /a
New positions                     -       -         -       -       -       1
Implementation Units
Existing staff                   12      19        19      14       5       4 /a
New positions (for
instructional staff)           2        2         2       2       2       3
Finance and Administration
Subunits
Existing staff                   15      23        20       3       5      11 /a
New positions                     -       -         -       -       -       -
Total new positions: 15
/a These positions exist within the Training Department and would be trans-
ferred to the new RTC in Jakarta.



ANNEX 5
-45 -                               Page 1
INDONESIA
PUBLIC WORKS MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance
Consultant services            Fellowships
Man-         Man-
months        months    Number of        Man-
Project item                      foreign       local       candidates   months
Management of MPW training
Administration of staff training
System development                        48ta         48             1           2
Training design & methods                 36           24             5          20
Monitoring & evaluation                   24           24             4          16
Finance                                   18            -             2           8
Facilities planning &
procurement                            12             -             2           8
Subtotal                              138            96           14           54
MPW staff planning
System development                        36 /a        24             2           8
Manpower planning & forecasting           36           36             4          16
Job classification & analysis
Management                             24            12             2           8
Technical                              36            12             2           8
Staff assessment                          18           12             3          12
Subtotal                              150            96            13          52
Studies & Preparation of Future
Projects
MPW planning and information
management
MPW planning                            50            -
MPW information management              75          100
Preparation of future projects            60 /b         -
Subtotal                              185           100                         -
Curricula & Materials
Development Unit
Development and management                48 /a        48             1           4
Management training materials             16           16             2           8
Technical training materials              48           64             3          12



AN4'E AX f
-46 -                             Page 2
Consultant services          Fellowships
Man-          Man-
months       months    Number of      Man-
Project item                     foreign      local     candidates   months
Materials production                   36           24            3          12
Instructor training                    24            -            4          16
Subtotal                            172          152           13         52
Contractor & Mandor Training
Construction management                15           24            -
Foremanship                            12           27
Evaluation                             18           18            -
Subtotal                             45           69
Professional Resources Development
Program                                42            -          113      1,440
Total                             732          513          153      1,598
/a Chief or senior advisor.
/b Costed as Foreign; use to be determined.



- 47 -                             ANNEX 6
Page 1
INDONESIA
PUBLIC WORKS MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MPW Short Course Training - Planned Program for 1983/84
Course
Length   No. of   Number of
(days)  trainees   courses
A. CROSS-SECTORAL /a
Technical
Induction training
Surveying & mapping                           125         150        6
Drafting & costing                            125         150         6
Operations and maintenance                    125         100        4
Surveying (two courses)                     105-120         365       12
Drafting & cost estimating                      105          50         2
Construction supervision (forman &            10-48         185         5
operators)
Management
Project management                              21          25        1
Equipment management                            11          30         1
General management (two courses)             13-85         245         6
Management techniques - network
planning; oper. research                    6-15         415       10
Financial management                         30-45         150         5
Civil Service training                         100          30         1
Materials administration; procure-
ment; and accounts                          6-48         240         7
Computers: introduction; cobol;
fortran;                                    7-14        240         8
Legal training                                  15          90         3
Languages and statistics                      7-67         315         8
B. PENGAIRAN
Technical
Induction (irrigation construction                30          30         1
and supervision methods)
Drafting & estimating                     60-240          60        3
Surveying and mapping (irrigation)            14-210         100         4
Hydrology                                         14          30         1
Design of irrigation systems                  45-120          55         2



ANNEX 6
- 48-                             Page 2
Course
Length   No. of   Number of
(days)  trainees   courses
PENGAIRAN TECHNICAL (Con't)
Swamp and channel development                      30          60        2
Technical planning                                 30          30         1
Heavy equipment maintenance                        90         100         3
Operations and maintenance                       30-60        120         3
Management
project management                                 14          30        1
Project supervision                              14-80        220         7
General management                               30-42         55        2
Financial admin; audit                           14-90        150        4
Materials management; inventory                   4-7          60         2
Misc:  languages; fire fighting; driving          7-30        270         8
BINA MARGA
Technical
Induction (construction supervision)             60-85        140        6
Drafting                                           21          35        1
Survey and measurement                           30-105       205        7
Quality control (highways construction)            30          50        1
Operators; road workers; mechanics               14-45        600       22
Laboratory tests; soils analysis                 10-45         70        2
Operator instructor training                       40          50        1
Road maintenance and repair                        30          20         1
Management
Project management                                5-60        165        5
Supervision of road maintenance                  16-45        255        6
CIPTA KARYA
Technical
Induction                                          26         100        4
Building Survey                                    60          30         1
Water supply                                     10-14        150         5
Sanitary eng.                                      15          40        1
Building maintenance; housing, buildings
improvements                                   3-105        335       11
Planning; area, city                             30-40        160        4



ANNEX 6
- 49-                              Page 3
Course
Length   No. of   Number of
(days)  trainees   courses
Seminars on building codes; standards;
values; evaluation                                15      1,080        34
Building skills training                          105          25         1
Construction supervision (buildings)              12-116      865        28
Management
Project management                                6-12        180         4
Program management                                  52        210         7
Program management techniques                       12        120         4
Financial administration                         12-78        330        10
Materials Admin.                                    30         30         1
Motivation for urban and regional
rehabilitation                                  6-26        740       25
Languages                                         120          30         1
/a Excluding instructor training.



-50 -
INDONESIAAZOa
PUBLIC WORKS MANPONER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                           page  1
Sinary Account bs Project Component
ORp. Billion)
MANAGEMENT OF SPY TRAINING ACTIVITIES   CURICULA AND MATERIALS                                                     Physic;!
STAFF                   CURRICULA AND               REGIONAL CONTRACTOR    PRD               lontinlencies
VWl TRAINING PLANNING RELATED             MATERIALS   INSTRUCTOR TRAINING AND MANDOR FELLOWSHIP              -------
DEPARTMENT  DIVISION STUDIES CMDU   DEVELOPMENT   TRAINING  CENTERS   TRAINING   PROGRAM_ Total  _%_   Amourt
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS
1. CONSTRUCTION                                                     -         -        -  0.44               --                 3.13                        -  3.58  10.0    0.36
Physical Contingencies                                           -         -        -  0.04               --                 0.31            --  0.36   0.0    0.00
Price Contingencies                                              -         -        -  0.06               --                 0.58            --  0.65   9.1    0,06
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                   -         -        -  0.55               -            -  ~4.03              -           -  4,58   9.1    0.42
Taxes                                                            -         -        -  0.10               -            -     0.77            -           -  0.87   9.1    0.08
Foreign Exchange                                                 -         -        -  0.19                                  1.42                        -  1.61   9.1    0.15
2. SITE WORKS                                                       -         -        -  0.09                                  0.66                        -  0.75  10.0    0,07
Phssical Continsencies                                           -         -        -  0.01               -           -      0.07            -           -  0.07   0.0    0.00
Price Contingencies                                              -         -        -  0.01               -            -     0.12            -           -  0.14   9.1..   0.01
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                   -         -        -  0.11               -            -     0,84            --  0.96   9.1    0,09
Taxes                                                            -         -        -  0.02               --                 0,16            --  0.18   9.1    0.02
Foreign Exchanse                                                 -         -        -  0,04               --                 0.30            --  0.34  .9.1    0.03
Suib-Total CIVIL WORKS                                                  -         -        -  0.53               --                 3,79           --  4.32  10,0    0.43
Physical Contingencies                                              -         -        -  0.05               --                 0.38            --  0.43   0.0    0.00
Price Conitingencies                                                -         -        -  0.08                            -     0.71            --  0.78   9.1    0.07
Suib-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                      -         -        -  0.66               -           -      4.87           -           -  5.54   9.1    0.50
Taxes                                                               -         -        -  0.13               -            -     0.93            -           -  1.05   9.1    0,10
Foreign Exchantle                                                   -         -        -  0.23               -            -     1.71            -           -  1.95   9,1    0.10
D. PROFESSIONAL SERVICES                                                -        -        -  0.02                -           -      0.27           -           -  0.29  10.0    0.03
Physical Contingencies                                              -         -        -  0.00               -            -     0.03            -              0.03   0.0    0,00
Price Contingencies                                                 -         -        -  0.00               -            -     0.05            -           -  0.06   9.1    0.01
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                      -          -       -  0.01                                   0.35                       -  0.38   9.1    0.03
Foreign Exchange                                                    -         -        -  0.01                                  0.07                        -  0.08   9.1    0.01
C. FURNITURE AND EQUIPMENT
0. FURNITURE                                                        -         -        -  0.04               -            -     0.32            -           -  0.37  10.0    0.04
Physical Contingencies                                           -         -        -  0.00               -           -      0.03            -           -  0.04   0.0    0.00
Price Contingencies                                              -         -        -  0.01               -           -      0.06            -           -  0.07   9.1    0.01
Suib-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                                         0.05                                 0.42            --  0.47   9.1    0,04
Taxes                                                                                  0.00                                  0.02           --  0.02   9.1    0.00
Foreign Exchange                                                 -         -        -  0.02               -           -      0.15            -           -  0.17   9.1    0:02
2. EQUIPMENT                                                        -      0.03    0.10  0.54                -            -     1.72         0.07           -  2.4   10.0    0.25
Phyisical Contingencies                                          -      0.00    0.01  0.05                -           -      0.17        0.01            -  0.25   0.0    0.00
Price Contingencies                                              -      0.01    0.02  0.06                -           -      0.27        0.01            -  0.36   9.1    0.03
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                          0.04    0.13  0.66                 --                2.15         0.08           -  3.07   9.1    0.28
Taxes                                                                   0.00    0.01  0.03                --                 0.10        0.00            -  0.14   9.1    0.01
Foreign Exchange                                                 -      0.04    0.11  0.56                --                 1.83        0.07            -  2.61   9.1    0.24
Sub-Total FURNITURE AND EQUIPMENT                                       -     0.03    0.10  0.58                 --                2.04         0.07           -  2.83  10.0    0.28
Phyisical Contingencies                                             -      0.00    0.01  0.06                --                 0.20        0.01            -  0.28   0.0    0.00
Price Contingencies                                                 -      0.01    0.02  0.07                --                 0.33         0.01           -  0.43   9.1    0,04
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                      -      0.04    0.13  0.71                 --                 2.57        0.08           -3.54   9.1    0.32
Taxes                    ..-                                               0.00    0.01  0.03                -                  012         0.00            -0.16   9.1    0.01
Foreign Exchange                                                    -      0.04    0.11  0.58                --                  1.98       0.07            -2.78   9.1    0.25
D, TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1. CONSULTANT SERVICES                                           1.15      1.25    1.55       -           1.24        0.20         -        0.38         0.44  6.20   5.0    0.31
Physical Contingencies                                        0.06      0.06    0.08       -           0.06        0.01         -        0.02        0.02  0.31   0.0    0.00
Price Contingencies                                           0.23      0.18    0.29       -           0,25        0.04         -        0.04        0.08  1.11   4.8    0.05
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                1.44      1.49    1.92       -           1.54        0.25          -        0.44        0.54  7.62   4.8    0.36
Foreign Exchantge                                             1.30      1.35    1.72       -           1.39        0.23         -        0.40        0.48  6.86   4.8    0.32
2. LOCAL CONSULTANT                                              0.14         -    0.14       -           0.27        0.02          -       0.10            -  0.68   5.0    0.03
Physical Contingencies                                        0.01         -    0.01       -           0.01        0.0          -        0.01               0.03   0.0    0.00
Price Contingencies                                           0.03         -    0.04       -           0.07l       0.00         -        0.02            -0116  4.0    0.01
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                0.18         -    0.19       -           0.36        0.02          -       0.13            -  0.87   4.8    0.04
Foreign Exchans4e                                             0.04         -    0.04       -           0.07        0.00         -        0.03               0.18   4.8    0.01
3. TRAINING FELLOWSHIPS                                          0.07      0.07        -      -           0.05        0.02      0.05            -        1.81  2.06   5.0    0.10
Phyisical Contintgencies                                      0.00      0.00        -      -           0.00        0.00      0.00            -       0.09  0.10   0.0    0.00
Price Contingencies                                           0.01      0.01        -      -           0.01        0.00      0.01            -       0.35  0.39   4.0    0.02-
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                0.08      0.08        -      -           0.06        0.03      0.06            -        2.25  2.55   4.8    0.12~
Foreign Exchange                                              0.08      0.08        -     -            0.06        0.03      0.06           -        2.25  2.55   4.8    0.12
Sub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                      1.36      1.32    1.69       -           1.55         0.24     0.05         0.40        2.25  8.93   5.0    0.45
Physical Contingencies                                           0.07      0.07    0.08       -           0.08        0.01      0.00         0.02        0.11  0.45   0.0    0.0'0
Price Contingencies                                              0.28      0.19    0.33       -           0.32        0.05      0.01         0.06        0.43  1,67   4.0    0.00
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                   1.70      1.57.   2.10       -           1.96         0.30      0.06        0.57        2.79 11.05   4.8    0.53
Foreign Exchange                                                 1.42      1.42    1.76       -           1.52        0.26      0.06         0.42        21.74  _9.59  _4.8    0.46
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                  1.36      1.35    1,79  1.14             1.55        0.24      6.15        0.55        2.25 16.38   7.3    1,19
Phyisical Contingencies                                             0,07      0.07    0.09  0.11             0.08         0.01      0.61        0.03        0.11  1.19   0.0    0.0
Price Contingencies                                                 0;28      0.19    0.35  0.15             0.32         0.05      1.10        0.07        0.43  2.93   6.6    0.09
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                           1.70      1.62   21.23  1.40             1.96        0.30      7.85        0.65        2.79 20.50   6.8    1,39
Taxes                                                                   -     0.00    0.01  0.16                 --                 1.04        0.00           -   .2 9,1    0.11
Foreign Exchange                                                    1.42      1.46    1.87  0.82             1.52         0.26      3.82        0.49        2.74 14.39   6.2    0,80



- 51-                                                                      ANNEX 7
page 2
INDONESIA
PUBLIC WORKS MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Suimmar Account ba Project Component
(Re, Billion)
MANAGEMENT OF MPW TRAINING ACTIVITIES   CURRICULA AND MATERIALS                                                         sxl
STAFF                    CURRICULA ANiD              RESIONAL CONTRACTOR    FF0Pxteecc
MPW TRAINING PLANNING RELATED              MATERIALS   INSTRUCTOR TRAINING AND MANDOR FELLOWSHIP
DEPARTMENT  DIVISION STUDIES CMDU   DEVELOPMENT   TRAINING  CENTERS   TRAINING   PROGRAM   Total 
------- -- T----             -------r=r--  -----
10. RECURRENT COSTS
A. STAFF
1. CONTRACT STAFF                                                    -                  -                  0.73                                   -           -   .73   5.   0 '
Phasical Contingencies                                           -          -                           0.04                                   --0,04   0.0    ("or
P'rice Contingencies                                             -          -        -      -0.18                       -         ---0.18   4.0    00
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                    -                  -      -0395                       -                                       .95   45.      ' 0
Fore,in Exchange                                                 -         -         -     -0.19                                                              0.19   4.  0 .0P
2. PERMANENT STAFF                                               0.38                          -           0.32         0.10      0,36            --1.15   5.0 
Phyisical Contingencies                                       0.02                         -            0.02        0.00       0.02            --0.06   0.0                      c
Price Conitingencies                                          0.10          -        -     -            0.08        0.02       0.09            -           -    29    4,5
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                0.49          -        -      -0.41                    0.13      0.4'                            1.50   4.0       "
Foreign Exchange                                              0.10          -        -      -0.00                   0.03       0,09           --0.30   4.8
Sub-Total STAFF                                                      0.38         -        -      -            1,04        0.10      0.36            -            -1.8    5.0    0 ?A
Phydsical Contingencies                                          0.02          -        -      -           0.05         0.00      0.02            --0.09   0.1    010'
P'rice Contingencies                                             0.10          -        -      -           0.26         0.02      0.09            --0,47   4.0                    "0
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                    0.49         -        -      -            1.36        0.13      0.47            --  2.45   4.0                   ,
Foreign Exchange                                                 0.10          -        -      -           0.27         0.03      0.09            --  0,49   4.0    C!~
B. TRAINING MATERIALS FOR MPW                                           -         -        -      -            1,24        0.08      0.41            --  1,73  10.0    0,;
Physical Contingencies                                               -         -        -      -           0.12         0.01      0.04            --  0.17   0.0    Ql"0
Price Contingencies                                                  -         -        -      -           0,29         0.02      0.10                                    9  , 1 91  .010
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                       -                                       .66        0.11      0,55            -            -  2.31   9.!      0 21
Taxes                                                                -         -        -      -0,08                    0.01      0.03            -           -  0.11   9.'      Ct01
Foreiin  ExchanNe                                                    -         -        -      -0.83                    0.06      0,27            -           -  1.16   9.1    A'1,
C. OTHER INCREMENTAL TRAINING EXPENDITURE
0. MPW STAFF TRAINING  /a                                        0.03      0.03         -      -               -        0.04      3,04            -           -  3.14  10.0    0.21
Physical Contingencies                                        0.00      0.00         -     -               -        0.00       0,30            -           -  0.11   0.0    0,00T
Price Contingencies-                                          0.01      0.01         -     -               -        0.01       0.80           -            -  0,02   9,1      0.0w
Suib-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                               0.05      0.04         -      --                       0.06      4,14            --  4,28   0,1    000,c
Forexan lExchanae                                             0.01      0.01         -     -   -                    0.01       0.03            -           -  0.06   0.1    0.00
2. CONTRACTOR AND MANDOR  lb                                         -         -        -                         - -      -         -        2787            -  2.78  10.0    0.20
Physical Contingencoes                                                                            - -6                  -         -        028             -  0.28   0.0~  0.00
Price Contingencies                                              -                   -     ---                                    -        0.74            -  0.74   9.j    0.07
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                    -         -        -      ---                                   -        3.00            -  3.80   9.1    0.05
c'oreign Exchange                                                -          -        -     ---                                    -        0,76            -  0,76   0,1    05
Suib-Total OTHER INCREMENTAL TRAINING EXPENDITURE                    0.03      0.03        -      -               -        0.04      3.04         2,70            -  5.92  10.0    0,50
Physical Contingencies                                           0.00       0.00        -      -               -        0.00      0.30        0.20            -  0.59   0,0    0.00
Price Contingencies                                              0.01      0.01         -      -               -        0,01      0.80        0.24            -   1.56   Q,1      0.14
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                    0.05      0.04        -      -               -        0.06      4.14         3.00            -  0.08   9.1    0,77
Foreign Exchange                                                 0.01      0.01         -      -               -        0.01      0.83        0.76            -  1.62   ?.I    0.15
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                    0.41      0.03         -      -           2.28         0.22I     3.01        2,78            -  9,54   0,0    GOt
Phyisical Contingencies                                               0.02      0.00         -     -            0.18        0.02      0.36         0.28            -  0.86   0.0    0.00
Price Contingencies                                                   0.10      0.01         -     -            0.55        0.05       0.98        0.74            -  2.44   0.3    0.20~
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                            0.54      0.04         -      -           3.01         0.29      5.16        3.80            - 12.04   0.3    1.06
Taxes                                                                    -                  -      -             .0         0.01      0.03            -            -  0.Dl   9,1    0.00
Foreign. Exchange                                                     0.11      0.01         -                  010         0.09       1.20        0.76            -  3.26   0.4    0.20
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                      1.77       1.38    1.79  1.14             3.04         0.46      9,96         3.33        2.25 25.92   7,9    2.05
Phasical Contingencies                                                 0.09      0.07    0.09  0.11              0.25         0.03      0.98        0.31         0.11  2.05   0.0    0.00
Price Contingencies                                                    0.30      0.20    0.35, 0.15              0.88        0.10       2.08        0.81,       0.43  5.37   7,4    0,40
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                       2.24       1.6      2.23  1.40            4.97         0.59    13.01          4,45        2.79 33.34   7.3    2.45
Taxes                                                                     -      0.00    0.01  0.16              0.00        0,01       1.07        0.00'           -   .32   9,1    0.12
Foreign Exchange                                                       ..52      1.47    1.87  0.82              2.62         0.315     5.01        1.25        2-,74 17.65   5.6    1,17
'a INCLUDES STAFF HONORARIA AND TRAINEE TRAVEL AND SUBSISTENCE
lb CONTRACTS INCLUDE COSTS OF MATERIALS DEVELOPMENT AND PRODUCTION



I NDONE S IA
PUBLIC WORKS MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Detailed Construction Costs by Type of Expenditures
(Rp million) /a /b
Unit cost
Training Accommodation                  Dormitory Accommodation                Housing                                                  (cost per
No. of  Conver-                            No. of  Conver-                        No. of              Site      Furni-  Equipment    Total    training
places   sion        New      Total        places   sion        New     Total    units/a  Cost        cost      ture   (training)      Cosft      place)
Yogyakarta         270      89         -         89            210     43       132        175       (11)     -   -    75         40         250         629       2.33
Ujung Pandang      270      33       243         276           210     25       206        231      5 (1)    50        103        55         262         977        3.62
Surabaya           270      65       247         312           210     10       234        244      1 (5)     6        115        55         299       1,031       3.82
Medan              270      59       192         251           210      -       190        190      5 (1)    54         97        49         303         944        3.50
Bandung            270    128         77        205           210      22       137        159       (16)     -         84        37         303         788       2.92
Jakarta            270       -       500         500           210      -       306        306      6        72        179        87         303       1,477        5.47
Total       1,620    374    1,259        1,633         1,260    100    1,205       1,305    17         182        653       323       1,720       5,846
Overall unit                                                                                     Rp 10.7                               Rp 1.06 million/   Rp 3.6 million/
costs          Rp 1.01 million/training place           Rp 1.04 million/training place         million/house                        training place       training place
/a Number in parentheses = existing units.
/b Discrepancies in totals are due to rounding of values.



- 53 -                               ANNEX 9
INDONESIA
PUBLIC WORKS MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proposed Allocation of Loan
Category          Costs /a (including contingencies  Proposed
of expenditure                      US$ mln              allocation  Disbursement
Total        Foreign        US$ mln          %
Civil works                   8.46           2.90           4.2            55
Furniture                       .67          0.24           3.7            85
Equipment                      4.39          3.73       }
Technical assistance
Foreign consultants        10.89           9.80       }
Local consultants            1.24           .26       }  14.7
Fellowships                 3.64           3.64       }
Materials for MPW staff
training
Materials development &
production                3.30           1.66       }   2.0            50
Contract staff              1.36           0.27       }
Permanent staff for MPW        2.14          0.43             -             -
MPW staff training lb          6.11           1.23          1.2           100
Contractor and mandor
training /c                 5.43           1.09           2.5            50
Capitalized front end fee
on Loan                       .22           .22            .22          100
Unallocated                     -             -           1.48
Total                  47.85          25.44          30.00
/a  Discrepencies in totals due to rounding.
/b  Other incremental costs for MPW short courses for staff; disbursement
against costs of MPW staff travel for attendance at short
courses only.
/c  Contracts for provision of training courses including development of
training materials.



- 54 -
ANNEX 10
INDONESIA
PUBLIC WORKS MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
19 83                            ` 91  4         I            19 55                      '198 i51                967
FY83                        FY84t                       PY85                         FY86                         FY87
f~~~~~~~~~~~ Art  *                 01 N D Ii IFl  AMI          H HI i                                                   1 F                                                                                       
Evlua eotionaftioonsosNgttn                                     _              __      __1            ___              _                         _                      T    i
Boad PseonNtaortssts-*                  t         l        l 0                               l          I           XV                           |
Loa, Signirrg
Loan Tficti,eness
CMIVI WORKS'
Shese I
0. ,,gog.e,ter of PhteoIofIoI
b Site Survey
* e lsketh PoonstDesign
d Bills of Osjonfities & Bid
Docuiments Publisehed
e Bilde                   l        e Period
f Bid Evoootio,
g Coortocf Awaord
lh Mfobilization
i. Coflst,uof,orr
FOLLOWING PHASES
.Ad Actrotfis 0-h.
FURNIITURE
P'.aporoion of Specs.
invitafions to Bio
Bidding
Bid Eval & Award
EQUIPMENT2
Phase I
a. Engagementr of Consultant
c Preparation of Specs.
.. P.blc-fior, of Bi0 Doc
d. Bidoing
a Bid Evol. & Award
f Deli,ery
Ad] Atfidfjes 0-f.7                                                                                              11 1
CONSULTANT SERrACES & FOLLOWSHIIPS
Freparafion of T.O.ls
Evalusaton of Froposals/Negofiatirns                             m
Signing of Confrocf
Implementatfion
IMPLEMENTAT ION OF PROGRAMS OF
CUJRRICULUM & MATTELAIS
DEVELOPMENT & IMPROVEMENT OF
TRAINING PROGRAMI
OTHER KEY ACTMTIES
D.egnorioo of Sfcff fo" New Key P`osT&
Preparafions of Schedule for
Appointmrents
Issue of Fvecufte Orders to Set Up
CMPC & ijako.Ro Tf C & C-rrplefior
of Foroloifties to Secure Stfe for
fThese UniTs
Notes:
Rank fiscal yea,.
'Schedule fo, Phaose I shows design & construcfion of fth Curriculumr & Materials Developmrent Unit & foe new
Redional Training Ce-ter In Jakarfa. Tmne tables fo, fthe Ofther five cersfers soIl follow af Oppros one mooR'
ofervols wifh oil consftuction complefed oy December 31, 1984.
fPhose I equipmenet cojprise inIitia equipmer for CMDUJ & oil centers & wil i-I inlud Opp-, 50% of allocatron
P-oorerent of rerrathing i1e,s wil II e comnpleted 12 months ofer Phrose 1.                                                                                       'ood Eans-24500



- 55 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
INDONESIA
PUBLIC WORKS MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
List of Materials Available in the Project File
A.  MPW Manpower Development & Training Study              January 1981
Prepared by a Steering Committe and Working
Group of the MPW.
B.  MPW Manpower Development & Training Program            July 1982
Prepared by MPW with assistance of consultants.
C. Supplement to MPW Manpower Development &
Training Program                                    October 1982
Prepared by MPW.
D. MPW Manpower Planning Component                         October 1982
Prepared by MPW.
E. Terms of Reference for Consulting Services to
Bureau of Planning of MPW                           October 1982
Prepared by Public Administration Service
(consultants)
F. MPW Management Information System - Project
Description & Feasibility Study & Long-Term
Development Plan                                    October 1982
Prepared by MPW.
G. Training of Contractors & Mandors -
Supplementary Information - Memorandum
25/INKON M.X.82                                     October 1982
Prepared by MPW.
H.  PRD - Overseas Fellowship Program                      October 1982
IBRD Draft
I.  A Plan for Development of the Domestic                 January 1981
Construction Industry
Prepared by the Public Administration Service



- 56 -
ANNEX 11
Page 2
I. Working Papers:
(a)  MPW Manpower Development & Planning             1981
(b)  Archtectural Worksheets                         1982
(c)  MPW Key Staff Posts                             October 1982
(d)  Outline Equipment List                          October 1982
(with Bank Mission comments)
(e)  Cost Tables for Project Components              December 1982



86RD 16891
U-'  nest                                 -~~~~~~    K           N ~~~>                 m  rnmS'K" ~~~~~~-                                                        PU~BLIC WORK$
7>  1                                                                                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MANPOWEtR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
L~~~~~~>K> ~~~~~~~~BRUNFI  J9                                                                    '                                                                                                    s   eIniT''gCn4
MALA/YSIMAASA                                                                                      )                           L'                                        2.c9TAJ
2 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~(
;5                     20~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3 
9/N  -,  'wi-  >~~~~~~~>\21A9912A  \                                               /yK              /9       f   (1'                                                N                                                                         K~~Li 1\
'N  2ua422r8                                                                    'la~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ncr    /  >~~~~~~~0  AU W.
2 N1~47is                                                                             NflT>
3 WE51                            7     N~N>                                                                                      2~                                     69                                      4619                    >>~-
I son                                  r-                                                                  4        KN[          j%                   9,            '      7 ""                                                                  V>      2
2  WIT41244622A                                     (A                                                                                                                                                            or 
la nAy~                                         '2 .                                                                                '                                                             <A 
T6 EA1t                                                                                                                                                                        K>INGAR
12212)12-2 ~~~~M'2~~'         9    I                        /                                                         22,cPnn4nrcII~~~~~3      '>127                        N~
/  nnl62                                           ccr                                                                    #A,,5                               2    ~      'c t2 
19 1400. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~          ~         ~         ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~<
9  2'2K>  2122811422 .42266(6  1  /    ((2                                     N               (3                      a                                                                                                              K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20  30  ,
IC *   A21  616 
1(2222EA  r41~ ANA<                                                 S2 61>4K(
12 6   46941 kAOAM5
1544;  42M6                                                     K.                                                   n                                         N"                                 K'                                                                      TE2<9



