fJ I-
DOCUMENTS      LOAN NUMBER 2258 IND
Loan Agreement
(Public Works Manpower Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPHENT
Dated                                , 1983


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2258 IND
LOAN AREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1983, between
REPUBLIC OF   INDONESIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "MPW" means the Ministry of Public Works of the Bor-
rower;
(b) "PUSDIKLAT" mrans the Training Center in MPW;
(c) "BIDANG   DIRLATS"  mean   the  Training  Sub-Units  in
PUSDIKLAT;
(d) "CMDU" means the Curricula and Materials Development
Unit established in MPW, to implement Part B of the Project;
(e) "RTCs" means the Regional Training Centers of MPW,
including a new Regional Training Center to be established under
Part C of the Project; and
(f)  "Mandor" means a labor sub-contractor whr directly
hires and supervises construction labor.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agree-
ment, an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty
million dollars ($30,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in res-
pect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1987 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee
equivalent to two hundred twenty-three thousand three hundred
twenty-five dollars ($223,325).
(b) On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and pay to itself the amount of the said fee in such currency or
currencies as the Bank shall determine.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one
half percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for
the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
Interest Period.


﻿-3-
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
(c) For purposes of this Section:
(i) "Interest Period" means the six-month period
commencing on each date specified in Section 2.08
of this Agreement, including the Interest Period
in which this Agreement is signed.
(ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasca4bly
determined by the Bank, provided that the amOunt
of $8,520.5 million referred to in (iii) (B) here-
under shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93% per
annum.
(iii)  "Qualified   Borrowings"  means   (A)  outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June *30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985.
(iv)  "Semester" means the first six months or the
sec3nd six months of a calendar year.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts A
through D of the Project through MPW, and Part E of the Project
through the Professional Resources Development Steering Commit-
tee, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, educational, engineering and finan-
cial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,


﻿-4-
facilities, services and other resources required for the pur-
pose.
(b) Without limitation on the foregoing, the Borrower
shall, not later than one month from the date of this Agreement,
appoint, in consultation with the Bank, a full time Project
Manager who shall have suitable qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall: (a) establish full-time
positions in PUSDIKLAT, BIDANG DIKLATS, CMDU, RTCs, and the
Division for Manpower Planning and Personnel of the Bureau of
Personnel and Organization Divisions of the Directorates General
of MPW; (b) appoint professional staff thereto in accordance with
a schedule to be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank; and
(c) take all necessary steps to provide such remuneration and
incentives as will attract and retain qualified professional
staff.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall undertake evaluations of
training for MPW's staff and for the contractors and Mandors to
be provided under the Project, in accordance with terms of
reference and a schedule, to be agreed between the Borrower and
the Bank.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, at least two months prior
to the beginning of each of the Borrower's fiscal years, submit
to the Bank for review and comment:
(a) an annual plan for the development of curricula and
materials for short courses for MPW staff included under Part B
of the Project; and
(b) an annual plan together with a budget for short courses
included under Part C of the Project, and an overall annual pro-
gram for MPW staff training.
Section 3.05. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qua-
lifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank, such consultants to be se-
lected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Con-
sultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Execu-
ting Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿-5-
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indem-
nity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower
to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively for
the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and iwhen
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to
the Bank that such land and rights in respect of land are avail-
able for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for thi Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project, (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable
the Bank's representatives to visit the facil!ties and construc-
tion sites included in the Project and to vxamine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Bank at regular intervals
all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request con-
cerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the bene-
fits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of
the Loan and the goods and services financed out of such pro-
ceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name


﻿-6-
and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and
the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits to be derived from it, the
performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective
obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Loan.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at
no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public
assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property or
as security for the payment of debt incurred for the purpose of


﻿-7-
financing the purchase of such property; and (ii) any lien aris-
ing in the ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a
debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any administrative subdivision thereof
and of any entity owned or controlled by, or operating for the
account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such subdivision,
including gold and foreign exchange assets held by any institu-
tion performing fund, or similar functions, for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting prac-
tices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of
the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower res-
ponsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) Without limitation on the foregoing, the Borrower shall
retain, or cause to be retained, until one year after the Closing
Date, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and other documents) evidencing expenditures on eccount of which
withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account on the basis of
statements of expenditures and shall enable the Bank's repre-
sentatives to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) cause such separate accounts
referred to in paragraph (a) above for each fiscal year to be
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles con-
sistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank, as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year,
certified copies of the reports of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reason-
ably requested, including, without limitation to the foregoing, a
separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the expenditures
and records referred to in paragraph (b) above as to whether the
proceeds of the Loan withdrawn on the basis of statements of
expenditure have been used for the purpose for which they were
provided; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning said separate accounts, records and expenditures and
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date U_   3, I I 3   , is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section  2.44 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
c/o Director General for
International Monetary Affairs
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 4
Jakarta, Indonesia
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINISTRY FINANCE                  DJMLN JKT 45799
Jakarta                         DITJMON JKT 46415
DEPKEU JKT 44319
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-9-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives   thereunto  duly  authorized, have    caused   this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By I-Cl  .                    z~ed4
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By I/ *
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category           Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works              4,200,000        55%
(2) Materials,               3,700,000        100% of foreign
equipment and                            expenditures; 100%
furniture                                of local expendi-
tures (ex-factory);
65% of local ex-
penditures for
items procured
locally
(3) Consultants'            15,900,000        100%
services,
fellowships
and MPW staff
travel costs for-
short courses
(4) Materials develop-       4,500,000        50%
ment and pro-
duction costs
for short courses
for MPW staff and
operation costs of
contractor and
mandor training
(5) Fee                        223,325        Amount due
(6) Unallocated              1,476,675
TOTAL  30,000,000


﻿- 11 -
2*   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan
shall not be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services or
in the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of items in any Category decreases or increases, the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase, or decrease the dis-
bursement percentage then applicable to such Category as required
to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures In that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disburse-
ment percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of


﻿- 12 -
the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel suchx amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eli-
gible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to assist the Borrower in manpower
development and training in public works, in development planning
and in management, and consists of the following:
Part A:   Improvement of MPW Training
1.   Strengthening the PUSDIKLAT including BIDANG DIKLATS through
improvements to the planning for and management of staff
training.
2.   Strengthening the Manpower Planning Division- of the Bureau
of Personnel and Personnel and Organization Divisions of
Directorates General in MPW through the establishment of an
improved system for staff planning and for identification of
training needs.
3.   Strengthening of planning capabilities of MPW, improvement
of   information   management   capabilities . in   MPW   and
preparation of future training projects.
Part B:   Curricula and Materials Development
Establishment   of  CMDU,   development  of   curricula  and
materials for short courses for MPW staff and provision of
related training for instructional staff.
Part C:   Regional Training Centers Development
1.   Upgrading   and   expansion  of   existing   RTCs   and  the
construction of a new Regional Training Center.
2.   Expansion of the program of short courses for MPW staff.
Part D:   Contractor and Mandor Training
Program development and delivery of training for contractors
and Mandors.


﻿- 14 -
Part E:   Professional Resources Development Program
Provision of overseas fellowships in management techniques
for government officials from its planning and policy-making
agencies to strengthen management capabilities.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1987.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (expressed in dollars)
On each May I and November 1
beginning November 1, 1988
through   May 1, 2003                        1,000,000


﻿- 16 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the balance outstanding
on the Loan on the day
of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                           0.15
before maturity
More than three years but                           0.30
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                             0.55
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but.not                          0.80
more than 16 years
before maturity
More than 16 years but not                          0.90
more than 18 years
before maturity
More than 18 years before                           1.00
maturity


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March
1977 (July 1980 edition) (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of para-
graphs 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification to
prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods in
question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   Contracts for goods shall be grouped so as to achieve effi-
ciency in procurement, consistent with appropriate technical and
procurement practices.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and simi-
lar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery, pur-
suant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account in
the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 18 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
the Republic of Indonesia may be granted a margin of preference
in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in the
Republic of Indonesia if the bidder shall have
established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such
goods includes a value added in the Republic of
Indonesia equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other.goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bide, of the goods. Such lowest eva-
luated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer


﻿- 19 -
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from Group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works may be awarded in accordance with
the Borrower's local competitive bidding procedures in effect as
of the date of this Agreement.
2.   Contracts for goods shall be grouped so as to achieve effi-
ciency in procurement, consistent with appropriate technical and
procurement practices.
3.   Contracts for materials, equipment and furniture estimated
to cost less than $150,000 equivalent each may be awarded in
accordance with the Borrower's local competitive bidding proce-
dures in effect as of the date of this Agreement;
4.   Contracts for materials and equipment estimated to cost less
than $25,000 equivalent may be awarded on the basis of prudent
shopping after solicitation and comparison of at least 3 price
quotations from reputable suppliers, provided, however, such con-
tracts shall not exceed in the aggregate $500,000 equivalent.
5.   Books and other reference materials may be procured -through
the Borrower's procurement procedures in effect as of the'date of
this Agreement.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to cost
$150,000 equivalent or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations tc bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for


﻿- 20 -
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bid-
ders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time
for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and compari-
son of the bids received, together with the recommendations for
award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or issu-
ing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform


﻿- 21 -
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  1       day of, V    4 198-3
FOR SECRETARY


