Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 433lb-BEL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BELIZE
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
April 4, 1983
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit               =    Belize Dollar (Bz$)
US$1.00                          Bz$ 2.00
Bz$ 1.00                         US$0.50
Fiscal Year
April 1 -- March 31
System of Weights and Measures: British/US
1 foot (ft)                 =    0.305 meter (m)
1 mile (mi)                 =    1.609 kilometers (km)
I square mile (sq mi)            2.589 square kilometers (sq km)
1 pound (lb)                     0.454 kilogram (kg)
Abbreviations and Acronyms
BDD       -    British Development Division (UK Overseas Development
Administration)
CDB       -    Caribbean Development Bank
HDM        -    Highway Design Model
ICB       -    International Competitive Bidding
LCB        -    Local Competitive Bidding
MEC       -    Ministry of Energy and Communications
MOW        -    Ministry of Works
PPF       -    Project Preparation Facility
Ro/Ro     -    Roll-on/Roll-off
TPU       --   Training Production Unit
UNDP/OPE  -    United Nations Development Program/Office of Project Execution
Vpd       -    Vehicles per day



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
BELIZE
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR .......................................           1
A. General.                                                            1
B. The Transport System.                                               1
C. Administration and Planning.                                        2
II. THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR..                                                 3
A. The Highway Network.                                                3
B.   Traffic, Vehicle Fleet and Road Transport
Regulations.                                                    4
C.   Administration ....................         ,     .     .....     5
D.  Financing and Road User Charges.                                   6
E. Engineering and Construction.                                       7
F. Maintenance and Rehabilitation.                                     7
G. Accounting and Auditing ..                                         10
H.   Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program,
1983/84-1986/87 .10
III. THE PROJECT .12
A.   Objectives and General Description .12
B. Project Components .13
C.   Cost Estimates, Financing and Disbursements .17
D.   Execution, Procurement and Monitoring .19
E. Project Risks .21
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION .21
A.   Road Rehabilitation and Drainage Improvements .21
B. Road Maintenance Program .23
C.   Distribution of Project Benefits .23
V.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION         ..24
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Belize in November/December 1982. The mission comprised Ms. Katherine Sierra
(Economist) and Messrs. Z.S. Kowalski (Engineer) and A. Mackie (Mechanical
Engineer - Consultant). The report has been edited by Miss Virginia Foster.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
TABLES
2.1  Road Conditions and Traffic Levels, 1982 ................. ...   26
2.2  Road Vehicle Fuel Consumption, 1977-1981 ................. ...   27
2.3 MOW Road Expenditures, 1977-1981/82 .....    ....................   28
2.4  Road User Charge Revenues, 1981 .....    ........................   29
2.5  MOW Equipment Fleet .......    ..................................   30
2.6  Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program,
1983/84-1986/87   ........................................  31
2.7  Estimated MOW Road Maintenance Budget Requirements and
Physical  Targets   .......................................  32
3.1  Details of Equipment Overhaul Program .......................   33
3.2  Tentative List of Workshop Equipment and Tools ....  ..........   34
3.3  Tentative List and Cost of Maintenance Equipment .... ........   35
3.4  Road Maintenance Personnel to be Trained ....    ................   36
3.5  Equipment and Materials Requirements for the Training
Production  Unit   ........................................  37
3.6  Schedule of Estimated Disbursements .........................   38
4.1  Summary Economic Analysis of Road Rehabilitation Works   ......  39
4.2  Road Conditions in 1989 with the Maintenance Program ........  40
4.3  Road Conditions in 1989 without the Maintenance Program  .....  41
4.4  Economic Vehicle Operating Costs on Varying Road Surfaces
with Different Road Maintenance Policies ....   ...........   42
ANNEXES
1.  Outline Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance
for Road Maintenance and Training ......................   43
2.  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File  ...  49
CHARTS
24618    Existing Roads Administration      ..50
24617    District Staff Organization         ..51
24615    Project Implementation Schedule (1983-1986)  . .52
MAP
IBRD 16947 Belize - Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project



I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   General
1.01      Belize, situated on the Yucatan Peninsula, is bordered by Mexico on
the north and Guatemala on the west and south. With some 150,000 people
living in an area of 8,866 square miles, the country has one of the lowest
population densities in the world. This makes for relatively high transport
infrastructure costs per capita; distribution costs are also high because of
the long distances between widely scattered, sparsely populated regions. The
country's main development regions include sugarcane farming in the north and
banana cropping in the south. Major cattle farms are found in the western
and central parts of the country, and a significant citrus fruit industry is
centered in the south. The economy is also based on fishing, light industry,
and incipient tourism.
1.02      Belize's transport network comprises about:
(a)  1,170 miles of improved road, of which 272 miles are paved; some
200 miles of unimproved roads and tracks; and 250 miles of urban
streets;
(b)  a semi-deepwater port at Belize City and several jetties and piers
along the coast for lighterage; and
(c)  both an international and a domestic airport at Belize City and
some 11 additional Government-owned and eight privately owned
airstrips.
The Government has, in recent years, made substantial investments toward the
development and improvement of this network, most notably in the construction
of a major new link of the Northern Highway, connecting Belize City to
Mexico; in improvements to the Western Highway; in the construction of the
Belize City Port; and in the construction of feeder roads in the sugar
production areas. Priority is now turning to the maintenance and rehabilita-
tion of existing infrastructure and to improving means of exporting Belize's
agricultural production (Map IBRD 16947).
B.   The Transport System
(i) Ports
1.03      The Belize City Port, constructed with Caribbean Development Bank
(CDB) financing at a total cost of US$10.6 million, became operational in
1980. It handles all maritime import traffic and about 4% of exports. In
1981/82, the port handled some 95,000 tons, of which 52,000 tons were
containerized general cargo.  With a depth of 17 feet, the port cannot handle
large ocean-going container ships. Instead, most containerized traffic is
transported by a roll-on/roll-off (ro/ro) service from Miami which calls at
the port's specialized ro/ro berth. One shipping line, which handles about
40% of containerized traffic, moors in deepwater and barges containers to the
port. About 40% of all containerized cargo is destined for Mexico; the
Belize City Port is the nearest port facility to Mexico's Chetumal area.
Most exports do not pass through the Belize City Port. Sugar, the most
important export in terms of tonnage, is barged first from northern
production areas to Belize City for storage, and then to ships moored in



- 2 -
deepwater off the Belize City harbor. Bananas are lightered from Big Creek
in the south to Puerto Cortez, Honduras, where they are transshipped to the
UK, and citrus is lightered from the south to deepwater near Belize City
where it is transshipped to ocean-going vessels.
1.04      One of the Government's priorities is the improvement of current
means of, and infrastructure for, the maritime transport of its exports and
imports.  The extent to which current arrangements are uneconomic, given the
relatively small tonnages involved, is unclear.  Nevertheless, the present
means of transport are perceived by the Government to be relatively costly
and inefficient.  Several proposals under consideration by the Government
include deepening of the Belize City Port, construction of a new deepwater
port about 10 miles south of Belize City, construction of a sugar terminal,
probably on an island located in deepwater, improvement to banana facilities
at Big Creek to accommodate ocean-going freighters, or development of
lighterage facilities along the southern coast. Because of geologic condi-
tions along Belize's coast, any deepwater solution is likely to be costly and
difficult to justify economically. To resolve the issue, the Government has
proposed that an export transportation master plan be prepared to determine
the most efficient means of transporting exports and to identify and analyze
appropriate investments. This study, technical assistance for which would be
provided under the project, would review not only maritime transport needs
but also inland distribution systems. It was agreed during negotiations that
the Government would not undertake, or commit itself to undertake, any port
investment which requires expenditures of over US$500,000 in any fiscal year,
prior to the preparation of this study.
(ii) Air Transport
1.05      Belize is relatively well served by international air connections:
three major airlines--Taca, Tan/Sasha and Air Florida--fly to Miami, New
Orleans, Houston, Honduras and El Salvador. However, air connections to the
Caribbean islands should be improved to further promote transport of both
passengers and goods within the region.  Considering the relatively small
numbers of international passengers (about 60,000 arrivals and departures
annually), present facilities at the Belize City International Airport
require only minor improvements, including runway resurfacing and improved
fire-fighting equipment and navigational aids. At the Belize City domestic
airport, serving primarily the tourist area of Ambergis Caye, runway
resurfacing and improvements to terminal facilities are required.
(iii) Highway Subsector
1.06      The highway subsector is discussed in detail in Chapter II.
C.   Administration and Planning
1.07      Responsibility for the transport sector is divided between the
Ministry of Works (MOW) and the Ministry of Energy and Communications (MEC).
MOW is responsible for the maintenance and construction of roads, bridges and
ports. In this capacity, MOW has supervisory authority over the Belize Port
Authority, a semi-autonomous public entity established in 1980. MEC is
responsible for the management, control, and operation of Belize's airports.
The Licensing Authority, which registers and licenses road vehicles, is under
MEC, as is responsibility for the regulation of road passenger services.



- 3 -
1.08      Because a basic transport network is in place in Belize and
transport investment costs are likely to be high in relation to demand,
future investments should be carefully planned to:
(a) ensure a proper balance between maintenance and rehabilitation, and
new construction; and
(b) determine least cost solutions in designing projects, with priority
given to low cost investments designed to improve operations rather
than to projects requiring large capital investments.
1.09      Until recently, no systematic transport planning was made in
Belize.  Instead, projects were developed on an ad hoc basis, usually with
the assistance of external financing agencies.  Progress has been made for
the roads subsector in the introduction of planning criteria through the
development of a four-year Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program which
would be supported by this project (para 2.27).  In addition, the export
transportation master plan should assist in the development of medium range
plans for the improvement of both inland and maritime distribution of goods
(para 1.04). Finally, progress is being made in ensuring that transport
investments are consistent with overall development objectives through
improved planning under the Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
assisted by the United Nations Development Program/Office of Project
Execution (UNDP/OPE)-financed Belize Public Investment Project, which
commenced in early 1981. The main objective of the UNDP/OPE project is to
identify and study potential development projects and to assist in the
preparation of a five-year national development plan.
II. THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A.   The Highway Network
2.01      Belize's road network links the main centers of population and
development areas. The location of major roads is dictated mainly by the
swampy conditions prevalent in Belize and, particularly in the south, by
river crossings. In terms of coverage, the network is adequate and standards
are generous for traffic levels. Road conditions, except on those roads
recently rehabilitated, are generally unsatisfactory because of inadequate
maintenance, combined with problems such as frequent flooding, unsatisfactory
drainage, and limited availability of good road-making materials in some
parts of the country and inadequate construction specifications and quality
control.
2.02      The main road system follows three principal corridors:
(a) the Northern Highway, which connects Belize City with the northern
districts and Mexico;
(b) the Western Highway, which runs from Belize City to the capital
city of Belmopan and continues on to the Guatemalan border; and
(c) the Hummingbird/Stann Creek Highway, which connects Belmopan with
Dangriga town and to the Southern Highway, a gravel road which
provides access to the Stann Creek and Toledo districts.



- 4 -
2.03      Recent improvements to the road network include the completion, in
1982, of the Northern Highway at a cost of US$17.0 million, improvement of
key sections of the Western Highway and construction of feeder roads in the
northern sugar-producing areas. Some older sections of the Northern Highway,
which have deteriorated to the point where routine and periodic maintenance
is no longer effective, require rehabilitation. On the Western Highway,
about 33 miles of road rehabilitated in 1980 require a second surface
treatment (para 2.29), and about 23 miles still require rehabilitation.
Also, a key section of this road near Belize City is frequently flooded; a
study of this section is under way with UK financing to determine the most
economic solution to the problem. The Hummingbird/Stann Creek road, an
important artery for the citrus-growing area, is in poor condition. However,
low traffic volumes on this road (averaging 100 vpd) preclude major
rehabilitation at this time. MOW's efforts should be directed at intensive
maintenance to ensure access to areas served by the road. The Southern
Highway, which also has relatively low traffic volumes (averaging 100 vpd),
provides the only access to the Toledo District. This area has been
identified for a rural development program and also is the center for
Belize's banana production. Some 11 bridges need replacement on this road.
In addition, the road should gradually be improved as traffic develops. As a
first stage, drainage improvements and better maintenance are required.
While large, mainly unpopulated areas of Belize do not have road connections,
the feeder road network should be expanded only in connection with specific
integrated rural development programs such as that being planned for the
Toledo District. Beyond the need to rehabilitate sections of the network,
the main priority remains the improvement of road maintenance to conserve and
extend the useful life of these and past road investments.
2.04      The road network has not been formally classified.  Information on
road condition is available from a survey conducted by MOW in 1982, based on
visual judgments of technicians in MOW districts. The results highlight the
importance of improving road maintenance operations (Table 2.1). According
to the inventory, about 44% of the network is in poor condition and only 9%
in good condition. Paved roads are in somewhat better condition than the
network as a whole, partly because of recent efforts at rehabilitation and
because these roads receive better maintenance than other road classes. Some
79% of the paved roads were classified as being in good to fair condition as
compared with 49% of the gravel and marl roads. At negotiations, the
Government confirmed that MOW would prepare a detailed road and bridge
condition survey and classify the road network by June 30, 1984.
B.   Traffic, Vehicle Fleet and Road Transport Regulations
2.05      As would be expected with the low population density and the large
distances between development areas, traffic on Belize's roads is relatively
light. The most heavily trafficked road is the Northern Highway with 1982
traffic ranging from 400 to 2,700 vpd. Traffic on the Western Highway ranges
from 400 to 600 vpd; some isolated sections of this road have traffic as high
as 1,300 vpd, however. Traffic on the Hummingbird/Stann Creek Highway and
the Southern Highway ranges from 80 to 130 vpd. Based on bi-annual traffic
counts made by MOW from 1972 to 1979 and in 1982, it is estimated that
traffic grew by between 3% and 10% p.a. on the main roads between 1972 and
1978. Thereafter, traffic growth rates declined to between 1% and 3% p.a.
Data on retail fuel sales in Belize indicate a decline in gasoline and diesel
consumption by 3% p.a. and 5% p.a. respectively between 1978 and 1981. It
should be noted, however, that part of the decline in sales is due to the



-5-
increased purchase of fuel in Mexico where prices are substantially lower
than those prevailing in Belize (Table 2.2).
2.06      A reliable source of information on the growth of the motor vehicle
fleet is not available. The Licensing Authority estimates that the fleet
numbers about 9,500 vehicles, of which about 35% are trucks; 1% buses; and
64% automobiles, vans and pickups. Most vehicles are imported from the used
vehicle market in the United States. As such, the average age of the fleet
is high: some 8.7 years for all vehicles and 9.5 years for trucks.  In keep-
ing with the age of the fleet, only 30% of the buses and 40% of the trucks
are diesel-powered.  Belize might consider adjusting the structure of its
import duties to promote improvements in the vehicle fleet.
2.07      The road freight transport industry is not closely regulated in
Belize. Road freight tariffs are set by competition. Vehicles and drivers
are licensed and registered, but vehicle axle weights and dimensions are not
controlled. The extent of vehicle overloading is not well known, although
overloading is reported to be a problem with Mexican trucks which pick up
cargo at the Belize City Port, and with sugarcane trucks. During preparation
of the detailed design for the project, MOW, with the assistance of consul-
tants, made checks of vehicle axle-loads and dimensions to determine the
current axle-load spectrum prevailing in Belize. The information obtained
was used as an input for design of pavements for the roads to be rehabili-
tated under the project. The information will also be used by M1OW in deter-
mining, with the assistance of consultants, the most economic and practical
axle-load and dimension limits, and the most practical and cost-effective way
of controlling compliance with legislation. At negotiations, the Government
agreed to: (a) provide the Bank, by June 30, 1984, for review and comment, an
analysis of current vehicle axle-loads and recommendations for limits, if
any; and (b) on the basis on this analysis, carry out those recommendations
satisfactory to the Government and the Bank according to an agreed timetable.
C.   Administration
2.08      The responsibility for the construction and maintenance of all
roads, apart from city and town streets, lies with MOW. Maintenance and
construction of municipal streets are the responsibility of the relevant
local councils, although most street works are undertaken by MOW staff on
request from the local councils. The MOW Chief Engineer is responsible for
road maintenance and construction. Indeed, he is the only engineer involved
in either road function. The responsibility for bridges rests with the
Bridges Engineer (Chart 24618). The country is divided into six districts,
each with a district supervisor. These supervisors are not engineers, but do
possess a high degree of technical experience in maintenance (Chart 24617).
Given the small size of the network, the combined responsibility for both
construction and maintenance within each district is acceptable. However,
the Chief Engineer's administrative responsibilities are such that planning
and execution of road maintenance do not receive adequate priority or atten-
tion.  The post of Maintenance Engineer would be established within MOW.
This engineer would be responsible, under the direction of the Chief Engineer
and initially with the assistance of consultants under the project
(para 3.12), for planning and programing MOW's road maintenance activities
and for ensuring that improved operations and practices are introduced at the
district levels. Establishment of the post of Maintenance Engineer and
appointment of a suitably qualified candidate would be a condition for
effectiveness of the loan.



- 6-
D.   Financing and Road User Charges
2.09      Road expenditures are financed by the Government through annual
budget allocations to MOW and by grants and loans from bilateral and multi-
lateral sources. The dominant source for external financing of road develop-
ment has been the British Development Division (BDD) of the UK Overseas
Development Administration which financed recent works on the Northern and
Western Highways. BDD is expected to continue to be an important source of
external assistance over the next four years (para 2.32). CDB has financed
construction of feeder roads in the sugar production areas.
2.10      Table 2.3 shows road-related expenditures between 1977 and
1981/82. During that period, new construction and improvement represented
about 68% of total expenditures, while administration, road and bridge main-
tenance represented about 32%. Over the next four years, it is expected that
expenditure on road and bridge construction and rehabilitation will be lower
in real terms than that between 1977 and 1981, which was particularly high
because of the cost of the Northern Highway Project. MOW's recurrent expen-
ditures increased by 31% p.a. between 1977 and 1980/81. Expenditures dropped
by 6% in 1981/82 and then, in 1982/83, the recurrent budget declined by 33%
(in real terms by 38%), reflecting severe budgetary constraints in that year.
2.11       Information on receipts from road user charges is fragmentary.
However, an analysis of tax rates and estimates of receipts indicates that
road user charges have been sufficient to cover the routine and periodic
maintenance expenditure requirements and to contribute about 25% of the
annual capital investment in road infrastructure in recent years. Revenues
from fuel taxes are the main road user charges in Belize, providing about 59%
of total receipts. The fuel tax is made up of a flat import duty tax and an
ad valorem revenue replacement and stamp tax.  Together, these taxes
currently total Bz$ 0.74/gallon (US$0.37/gallon) on gasoline and Bz$ 0.48/
gallon (US$0.24/gallon) on diesel. l/ Other sources of road user charges
are import duties and revenue replacement taxes on road vehicles (21% of
total receipts), imports duties on spare parts (10%) and vehicle registration
and license fees (9%). The effective rate of duty on automobile imports is
30% of the f.o.b. value, plus a revenue replacement tax of 15% of the first
Bz$ 3,000 c.i.f. value and 40% of that part of the c.i.f. value greater than
Bz$ 3,000. The effective rate of duty on trucks and utility vehicles, such
as pickups, is 24% of the f.o.b. value. The differential rate of taxation on
automobiles and utility vehicles has most likely contributed to the high
percentage of the latter (52%) in the light vehicle fleet. At the same time,
however, the high percentage of utility vehicles in the fleet reflects the
apparent preference for vehicles which can be utilized for both agricultural
and personal requirements.  It is estimated that receipts from road user
charges in 1981 totaled some Bz$ 11.7 million (Table 2.4). This is about 30%
greater than the estimated annual requirements for routine and periodic road
maintenance, including equipment costs.
1/   The structure of retail gasoline and diesel fuel prices in US$/gallon in
September 1982 was:
Regular Gasoline   Premium Gasoline   Diesel
Base Price plus
Commercialization             1.26                 1.30            1.21
Tax                             0.37                 0.38            0.24
Retail Price                    1.63                 1.68            1.45
International Price
(c.i.f. Belize)               1.03                 1.06            1.01



-7-
E.   Engineering and Construction
2.12      In past highway work, the main concern was to provide access to
exploitable timberlands and population centers during the dry season when
water transport was hampered by the low water stage of navigable rivers;
insufficient attention was given to drainage design and construction specifi-
cations. The Southern Road, originally built by the Forestry Department, has
very few drainage structures. Geometric criteria were not important because
the mostly flat Belize topography facilitated good alignment. MOW does not
have any formalized road design standards. As part of the preparation of the
detailed design for the roads to be rehabilitated under the project, the
consultants are assisting MOW in the preparation of design standards and
construction specifications.
2.13      MOW has minimum road design capability; its design section works
mainly for the department responsible for Government buildings. MOW is
anxious to strengthen its engineering capabilities for design, supervision
and quality control. The MOW soils and materials laboratory is well equipped
and staffed, but staff training is required. During the design phase of the
project, a soils and materials engineer consultant assisted in making
improvements to the organization and capability of the soils and materials
laboratory to carry out soils tests. The consultant is currently evaluating
present construction practices and assisting the six district supervisors in
locating new sources of suitable road-building materials.
2.14      Road construction has been carried out by contractors and by MOW
force account. There are some eight local contractors with an annual
contracting capacity of US$3.5 million. Their experience appears confined to
earthwork and drainage works with little capability in pavement construc-
tion. A full range of heavy earth moving equipment is available within the
industry. MOW supervises the execution of works, but its personnel need
training in setting out works, in quality control methods and in contract
administration.  Construction of road projects financed under UK aid has been
managed by consultants (Crown Agents, UK). Payment for works is generally on
measured quantities at rates based on agreed unit prices. It is difficult to
judge the local industry's technical know-how based on the condition of the
roads because few data are available relating to past control of the
technical execution of works. There is evidence that the poor condition of
the highway network is partly a result of inadequate engineering and poor
construction practices encouraged by the lack of supervision and aggravated
by the lack of subsequent road maintenance. MOW has a rudimentary procedure
for advertising projects, receiving proposals and awarding construction
contracts.   MOW evaluates contractors based on their past performance and on
current work commitments. Improvements in procurement methods would be
introduced under the project, with the assistance of technical assistance
consultants, and applied to project-related works.
F.   Maintenance and Rehabilitation
2.15      Road maintenance in Belize is poorly executed, which has led to the
relatively poor condition of the network (para 2.04). The inadequacy of road
maintenance has its root in several basic deficiencies which include:



- 8 -
(a) the absence of forward planning for routine and periodic mainte-
nance at both MOW headquarters and district levels;
(b)  poor maintenance practices due to a lack of training at the super-
visory and field levels as well as to inadequate knowledge of
locally available materials and lack of suitable material specifi-
cations;
(c) low equipment availability and utilization; and
(d) the inadequacy of road maintenance budgets, aggravated by the poor
utilization of budgeted funds, including the diversion of such
funds to non-maintenance uses.
2.16      Until 1982/83, MOW's maintenance budgets would have been adequate
if maintenance had been properly planned and executed. To that extent,
raising the maintenance budget alone will not improve road maintenance to
adequate levels. Instead, particular emphasis must be given to increasing
efficiency through the introduction of a more systematic approach to the
planning and execution of road maintenance. In addition, better management
in the use and upkeep of equipment is required. To accomplish this goal,
training at all levels is of paramount importance.
2.17      Assessing the extent to which MOW's road maintenance budget is ade-
quate is difficult because of a lack of proper accounting procedures which
would distinguish expenditures by type of activity, be that routine or
periodic maintenance, minor rehabilitation or emergency repairs.  The budget
is not used as a planning tool; instead, each district is allocated funds on
a more or less historical basis.  Further, it is reported that these funds
are sometimes diverted to non-maintenance uses such as the construction of
feeder roads.  To provide more detailed information for future maintenance
planning and budgeting, the Government agreed, at negotiations, that MOW
would introduce, by January 31, 1985, budgeting and accounting procedures
which would differentiate routine from periodic maintenance activities and
maintenance activities from those of the Ministry as a whole. Technical
assistance would be required to help design and establish these procedures
(para 3.12).
2.18      From 1977 to 1980/81, annual road maintenance expenditures
increased from Bz$ 2.6 million to Bz$ 5.8 million. Expenditures on road
maintenance decreased to Bz$ 5.4 million in 1981/82 and then fell further by
33% in 1982/83 to Bz$ 3.6 million because of serious fiscal constraints
facing the Government. The 1981/82 budget, which excludes equipment
depreciation and repair costs, amounted to an annual average expenditure of
Bz$ 4,600/mile (US$2,300/mile) which, if properly utilized, would have been
sufficient to provide for an adequate level of maintenance. The 1982/83
budget, in contrast, would be sufficient to provide for routine maintenance
but not periodic maintenance of Belize's roads. Proposals for restoration of
adequate budgetary provisions are discussed in paragraph 2.29.
2.19      Road maintenance is carried out by force account by district
staff. Some minor improvements, especially drainage improvements, are
contracted to local firms. A mobile resealing unit is being set up within
MOW with BDD financing which will initially work on resealing of 33 miles of
the Western Highway over three years. The intention is to build up technical



- 9 -
capability of a cadre of MOW staff to carry out this activity countrywide.
MOW is planning to explore the possibility of building up local private
contracting capacity to carry out resealing works.  However, the volumes of
work anticipated (30 miles to be resealed annually) would probably not be
large enough to attract private sector participation.
2.20      The MOW fleet of equipment is managed by permanently allocating to
each of the six districts an inventory of vehicles and equipment.  The
Mechanical Services branch of MOW is responsible for the maintenance of the
fleet and for the operations of the central workshops in Belmopan.  The
administration of workshops and the day-to-day operations of equipment are
under the control of the district superintendents.  The greatest need within
the equipment maintenance organization is for a drastic improvement in the
quality of the work being carried out. There is no shortage of staff, but
measures have to be taken on the following: supervision of workshop staff;
inspection of the units and of the work being carried out on them; and know-
ledge of the different makes of units in the fleet. The technical assistance
and training program under the project would address this need (para 3.12).
2.21      The fleet consists of 221 units which have an average age of seven
years. Its condition is very poor, mainly because of inadequate maintenance
and lack of spare parts. Some 117 units are presently working, 74 need
repairs and 30 units, which are beyond economical repair, should be
scrapped. In general, the mix is oriented toward construction rather than
maintenance needs. Future replacement programs should aim at adjusting this
balance. While the fleet inventory is reasonably accurate, statistics on the
condition and use of the fleet are not kept up-to-date. There are no rele-
vant figures on the availability or utilization of the equipment; observa-
tions indicate that average availability could be as low as 50% and average
utilization about 600 hours/year. In 1983, MOW will receive an additional 85
units of equipment (Table 2.5); 80 of these will be units which were used in
the UK-financed Northern Highway Project. They will be overhauled with BDD
financing and handed over to MOW in good working order. It is estimated that
the equipment will have 50% of its useful life left when handed over to MOW.
While these are mainly construction units, they can be utilized for
maintenance activities. In addition, five units of equipment will be pro-
cured with BDD financing to equip the resealing unit (para 2.19).
2.22      MOW is in the process of initiating an equipment overhaul program
which is expected to begin in Spring 1983 when spare parts for the overhaul
of about 50 units already ordered are delivered. Under the project, an addi-
tional 25 units of maintenance equipment would be overhauled. Based on an
assessment of equipment needs for maintenance (Table 2.5), and taking into
consideration improved availability through the overhaul program, the present
fleet is adequate at least until 1985. However, additional units of light
maintenance equipment, such as hand vibrating rollers, are required.
2.23      There is a relatively new central workshop complex at Belmopan, and
each district has a small workshop which is essentially for preventive main-
tenance and minor repairs.  In general, these workshops are adequate for the
size of the fleet except for the Belize City District workshop which is very
poorly located and unsuited for either storage of units or minor repairs.
The Central Workshop in Belmopan is congested with immobilized and dismantled



- 10 -
units. A contributing factor to poor work flow in this workshop is the
number of scrap units being retained in its storage areas.  In addition,
there is no security store for the warehousing of parts.  The project
provides for clearance of the workshop and provision of a security store.
2.24      MOW is currently considering the establishment of a Hire Funding
Scheme which would determine and apply charges to users for the utilization
of the equipment fleet. BDD has offered short-term technical assistance to
aid MOW in setting up the accounting and administration for the Scheme. If
the regulatory framework, including the separation of the Hire Fund receipts
from general Government accounts and a sinking fund for equipment replace-
ment, is established, BDD has offered financing for replacement equipment.
While a Hire Funding Scheme may be desirable, the establishment of hire
charges is not critical in efforts toward improving equipment availability,
particularly considering the relatively small size of the fleet. However,
improved equipment management procedures would be introduced under the
proposed project; these would include improved record-keeping, monitoring and
control, the introduction of systematic preventive maintenance, implementa-
tion of continuous equipment overhaul, and improved supply of spare parts.
Such improvements would have to be introduced in any case to make a Hire Fund
Scheme effective.
2.25      In the private sector, there are only two main dealerships which
have workshop resources for equipment models used by the Ministry.  These
would be used by MOW for the overhaul of equipment to the extent possible.
All other agencies stock very few spares and do not maintain workshops for
any form of backup maintenance resource.
G.   Accounting and Auditing
2.26      As noted in paragraph 2.17, MOW's accounting and internal control
system, while in place, is deficient because it does not provide records of
expenditures in sufficient detail to be used as a management tool. Internal
controls are also reported to be deficient by the Auditor General, who com-
mented in the latest audit of MOW accounts that regulations on internal con-
trols of expenditures are not consistently followed. Annual audits of MOW
accounts are made by the Auditor General. His office, however, suffers from
a shortage of sufficiently trained and experienced staff to ensure timely
preparation of audits.  The audit for 1978 was completed only in April 1982.
Along with revised accounting procedures and training to be provided under
the project, it would be necessary to engage, in a timely manner, independent
auditors to audit, annually, the expenditures of the proposed project, as
well as MOW's road and equipment maintenance activity accounts.  Statements
of expenditures for project work to be carried out by force account would be
subject to a specific audit (para. 3.25). During negotiations, the Govern-
ment confirmed that, starting with the FY1983/84 accounts, it would engage
independent auditors to audit the project accounts.  The relevant audit
reports should be submitted to the Bank not later than September 30 of each
year, starting in 1984.
H.   Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program, 1983/84-1986/87
2.27      MOW has prepared, with the assistance of consultants, a Road
Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program for 1983/84 through 1986/87 which aims
at strengthening its road and equipment maintenance organization and
practices as well as at providing a more comprehensive approach to the
rehabilitation of the road network (Table 2.6). The proposed project would
support a slice of the Program. BDD would also be a major contributor. The
Program is divided into two complementary components: a road maintenance
program and a road rehabilitation program.



- )l1 -
(i) Road Maintenance Program
2.28      The road maintenance program aims at providing lasting improvements
in road maintenance operations. The program was developed by first determin-
ing a desirable level of road maintenance which would be introduced gradually
over a period of four years. The first step in developing the program was
the definition of alternative maintenance policies, which, depending on the
frequency of road maintenance activities carried out, would result in either
"good," "fair," or "minimum" road conditions.  In defining these policies,
the frequencies were adjusted by type of road surface and level of traffic.
The economic cost of each alternative was calculated as well as vehicle
operating costs which would result from the alternative maintenance
policies. An analysis was then made to select the appropriate policy by type
of road surface and level of traffic which would yield the highest net
economic benefit and whose cost would be within the budgetary capacity of the
Government.  The analysis indicated that paved roads with less than 100 vpd
would receive a "minimum" level of maintenance, those with between 100 and
250 vpd a "fair" level and those with traffic greater than 250 vpd a "good"
level of maintenance. Unpaved roads would also receive varying levels of
maintenance depending upon traffic levels.
2.29      These policies would be introduced gradually over a four-year
period and would require an annual average increase in the road maintenance
budget of 10% p.a. in real terms over the next four years, to Bz$ 5.3 million
by 1986/87 in 1983 prices. Table 2.7 gives details of the financial and
physical goals of the maintenance program. At negotiations, the Government
confirmed that the required road maintenance funds would be provided. In the
first three years of the program, the budgetary resources for the periodic
maintenance of the paved network would be supplemented by BDD, which would
equip and finance a road resealing unit; this unit would initially concen-
trate on resealing 33 miles of the Western Highway rehabilitated in 1980,
which require a second surface treatment (para 2.03). In the fourth year,
the work carried out by the unit would be financed out of the MOW budget.
2.30.     The program would, by the end of the four-year period, provide for
the resealing of 30 miles per year and the regraveling of 120 miles per
year. The road maintenance frequencies established under the program would
be reviewed and revised as appropriate under the technical assistance to be
provided under the project as more detailed information on road conditions
and costs became available. The physical goals would also be broken down by
district in the form of annual work programs. At negotiations, the Govern-
ment agreed to prepare annual road and bridge maintenance work programs for
each district and to exchange views annually with the Bank, starting
January 31, 1984, on the scope and content of the following year's program.
2.31      To meet the goals of the road maintenance program, equipment avail-
ability and utilization should increase to 75% and 1,200 hours respectively,
by 1986/87. The equipment overhaul program (para 3.09) is designed to
increase availability and utilization in the short to medium term. In
addition, improved equipment maintenance procedures and controls would be
introduced with the assistance of consultants under the proposed project
(para 3.12). A long-term equipment overhaul, scrapping and replacement
program should be developed. At negotiations, the Government agreed to
prepare, by January 31, 1984, a detailed equipment overhaul, scrapping and
replacement program for 1984/85 through 1986/87 and to implement the program
according to a timetable satisfactory to the Bank. Finally, the success of
the Program depends on the implementation of a training program which would
be pursued under the project (para 3.14).



- 12 -
(ii) Road Rehabilitation Program
2.32      The Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program also provides for
the rehabilitation of key road sections which have deteriorated to the point
where routine maintenance is no longer effective. The proposed project would
participate in the rehabilitation of a "slice" of the planned works under the
Program. The overall Program includes the rehabilitation of about 43 miles
of paved roads, drainage improvements to about 65 miles of the Southern
Highway, and rehabilitation of 11 bridges. The Rehabilitation Program
envisages expenditure of Bz$ 35.3 million (March 1983 prices) over the next
four years. The Bank project would finance about 18% of the rehabilitation
works. BDD would finance about 75%, although financing for three of the road
and bridge rehabilitation projects, for which UK assistance has been
requested, has not yet been confirmed. 2/ Feasibility studies for these
projects are currently under way. During negotiations, the Government agreed
to update its Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program annually and
exchange views with the Bank not later than January 31 of each year, starting
in 1984 and annually thereafter, regarding its composition and progress.
III. THE PROJECT
A.   Objectives and General Description
3.01      The project would support MOW's Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation
Program for 1983/84 through 1986/87 with the general objectives of:
(a)  strengthening MOW's road maintenance capacity through improvements
in MOW's organization and through the introduction of improved
maintenance standards and procedures;
(b)  ensuring a sufficient supply of road maintenance equipment and
vehicles and improving equipment availability and utilization;
(c)  upgrading, through training, of maintenance manpower;
(d)  improving the support functions for road design and construction
quality control; and
(e)  bringing priority roads to maintainable condition through
rehabilitation and drainage improvements.
3.02      Specific project components are:
Road Rehabilitation
(a)  rehabilitation of the following road sections:
(i) San Ignacio-Belmopan entrance (8 miles)
(ii) Santa Elena-Corozal (10 miles)
(iii) Haulover Bridge-Airport Junction (3 miles);
2/   Rehabilitation/Drainage Improvements on the Western Highway between
Belize City-Hattieville; reconstruction San Ignacio to the Guatemala
Border; Southern Highway Bridges, Phase II.



- 13 -
(b)  drainage improvements along about 65 miles of the Southern Highway;
(c)  detailed design and supervision of works (a) and (b).
Road Maintenance and Training Program
(d)  acquisition of spare parts for the major overhaul of 25 units of
salvageable maintenance equipment;
(e)  acquisition of spare parts for the initial stocking for preventive
maintenance of existing equipment;
(f)  procurement of about 30 units of light maintenance equipment (and
spare parts) and workshop equipment and tools;
(g)  workshop improvements;
(h)  technical assistance for strengthening of MOW's capacity to carry
out road and equipment maintenance, and to implement a training
program;
(i)  materials for a Training Production Unit (TPU) and fellowships for
MOW staff;
Transport Planning
(j) preparation of an Export Transportation Master Plan.
B.   Project Components
(i) Road Rehabilitation
3.03      The project would provide for rehabilitation along three road
sections totaling about 21 miles with the objective of extending their useful
life and improving levels of serviceability which, because of age and traffic
wear, have deteriorated to the point where normal maintenance is no longer
effective. The project would also provide urgently needed drainage improve-
ments along some 65 miles of the Southern Highway. These road projects were
included in the MOW Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program based on a
review of road conditions, traffic levels and associated economic returns
which confirmed their priority (para 4.02). The sequencing of civil works
for each of the four sections reflects their economic priority, regional
balance and constraints imposed by the lengths of seasonal rainfalls. A
general description of the roads follows.
3.04      San Ignacio-Belmopan Entrance.  This subproject is made up of a
section of the Western Highway from San Ignacio to Roaring Creek and a branch
from Roaring Creek to Belmopan, Belize's capital. Parts of this 26-mile
paved road section were rehabilitated with BDD financing in 1981-1982; about
8 miles remain to be rehabilitated. The rehabilitation works would follow
existing alignment and widths and would include repairs and strengthening of
existing base, spot drainage improvements, reshaping and an asphalt surface
treatment. The average estimated cost is US$126,000 per mile.



- 14 -
3.05      Haulover Bridge-Airport Junction and Santa Elena-Corozal.  These
two links on the Northern Highway are among the most heavily trafficked roads
in Belize. The rehabilitation, which would follow existing alignments and
widths, would include repair and strengthening of existing base, spot
drainage improvements, reshaping and an asphalt surface treatment with an
average estimated cost ranging from US$83,000 to US$177,000 per mile.
3.06      Southern Highway.  The Southern Highway provides an essential link
to the southern area of Belize where the banana industry is located. It also
provides access to areas in the Toledo District where plans are under way for
the development of the region's agricultural potential. This gravel road is
frequently flooded, and its inadequate drainage makes maintenance difficult
and costly. Rehabilitation would consist of raising the road grade at
selected locations, and, along about 65 miles of the road, construction of
pipe culverts and drainage ditches. The average estimated cost of these
works would be about US$20,000 per mile.
3.07      Detailed design for these roads was substantially completed by
Beca-Worley International (New Zealand) with financing provided by a Project
Preparation Facility (PPF) to be refinanced under the project. About 12
man-months of consultant services are being provided under this contract.
Construction would be supervised by foreign consultants and MOW personnel,
who have the capacity to handle most of the field work but who would need
assistance and guidance on specialized technical matters and construction
management. The consultants would assume a lead role and would strengthen
MOW as appropriate, especially in the use of emulsified asphalt in
construction of surface treatments, enhanced quality control, improved
practices for contract administration, and overall management of the
rehabilitation program. The consultants would, inter alia, check payment
certificates.  Terms of reference for the construction supervision were
reviewed and agreed at negotiations. They provide for a total expatriate
input of 34 man-months. It would be a condition for disbursement on the
civil works that the supervision consultants have been retained.
(ii) Road Maintenance and Training Program
3.08      An important element of the project would be the support of MOW's
road maintenance program, which provides for the strengthening of MOW's road
and equipment maintenance capability through the introduction of maintenance
planning, improvement of operations and procedures, strengthening of the
maintenance organization, improving equipment availability and utilization,
initiation of a training program and provision of adequate financing.
3.09      Overhaul and Procurement of Road Maintenance Equipment and Workshop
Improvements. Increasing the availability and utilization of the road
maintenance equipment fleet would be basic to the improvement of road mainte-
nance operations. To this end, the project would provide for the overhaul of
about 25 units of road maintenance equipment. Table 3.1 presents details of
the equipment to be overhauled, which were confirmed at negotiations. In
addition to the acquisition of spare parts and replacement components neces-
sary for this program, the project would provide an initial stocking of fast
moving spare parts for preventive maintenance of equipment.



- 15 -
3.10      A relatively small, but important element of the project would be
the provision of workshop equipment and tools, and minor improvements to the
Central Workshops to facilitate proper preventive maintenance of equipment
and to support the overhaul program. Workshop improvements would consist of
clearance of shops and yards of scrap, and completion of a security store for
spare parts.  Table 3.2 gives a list of workshop equipment and tools to be
procured. This list and the improvements to be made to the workshops were
reviewed and agreed at negotiations.
3.11      The project would also provide for the procurement of about 30
units of light road maintenance equipment. Five of these units would be
permanently allocated to the TPU (para 3.17). A tentative list of equipment
to be procured is given in Table 3.3.  It was agreed at negotiations that
MOW, with the assistance of technical assistance consultants, would review
equipment needs based on maintenance procedures to be introduced and would
submit to the Bank, by January 31, 1984, a finalized list of road maintenance
equipment to be procured under the project.
3.12      Technical Assistance and Training.  The project would provide
technical assistance for a total of 48 man-months of consultant service to:
(a) strengthen MOW's road and equipment maintenance planning and
programing capability;
(b) advise and assist in improving road and equipment maintenance
organizations and operations;
(c) assist in preparing bidding documents for the procurement of
equipment;
(d) assist in implementing the equipment overhaul program and improving
maintenance equipment availability and utilization;
(e) design and implement improved accounting and control systems for
routine and periodic maintenance activities; and
(f) set up and implement the training program.
3.13      Consulting services of a maintenance engineer (12 months), a
mechanical engineer (18 months), and a training advisor (18 months) would be
provided by an international firm. The services of the mechanical engineer
and the maintenance engineer would be initiated prior to loan effectiveness
to assist in timely equipment overhaul and procurement of equipment needed
for the TPU. The technical assistance would also provide for assistance to
MOW in reviewing tenders for the rehabilitation works. The startup phase of
this technical assistance would be financed by an advance of the loan under
the PPF.  Terms of reference for the technical assistance were confirmed at
negotiations (Annex 1).
3.14      The training program would aim at improving highway maintenance
through training about 400 MOW personnel engaged in road and equipment
maintenance, including road supervisors and foremen, equipment operators,
drivers, mechanical maintenance personnel, engineers, clerks and the MOW
materials laboratory technicians. Table 3.4 lists road maintenance personnel
to be trained. A permanent training section would be established within MOW
under the authority of the Assistant Secretary to plan, implement and
supervise all training activities. Interested private contractors would



- 16 -
also be eligible to participate in the training program. All training
activities would be coordinated by the training advisor who would be assisted
by two MOW counterparts (equipment and civil works technicians).
3.15      A mobile TPU would be created to conduct maintenance operations on
selected paved and graveled road segments in various districts. It is esti-
mated that a well organized and supervised TPU could maintain up to 100 km of
road per year.  Training of mechanics by means of in-service training would
be implemented by the MOW workshop superintendent under the guidance of the
mechanical engineer advisor, who would, in addition, provide assistance in
improving equipment inspections and supervision of work standards. Training
would also include courses given by equipment suppliers. Seminars on various
topics related to maintenance management, accounting and administration would
be conducted periodically by technical assistance experts for middle- and
high-level staff.  The training program would also include short courses
abroad for high-level maintenance personnel, the six district supervisors and
some staff members working in the training section at MOW headquarters.
3.16      Training would also be provided during the design phase of the
project (para 3.07) by a materials engineer expert in materials technology
for roads. The principal tasks of this expert would be to locate, with
assistance from the district supervisors, new gravel pits and suitable rock
quarries; to review and improve specifications for road bitumens and their
applications; to make recommendations for improving quality control of
construction; and to upgrade the quality of concrete culvert pipes manufac-
tured by MOW. These tasks would require full support of district personnel
and close collaboration of MOW's soils and materials laboratory in Belmopan,
whose personnel would work under the direct supervision of the materials
engineer.
3.17      Table 3.5 gives details of the materials and equipment requirements
of the training program. The TPU would be assigned equipment permanently
from MOW's existing fleet, together with five units of light maintenance
equipment to be procured under the project. In order to ensure that the TPU
is successfully established, a condition for disbursement for the second
phase of civil works (Corozal-Santa Elena and the Southern Highway) would be
that the TPU be fully functioning with the necessary equipment assigned to
it. The project would also finance materials for the first two years of the
project; thereafter they would be financed out of MOW's recurrent budget. At
negotiations, the Government confirmed its agreement to (a) prepare, by
January 31, 1984, an Action Plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for carrying out
all components of the Training Program and (b) to establish and equip a
Training Production Unit by January 31, 1984. The Action Plan would specify
number of staff to be trained and the method of selection.
3.18      The project would also provide for the purchase of a micro-
computer. The consultants would assist MOW in identifying micro-computer
hardware and software compatible with MOW needs. This could include programs
for design of highways, simple bridges and drainage structures; calculation
and analysis of soils tests; and road maintenance accounting and management
systems.  The consultants would review types of micro-computer equipment
available and make recommendations for equipment to be procured, taking into
consideration software and servicing availability.



- 17 -
(iii) Transport Planning
3.19      The need for a study to determine the most efficient means of
transporting Belize's exports was discussed previously (para 1.04). It is
expected that the study would require the services of a transport economist,
port engineer, shipping expert and agricultural economist, totaling ten man-
months for a period of three months. Terms of reference for the study, to be
carried out by foreign consultants, were reviewed and agreed at negotiations.
C.   Cost Estimates, Financing and Disbursements
3.20      The total project cost is estimated at US$7.12 million, including
contingencies. Base costs were estimated at March 1983 prices. The local
tax content of this cost is estimated at about 3%, consisting mainly of taxes
on fuel and equipment for civil works contracts.
3.21      The proposed loan of US$5.3 million would finance 100% of the
foreign exchange cost of the project (74% of total cost). The Government
would finance the local component (US$1.82 million, including local taxes of
US$220,000).
3.22      Cost estimates for the road rehabilitation and drainage improve-
ment works were based on quantities derived from road inventories and recon-
naissance type engineering, which were confirmed by detailed engineering
which has been substantially completed. Physical contingencies of 15% were
applied to base cost of civil works and design and supervision consultants.
Cost estimates for consulting services are based on recent contracts for
man-month rates for similar services by foreign firms. The average man-month
cost of consultants for detailed design of civil works, including salary,
fees, international travel and subsistence, is estimated at US$9,000. In
addition to personnel costs, the contract would include the cost of vehicles,
laboratory equipment, portable scales and some minor items. The average
man-month cost of technical assistance to strengthen MOW's maintenance
organization and to supervise rehabilitation works is also estimated at
US$9,000, including salary, fees, international travel and subsistence. The
total estimated cost also includes provision for purchase of a micro-computer
and miscellaneous office expenses. The average man-month cost of consulting
services for the export transportation master plan is estimated at US$10,000
including salary, fees, international travel and subsistence costs. The cost
of maintenance equipment and spare parts, and of workshop equipment and
tools, is based on MOW and Bank experience with similar purchases in the
region. The estimates for workshop improvements are based on MOW's
preliminary plans.
3.23      The foreign exchange component has been estimated at 74%, reflect-
ing the dependence on imported supplies, especially petroleum products and
equipment, and on foreign contractors and consultants. The foreign exchange
components of the rehabilitation and drainage improvement works have been
estimated from unit price analyses at 80% and 62% of total costs respec-
tively. The foreign exchange component of consultant services for detailed
engineering, and technical assistance to provide training for MOW personnel



- 18 -
BELIZE
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates
Foreign              Bank
Exchange         Participation
Local  Foreign  Total        Local  Foreign  Total          %                 US$ million
(Bz$ millions)               (US$ millions)
A. Civil Works
Road Rehabilitation
(i)  San Ignacio-Belmopan Entrance                    0.41     1.62    2.03        0.20    0.81       1.01       80           73        0.74
(ii)  Haulover Bridge-Airport Junction                 0.21    0.85      1.06       0.11     0.42    0.53         80           73        0.39
(iii)  Santa Elena-Corozal                              0.33     1.32     1.65        0.17    0.66    0.83         80           73        0.61
(iv)  Drainage Improvements: Southern Highway    0.92           1.50    2.42        0.46    0.75    1.21          62          73         0.88
Sub-Total (A)                              1.87    5.29      7.16       0.94     2.64    3.58         74          73        2.62
B. Equipment and Workshops
(i)  Spare Parts for Overhaul                         0.00    0.30    0.30         0.00    0.15    0.15         100         100        0.15
(ii)  Initial Stock of Spare Parts                     0.00    0.10    0.10         0.00    0.05    0.05         100         100         0.05
(iii)  Maintenance & Workshop Equip. and Tools          0.00    0.32    0.32          0.00    0.16    0.16        100         100         0.16
(iv)  Workshop Improvements                            0.04    0.00    0.04         0.02    0.00    0.02          15          72         0.01
Sub-Total (B)                              0.04    0.72    0.76         0.02    0.36    0.38          95          97        0.37
C. Technical Assistance and Training
(i)  Design for (A) Above                             0.06    0.26    0.32         0.03    0.13    0.16          80          80        0.13
(ii)  Supervision for (A) Above                        0.36    0.66      1.02       0.18    0.33    0.51          65           65        0.33
(iii)  Strengthening MOW                                0.20    0.80      1.00        0.10    0.40    0.50         80           80        0.40
(iv)  Materials for TPU and Fellowships                0.02    0.18    0.20         0.01    0.09       0.10       90         100         0.10
(v)  Export Transportation Master Plan                0.04    0.16    0.20         0.02    0.08    0.10          80          80        0.08
Sub-Total (C)                              0.68    2.06    2.74         0.34     1.03     1.37        75          76        1.04
Base Costs (March 1983 prices)                        2.59    8.07   10.66          1.30    4.03      5.33       76           76        4.03
D. Contingencies
(i)  Physical (15% of A, C (i) and C (ii))            0.34    0.93      1.27       0.17    0.47       0.64        -           -         0.47
(ii)  Price 1/                                         0.70    1.57    2.27         0.35    0.79    1.14                       -        0.79
TOTAL PROJECT COST 2/                                 3.63   10.57   14.20          1.82    5.29    7.11         74           74        5.29
Front End Fee on Bank Loan 3/                         -        0.02    0.02         -        0.01     0.01        -            -        0.01
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED                              3.63   10.59   14.22          1.82    5.30    7.12         74           74        5.30
1/ Price Contingencies:
Local      Foreign
1983             10%           8%
1984              9%         7.5%
1985              8%           7%
1986              8%           6%
2/ Identifiable local taxes and duties are about Bz$ 0.46 million (US$0.23 million equivalent) and the total project cost,
net of taxes, is Bz$ 13.76 million (US$6.89 million equivalent).
3/ The precise amount of the Front End Fee is US$13,217.
March 1983



- 19 -
in road and equipment maintenance has been estimated at 80%, and for super-
vision of construction at 65%, reflecting the composition of the consultant
staff that would be assigned to the task. The improvement of workshop
facilities (mainly clearing of scrap and provision of security for the
stores) has a low foreign exchange content, estimated at 15%. The Bank would
disburse 100% of expenditures for materials (bitumen, cement, aggregate)
needed for the TPU training program, which also have a local content. The
disbursement percentage on civil works has been adjusted downward so that the
overall loan would finance foreign expenditures only.
3.24      Disbursement would be made against the following categories of
expenditures:
(a)  73% of the total cost for civil works for road rehabilitation,
drainage improvements and workshop-improvements;
(b)  100% of foreign expenditures for direct imports, or 95% of total
expenditures for locally procured imported equipment, spare parts,
workshop equipment and tools;
(c)  100% of the foreign expenditures for consultant services;
(d)  100% of the total cost of materials for the TPU;
(e)  100% of the total expenditures for training fellowship abroad; and
(f)  Refinancing of advance under the PPF.
3.25      In order to reduce the interval during which the Government would
finance the Bank's share of the project costs with its own resources, a
Special Account would be opened in the Central Bank with an initial deposit
of US$0.4 million to be provided from the loan account. The Government would
make payments out of the Special Account and would request replenishment of
the Special Account by the Bank, on the basis of fully documented withdrawal
applications. For disbursements in excess of US$0.4 million, regular
procedures would apply. Disbursements of loan funds would be made against
normal documentation for all items, except the workshop improvements. These
latter works would be carried out by force account, and disbursements would
be against statements of expenditures. These statements of expenditures
would be subject to specific audit. The estimated schedule of disbursements
is shown in Table 3.6. The project is expected to be completed by January
1986, and the loan would be fully disbursed by December 1986. The estimated
disbursement schedule, as compared with the average profile for highway
projects in the Latin America and the Caribbean Region, is considered
reasonable given the relatively simple nature of the civil works and
equipment procurement contemplated. The estimated disbursement schedule is
in line with the experience in other Caribbean countries, where projects are
generally less ambitious than in the Region as a whole.
3.26      Retroactive financing of up to US$165,000 would be provided for
procurement of spare parts for the overhaul program and for workshop improve-
ments.
D.   Execution, Procurement and Monitoring
3.27      MOW would be responsible for project execution.  Because the
project is large in relation to MOW's capacity, timely deployment of tech-
nical assistance and assignment of counterpart staff would be critical. To
ensure proper management and control of the project, the Government
confirmed, at negotiations, that a road maintenance officer, an equipment



- 20 -
superintendent and a training officer would be assigned as counterparts to
the technical assistance consultants. Contracting of the firm to carry out
the technical assistance assignment and assignment of counterparts would be a
condition for effectiveness of the loan.
3.28      The project would be implemented over about three years (mid-1983
to early-1986). The implementation schedule for all project elements was
agreed during negotiations (Chart 24615). Project expenditures related to
detailed design and initiation of technical assistance for road maintenance
and training would take place during the first half of 1983, prior to loan
effectiveness, and would be financed under the PPF. Technical assistance by
the mechanical engineer and the road maintenance engineer would start by June
1983. The TPU would commence its program in January 1984 and continue under
technical assistance services through June 1985; thereafter, it would be
managed by Belizian instructors trained under the project.
3.29      Plans, specifications and bidding documents for rehabilitation
works, spare parts, maintenance equipment, workshop equipment and tools, and
workshop improvements would be subject to prior review and approval by the
Bank. All procurement procedures and schedules were reviewed and agreed
during negotiations. The procedures for selection of consultants would be
in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants (August
1981).
3.30      Civil works for the three roads to be rehabilitated (amounting
to US$2.4 million) would be carried out after international competitive
bidding (ICB), under contracts awarded in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, July
1980. Works for drainage improvements on the Southern Highway (US$1.2 mil-
lion) would be grouped into small lots (about US$200,000 each) and tendered
to prequalified firms under local competitive bidding procedures, which would
be improved with the assistance of the consultants under the project in order
to be acceptable to the Bank, on the basis of unit price contracts. If
interested, foreign firms could tender on these works. However, because of
the nature of the improvements proposed and the rather small size of
contracts to be awarded in an area remote from the main population centers,
these works would not attract international firms. Local contractors have
adequate experience for this work. Workshop improvements (about US$20,000)
would be carried out by MOW by force account. Spare parts for equipment
overhaul (about US$150,000), an initial stock of spare parts for preventive
maintenance of existing equipment (US$38,000), and materials for the TPU
(US$70,000) would be procured on the basis of competing quotations solicited
locally or, in the case of spare parts for existing equipment, through
negotiations with suppliers. Equipment, including spare parts (US$132,000),
would be procured under ICB. Isolated units of maintenance and workshop
equipment and tools with a value aggregating no more than US$100,000 might be
procured on the basis of competing quotations solicited locally.
3.31      The progress of the project would be monitored against the agreed
implementation schedule and financing requirements established at appraisal.
In addition, the following indicators would be monitored to assess advances
made toward project objectives:
(a) programing and implementation of MOW's annual maintenance programs
(para 2.30);



- 21 -
(b) budgeting of adequate funds for maintenance as per agreed schedule
(para 2.29);
(c) number of miles resealed and regraveled (para 2.30);
(d) number of trainees participating in Personnel Training Program
(para 3.17); and
(e) availability and utilization of maintenance equipment (para 2.31).
The purpose and use of project indicators and the scope of related reporting
requirements were discussed and agreed at the time of negotiations.
E.   Project Risks
3.32      The road rehabilitation and drainage improvement component of the
project does not involve any special risks since these works are expected to
be relatively straightforward. Although the local construction industry does
not have capacity to handle the road rehabilitation works, adequate capacity
and interest exist within the construction industries of neighboring
countriec. The local construction industry has adequate capacity to carry
out the drainage improvements on the Southern Highway. The main risk
associated with the road maintenance component of the project is that
improvements in road and equipment maintenance operations would take longer
than expected because the project is large in relation to MOW's capacity, or
because recurrent maintenance funds are not made available in a timely
fashion. The strong component of technical assistance included under the
project should minimize the first risk. To minimize the risk of budgetary
shortfalls, budgetary requirements were analyzed with financial authorities
at appraisal and were confirmed at negotiations. In addition, funding would
be closely monitored during the annual review, between the Bank and the
Government, of MOW's Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program.
IV.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION
4.01      An economic analysis of the project was made separately for the two
main project components: (a) road rehabilitation and drainage improvements;
and (b) road maintenance. However, because there is an interrelation between
the two components, some overlap in project benefits is inevitable. For
example, in analyzing the road rehabilitation project, it was assumed that
improved maintenance practices would be followed. Similarly, in analyzing
the condition of the network as part of the evaluation of the road mainte-
nance component, road rehabilitation and drainage improvements under the
project were assumed to be implemented "with" or "without" the road mainte-
nance program.
A.   Road Rehabilitation and Drainage Improvements
4.02      This component represents 80% of project costs.  The road sections
to be rehabilitated under the project and the drainage improvements to the
Southern Highway were selected on the basis of an analysis made of road
conditions, traffic levels, and associated economic rates of return for a



- 22 -
number of subprojects considered of priority by MOW. The selected
subprojects form part of MOW's Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program,
which is considered to be well balanced in terms of size, scope and regional
distribution of investments. However, the benefits to the project works do
not depend upon completion of other elements of the Rehabilitation Program.
4.03      For the rehabilitation and drainage improvement subprojects, quan-
tified project benefits consist of vehicle operating cost savings resulting
from improved road conditions and avoidance of future deterioration with the
investment. Other benefits, including passenger time savings and reduced
damage to goods in transit, were not considered, and, to that extent, the
economic rates of return calculated are conservative. Vehicle operating
costs were developed based on the Highway Design Model (HDM), modified to
adjust for overpredictions of spare part costs, for cars, light utility
vehicles, buses and trucks on paved and gravel roads. These were adjusted
for different surface conditions with and without the proposed intervention
and applied to forecast traffic (Table 4.1).  In the without project case, it
was assumed that roads would deteriorate to the point of breaking up and
would eventually revert to gravel surface. The timing of such deterioration
was based on observation of pavement behavior in Belize and on the results of
tests conducted during the engineering studies. The calculated savings are
considered to be conservative. Rehabilitation of the Santa Elena-Corozal and
Haulover Bridge-Airport Junction roads would result in an average decrease in
vehicle operating costs of 13% in the first years of the project. This would
increase to 21% by year 5 of the project. On the San Ignacio-Belmopan
entrance road, average savings of 11% are expected in the first year, rising
to 22% by year 3. Under the project, the most heavily trafficked sections of
this road will receive rehabilitation. On the Southern Highway, drainage
improvements, by reducing the road's moisture content and by enabling road
maintenance efforts to be more effective, would result in improved road
serviceability. Average vehicle operating cost savings of 16% would result
with the drainage works.
4.04      Economic costs considered in the analysis are investment costs, net
of taxes, including engineering and supervision costs. They also include
physical contingencies of 15%.
4.05      The economic rates of return for the four road subprojects are
estimated as follows:
Economic        Switching Value
Rate of Return    Costs  Benefits
(%)            (%)    (%)
San Ignacio-Belmopan Entrance                       13             18    -16
Santa Elena-Corozal                                 24            107    -52
Haulover Bridge-Airport Junction                    12             14    -12
Southern Highway Drainage Improvements              18             60    -38
4.06      Switching values were calculated to determine the extent to which
costs would have to increase, or benefits to decrease, in order to reduce the
estimated economic rate of return to 10%. This sensitivity analysis
indicates that the rehabilitation of the San Ignacio-Belmopan road and the
Haulover Bridge-Airport Junction road are critically sensitive to changes in
costs or benefits. However, given the fact that benefits have been
understated and because the risk of cost increases for the type of work
planned is low, it is considered that the risk of an unsatisfactory rate of
return on these sections is low.



-23 -
B.   Road Maintenance Program
4.07      The benefits from the road-maintenance-related components of the
project cannot be separated from those of MOW's Road Maintenance Program as a
whole. As such, the economic evaluation considers all program costs and
benefits together and assesses the economic feasibility of the program by
comparing total maintenance costs and road user costs with and without the
program. The analysis covers a ten-year period.
4.08      Based on the MOW road condition survey (para 2.04), Belize's roads
were classified according to surface type condition and traffic level
(Table 2.1). Three alternative maintenance policies (good, fair and minimum)
were developed to correspond to three levels of road surface condition and
associated vehicle operating costs. Road conditions would improve or deteri-
orate according to the level of maintenance received. Without the program
and related increases in MOW's budget, MOW would pursue a "minimum" mainte-
nance policy. It was estimated that, except on the roads programed for
rehabilitation under the Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program, all
roads would deteriorate to the "minimum" standard by 1989. With the project,
roads would gradually reach the level corresponding to the selected
maintenance policy. Tables 4.2 and 4.3 compare the distribution of the net-
work by type of road and surface condition and by level of traffic with and
without the maintenance program in 1989.
4.09      Vehicle operating costs were adjusted to reflect the state of each
type of road considering varying levels of maintenance (Table 4.4). The
estimated changes in vehicle operating costs, considering varying condition
levels, compare favorably with those estimated for other countries in the
region.  Traffic levels were estimated based on MOW traffic counts and on
observation by MOW district staff.
4.10      Eleven maintenance activities were analyzed by frequency and cost
for different road types for varying maintenance policies. The costs were
based on resources required for each activity (labor, equipment, materials)
based, in turn, on information prepared by MOW with the assistance of the
mission.
4.11      The economic benefits from the maintenance program are the savings
in vehicle operating costs due to the gradual improvement in road standards.
Passenger time savings were not quantified nor were savings to agricultural
producers resulting from a reduction in the number of road closures because
of improved maintenance. Based on quantified benefits, the road maintenance
program would have an estimated economic rate of return of 38%. Sensitivity
tests indicate that this return is moderately sensitive to changes in costs
or benefits. Benefits would have to decrease by 43% or costs increase by 77%
for this component to yield an economic rate of return of 10%.
C.   Distribution of Project Benefits
4.12      The economic return of the project as a whole is difficult to
quantify because of the composition of the project and because of some
overlap in project benefits. For the road rehabilitation and drainage
improvement subprojects, which are fully defined and which constitute 80% of
project costs, the overall estimated economic rate of return is 17%.
4.13      The benefits from the road rehabilitation and drainage improvement
subprojects would accrue initially to transporters. Since the road freight
industry is competitive in Belize, the savings should pass on to the mainly
rural population in the form of lower freight charges and/or avoided future
increases.  In the case of passenger traffic, the savings should help to
maintain current low priced bus services by relieving pressure for future



- 24 -
price increases.  Some benefits would accrue to international trucking
movements which use the Belize City Port.  This type of traffic, however,
represents a small percentage of total traffic. For the Santa Elena-Corozal
road which links Corozal with Mexico, the percentage of Mexican vehicles
using the road is not known. Even if half of the traffic were non-Belizian
and benefits to this traffic were excluded, the rate of return would still be
greater than 10%. The benefits from the road maintenance program would be
widespread, and, in addition to decreasing costs on the main road network,
improved maintenance would enhance the quality of transport services to rural
areas by increasing service reliability.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following:
(a)  the Government not to undertake, or commit itself to undertake, any
port investment which requires expenditures of over US$500,000 in
any fiscal year, prior to the preparation of an export transporta-
tion master plan (para 1.04);
(b)  MOW to prepare a detailed road and bridge condition survey and
classify the road network by June 30, 1984 (para 2.04);
(c)  the Government to:  (i) provide to the Bank, by June 30, 1984, for
review and comment, an analysis of current vehicle axle-loads and
recommendations for limits, if any; and (ii) on the basis of the
analysis, carry out recommendations satisfactory to the Bank and
the Government according to an agreed timetable (para 2.07);
(d)  MOW to introduce, by January 31, 1985, budgeting and accounting
procedures which would differentiate routine from periodic
maintenance activities and maintenance activities from those of the
Ministry as a whole (para 2.17);
(e)  the Government to engage independent auditors to audit the project
and MOW road and equipment maintenance accounts, starting with the
FY1983/84 accounts (para 2.26);
(f)  the required road maintenance funds to be provided (paras 2.29
and 3.32);
(g)  the Government to prepare annual road and bridge maintenance work
programs for each district and to exchange views with the Bank, not
later than January 31 of each year, on their scope and content
(para 2.30);
(h)  the Government to prepare, by January 31, 1984, a detailed
equipment overhaul, scrapping and replacement program for 1984/85
through 1986/87 and to implement the program according to a
timetable satisfactory to the Bank (para 2.31);
(i)  the Government to update its Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation
Program annually and exchange views with the Bank not later than
January 31 of each year, starting in 1984 and annually thereafter,
regarding its composition and progress (para 2.32);
(j) terms of reference for the construction supervision (para 3.07);



- 25 -
(k) details of the road maintenance equipment to be overhauled
(para 3.09);
(1) list of tools to be procured and improvements to be made to the
workshops (para 3.10);
(m)  MOW to submit to the Bank, by January 31, 1984, a finalized list
of road maintenance equipment to be procured under the project
(para 3.11);
(n) terms of reference for the technical assistance (para 3.13);
(o) the Government to prepare, by January 31, 1984, an Action Plan,
satisfactory to the Bank, for carrying out all components of the
training program and to establish and equip a Training Production
Unit by January 31, 1984 (para 3.17);
(p) terms of reference for a study to determine the most efficient
means of transporting Belize's exports (para 3.19);
(q) implementation schedule for all project elements (para 3.28);
(r) all procurement procedures and schedules (para 3.29); and
(s) purpose and use of project indicators and scope of related
reporting requirements (para 3.31).
5.02      The following would be conditions for effectiveness of the loan:
(a) establishment of the post of Maintenance Engineer within MOW and
appointment of a suitably qualified candidate (para 2.08); and
(b) contracting of the firm to carry out the technical assistance and
assignment, as counterparts, of a road maintenance officer, an
equipment superintendent and a training officer (para 3.27).
5.03      It would be a condition for disbursement on the civil works that
the consultants for the supervision of civil works have been retained
(para 3.07).
5.04      It would be a condition for disbursement of the second phase of
civil works (Santa Elena-Corozal and Southern Highway) that the Training
Production Unit be fully functioning with the necessary equipment assigned
to it (para 3.17).
5.05      Subject to the above, the project provides a suitable basis for a
Bank loan of US$5.3 million equivalent including the capitalized front-end
fee.  The terms would be 17 years with a four-year period of grace.
Anril 4, 1983



- 26 -
BELIZE                                 TABLE 2.1
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Road Conditions and Traffic Levels, 1982
Type of Road Surface       Traffic Range (ADT)                   Condition (miles)
Good     Fair      Poor      Total
Paved (surface treatment)      < 50                        3        11         8         22
50-100                    3       24        23         50
101-250                   16       39        11         66
251 +                     68       52        14        134
Sub-Total                 90      126        56        272
Gravel                         < 50                        7       202       298        507
50-100                    6       27        58         91
101-250                   -        31        11         42
251 +                    _          19        -         19
Sub-Total                 13      279       367        659
Marl                           < 50                        3        76        52        131
50-100                    -        5        33         38
101-250                            55         7         62
251 +                    _          8         -          8
Sub-Total                  3      144        92        239
TOTAL                    106      549       515      1,170
(%)                    (9)      (47)      (44)      (100)
Source: Ministry of Works
January 1983



- 27 -
BELIZE                              TABLE 2.2
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Road Vehicle Fuel Consumption, 1977-1981
(000 gallons)
Gasoline        Diesel        Total
1977                          7,478           3,248      10,726
1978                          8,354           3,666      12,020
1979                          8,238           3,291      11,529
1980                          7,908           3,648      11,556
1981                          7,421           3,048      10,469
Source: Ministry of Energy and Communications
January 1983



- 28 -
BELIZE                                 TABLE 2.3
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
MOW Road Expenditures, 1977 - 1981/82
(000 Belize i)
ACTUAL
1977           1978          1979 1/       1980/81          1981/82
ADMINISTRATION                   N/A            764         1,081             872             1,238
RECURRENT EXPENDITURE
Roads                        2,527          3,518         5,836           5,743            5,390
Bridges & Ferries              132            215           351             307              327
Mechanical Services            189            267           350             379               559
Engineering Services            71             38           102             166               170
Stores Operations               37             40            59              60                71
Sub-Total                    2,955          4,078         6,698           6,655            6,517
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE
Road Construction                                                                                4/
and Improvement 2/        6,724           8,105         8,661          11,343             N/A -
Equipment                      904          1,048         1,307           2,525             N/A
Bridge                         213            660           934             929             N/A
Feeder Roads                 1,921          1,235         1,524             262             N/A
Hurricane Repair               -              132           703             923             N/A
Sub-Total                    9,762         11,180        13,129          15,882             N/A
TOTAL EXPENDITURE           12,717 -/      16,022        20,908          23,409             N/A
1/ January 1979 - March 1980.
2/ Annual allocations approximate due to lack of data in Central Government accounts on
annual expenditures on Northern Highway.
3/ Exclusive of Administration.
4/  CaDital Exnenditures for l9Rl,/2 not included as information on externally financed
projects not available for that year.
Source: Accountant General, Ministry of Works
January 1983



- 29 -
BELIZE                               TABLE 2.4
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Road User Charge Revenues, 1981
(million B$)
Type of Tax                      Estimated Receipt                    Tax Rate
Gasoline                                 5.5 -              Import duty B$ 0.43/US gallon;revenue
replacement 10% of c.i.f.;stamp duty
5% of c.i.f.
Diesel                                   1.4                Import duty B$ 0.27/US gallon;
revenue replacement 10% of c.i.f.
Automobile Import Duty                   0.5 2/             30% FOB 3/
Automobile Revenue Replacement           0.2 2/             15% c.i.f. value less than B$ 3,000 and
40% of c.i.f. value greater than
B$ 3,000
Bus, Truck and Van Import Duty           1.8                10% on buses  3/
24% FOB on trucks and vans 3/
Spare Parts                              1.2                13-26% FOB 3/
Vehicle Registration and
License Fee                            1.1
11.7
1/ Mission estimates based on fuel consumption data (Table 2.1).
2/ Based on 1980 actual receipts increased by 10% for inflation.
3/ Effective rate of taxation.
Source: Mission estimates based on information from Ministry of Finance, Licensing
Authority, Ministry of Energy and Communication
January 1983



BELIZE
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
MOW Equipment Fleet
Planned Additions                           Equipment Needs
Condition                  Northern                                           Training
To Be                       Highway   Resealing   Grand            Road       Production
Type of Equipment            Working  Repaired  Scrap  Total         Project      Unit       Total      Maintenance       Unit       Total
Grader                            8         9        1      18           7            -        25            14               1         15
Front End Wheel Loader           12         3       3       18           8           -         26             8               1          9
Front End Truck Loader            1         1       -        2           -            -          2            -              -           -
Bulldozer                         5         8       1       14           6           -         20             4              -           4
Backhoe                           2         3       -        5           -           -          5             6               1          7
Excavators                        -         2       -        2           -           -          *2            -              -           -
Stake Truck                       3         3       2        8           -           -          8             2              -           2
Sewage Disposal                   1         2       -        3           -           -           3            -              -           -
Bitumen Distributor               3         1       -        4           2            1          7            2              -           2
Water Tankers                     4         4       3       11           -           -          11            -              -           -
Tippers                          25        13       8       46          14            2        62            32              -         32
Light Transport                  30        10       5       45          18            1         64           21               2         23
Rollers                           9         7        3      19           5            1         25           10               1         11
Light Tractors                   10         5       2       17           2           -          19            7               1          8
Dredgeline Crane                  1         2        1       4            1           -          5            -               1          1
Scraper                           1         1       -        2           1           -          3             -              -          -
Low Boy                           1         -        -       1           -            -          1            -               -          -
600 Parker Spot Mix               1         -       -        1           -           -           1            -              -           -
Concrete Mixer                    -         -       -        -           2           -           2            -               1          1
Concrete Dumper                   -         -       -        -           2           -          2             -              -           -
Mechanical Boom                   -         -        -       -            2           -          2            -               -          -
Generator                         -         -       -        -           5           -           5                           -           -
Quarry Plant                      -         -       -        -            1           -          1            -               -          -
Miscellaneous                     -         -       -        -           4           -           4            -              -           -
TOTAL                           117        74      29      220          80            5       305           106               9       115
Source: MOW
January 1983



- 31 -
TABLE 2.6
BELIZE
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program, 1983/84-1986/87
(million 1983 Bz$)
Financing
Govern-
1983/84   1984/85   1985/86   1986/87    Total   Gment         IBRD  BO
I.   ROAD MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
A. Road Maintenance
(i)  Road Maintenance Budget (Recurrent)                         4.50       4.70       5.00       5.40    19.50    19.50    -        -
(ii)  Resealing of Western Highway                                 1.10      1.10       0.90       -         3.10      -       -      3.10
(iii)  Training Program - Materials and Fellowships                 0.10      0.20       0.10       0.10      0.25       .05    0.20  -
B. Equipment Maintenance
(i)  Mechanical Services Budget (Recurrent)                      0.50       0.65       0.80       0.80      2.75     2.75    -      -
(ii)  Major Overhaul Heavy Duty Equipment (Recurrent)              0.55      0.55       0.55       0.55      2.20      2.20    -      -
(iii) Major Overhaul 25 Units Maintenance Equipment
and Spare Parts                                           0.20       0.20       -         -         0.40      -        0.40  -
(iv)  Acquisition of Light Maintenance Equipment and Tools    0.30           -          -          -         0.30     -        0.30  -
(v)  Workshop Improvements                                       0.04       -          -          -         0.04     -        0.04  -
(vi)  Rehabilitation of Northern Highway Equipment                0.75       -          -          -         0.75     -        -      0.75
C. Technical Assistance
Strengthening of MOW's Maintenance Capability
and Training                                              0.50       0.50       -         -         1.0       0.20    0.80  -
Sub-Total                                                   8.04       7.90       7.35       6.85    30.29    24.70    1.74  3.85
II. ROAD REHABILITATION PROGRAM
A.  Western Highway: Belize City-Hattieville  2/                     3.30       3.30       -         -         6.60      -        -     6.60
B.  San Ignacio-Guatemala Border  2/                                 1.70       4.00       3.30      -         9.00      -       -      9.00
C.  San Ignacio-Belmopan 1/                                          1.02       1.01      -          -         2.03      0.74    1.90  -
D.  Santa Elena-Corozal 17                                           -          0.83       0.82      -         1.65      0.37    0.95  -
E.  Haulover Bridge-Airport Junction 1/                              0.46       0.60      -          -         1.06      0.25    0.65  -
F.  Southern Highway (drainage improvements) I/                      -          1.21       1.21      -         2.42      0.80    2.06  -
G.  Southern Highway Bridges (Phase I)                               3.50       1.80       -         -         5.30      -       -      5.30
H.  Southern Highway Bridges (Phase II) 2/                           -          0.90       3.30      1.70      5.90      -        -     5.90
I.  Engineering and Supervision (II C-D above)                       0.60       0.40      0.30       -         1.30      0.38    0.92  -
Sub-Total                                                       10.58     14.05       8.93       1.70    35.26      2.30    6.16 26.80
1/   Excludes physical contingencies.
2/   Financing not confirmed; feasibility studies underway.
Source: MOW and mission estimates.
March 1983



- 32 -                                  TABLE 2.7
BELIZE
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Estimated MOW Road Maintenance Budget Requirements and Physical Targets
1983/84   1984/85   1985/86   1986/87
I.    Road Maintenance Budget            ---       (millions 1983 Bz$) ---
A. Recurrent Maintenance
Labor                           1.5        1.5        1.5        1.5
Materials and Fuel               1.6       1.6        1.6        1.6
Sub-total             3.1        3.1        3.1        3.1
B.  Periodic  1/                     1.1        1.3       1.6        2.3
TOTAL BUDGET          4.2        4.4        4.7        5.4
II.   Physical Targets                     ------------- (miles) -----------
A.  Regraveling                       90        100        120       120
B. Resealing
MOW Budget                        5          7         10         30
BDD Financing                    11         11         11          -
Total                   16        18         21         30
1/    Excludes BDD contributions and counterpart funds for resealing unit.
Source: MOW and mission estimates
March 1983



-~ 33 -TABLE 3.1
BELIZE
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Details of Equipment Overhaul Program
Number to be       Estimated Cost
Unit                                        Overhauled          of Spares
(000 US$)
Tippers                                           4                  15
Graders                                           5                  65
Rollers                                           6                  12
Front End Loaders                                 2                   4
D6 Dozers                                         2                  36
Miscellaneous                                     6                  18
25                 150
Source: MOW and mission estimates
January 1983



- 34 -                               TABLE 3.2
BELIZE
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Tentative List of Workshop Equipment and Tools
Number of        Unit Cost        Total Cost
Item                                       Units             US$              US$
Power Sander                                  2                200               400
Battery Charger                               2              1,000             2,000
Nozzle Reconditioner                          1                500               500
Trolley Jack (5 ton)                          6                200             1,200
Trolley Jack (20 ton)                         2                450              900
Tool Kit                                      1              1,O00             1,000
Body Set Jack (4 ton)                         1                800               800
Mobile Welder                                 1              8,000             8,000
Air Compressor                                4              1,200             4,800
Grinder                                       2                200               400
Skid Mounted Oil and Grease Unit              3              4,000            12,000
Jack Crane (2 ton)                            3              1,000             3,000
28                              35,000
Souce: Mission estimates
March 1983



- 35 -                        TABLE 3.3
BELIZE
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Tentative List and Cost of Maintenance Equipment
Number of    Unit       Total
Unit                                                       Units       Cost       Cost
(US$ '000) (US$ '000)
Vibrating Pedestrian Roller 1/                               5          3.8      19.0
Plate Vibrating Compactor 1/                                 5          2.0      10.0
Bush Hog                                                     1          5.0       5.0
Ashpalt Kettle 1/                                            4          8.0      32.0
Concrete Mixer 1/                                            2          8.0      16.0
Hand Emulsion Sprayer 1/                                     4          1.5       6.0
Trailers for Exiting Tractors 1/                             2          9.0      18.0
Miscellaneous (tools, pumps, pneumatic drills, etc.)         7          2.0      14.0
Sub-total                                   30                  120.0
Spare Parts for Maintenance Equipment (10% of value)                             12.0
Initial Stock of Spare Parts for
Preventive Maintenance of Existing Equipment                                   38.0
TOTAL                                                           170.0
1/ One of each to be assigned to Training Production Unit
Source: MOW and mission estimates
February 1983



TABLE 3.4
- 36 -
BELIZE
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Road Maintenance Personnel to be Trained
Supervisors (incl. 3 engineers)         10
Foremen                                  12
Sub-foremen                             45
Laborers                               190
Operators                                70
Drivers                                  65
Clerical (MOW & districts)                8
Sub-total                         392
Clerical (fMOW & districts)
in maintenance accounting                 8
Materials Laboratory Technicians          5
TOTAL                           405
Source: MOW and mission estimates
January 1983



TABLE 3.5
BELIZE
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Equipment and Materials Requirements for the Training Production Unit
I.   Equipment
Type of Unit                               Number Required
Motorgrader, 120 HP                                          1
Dump Trucks, 5 cu yd                                         1
Backhoe, 0.5 cu yd                                           1
Steel 3 Wheel Roller, 600 lb wt                              1
FE Loader, 1.5 cu yd                                         1
Tractor (70 HP) and Trailer 1/                               1
Pickup, 1.5 tons                                             2
Hand Emulsion Sprayer, 50 gal 1/                             1
Hand Tools: 1/
Round mouth shovels                                       6
Square mouth shovels                                     6
Picks                                                     6
Mattocks                                                  6
Hammers                                                   4
Hand saws                                                 4
Hand tampers                                              3
Concrete Mixer 1 cu yd / gasoline  1/                        1
Plate Vibrating Compactor 1/                                 1
Line Marking Equipment 1/                                    1
II.  Materials
Estimated
Amount           Cost
(US$)
Local Gravels                               2,400 cu m       24,000
Premix                                        226 cu m       10,200
Cement                                        100 bags          700
Bitumen, Emulsion                           1,500 gal         4,500
Bitumen, Binder                             1,500 gal         3,000
Concrete Aggregates                            72 gal           600
Marking Paint                                 450 gal        18,000
Formwork Timber                           As required         2,500
Reflector Post                            As required         5,000
Miscellaneous                                                 1,500
70,000
1/  To be procured  under project (Table 3.3).  Other units to be furnished from
existing MOW fleet.
Source: MOW and mission estimates
March 1983



- 38 -                              TABLE 3.6
BELIZE
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
(in millions of US dollars)
Project Profile
Financial
IBRD Fiscal Year                         Cumulative       Disbursement      Policy Analysis
and Quarter          Disbursement        Amount            X_             Department
FY83
June 1983                     0               0                0                     0
FY84
December 1983                .6              .6               11                    11
June 1984                    .3              .9               17                     4
FY85
December 1984                .9             1.8               34                     9
June 1985                    .9             2.7               51                    16,
FY86
December 1985                .9             3.6               68                    26
June 1986                   1.0             4.6               87                    37
FY87
December 1986                .7             5.3              100                    48
l/,Profile of past IBRD disbursements for highway projects in the
Latin America and Caribbean Region.
Technical Assistance begins ADril 1983
Civil Works October 1983 through January 1986
Certificate of acceptance for Civil Works on San Ignacio
Belmopan, and Hanlover Bridge - Airport Intersection due
August 1985; for Corozal to Sta. Elena and the Southern
Road final acceptance due in August 1986.
SourCe: Mission Estimates
March 1983



BELIZE
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Summary Economic Analysis of Road Rehabilitation Works
Estimated      Switching Values    Switching Values
Economic       10% Discount Rate   12% Discount Rate
ADT              Rate of
Road Section                            Length   1982    1987    1992    Return            Costs    Benefits   Costs    Benefits
(%)          (%)        (%)       (%)        (%)
San Ignacio-Belmopan                       8       946 a/1,045   1,153         13            18        -16          5         -5
Santa Elena-Corozal                        10    1,100   1,275   1,408         24           107        -52         85        -46
Haulover Bridge-Airport Junction            3    1,080   1,252   1,452         12            14        -12          -          -
Southern Highway                          65       100      130     166        18            60        -38         41        -29
a/ Weighted average along sections to be rehabilitated.
Source: MOW and mission estimates
March 1983



- 40 -                                TABLE 4.2
BELIZE
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Road Conditions in 1989 With the Maintenance Program
Traffic         Road Condition (miles)
Type of Road            (AADT)         Good     Fair      Minimum      Total Network
Paved                      50            -         -           10
75            -        -           36
230            16        75          -
700           153        -           -
Sub-total                   169        75          46           290
Gravel                     20            -         -          308
90            -       246          -
150           106       -           -
Sub-total                   106       246         308           660
Marl                       20            -         -           81
90            -         88         -
150            62       -
250             8        -
Sub-total                    70        88          81           239
Source: Mission estimates
January 1983



- 41 -
TABLE 4.3
BELIZE
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Road Conditions in 1989 without the Maintenance Program
Traffic         Road Condition (miles)
Type of Road            (AADT)         Good     Fair      Mimimum      Total Network
Paved                      50            -         -           10
75            -        -            36
230            -        -            91
700            -       50          103
-       50          240           290
Gravel                     20            -         -          308
90            -         -         246
150            -        65          41
65        595            660
Marl                       20            -         -           81
90            -        -            88
150            -        -           62
250            -        -             8
-        -          239           239
Source: Mission estimates
January 1983



- 42 -                                 TABLE 4.4
BELIZE
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Economic Vehicle Operating Costs on Varying Road Surfaces
with Different Road Maintenance Policies
(Bzi/km)
Road Conditions
Type of Surface      Type of Vehicle          Good   Index    Fair   Index    Minimum   Index
Paved             Automobile              26.6    100       28.2    106        29.2      110
Pickup                  40.1    100      42.1    105         43.3      108
Bus                     65.1    100      69.0    106         71.6      110
Light Truck             53.5   -100      58.9    110         62.4      117
Heavy Truck             97.5    100    110.7    114         119.5      123
Gravel            Automobile              31.8    100       34.7    109        37.4      118
Pickup                  45.1    100      49.1    109         53.2      118
Bus                     77.3    100      85.6    111         93.8      121
Light Truck             70.0    100      81.4    116         93.1      133
Heavy Truck            127.3    100    154.4    121         182.3      143
Source: Mission Estimates
January 1983



- 43 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1
BELIZE
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference for
Technical Assistance for Road Maintenance and Training
Objectives
1.        The purpose of the technical assistance program is to provide
consultant services over a period of about two and one-half years to guide
and assist the Ministry of Works (MOW) in the implementation of its road
maintenance program which is being supported by a World Bank Road Maintenance
and Rehabilitation Project. The program is designed to achieve lasting
improvements in highway maintenance operations. The principal objectives
are:
(a) to improve MOW's capability to plan and program highway maintenance
activities;
(b) to assist in the preparation and implementation of annual work
programs for each of the districts;
(c) to assist MOW in the execution of all aspects of its road and
equipment maintenance activities;
(d) to assist in the refining of the lists of equipment and spare parts
to be purchased under the project and the overall program, and in
the preparation of bidding documents and evaluation of tenders;
(e) to improve the organization and operational procedures related to
road maintenance and equipment operations;
(f) to raise maintenance equipment availability and utilization;
(g) to assist in the establishment and initial operation of a permanent
training program for maintenance personnel at all levels; and
(h) to provide guidance for the annual updates of MOW's Road
Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program.
Scope of Consulting Services
2.        The tasks shall include, but not necessarily be limited to, the
following functional areas:



- 44 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
(i) Maintenance Organization and Management
3.        The consultants shall:
(a) introduce accounting procedures to facilitate the separate
costing of individual routine and periodic maintenance
activities and to distinguish maintenance operations from
other works of the Ministry;
(b) review and revise the organization and responsibilities of the
districts and the mobile units for carrying out specific
maintenance and construction activities and determine manpower
and equipment distribution;
(c) assess and improve the distribution of managerial
responsibilities of the professional staff in division
headquarters; and
(d) identify road maintenance activities suitable for contracting,
and draw up a program for contracting of such works.
(ii)  Maintenance Programing and Identification of Rehabilitation and
Strengthening Requirements
4.        The consultants shall:
(a) review, update and implement the road maintenance program
through the preparation of annual work programs for each
maintenance zone and specialized unit, including amount of
physical works to be accomplished and related resource
requirements;
(b) monitor project works indicators;
(c) prepare a detailed road and bridge inventory and condition
survey;
(d) classify the network;
(e) organize a road diagnostic unit to conduct continuous surveys
of road conditions, including training in the method of data
collection, the use of equipment and the analysis of results;
(f) update MOW's Road Rehabilitation Program, including developing
methodologies for project identification and assessment;
(g) analyze current vehicle axle-loads and dimensions and make
recommendations for limits and for the most practical and
cost-effective way of controlling compliance with legislation;
and



- 45 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3
(h) identify micro-computer hardware and software compatible with
MOW needs and servicing facilities available. This task would
include identification of programs for design of highways,
simple bridges, and drainage structures; calculation and
analysis of soils tests, and road maintenance accounting and
management systems and inventory control.
(iii) Maintenance Equipment and Facilities
5.        The consultants shall:
(a) refine the list of equipment to be purchased or overhauled and
the list of spare parts for the overhaul program and for the
preventive maintenance stock;
(b) prepare bidding documents for equipment and spare parts to be
purchased under the project and review bids;
(c) prepare and assist in the implementation of a plan for the
disposal of obsolete equipment, materials and stock;
(d) review procedures for materials and spare parts procurement
and improve the system for storing and distributing spare
parts and materials;
(e) implement improved workshop organization and management
practices;
(f) establish preventive maintenance techniques;
(g) institute procedures for measuring equipment and vehicle
availability and utilization and monitoring these indices
during the project period;
(h) monitor performance of equipment purchased under the project;
and
(i) assess equipment and vehicle replacement needs and prepare
a detailed four-year equipment overhaul, scrapping and
replacement program for 1984/85 through 1987/88.
(iv) Training Program
6.        The consultants shall:
(a) review manpower requirements for the four-year maintenance
program and update the inventory of all maintenance personnel;



- 46 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4
(b) determine the number of personnel by category of work and
level of responsibility to be trained during the maintenance
program, establishing priority needs;
(c) develop a phased training program for different types and
levels of personnel based on manpower requirements and
budgetary constraints;
(d) plan, organize and assist in implementation of training by
production, including the establishment of a mobile Training
Production Unit (TPU) for training of road,foremen, operators,
drivers and mechanics;
(e) review the number and types of instructors required to
implement the proposed program;
(f) determine equipment and materials required for on-the-job
training, as well as classroom equipment such as audio-visual
aids; and
(g) review personnel policies of MOW with relation to maintenance
operations, including recruitment, career development and
salaries.
Staffing
7.        It is estimated that the following specialists would be required:
Specialist                                       Man-Months
One Highway Maintenance Engineer                               12
Mechanical Engineer                                            18
Training Advisor                                               18
TOTAL                                                          48
Schedule for Reporting
8.        The consultant team shall be responsible for preparation and
submission of the following reports in English within the time limits
specified. The contents shall be in accordance with the project
implementation schedule:
(a) Inception Report: Within three months of the starting date,
stating the consultants' detailed work plan and schedule for
accomplishing the project objectives;



- 47 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5
(b) Progress Reports: At three-month intervals after submission
of the Inception Report, listing the consultants' field staff,
work performed during the reporting period, difficulties
and/or delays encountered and proposed remedial actions and
the plan for the subsequent four months. Annexes shall be
included when more detailed information on specific aspects of
the project is appropriate;
(c) Draft Final Report: Three months before the closing date,
summarizing the work performed and the findings and
recommendations for subsequent highway maintenance programs in
Belize;
(d) Final Report: Incorporating all revisions deemed appropriate
by the consultants within two months after receipt of comments
from the Government on the Draft Final Report; and
(e) Other Reports as may be reasonably requested by MOW.
9.        Regarding the training program, the consultant team shall be
responsible for submitting the following detailed reports in English within
the time limits specified:
(a) an Inception Report following the first visit of the training
adviser, detailing training needs and recommendations for a
four-year program to meet these needs, including measures
required to implement the program. The report shall contain a
concise first chapter summarizing the contents;
(b) quarterly progress reports during the implementation of the
training program describing the work carried out during the
previous three months and the work program for the following
three months; the progress report shall identify actual and
anticipated difficulties and delays in implementing the
training program and suggested remedies;
(c) a brief report on personnel policies and recommended
improvements;
(d) a Draft Final Report four months prior to the completion of
the consultants' participation in the training program
summarizing (i) work performed; (ii) progress made;
(iii) benefits from training program; (iv) areas where
progress has been satisfactory; and (v) recommendations for
further action; and



- 48 -
ANNEX 1
Page 6
(e) a Final Report within two months of receipt of comments on
the Draft Final Report from MOW, incorporating all revisions
deemed appropriate by the consultants.
10.       Ten copies of the Inception and Progress Reports and 20 copies of
the Final Report shall be submitted to MOW.
March 1983



- 49 -
ANNEX 2
BELIZE
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1.   Project Brief:  Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project.
October 29, 1982.
2.   "Belize Road Maintenance Study," BECA-WORLEY International.
June 1982.
3.   Assessment of Maintenance Equipment Requirements.  Back-to-Office
Report. A. Mackie (Consultant), December 30, 1982.
4.   Miscellaneous documents related to road and equipment maintenance.
5.   Economic Evaluation:  Project Worksheets.  March 1983.
February 1983



BELIZE
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Existing Roads Administration
Minister of Works
Permanent
Secretary                                                                                                 v'
Roads                                                                Bridges
District Supervisors at                                      Bridge                         District
Stl nn                                  Supervisor                    Supervisor
Corozal           Cayo    Belize   Creek   Toledo                         StannCreek                       Toledo
Foremen  perators                                                     Foremen, Operators
Drivers, Workmen &                                                    Drivers, Workmen &
Other Staff                                                           Other Staff
Source: MOW                                                                                               December 1982
World Bank-24618



BELIZE
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
District Staff Organization
District Supervisor
I
Foreman
Workshop
Fore en.
U,
C:SH~~~~~~~~~~Sb-oea                          Captai             Capai
l  1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
L  ~~~SormnOperaos Driver                                       ___
Source. MOW                                                                                  December 1982
World Bank-24617



BELIZE
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule (1983-1986)
1983                                      1984                                         1985                              1986
1        2          3          4          I          2          3          4          1           2          3          4           I          2
F M A M J J A S O  N D J   MAMJ J  A S NDJ F M AMJ J A S O  N DJ                                                                               A MJ
1. ROAD REHABILITATION
a. San Ignacio-Belmopan Entrance                                     U x    U _  _  _  _      m  U  -
b. Haulover Bridge-Airport Intersection              sl   IIZ r   U  U     *           -|U|
c. Corozal-Sta, Elena ci                                                                  i  iti__                                                _i
d. Southern Highway                                                                               I   IN                              
2, EQUIPMENT & SPARE PARTS
a. Spares for Overhaul                                                                                                                                                                                           I
b. Initial Stock of Spare Parts                       _Ln
c. Maintenance Equipment & Tools
3. IECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
EngineeTingtfor I (a,b, c,d)           UU             U-
Works Supervision for I (a, b, c. d)
Mechnical Engineer                               ___                   __E        U     EI                                                                                      II
Maintenance Engineer               _ _ _ _                       - _ _      m =        U *
Training Production Unit (TPU)                                                   m        a     ui       m      U        *     m.m mn n
Fellowships
4. STUDIES
Export Transportation Master Plan Study ___
iIx s I a * * Tendering and contract award
_           Execution
*    m Training Program to continue with local Instructors                                                                          World Bank-24615



IBRD 16947
r   8900                             88 "31.0                                8800'                                    30                  JANUARY  1983
- 'B530'                                                                   CIre  el            M. E X i C 0                                                              l8 30'
r C      heer           CoDsToR
orchcng
Lcu. sv, le    Fr~ c sco
Son VicroXr a      
Dooglon + sA4, 
C   t S /    ,A,/ P'og,, so 
Sron Anro~no          t      \       C O RO ZA\L
'Ceo          OrangeWaI< D IS TR I CT
>    />     w~~oroe K       -                                   AMEERGR15                                                      l8 C0
CAY
J   L           .      } Pln~~~eR dget   \ F  
S Sa Pedro
I Necs'o* ~    ~       S-Fe P
!oe Eeu5la+ a el pe 9  (1  \    Morkoll  'r-i          '---f                                 BELIZE
._.| / X )Md \ ~~~~~~~~~~~ChlrogoI
ORANGE WALK                                                 Co                    ;                 ROAD MAINTENANCE
DISTRICT                                                                                       AND REHABILITATION
PROJECT
nndreg5,/ B E L  Z                                                                                                         30
|  ,_.,  ftf   HoM,envl     e _       Belize
._ /_ ; > +, , f                  City                            TURNEF'E
.W -a      I i                .9M                     I                    SLANDS
Ormnge                   D  ST R   -PT'
<                       vValk           /<v Wlk
, BELMOPAN
San Igso~/>#      
Be.,-                                                            /                                                            <  xProject Roads:
Ben del Ca-                                     Mddle,e~
- ]Vec eCre  z< sx h-   Rehabilitation            1
- 7uCj    C>A Y 0    DI ST R I C T            *.)    Alirs Vr           w       DoBn grio                                              Drainage  Improvements
j  (  f  STAn NNg                                               _ ___._5_ Main Roads
j  /  C R E E K  >'_                                                           Other Roads
 D l .iNational Capital
!        District Capitals
0        Towns and Villages
D j   !                 -    )g4                                    _                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~District Boundaries
i   /  {i (   fiSerre Bight     i                -       -     International Boundaries
j r ~~~ < < <Yependf47peodce |1D
j .   Med-nc B-knh F    ~t         fg                                        \              KILOMAETERS 0         0      20     30      40    50
MILES 0 f20                                0
.  3.'   a  /Monkey R,ve,                                               5730'
_<   9,   Q   T. wzrn            Th,s map ha-tas ppropeed bv
rThe World 6a-t  -s5 -l yafl s,eso
Ste ~   ~     1 Anoe  B. Ft,I                                                      tsr ee csnnveorne Of he                      U.S.A
.  P *.                                           stern  al use St Thre World Bask                                  BAHAMAS
I   \                    a                                  6     ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ and ret ltanteMtooal Fmance
.\  *       Cor5nOrrto- The d-onmnabtn                       .C
I a t Us-d and rhe onsadare- shown              .i
5...-       so 000 mape dnnht,Orl on thme 
!   S;a    9<               t                                        part ot The World Balk and te_
Punta Gordo                                    .-- ntersahonalFoanneCnreson           MEXICO                                    HTt
Pue rUn Tto Gsord a                            N           amynlaadgmem os the ena statad                           JAMAICA
ulf o                                                     ennrsP-donsemr   or anneplanna or  7 r                                    IN  A
| !6OC                 gz       Goau /f rf  -fc ,7doaos                                      aSuChtoundaess   16 00r         B BELI Z                                 REPU3LC
H ON D U RA S
N CaRAGUA                         VENEZUELA
G U A T E MAT  A                                                                                                      t EALVDCR                           CC LOM8A      ,
B9aCO               ,_t;  85o30                      \                         880C0'   HONDURAS



