Document of                                CoPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3508-BEI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOP
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$5.3 MILLION
TO
BELIZE
FOR A
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
April 7, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
L their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization. |



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit            =     Belize Dollar (Bz$)
US$1.00           =      Bz$2.00
Bz$1.00           =      US$0.50
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND IMEASURES:  BRITISH/US
1 foot (ft)           =      0.305 meter (m)
I mile (mi)               =     1.609 kilometers (km)
1 square mile (sq mi)          =     2.589 square kilometers (sq km)
1 pound (lb)             =     0.454 kilogram (kg)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BDD       =     British Development Division (UK Overseas Development
Administration)
CDB       =     Caribbean Development BaLnk
MEC       =     Ministry of Energy and Communications
MOW       =     Ministry of Works
TPiJ      =     Training Production Unit
UNDP/OPE  =     United Nations Development Program/Office of Project Execution
Vpd       =     Vehicles per day
1



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BELIZE
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Belize
Beneficiary:           Ministry of Works (MOW)
Amount:                US$5.3 million equivalent, including a capitalized front
end fee.
Terms:                 17 years, including 4 years' grace at the standard variable
interest rate.
Project Description:  The proposed project would support MOW's road maintenance
and rehabilitation program, as well as strengthen MOW's
capabilities in road and equipment maintenance. The project
would consist of:
(a) rehabilitation on three road sections totaling 21 miles:
(i) San Ignacio-Belmopan entrance; (ii) Santa Elena-Corozal;
and (iii) Haulover Bridge-Airport Junction;
(b) drainage improvements along about 65 miles of the
Southern Highway;
(c) procurement of about 30 units of road maintenance
equipment and spare parts for equipment overhaul and
preventive maintenance; and workshop equipment and tools;
(d) workshop improvements;
(e) about 104 manmonths of consultancy services to provide
technical assistance to MOW for: (i) detailed engineering
and supervision of rehabilitation works; (ii) strengthening
road maintenance capability; and (iii) preparing an export
transportation master plan; and
(f) training.
The project would result in reduced transportation costs in
the country, while the institutional strengthening of MOW
would lead to improved road and equipment maintenance.
Risks:                 There are no special project risks.  However, improvements
in road and equipment maintenance operations may take longer
than expected because the project is large in relation to
MOW's capacity or maintenance funds may not be made
available in a timely fashion. To reduce these risks, the
project provides technical assistance and funding would be
closely monitored.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:                                 Local      Foreign      Total
(US$ =illion)
Road Rehabilitation and
Drainage Improvements                        0.94        2.64        3.58
Equipment, Parts and Workshops                  0.02       0.36        0.38
Technical Assistance and Training               0.34        1.03        1.37
Total Base Costs                                1.30       4.03         5.33
Contingencies:
Physical                                   0.17        0.47        0.64
Price                                      0.35        0.79        1.14
Total Cost                                      1.82 a/    5.29        7.11
Front-end Fee                               -          0.01        0.01
Total Financing Required                        1.82       5.30        7.12
Financing Plan:                                  Local       Foreign    Total
(US$ million)
Bank                                         -         5.30        5.30
Government                                 1.82         -          1.82
Total                                      1.82        5.30        7.12
Estimated Disbursements:                                      (US$ million)
Bank Fiscal Year                              1984        1985        1986       1987
Annual                                     0.9         1.8         1.9        0.7
Cumulative                                 0.9         2.7         4.6        5.3
Rate of Return:         17%
Staff Appraisal
Report:              No. 4331b-BEL, dated April 4, 1983.
Map:                    IBRD 16947
a/   Including local taxes and duties of about US$0.2 million.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON
A PROPOSED LOAN TO BELIZE
FOR A ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Belize for the equivalent of US$5.3 million to help finance a Road
Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project. The loan would have a term of 17
years, including 4 years of grace, with interest at the standard variable
rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report (Economic Memorandum on Belize, Report No.
3823-BEL, dated April 5, 1982) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
April 19, 1982. An economic mission visited the country in October 1982 and
is preparing a new report. Annex I contains the basic country data.
Background
3.         Belize, located in Central America, attained independence from the
UK in September, 1981. With 150,000 people living in an area of 23,000 Km2,
the country has a very low population density, six persons per Km2. Belize
became a member of the Bank and IDA in March 1982.
4.         The country has abundant natural resources.  Its economy is based
on sugar, bananas, citrus, fishing, some light industry and tourism; these
activities are mostly export-oriented. There is heavy reliance on imports to
satisfy a sizeable part of domestic consumption and practically all
investment requirements. Income seems to be relatively evenly distributed.
Ownership of the economic resources is principally in the hands of the
private sector although the Government owns large tracts of mostly unutilized
land.
Economic Trends
5.         The Belizean economy expanded steadily during the 1960s and most of
the 1970s; real GDP grew 4.5% per year, or 2% in per capita terms.
Agriculture expanded rapidly as sugar and banana production increased.
Manufacturing also grew as a number of import-substituting industries and an
export-oriented garment factory were established. Economic growth slowed
sharply, however, during 1978-1981, with real GDP growth averaging only about
1.8% per year, owing mainly to slow growth in manufacturing and diseases
affecting sugarcane production. The Belizean economy was affected by the
international recession in 1982; real GDP is estimated to have declined by
0.3%. The decline in prices of sugar and citrus and the impact on the banana
industry of the appreciation of the US dollar --to which the Belizean
currency is pegged--against the pound sterling, caused a sharp drop in the
terms of trade in 1982 leading to a a 4.5% decline in the real Gross Domestic
Income.



- 2 -
6.        National savings have been relatively high, averaging about 14% of
GNP in the last quinquennium. However, savings are subject to sharp
fluctuations associated mainly with fluctuations in sugar export earnings;
while national savings accounted for about 20% of GNP in 1980, they dropped
to 9% in 1982. Gross fixed investment has traditionally fluctuated between
25 and 31% of GNP. Therefore, external sources have financed about a half of
the total investment executed over the past five years.
7.        Unemployment is a significant problem in Belize City and among the
young. Overall unemployment was estimated at 14.3% in 1980. Although the
country offers employment opportunities in agriculture, this type of work                      4
does not meet the expectations of large segments of the populatiLon,
particularly those living in Belize City, about 30% of the tota]L. As a
result, there is seasonal shortage of labor in rural areas and workers have
to be employed from neighboring countries. For this reason, and because of
the low overall density of population, the Government has implemented an open
immigration policy which has resulted in new settlers coming into Belize.
8.        The Central Government's finances continue to be soundly managed
although there have been significant prob:Lems in some of the statutory
bodies.  However, with a weak economy even the Central Government's finances
have faced problems in recent years. The Central Government's current
savings which have traditionally amounted to 5% of GDP, fell to 2.6% in
FY81/82--a decline largely associated with independence-related increases in
the wage bill. However, as a result of controls on expenditures introduced
in 1982, current savings are estimated to increase to 3.7% of GDP in
FY1982/83. The consolidated account of the statutory bodies shows
operational deficits for practically every year in the last quinquennium.
This is associated mainly with inefficiencies and with subsidies,
particularly in the Electricity Board, the Banana Control Board and the
Marketing Board.
9.        The balance of payments performance largely depends on sugar, which
accounts for about 60% of merchandise exports. Thus, current account balance
of payments deficits have fluctuated sharply, reflecting the changes in sugar
prices, and have averaged about 13% of GDI' during the last quinquennium.
Although the volume of sugar exports increased by 8% in 1982, export earnings
from sugar declined by US$12 million in relation to 1981, due to the drop in
export prices. Consequently, the current account balance of payments deficit
reached US$25 million or 16% of GDP. External grants and loans to the public
sector, mostly for development purposes, have financed an average of about
70% of the current account deficits in recent times.
Development Issues and Strategy
10.       The country has sufficient physical resources to develop its
economy in agriculture, agroprocessing, fishing and tourism. But Belize
lacks financial and human resources. Therefore, the key elements in
developing Belize are the encouragement oif investments, both local and
foreign, and the attraction of skilled manpower into the country.  The
completion of basic infrastructure is also a major requirement. Given the
small size of the domestic market, development efforts should concentrate on
export-oriented activities.  The government is committed to this strategy and
this is reflected in its economic policies and in its investment
program.



- 3 -
11.       Land tenure policies encourage development.  The Government owns
more than one million acres of land suitable for agriculture, which are
available to developers, local or foreign, at relatively low prices, as long
as it is developed according to a plan agreed with the authorities.
Furthermore, a new land tax on unimproved value is being introduced to
encourage land development; the long-term success of this tax will depend on
how well it is enforced.
12.       The climate for investment is generally favorable.  Official
policies are, on the whole, favorable to foreign and domestic investments.
But concerns among potential investors about the political situation in the
Central American region are becoming a deterrent to private investment. The
Government is trying to overcome this problem, to the extent possible, by
promoting the country abroad, emphasizing its characteristics as a stable
democracy. Concerns shown by investors include the still unresolved dispute
with Guatemala.
13.       Infrastructure is still a major constraint to development.
Assisted by the international community (UK, CIDA, USAID, CDB, EDF and CDC),
Belize has improved its infrastructure but major requirements are yet to be
met. For instance, electricity services are poor and fragmented and
shutdowns are frequent; the road system needs to be rehabilitated and
maintained and port facilities are not adequate. Projects have been--or are
being--identified in these areas,to which the government attaches high
priority.
14.       Resolution of the problem of a shortage of managers and skilled
labor in Belize requires persistent, long-term actions for two principal
reasons. First, there are no adequate training facilities for technical and
managerial personnel in the country. Second, poor infrastructure
facilities, particularly housing, electricity and water, deter many qualified
people from settling in Belize, and discourage locals trained outside from
returning. The Government is trying to solve this issue by providing student
loans, by upgrading the infrastructure, and by implementing a liberal
immigration policy.
Prospects
15.       Provided that Belize continues with the present sound development
policies, its medium-term prospects largely depend on external factors,
namely, the availability of external capital, and an adequate demand for its
products in the international markets.  External capital is needed to
complete Belize's basic infrastructure and to complement local efforts,
particularly in livestock, bananas, citrus, fish farming, agroprocessing
industries and tourism. The country has a comparative advantage in these
activities, which could be developed relatively easily given a favorable
outlook in international markets. Therefore, provided that an international
recovery takes place, Belize can be expected to resume steady economic
growth.
16.      Successful execution of the public sector investment program is a
prerequisite for the continued economic growth of Belize. Public investments
have traditionally represented 60 to 70% of total domestic investment and
about 15% of GDP. Project execution and establishment of project priorities



- 4--
have been, overall, satisfactory.  External assistance has played an
important role in the financing of public investments as well as in the
provision of much needed technical assistance. In fact, external funds have
financed about 60% of the total public investments in recent years. These
funds have been obtained on favorable terms: about 30% in grants, 45% in
concessional loans and 25% in conventional loans. Planned pub:Lic investments
for the next five years place high priorijty on new infrastructure projects
that will make productive private sector investments possible; namely roads,
electricity and ports. Public investments for the period 1983--87 are
projected to account for about 13% of GDP?, slightly less than in previous
years.
17.       The authorities will need to continue their present efforts to
increase public savings to about 5% of GD)P so as to meet local financing
requirements, which are estimated at about 38% of the public sector
investment program. The Government is committed to obtain this level of
savings mainly by improving the financiaL performance of some major statutory
bodies. Prospects for obtaining external resources to finance the public
investment program appear favorable as evidenced by the fact that most of the
external funds required for 1983 and 1984 are already in the pipeline.
18.       Belize should achieve a sustainable balance of payments position if
agricultural exports are successfully expanded. Further development of
tourism and fishing will also contribute to achieving this goa:L. By the same
token, the execution of energy-saving projects, particularly in electricity,
are projected to slow down the increase in fuel imports.  A more favorable
situation could develop if current explorations of oil result in findings of
oil and/or gas in commercial quantities. Since no significative increase in
sugar production is projected, increases in exports are expected mostly from
nonsugar exports. This will reduce the current dependence on sugar and,
therefore, the present vulnerability of the economy. To sum up, if
appropriate export-oriented policies are pursued, if demand-management
continues to be sound, and if conditions in the international markets are
somewhat more favorable than in 1981-82, the current account balance of
payments deficit should decline gradually from 16% of GDP in 1982 to about 8%
by 1989.
19.       External public and publicly guaranteed debt at the end of 1982 was
estimated at about US$70 million, or 45% of GDP. The service on public debt
has been low, less than 5% of domestic exports (excluding re-exports).  This
resulted from a favorable structure of the debt and from the concessionality
of most loans.  The debt service is projected to increase to about 12% in
1983 and 1984 as several concessional loans start to be repayable and because
the Government, in response to the financial difficulties of 1981-82,
contracted several loans on conventional terms.
20.        The public sector expects to obtain funds from both concessional
and conventional sources during the next decade. Conventional loans are
projected to increase from the current 25% of the total disbursements to
about 60% in 1990 and to 76% in 1995. The debt service ratio, however, is
projected to decline from 12% in 1983 to about 7% in the late 1980s as export
earnings increase. Then, it is projectedl to increase again as increasing
amounts of loans on conventional terms are contracted, reaching 10% in the
mid-1990s. The debt service ratio is, therefore projected to remain within



manageable limits. On this basis, Belize should be considered creditworthy
for limited amounts of borrowing on conventional terms provided that the
Government continues to pursue an export-oriented development strategy as
well as prudent financial policies; that the public statutory bodies improve
their financial performance; and that the public investment concentrates on
high priority projects with acceptable rates of return.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
21.       The proposed loan would be the first direct Bank Group operation in
the country. Even before its independence, however, Belize was a member of
*         the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB) with which the Bank Group has had two
lending operations. Belize has received one loan from the CDB from the first
Bank loan (US$500,000 for an agroindustry credit project).
22.       Prior to independence, Belize came into more direct contact with
the Bank through participation in the Caribbean Group for Cooperation in
Economic Development, established in 1977. Since 1977, the Bank has annually
organized and participated in the joint IBRD/CDB/IMF economic missions to
Belize to prepare the economic documentation for the Caribbean Group
meetings. In this process, Bank staff have maintained a dialogue with the
Government on economic policy matters and on the formulation of realistic
investment programs, based on available resources and absorptive capacity.
In its capacity as Chairman of the Caribbean Group, the Bank has also
sponsored subgroup meetings of aid donors for Belize. These meetings have
been instrumental in focusing donor attention on the central issues of
economic performance and on the priority financing requirements of the
country. Primarily through the activities of the Caribbean Group, the Bank
has developed a dialogue with the Government on its development priorities
and economic policies, and has played an increasing role in helping to obtain
and coordinate external assistance for Belize.
23.       Further operations within the next few years may include a power
transmission and distribution project, a port project and an agricultural
project.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
24.       Efficient transportation is essential to Belize's economy which is
heavily dependent on export agriculture. The transport network consists of
about 1,170 miles of road, of which 272 miles are paved; a port at Belize
City and several jetties and piers along the coast; an international and a
municipal airport at Belize City; and some 11 additional government-owned and
eight privately owned airstrips. Substantial investments in the development
and improvement of the network have been made in recent years, and the
transportation system meets most of the basic needs of the economy. Priority
is now turning to the maintenance and rehabilitation of existing
infrastructure and to improving means of exporting Belize's agricultural
production. Given Belize's low population density, transport investment
costs are likely to be high in relation to demand; therefore, future
investments must be carefully planned to determine least-cost solutions, with



- 6 -
priority to low-cost investments designed to improve operations and to
preserve and extend the life of existing infrastructure.
External Transport
25.       The Belize City Port, which was constructed with CDB financial
assistance, became operational in 1980. It handles all maritime import
traffic. However, it has a depth of only 17 feet, and the port cannot handle
ocean-going container ships. Most import traffic is transported by
roll-on/roll-off containers or by vessels which moor in deep water and
transfer containers to barges. Most exports do not pass through the Belize
City Port. Sugar and citrus are barged to ships moored in deep water.
Bananas are lightered to Puerto Cortez, Honduras, where they are transshipped
to the UK. One of the Government's priorities is the improvement of the
means and infrastructure for the maritime transport of exports and imports.
Several proposals under consideration include construction of a deep-water
port and improvement of lighterage facilities. However, because of
geological conditions along Belize's coast, and given the relatively small
tonnages involved, deep-water solutions might be too costly and difficult to
justify economically. Under the project, an export transportation master
plan would be prepared by consultants to determine the most efficient means
of transporting exports and to identify and analyze appropriate investments.
The Government would not undertake or commit itself to undertake port
investments over US$500,000 per annum prior to the preparation of the study
and its delivery to the Bank (Section 4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
26.       Belize is relatively well served by international air connections
to the United States and Central America. However, facilities at the Belize
City International Airport require some improvements, including runway
resurfacing, better fire fighting equipment and navigational aids. The
Belize City municipal airport, serving primarily tourist traffic to Ambergris
Caye, requires resurfacing of its runway and improvements of its terminal
facilities.
The Highway Subsector
27.       Belize's road network links main centers of population and
development areas. The location of main roads is dictated mainly by the
swampy conditions prevalent in Belize and, particularly in the south, by
river crossings. In terms of coverage, the network is adequate and standards
are generous for traffic levels. However, road conditions are generally
unsatisfactory because of inadequate maintenance, frequent flooding,
unsatisfactory drainage, limited availability of good road-making materials,
and inadequate construction specifications and quality control. The main
concern is therefore to bring priority roads to maintainable condition
through rehabilitation and to strengthen road maintenance planning and
operations. The network should be expanded only in connection with the
opening up of new areas under specific rural development programs or for the
exploitation of natural resources, such as timberlands. To provide adequate
information for the planning of road activities, the Ministry of Works (MOW)
will prepare a detailed road and bridge condition survey and classify the
road network by June 30, 1984 (Section 4.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 7 -
28.       Traffic on Belize's roads is relatively light because of Belize's
low population density and the large distances between development areas.
The most heavily trafficked road is the Northern Highway with traffic ranging
from 400 to 2,700 vpd. Traffic on the Western Highway, which runs from
Belize City to Belmopan and on to the Guatemala border, ranges from 400 to
600 vpd; some isolated sections on this road have traffic as high as 1,300
vpd, however. On the Hummingbird/Stann Creek and Southern Highways, which
provide the only land access to the relatively remote southern districts,
traffic varies from 80 to 130 vpd. The vehicle fleet numbers about 9,500
vehicles, of which 35% are trucks, 1% buses and 64% automobiles, vans and
pickups. The average age of the fleet is high; some 8.7 years for all
vehicles and 9.5 years for trucks. About 30% of the buses and 40% of the
V        trucks are diesel powered.
Road Transport Industry and Regulation
29.       The road freight transport industry is not closely regulated in
Belize. Tariffs are set through competition and vehicle axle weights and
dimensions are not controlled. The extent of vehicle overloading is not
known, although overloading is reported to be a problem with Mexican trucks
which pick up cargo at the Belize City Port, and with sugarcane trucks.
Under the project, MOW, with the assistance of consultants, will carry out a
study by June 30, 1984, to determine the most economical and practical
axle-load and dimension limits, as well as the most practical and
cost-effective way of controlling compliance. The results of the study will
be discussed with the Bank and an action program satisfactory to the Bank
would be implemented (Section 4.05 of the draft Loan Agreement).
30.       Taxes on fuel and motor vehicle imports are the most important
sources of revenues from road-user charges. These revenues are sufficient to
cover road maintenance expenditures and about 25% of annual capital
investment in the road network. Fuel prices cover c.i.f. import prices and
commercialization costs. In September 1982 the retail price of regular
gasoline was US$1.63/gallon, of premium gasoline, US$1.68/gallon and of
diesel, US$1.45/gallon. The international prices of these fuels (c.i.f.
Belize) were US$1.03/gallon, US$1.06/gallon and US$1.01/gallon respectively.
The tax component of gasoline and diesel fuel is 23% and 17% respectively.
e        Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation
31.       The MOW is responsible for the construction and maintenance of all
roads, except for city streets.  The MOW Chief Engineer is in charge of road
maintenance and construction. However, because of his administrative duties,
he needs the assistance of a technical officer who will attend to detailed
planning and execution of road maintenance. Thus, the establishment of the
post of Maintenance Engineer and appointment of a suitably qualified
candidate would be a condition for effectiveness of the project (Section
5.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
32.       Road maintenance in Belize has been, to a large extent, ineffective
because of (a) inadequate planning, (b) poor maintenance practices due to
lack of training and inadequate knowledge of locally available materials, (c)
low equipment availability and utilization, and (d) inadequate funds, partly
because of the diversion of budgeted maintenance funds to nonmaintenance
uses. A major objective of the Government in the transport sector is,



- 8 -
therefore, the rehabilitation of the road network and the establishment of
adequate maintenance. To this end, MOW has prepared a Road Maintenance and
Rehabilitation Program for 1983/84 through 1986/87 which aims at
strengthening its road and equipment maintenance organization and practices
as well as at providing a more comprehensive approach to the rehabilitation
of the road network.  The Government would update the Program annually and
exchange views with the Bank not later thian January 31 of each year, starting
in 1984, regarding its composition and progress (Section 4.07 of the draft
Loan Agreement). The proposed project would support a slice of this
Program. The British Development Divisiona (BDD) would also be a major
contributor. The Program is divided into two complementary components: a
road maintenance program and a road rehabilitation program.
(i) Road Maintenance Program
33.       The road maintenance program aimns at providing lasting improvements
to road maintenance operations. The program was developed by determining an
economically desirable level of road mainitenance which would be introduced
gradually over a period of four years.  To meet the required funding, the
Government would provide an annual aver-ge increase in the road maintenance
budget of 10% p.a. in real terms to reach Bz$5.3 million by 19815/87 at 1983
prices. In the first three years of the lprogram, the budgetary resources
would be supplemented by BDD, which would equip and finance a road resealing
unit to reseal 33 miles of the Western Highway. To provide more detailed
information for future maintenance planning and budgeting, MOW would
introduce, by January 31, 1985, budgeting and accounting procedures which
would differentiate routine from periodic maintenance activities and
maintenance activities from those of the M4inistry as a whole (Section 4.06 of
the draft Loan Agreement). The program would, by the end of the four-year
period, provide for the resealing of 30 mLles per year and the regraveling of
120 miles per year. MOW would prepare annual road and bridge maintenance
work programs for each district and would exchange views annual:Ly with the
Bank, starting January 1, 1984, on the scope and financial requirements of
the following year's program (Section 4.013(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
34.       A major part of the road maintenance program will be the
improvement of equipment availability and utilization. To this end, MOW has
initiated an equipment overhaul program for 50 units of equipment. Under the
project, an additional 25 units of equipment would be overhauled. In
addition, 80 units of equipment used in the UK-financed Northern Highway
Project will be overhauled with BDD financing and handed over to MOW in good
working order.  With the improved availabLlity of the fleet through the
overhaul program, the present fleet will be adequate at least until 1985.
However, additional units of light road maintenance equipment, such as hand
vibrating rollers, are required. To meet the goals of the road maintenance
program, equipment availability and utilization should increase to 75% and
1,200 hours p.a. respectively by 1986/87. To help increase availability and
utilization in the short to medium term, the Government would prepare by
January 30, 1984, a detailed equipment overhaul, scrapping and replacement
program for 1984/85 through 1986/87 and would implement the program in
arror ance with a timetable satisfactory to the Bank (Section 4.09 of the
draft Loan Agreement).



-9-
(ii) Road Rehabilitation Program
35.       This program provides for the rehabilitation of key road sections
which have deteriorated to the point where routine maintenance is no longer
effective. It includes the rehabilitation of about 43 miles of paved roads,
drainage improvements to about 65 miles of the Southern Highway, and
rehabilitation of 11 bridges. The Rehabilitation Program envisages
expenditure of Bz$35.3 million (March 1983 prices) over the next four years.
The proposed Bank loan would finance about 18% of the rehabilitation works.
The Government has requested the UK to help finance about 75% of the
Rehabilitation Program. Feasibility studies for these projects are currently
under way.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
36.       A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report - Road Maintenance and
Rehabilitation Project - Belize" (No. 4331b-BEL, dated April 4, 1983) is
being distributed separately. Annex III contains a timetable of key events
in processing the project and a description of the special conditions of the
proposed loan. The project was appraised in November/December 1982.
Negotiations took place in Washington in March 1983. Belize's delegation was
led by the Honorable F. H. Hunter, Minister of Works.
Objectives
37.       The project would support MOW's Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation
Program with the general objectives of strengthening MOW's road and equipment
maintenance organization and practices; upgrading, through training, of
maintenance manpower; and bringing priority roads to maintainable condition
through rehabilitation and drainage improvements.
Description
38.       The proposed project would consist of:
(a) rehabilitation on three road sections totaling about 21 miles:
(i)  San Ignacio-Belmopan entrance; (ii) Santa Elena-Corozal;
*                         (iii)  Haulover Bridge-Airport Junction;
(b) drainage improvements along about 65 miles of the Southern
Highway;
(c) acquisition of spare parts for the major overhaul of 25 units
of salvageable maintenance equipment, and for the initial
stocking for preventive maintenance of existing equipment;
(d) procurement of about 30 units of light maintenance equipment
(and spare parts) and workshop equipment and tools;
(e) workshop improvements;



- 10 -
(f) about 104 manmonths of consultancy services to help design and
supervise the road rehabilJitation works, strengthen MOW's
capacity to carry out road and equipment maintenance, and
implement a training program, and prepare an export
transportation master plan; and
(g) materials for a Training Production Unit (TPU) and fellowships
for MOW staff.
39.       Road Rehabilitation.  The project provides for the rehabilitation
of three road sections totalling 21 miles included in the road rehabilitation
program. The San Ignacio-Belmopan Entrance subproject is made up of a
section of the Western Highway from San Ignacio to Roaring Creek and a branch
from Roaring Creek to Belmopan, Belize's capital. Parts of this road section
from San Ignacio to Roaring Creek were rehabilitated with BDD financing in
1981-82; about 8 miles remain to be rehabilitated. The Haulover
Bridge-Airport Junction and Santa Elena-Corozal roads are two links on the
Northern Highway and are among the most heavily trafficked roads in Belize.
The road rehabilitation would follow existing alignments and widths and would
include an asphalt surface treatment.  The project also provides urgently
needed drainage improvements along some 65 miles of the Southern Highway,
which provides an essential link to the southern area of Belize where the
banana industry is located. It also provides access to areas in the Toledo
District where plans are underway for the development of the region's
agricultural potential. This gravel road is frequently flooded and its
inadequate drainage makes maintenance difficult and costly. Rehabilitation
would consist of raising the road grade at selected locations, and of
constructing along about 65 miles of the road pipe culverts and drainage
ditches.
40.       Overhaul and Procurement of Road Maintenance Equipment and Workshop
Improvements. The project would provide for the overhaul of abc,ut 25 units
of road maintenance equipment. In addition to the acquisition of spare parts
and replacement components necessary for this program, the project would
provide an initial stocking of spare parts for preventive maintenance. A
relatively small, but important element of the project would be the provision
of workshop equipment and tools, and minor improvements to the Central
Workshops to facilitate routine maintenance of equipment. The project would
also provide for the procurement of about 30 units of light road maintenance
equipment. Five of these units would be permanently allocated to the TPU.
41.       Technical Assistance and Trainin .  The project would provide
technical assistance by consultants to:
(a) carry out detailed design and supervision of civil works;
(b) strengthen MOW's road planning and programming capability;
(c) advise and assist in improving road and equipment maintenance
organization and operations;
(d) assist in preparing bidding documents for the procurement of
equipment and for the improvements to central workshops and
stores;



- 11 -
(e) assist in implementing the equipment overhaul program;
(f) design and implement improved accounting and control systems
for maintenance and rehabilitation works;
(g) implement the training program; and
(h) prepare an Export Transportation Master Plan.
42.       Detailed design of civil works has been substantially completed by
consultants financed by an advance under the Project Preparation Facility,
which would be refinanced from the loan. These consultants would also assist
*       MOW in the preparation of bidding documents.  Twelve manmonths of consultancy
services would be required. Construction would be supervised by a consulting
team and MOW personnel. Terms of reference for these supervision services,
which have been agreed by the Bank, provide for total input of 34 manmonths
by consultants.
43.       A total of 48 manmonths of technical assistance would be required
to strengthen MOW's road and equipment maintenance capability and to carry
out the training program. The consultants would provide a maintenance
engineer, mechanical engineer and a training advisor. The services of the
mechanical engineer and the maintenance engineer would be initiated around
June 1983, prior to loan effectiveness. The startup phase of this technical
assistance would be financed by an advance under the Project Preparation
Facility. The consultants would be appointed in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. Terms of reference were discussed and
agreed upon with the Bank.
44.       The training program would aim at improving highway maintenance
through training about 400 MOW personnel. A permanent training section would
be established within MOW. Interested private sector personnel would also be
eligible to participate in the training program. A mobile TPU would be
created to carry out maintenance operations on selected paved and graveled
road segments in various districts. In addition, training of mechanics by
means of in-service training would be implemented by the mechanical engineer
advisor and through courses given by equipment suppliers. The training
program would also include short courses abroad for high-level maintenance
personnel. Equipment from MOW's existing fleet would be permanently assigned
to the TPU. In addition, five units of light maintenance equipment would be
procured for the TPU under the project. A condition for disbursements in
*        respect of contracts for the second phase of civil works (Corozal-Santa Elena
and the Southern Highway) would be that the TPU be fully functioning with the
necessary equipment assigned to it (Schedule 1, paragraph 4 of the draft Loan
Agreement). The project would also finance materials for the TPU for the
first two years of the project; thereafter they would be financed out of the
MOW recurrent budget. The Government would (i) prepare by January 31, 1984
an Action Plan satisfactory to the Bank to carry out the components of the
training program, to carry out the plan in accordance with a timetable
satisfactory to the Bank, and (ii) establish and equip a Training Production
Unit by January 31, 1984 (Sections 3.03 and 3.04 of the draft Loan
Agreement).



- 12 -
45.        Transport Planning.  The project provides for a study to determine
the most efficient means of transporting Belize's exports. Some ten
manmonths of consultancy services by a transport economist, a port engineer,
a shipping expert and an agricultural economist would be required. Terms of
reference for the study were reviewed and agreed upon with the Bank.
Accounting and Auditing
46.        MOW's accounting and internal control system needs improvement
because it does not provide records of expenditures in sufficient detail to
be used as a management tool. Internal controls are also reported to be
deficient by the Auditor General, who commented in the latest audit of MOW
accounts that regulations on internal controls of expenditures are not
consistently followed. Annual audits of MOW accounts are carried out by the
Auditor General. His office, however, suffers from a shortage of
sufficiently trained and experienced staff to ensure timely audits. The
audit for 1978 was completed only in April 1982. Along with revised
accounting procedures and training to be provided under the project, it would
be necessary to engage independent auditors to audit, annually, the
expenditures of the proposed project, as well as MOW road and equipment
maintenance activity accounts. Statements of expenditures for project work
to be carried out by force account would be subject also to a specific
audit. The Government would engage independent auditors in time to audit the
FY83/84 accounts.
Cost Estimates and Financing
47.        The proposed project is estimated to cost US$7.12 million including
US$5.3 million in foreign exchange (74%). The total project cost includes
contingency allowances of US$1.78 million iand local taxes estimated at
US$230,000. Base costs were estimated at March 1983 prices. Physical
contingencies have been estimated at 15%. Price contingencies on local costs
have been estimated at 10% for 1983, 9% for 1985 and 8% per annum thereafter,
and in foreign costs, at 8% for 1983, 7% for 1984, 7% for 1985 and 6% per
annum thereafter. The foreign exchange comnponent is US$5.3 million. Cost
estimates for the road rehabilitation and drainage improvement works were
based on quantities derived from road inventories and reconnaissance-type
engineering, which were confirmed by detailed engineering which has been
substantially completed. The average manmonth cost for engineering of civil
works, including travel and subsistence, is estimated at US$9,000. In
addition to personnel costs, the contract would include cost of vehicles,
laboratory equipment, and portable scales and some minor items.  The average
manmonth cost of technical assistance to strengthen MOW's maintenance
organization and to supervise rehabilitation works is also estimated at
US$9,000, including travel and subsistence. The average manmonth cost of
consulting services for the export transportation master plan is estimated at
US$10,000 incluiding travel and subsistence.
48.        The proposed Bank loan of US$5.3 million, which includes the
capitalized front-end fee of about US$ 13,200, represents 74% of the
estimated project cost and 100% of foreign costs. The Government would
provide US$1.82 million in local funds.



- 13 
Project Execution, Procurement and Monitoring
49.       M4OW would be responsible for project execution.  Because the
project is lage in relation to MOW's implementation capacity, timely
deployment of technical assistance and assignment of counterpart staff would
be critical. The Government would assign a road maintenance officer, an
equipment superintendent and a training officer as counterparts. Employment
of the consultants to help strengthen MOW's maintenance capability and
assignment of counterparts would be a condition for effectiveness of the loan
(Section 5.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). Employment of the consultants
to supervise the civil works would be a condition of disbursements for civil
works and the functioning of a suitably equipped TPU would be a condition of
disbursements for the second phase of civil works (Santa Elena-Corozal and
Southern Highway (Schedule 1, para 4 of the draft Loan Agreement).
50.       The project would be implemented over a three-year period (mid-1983
to early 1986). Procurement of civil works for the three roads to be
rehabilitated (estimated at US$2.4 million) would be by international
competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
Procurement. Works for drainage improvements in the Southern Highway (about
US$1.2 million) would be grouped into small lots (US$200,000) and tendered to
prequalified firms under local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to
the Bank. Because of the nature of the improvements, the small size of
contracts and remote location, these works are not likely to attract
international firms. However, foreign firms could participate if
interested. Workshop improvements (about US$20,000) would be carried out by
MOW by force account. Spare parts for equipment overhaul, an initial stock
of spare parts for preventive maintenance, and materials for the TPU (about
US$350,000) would be procured on the basis of competing quotations solicited
locally or, in the case of spare parts for existing equipment (about
US$200,000), through negotiations with suppliers.  Equipment (about
US$167,000) would be procured under ICB. However, isolated units of
maintenance and workshop equipment and tools aggregating no more than
US$100,000 may be procured on the basis of competing quotations solicited
locally. All plans, specifications, and bidding documents for rehabilitation
works, spare parts, maintenance equipment, workshop equipment, and tools and
workshop improvements would be subject to prior review and approval by the
Bank. The selection of consultants would be in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.
51.       Principal indicators by which the project would be monitored are:
(i)  execution of the project as compared with the implementation schedule;
(ii) programming and implementation of MOW's annual maintenance programs;
(iii) budgeting of adequate funds for maintenance; (iv) number of miles
resealed and regravelled; (v) number of trainees participating in the
training program; (vi) availability and utilization of maintenance equipment.
Disbursements
52.       The Bank loan would be disbursed against 73% of the total cost for
civil works for road rehabilitation and drainage improvements and workshop
improvements; 100% of foreign expenditures for direct imports, or 95% of
total expenditures for locally procured imported equipment, spare parts,
workshop equipment and tools; 100% of foreign expenditures for consultant



- 14 -
services; 100% of the expenditures for training fellowships abroad; and 100%
of the total cost of materials for the TPU. The loan would also refinance
expenditures made under the Project Preparation Facility.
53.       In order to reduce the interval during which the Governament would
finance the Bank's share of the project costs with its own resources, a
Special Account would be opened in the Cent-ral Bank with an initial deposit
of US$0.4 million. The Government would make payments out of the Special
Account and would request replenishment of the Special Account by the Bank,
on the basis of fully documented withdrawal applications. For diLsbursements
in excess of US$0.4 million, regular procedures would apply. Disbursements
of loan funds would be made against standard documentation for all items
except the workshop improvements.  These latter works would be carried out by
force account and disbursements would be made against statements of
expenditures. Retroactive financing of up to US$165,000 would be provided
for procurement of spare parts for the equipment overhaul program and for
workshop improvements (Schedule 1, paragraph 4 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Benefits
54.       The proposed project is expected to yield benefits in several
areas. The road rehabilitation and drainage improvement components of the
project, which account for 80% of project costs, are estimated to yield an
economic rate of return of 17%.  This estimated return applies only to the
Bank-financed components of the overall rehabilitation program. Benefits
from these project components do not depend on the completion of other
rehabilitation works included in the overall program. Also, this, estimate
does not reflect the economic rate of return (38%) of the road maintenance
program, which also is supported by the project, because of overlap in
benefits between the rehabilitation, drainage improvement and road
maintenance program components. The calculated benefits from these two
components are based on savings in vehicle operating costs. Although not
easily quantifiable and therefore not taken into account in determining the
economic rate of return, a major expected benefit would be that the reduced
cost of transporting agricultural products and agricultural inputs and
supplies would stimulate an increase in agricultural production. Other
benefits, including passenger time savings and reductions in damage to goods
in transit were not considered, and to that extent the economic rates of
return calculated are conservative.  Moreover, the technical assistance
component would strengthen MOW's capacity for maintenance planning and
execution, and through the training program, would impart skills to the
private sector also.
Risks
55.       The road rehabilitation and drainage improvement component of the
project does not involve any special project risks. The main risk associated
with the road maintenance component of the project is that improviements in
road and equipment maintenance operations could take longer than expected
because the project is large in relation to MOW's capacity, or because
recurrent maintenance funds are not made available in a timely fashion. The
technical assistance included under the project should minimize the first
risk. To minimize the risk of budgetary shortfalls, funding requirements



- 15 -
would be closely monitored during the annual review of MOW's Road Maintenance
and Rehabilitation Program.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
56.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Belize and the Report
of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles
of Agreement are being distributed separately. The following would be
additional conditions for effectiveness:
(a)  establishment of the post of maintenance engineer in MOW and the
appointment of a suitably qualified candidate; and
(b) the employment of consultants to improve MOW's maintenance
capabilities and the assignment of counterparts.
The employment of consultants for the supervision of civil works would be a
condition for disbursements for civil works, and the functioning of a
suitably equipped TPU would be a condition for disbursements for the second
phase of civil works (Santa Elena-Corozal and Southern Highway). Special
conditions are listed in Section III of Annex III.
57.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
58.       1 recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
April 7, 1983



- 16 -
ANNEX I
TABIB 3A                                     Page  1  of  5
BELIZE - SOCIAL INDiCATORS DATA SHEET
BELIZE                               RZPEBNCE GROUPS (WBIGHTED AVRAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                           -  DST RECEN1 ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL             23.0                                MOST RECENT          MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL       1.3             1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b  LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN          EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                240.0       390.0   1080.0                   1902.0                   2323.9
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    225.5       463.7    660.2                   1259.9                   2107.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)   91.0       120.0    145.3
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 53.8       50.9      49.5                    65.7                     47.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       4.0         5.2       6.2                    35.2                     83.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    82.7        100.8    113.6                    92.5                    155.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          ..        49.3        ..                    39.7                     31.1
15-64 YRS.                          ..        46.4        ..                    56.1                     61.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    ..        4.3        ..                     4.2                      7.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              3.1         2.8       1.9/c                  2.4                      1.6
URBAN                             2.5          2.2       1.6                     3.8                     3.5
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       ..       37.0      39.4                    31.4                     23.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       ..         7.0       6.1                    8.4                      9.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              ..          ..        ..                     2.1                      1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)            ..      100.0    105.0/d                   110.0                   116.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                 109.5        111.0    125.0/d                 108.4                    125.1
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          63.1       60.0       69.37w                  66.0                    92.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       30.6        31.9     41.17T                  34.0                     35.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     6.8         4.0        ..                      5.6                     9.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)     ..          ..        ..                     64.2                    67.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          64.3        51.2      45.0/i                  64.2                     65.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              3.6/e     80.0/e       ..                    65.6
URBAN                             3.27i        ..        ..                    78.9
RURAL                             4.07i         ..       ..                     43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          ..        ..                    59.3
URBAN                               ..         ..        ..                    75.3                       ..                          )
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..                     30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         4045.5      2926.8   2934.8/d                  1617.3                  1105.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     1210.0/f   1764.7    414.17i                  1063.5                    634.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            214.1       185.2    203.0/d                  477.4                    286.8
URBAN                            181.2/S     192.8     160.67                  679.8                    192.0
RURAL                               ..      420.6    958.47h                  1903.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..         ..        1.4/h                  27.3                     20.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
tOTAL                              4.7         5.2
URBAN                             4.8          ..
RURAL                             4.7          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              1.9         ..
URBAN                              1.8         ..
RURAL                              2.1         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             29.3         ..
URBAN                             51.3         ..
RURAL                              4.4         ..



- 17 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                    Page  ;! of  5
BELIZE - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BELIZE                                 REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVIRAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)L-
MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN           EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENiROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                113.0        110.0f    85.0/d               104.3                     102.4
MALE                    ..          ..         ..                 106.4                     107.1
FEMALE                  ..          ..         ..                 103.3                      99.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 17.0         22.Oh       ..                  41.3                      60.2
MALE                    ..          ..         ..                  40.4                      66.4
FEMALE                  ..          ..         ..                  41.8                      54.0
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (I OF SECONDARY)   5.4           3.0       0.9/i                33.7                      31.6
PUPIL-TEACKER RATIO
PRIMARY                            46.3         27.5      27.7/h                29.9                      25.8
SECONDARY                          18.5         15.7      15.57i                16.7                      22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        86.6           ..         ..                 79.1                       75.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          7.7         34.2      42.4/i                42.8                      51.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         24.2        433.3     500.0                 270.5                     157.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..           ..        ..                  107.7                     123.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  42.0         33.3      49.3                  63.7                     112.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..           4.0        ..                   2.7                       4.0
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)        27.0         35.0      43.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   18.1           ..        ..                  24.4                      36.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              39.0         34.0      28.0                  31.3                      38.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 22.0         25.0        ..                  23.9                      25.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                30.0         29.2      29.7                  33.6                       44.5
MALE                                 49.5           ..         ..                 50.4                       56.3
FEMALE                               10.7           ..         ..                 16.8                      32.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                ..          1.8         *-                  1.3                        0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OP PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..            ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..                 184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..                 518.0
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..                 371.1                     406.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   Due to migration population growth rate is lower than rate of natural increase; /d 1977; /e Percentage
of housing units with piped water; /f 1964; /g 1962; /h 1975; /i 1976; /1 1968.
May, 1982



-18-                                                                               ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
DFNTIONS OP SOCIA IN7tDICAIM
Notes   Althosgh the data ore dose  ftoe  sources generally judged the mst authoritative and reliabl, it ahbosd ols  be cooed that they   y oat b  inter-
ntIonally  .Wu-aruble bec-use of the lotk of stadardi ed detioitions and .to  ptra used by different c                 inrties  n toll noting the data,  Te data are, none-
theless, useful to describe order  of magnitude, indicate trends, ted ohoroote e certain mJaor differences betweenrooutrien.
The reference troops are (1) the some coutry troop of the oubjhInt country aod (2) a toutry getup nith sonenhat high-r -verage income than the country groop
of the sujeeottountry (etneyt foo    Nigh Itoore   fit Egporters"  group  ehere  Kridldle Ionoe North Atrion  and giddle Est" is chosen because of stronger
soiot-nuloural otfinities).  Io rhe reference  group data the averages are population weighted aritt.e-ro  means foe each indicator and shlan  Only ehen
mjority of the coantries inageoup htu data for that indioatoy.  Stct the  -oneroge of couItties a-oog the indicators depedn.  at the ovatinlality of datt
and is not mitot=, cantion nskst hr exercised in relating uveroger of ore lodicator to annther.  Thee averages are only ourful to cospnring thy  oar of
one todicotor at a clan among tie Ctontry and rererenos groupsa
tAil (ohoansTd nq.k. )                                                                        Population yet geavinal Ned - total. uvba, ad rural - Populatot (total.
Tonal - total nurfnce ares coprintog land area nod inland etersd  1979 data,                  urban, and rural> dinided by their respecti tr toboer of hospital bhds
Aqricultural - Es-Isate of ogricultural area used tpornrily or permanently                    arailoble to public and private genral ond spncialized hlopital -nd ne-
for crops, pastures,  oterke ard kitchen gardets or to lie fallo; 1979 dta.                  hrbilitatinn centers.   ospital  are estobliuhlents permanently staffnd
by at least oen physician ltatebllh-enst prooiding printipally canto-
GlP PEg CAPITA (USt) - GNP per capita estimates at current srterk  prices.  cal-                 dial tare are aot included.  tral hotpinala, hovever, Ipelude health
culated by sm  cooterin method as World bank Atlas (197E8d-  basin); 196,                     and medical nentern tot permanently  staffed by a physician (ut by 
1970, Iqd 1980 data.                                                                          medical .n.israst, surer, nid-ife, etc.) dhich affer ia-potent a-nn-
datien and provide a limited range of medical facilities. FPa sinus-
ENERGf COmSUMPTION PEi CAPITA - Ahao-l osunprlon nf "ot"' if      l energy (coal               tical parpeses urbar hospitels itclude Wds. priW nipal/geperal hospitols,
and lignite. petrlnan, natural gas and hydro-. nuclnar and geother=sl elec-                   and rural hospitolt  local or rueal h.npitals ned sedic-l and maternity
tricity) in kilograms of real equitalent pee noapita; 190, 1971, end 1979                     centers.  Seciali ed hospitals ore included only tmder tatal
data.                                                                                       Admissions  er "Espitl bed - Total asbIer of admissions to or discharges
tam= hopirals dinidld by the so=ber of beds.
POPUIATIOb AND VITAL STATISTICS
Total Ppulatio-, gid--ear (thousands) - An of July 1; 1960, 1970, aod 198                 EOUSINIG
data.                                                                                     Avenge lien of .fIusoeld (persons per household) - total, urbat, and rural-
Urban Populatr- o      (percent of total) - tatio of urban to total population;               A household nonaists of a group of itdividuals she share living qanrters
different d finitions of urban  teas m ayffect comporsbility of data                        and their main meals   A boarder or lodger sy on may not be i-cluded in
_ntgcouotries; 1911, 1970. a 19 190 dats.                                                    the household for statstical purposes.
Porulation Projctlions                                                                      Averagetnuberofpersons peer too-totoal, urban - ad cocci -Iaerageanu- 
Population ir year 2O1O - Cfment population projeotlana arr hboed an 19EO                   her of persons  per rots in all colon, sd rural occupied conventionai
total population by age and ten and their nmrtality and fertility ratesd d.ellings. reopoctinsly   Neelllogo e  lode nee-peroennt structures and
Projection poossecern fotnortaliryranres oeyrlne of three letelsoastnon                   unoccupied yenta.
ing life eapeorn.cy at bireh increaoing with c-otrpys per caFita intoma                 Access to Electriciit  (peren-t of denilings) - total, urban, and rural -
level, and fesn  life  ropenconcy s.ahilinieg at 77.5 yearn.  Thr para-                   C.n..tiotol dvellings vith electriciopy it  liing qrters ape              g
eters far fertil ity rate also hate three leoels assuming decline in                      of otal, urban, and rural detlitogI   respeol :ioly.
fertiliryacording tn  icao"  len1 and post fapily planting performence
Each country io then as-igned eon of these tire coobinations of menality               tfUCATION
end fertility  r-ends tar prjojction porposes.                                          Adjntrd Enrll1sent Bario
Statiotary reputation-Ia  a stotionary populatlot there is tO grovth since                  Priary  -chool - total, soe and female - Gros otal, nea  and female
the       re      q lhIdnhte.n.da.uurhe  ageo sructurere-                                    nr -ll     ofnt  ol agoes at theptimaryltllas percentages of respective
soion coostant        Thin in achieved only otter bfetility rats decline to                 pri=gry rchoolage populations;  nordally  tocludes children aged 6-11
the repl-_me  level of unit netrprodctil rate., h-n eac  getera oln                         yeas but adjunted for differet  le-gths  f prli=ry ed-uatn; far
of wosD repla.eo itself  eorIly.  The  tationary populatio  o  s                            -e van  coutriesnith utnivrsal ednoatIoo onrullateot cry e-ceed 100 percent
ennlmeted 00 the basis at the projected characteristico of the populatiot                   since sane pupils err helen or aboo- the o,fflool scahol age.
theyearl2000,an herGD d         rac fdcline of fectility catet- orlace-                   ecuodorr school-cot,  nale andfe=ie - Cotend as ab-vr;sondary
teat level.                                                                                 eduntionrequires at least tour  years af opproved primry instruction;
Year ntati=aty population is reached - Tho yetr den stationary population                     protides general. Voatiatiol.  or teache   raao-ag insteuctions for pupils
sine nio l  ei reached. uihlly of 12 to 17 yerar of ago;  -crre-po  enceooursen ace generally
Paralettan Dttsitv                                                                              ercluded.
r sq. kh. - Bid-year populotJot per square kiloateer (100 hect-r-s) of                    V-cationel erroll=en   (pe..rct of secondary) - Vocaoional .   nstftutitns
total acre; 1960, 1970 and 1979 data.                                                     it-lde technical, industrial, ort hor prolano vhith operate indepeod-
Per sn. k.a griultural laod - cf-p-ced an aboor fur agriculitorl lond                       rotly or on deportmeot of necandary itstituttns
only;i 19610, 1971  nd 1979 dana.                                                       Pupil-teacher cotit  - pritiary  and oecondary-Total otudnts enrolled it
Paouletion Age Structure (percent) - Childre-  (0-14 yearn).  orkiog-uge (15-                 primary nod ..onodary levels dioided by b u -her  of teachers in the
64 years), sod        d (65 yearn and veer) as per-e-tage of oid-ye.r popo-                 correspodadig levels
Iation; 1910. 1970. atd 1980 dra.t                                                        Adult literany rate (rercnot) - Literate adults (ebll to rend and vtite)
Population Gro-th gate (pr.                  -An     t-h eaten a  total mid-                  asapercentage of total adult population nand 10 yearn and . or_
year papulatloa for 1950-it, 1960-70, anda1970-6t
Pepulation IrrYth tote (percent) - urhan - Afouol groytd eaten of urban popu-             CONSUIPTION
latioos tar 19SOf dO -1960-70  and 1971-IS.                                               Passeoger Car  (prrchousa.d population) - Peasenger corn c-po,lse  -otor
Cradn Birtth hRn (per thounandi - Anonul live birtha per thousand of oid-yeer                 cars  neatitg less thay eight persons; etcladen arbulances, hearses and
popUlotion;  11   970, oaf 1911 dato.                                                       sillry vehicle
Crude  naith hate (per thausnd) - Annoal deaths per thosan.d  of mid-yeer                   Radio Rgeciters (pee thousoed populotion) - ALl types of rece-iers far radio
population; 1110, 1970, and 1980 data.                                                      broadcaststo geeral public per thousand of populattio; secludes an-
Gross NMPraduotian hote-Average ouober of doughttees atvo=nill bher in                         1icenoed rentiters in countries and in year  vhes registratio       f at radio
h"r onol reproductie  -eriod if sh. experleneo  pr.evet age-npecific   -                     sets as ineffect; dara focrrcent  pers  aynot becparable since
oility raoeu; annally five-yeor  -terages ending in 1960. 1970. and 19O.                    P0!0 o-teiIs abolishnd linenning
Ya=ily Plaoniug -bctcro, Annual (thousands) -            Annual nuber of acneptors          TV  eroniters (per thoosood puputotiar) - TV rlo-ivera iot broodcost to
of birth-control devices ader auspices of national fanily plauniat progolo.                  general publin per thousand population; tooludes unlicesd fV reteives
Yoaily Planning - Usrs (perceul ofmacrideynren)- Percentoge otgrried                          ioco.ntri anu d in  ears vhan Igistration of TV sts e       a  ino ffect
tof  hild-bearig age (15-44 years) sheonue hirtI-cootoal  devicno to                NesIsIaer Civculation (per thounood ropulottor) - SInes the  -verage cir-
all married tamer to some ago group.                                                        cularin of tdal1y groeral Interest net opeper,  defined a. a pertwical
publi-ntion demaced pei=rily to recording E .n..loo   It iocateidered
tOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                              to be "dily" if it appears at least foort tIe  a meek
7ndrc of Pad Production per Gapita fl969-71-100) - I'dee of per "'pita anonnl               biIema Anonol Atreodnce per Capita per tear -- Nsed as the nbIer of
Produtihee at all fee  c inndinies.  Productio= nocludes need med fend and                  tickets -ild doing the por, including advlstons to drive-in otnema
is an nalendar year bhois    Co_pditie  tover priry goods (e.g  sogaruan                    and mebie aite.
iateed of a=g-r) vhieb see edible  nd onmd aio nieoes (e.g. -nff en   d
tea sog moteldad).  Aggregate prodnonioP   of e.h cosetep in bhsed  s                   LIIOR FORCEt
notional onsage producer price o  eigIte; 1961-65, 197D. sod 1980 data.                   Total Labo  PorF e (t,hsso.ds) - too      L active ye  ant, including
Per capit. apply of calns (percent of ronoirrooto) - Copt.uted from                           armed forcenand unemployed butectlading boo          no, st.d.nts  etc. ,
energy equivoleot of net food supplittestalable to co-nory pI    r copito                   cotertg popula nit a   ag.             finons in tri0uores ore
p-r dy. Aooiable supplies comprise doenstic production, ipports lens Iot camparIabl; 1960, 1971  and 1900 dato
expo"t', ott charges in useto  k   tt sIpIlies extclde atldal ford, seeds,                  Femle (percet) - Fe-I  labor force 00 procontege of total bIr farce
quantities used in food processing   _d lesser in distribution   Require-                   Agriculture (perteot) - Lboor force to fooIIng  fortry, hunitn end
cents nere eatiaoted by FAO based on phy,ialogical en.ds for nrml acti-                       fisihig as perc.ntage of total lah-r force; 195, 1970 ond 19gO date.
vity and heIath consideriog entirato--ral tosperature. body reights, age                    Ind-utry (yecen) - Labor force it stying.  ctontrction, sotofrtgriog
and se- diftoibhtica of population, and aloning 10 percent fot "a'te at                       ad electritity, voter afd gn an perceonage of total  abor fortei;
household level; 1961-65, 1970 ned 1977 data.                                                 196. 1970 ad 1910 date
Per cap ita supply of proteti  (orama per day) - Protein content of per capita              Parotiipatan l  are (pM rnent) - total, male, a   female - P`rticipati= or
net supply of foed per fey   Set supply of food is defined os abte.  to-                    actitity rates ace computed as total  =le, sod female labor forceas
quiromeurn  for all contes estahltshed by USDA po-ide far tinimum                           percermages of rotal, nare and femle papolactio  of nal  ages reopeotively;
alloyances of 6S gra= of tonol protein per fop and 20 grant of ani=al and                   1910, 1970, and ala data.  These are hated on IL 's participation roles
pulse proteio, of  Ihith 10 g9-en should be animl proet-i    Thete sancd-                   reflecting age-net structore of the popalatton, and ltn tine trend.  A
ards arelo     than.tbosef 75 grar  of total protein           3 Egra  of                   feveotitatesare fro=n ntio "lIsources
solmal p000 as onan average for the ncrld, proposed by FAD in the Third                  lEtiow=ic  denfenot b=tio - hatio of popolett  opner 15 and 65 and oyer
World Food Survey; 1961-65, 1970 and 1977 data                                              to the total laber farce.
Per capita po,te  supply from soimi aod pulsed- Pr-otin supply of food de-
cited froe  ai_ls mad p.tses in inane pr day; 191165, 1970 and 1977 dta.                INCOhE DISTEIBUTION
Child fageo  1-4) Death Rate (per tbohesod>  - Annual deaths per thousand in                Perceotage  of Private Income (both to cash and  kid) - Receited by richest
ge groupl14 years, tochildn  in t-h oage group; fr mst develapingtco=-                      5          percent,ciohe   20pnrcet, poorest 20 psonot, ad poroest 40 percent
stint data derived from life tablet; 1960, 1970 and 19O data.                              of hooseholds.
HEALTH                                                                                      POVERTY TARGIT GROUSP
Life Onpretanor at Birth (yeers) - AterAg. n=oer of yearn of life  -esioig                 The folloving esti=atr= are veryoppouimate anasares of pttetIy levels,
at birt; 1960, 1970 and 1911 dat.A                                                          and should he tdng ponoed mill coneiderable caution.
ofant bortality tote (por thuaaad) - Asnol deaths of ifetot  ==det eon pear YutE ted Ablelre P=verty lurom  Level (US$ pee nopita) - urban nod rurol -
of age per thoasod live birtoh,; 19b10,  197mod atO data.                                   Abslate apnerty incom  letel is that inCom  level IlIv vhich .inital
Acossono isIeVater Innocent of popu(lation   - total, urbne  ad r-rol - Nt-                    ouriti=twlly adeqano- dint plus e.s.etil tao-food requirmaents is not
ber of people (total, uvrbe, and rtroli Vith reosonolls access to safe                      atfordable
ester supply (itoladestreated surfeo  esters  or antreated bat octrontnated               istisoted Relative Ptnerty Ione Lbetl (US$ $ r capi,) - orbIo  and rural -
ester soh as that from pootected boreheles  epriogo, and  anitary sells) as                Rtoal rnlotine poverty Become leel iann-third of annoote par eapit,
rercectage- of their oespcntive populations n= en urn aeos -public                          personl income of the cou=try   Uboa= lenel is deneid from the r-ral
fountain or stoodp.ot located son mrt than 200 eters fees a hoone  ay bI                    le-e mith odjuot"ast far higher rnt of lIning io orb o areas.
cnideref as being vitbi= reasonable access of that heose.  I=rora  ereos                  iEinmted topologies belon dksolatn P=yerty Inco  e bevel (percent) - urban
reIosoble scors -.ld inply th  the hone- ife or sembers of the heosehld                    tnd trs1 - Percent of p=pulatip= (arbh   and mera) sw see tabolete
do mn hens to sped a dispr-p-rtieane pars of thi  day  io fetohing the                      Poor
famiLty's mter seeds.
Aknes to   erea t. Dispro  I (prc-em  of PrPe lation) - toto1, uebG, and total -
Ntboer of pesple (eotl, urba, an d roral) meroed by encrete diapos.l as
petgem. of their respective pep'laia.tin-          crete disposal my to1tode
tlb  eolisptirn sd disposal. vitb or itbot t trest t of hb s eerets
and nose-ter by stme-borPe  systf7 or the ose of pit privies and mi s-
Popelstiae Pea  Physicin - Population divided by nudsr ef praetising phIpi-                                                     Eoopi  so  SniaSql tDas l sDivion
rises qolif ted tree a .edieai mobeel at osiversity len.-                                   lBosnic  Aslysia md Penjeelians Dsprtns.t
Peeslanise potr trssng Person - PopoI-les divided by ober of p-metising                                                                      Mop 19B2
m1s sd female grad-ats smesas, oesissatt enes, pemteical ene-as ad
-sersig soilisrie.



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
BELIZE - Economic Indicators
Gross National Product in 1981                                                           Annual Rate of Growth (% constant prices)
US $ million              %                          1978-81                               1981-82
GNP at Market Price                          160.7          100.0                            4.9                                 0.1
Gross Domestic Investment                     44.6           27.7                           4.1                                -16.6
Gross National Saving                         22.4           13.9                          -4.6                                -54.3
Current Account Balance of Payments          -22.2         -13.8
Exports of Foods, NFS                        145.9           90.7                            0.0                               -13.0
Imports of Goods, NFS                        176.0          109.5                           5.9                                -10.9
Output in 1981                                                                                                                                                      '
Value Added
US $ million              X
Agriculture                                   57.6           43.6
Industry and construction                     19.5           14.7
Services                                      55.2           41.7
Total                          132.3          100.0
Government Finance
Consolidated Public Sector                                               Central Government
(Bz$ Min.)                      % of GDP                                   (Bz$ Min.)              % of GDP
1980/81    1981/82               1980/81    1981/82                        1980/81    1981/82      1980/81      1981/82
Current Receipts                                    ..                         ..                                      81.9       83.9         27.2         25.4
Current Expenditure                           ..          ..                   ..          ..                          64.2       75.1         21.4         22.8
Current Surplus                             16.3        9.3                   5.4        2.8                           17.7        8.8          5.8          2.6
Capital Expenditures                        45.9       50.6                  15.3       15.4                           27.1        30.9         9.0          9.4
External Assistance (net)                   20.3       29.4                   6.8        8.9                            5.1        15.3          1.7         4.6
March 31, 1983



ANNEX I
Pa-ge 5 of 5
Belize - Economic Indicators
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                               1977          1978              1979           198 0         198 1
(Million outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                              77.5          102.0            109.0          124.1          141.8
Bank Credit to Public Sector                       12.2           18.4             20.7           27.6          38.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector                      54.7           58 .8            76.5           8 2. 7         95.9
(Percentage of Index Numbers)
Money sod Quasi Money as % of GDP                  41.4           47.9             43.9           41.3           43.0
General Price Index (1963 = 100)                     ..
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                                 ..:           5;.
Bank credit to Public Sector                       5845.                           12.5           33.:3          3;77
Bank credit to Private Sector                      -6.7            7.5             30.1            8.1           16.0
BALA,NCE OF PAYMENTS                                                MERCRANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1979-81)
1979        1980       198 1                                               US$ Mil.              ____
Exports of Goods, NFS            107.1       141.4       145.9            Sugar and molasses                     42.4              58.5
Imports of Goods, NFS          -145.0       -1 64.8    -176.0             Sawn Wood                               1.3                1.8
Resource Gap (deficit =  ) -37.9            -_23.4      -30.1             Citrus Products                         5.8               8.0
Fish Products                          5.2                7.2
Net Factor Inxcome Payments    -2.3           -3.6        -3.9            All other commodities                  17.8              24.5
Net Transfers                     15.7         14.9       11.8                    Total                          72.5             100.0
Balance on Current Account   -24.5           -12.2      -22.2
EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31 (US$ million)                          198-2                   Projection
Public Capital                    13.9        10.1        12.7                                                                                       1985     1990    1995
Disbursement                    (9.4)       (9.1)       (8.5)
Amortization                   (-1.0)      (-1.9)    (-1.5)             Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                            70.7              101.0    161.6   28 7.8
Capital Grants                  (5.5)       (2.9)       (5.7)           Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                               .
Other Capital (net)                B.5         4.4         7.4            Total outstanding & Disbursed                              .
Increase in Reserves ()           -2.1        +2.3       -2.1  DEBT SERVICE RATIO 2/
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                                    4.4               10.4      6.4     10.8
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                                       .
Total outstanding & Disbursed                                     .                   
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                       IBRD/IDA LENDING, (latest month) (Million US$):
Since May 1976                                                                                              IBRD        IDA
US $ 1.00 = Bz$2.00                                                    Outstanding & Disbursed--
Bz $ 1.00 = US$0.50                                                   Undisbursed- 
Outstanding incl. Undisbursed          - 
a/ Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and nonfactor services, excluding re-exports.
not available                                                                                                                                             Mrh3,18
not applicable



- 21 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BELIZE
A. Statement of Bank Loans as of March 31, 1983
None.
B. Statement of IFC Investments as of March 31, 1983
None.
C. Projects in Execution
None.



- 22 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
BELI.ZE
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:   six months
(b)  Project prepared by:              MOW with assistance from consultants
(c)  Identification Mission:           June 1982
(d)  Appraisal Mission:                November/December 1982
(e)  Negotiations:                     March 1983
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:  August/September 1983
Section II: Special Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Government will not undertake or commit to undertake port investments of
over US$500,000 per annum pricir to completion of the Export
Transportation Master Plan (paragraph 25);
(b)  MOW to prepare road and bridge condition survey and to classify road
network by June 30, 1984 (paragraph 27);
(c)  MOW to carry out a study by June 30, 1984 to determine the most
economical axle-load and dimension limits (paragraph 29);
(d) Government to update the Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program
annually and to exchange views with the Bank not later than January 31,
beginning in 1984 (paragraph 32);
(e) MOW to prepare annual road and bridge maintenance work programs for each
district and to exchange views with the Bank not later than January 31,
beginning in 1984 (paragraph 33);
(f) Government to prepare by January 31, 1984, an equipment overhaul,
scrapping and replacement program, to be implemented according to a
timetable satisfactory to the Bank (paragraph 34);



- 23 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(g) Government to prepare by January 31, 1984 an action plan to carry out
the training components and to carry out the plan in accordance with a
timetable satisfactory to the Bank (paragraph 44);
(h) The following would be additional conditions of effectiveness:
(i) Establishment of the post of Maintenance Engineer and the
appointment of a suitably qualified candidate (paragraph 31
and 56);
(ii) Employment of consultants for strengthening MOW and assignment
of counterparts (paragraph 49 and 56);
(i) The following would be a condition of disbursements for civil works:
the appointment of consultants for supervision of civil works
(paragraphs 49 and 56); and
(j) The following would be a condition of disbursements for the second phase
of civil works (Santa Elena - Corozal and Southern Highway): the
functioning of a suitably equipped TPU (paragraphs 44 and 56).



I



[BRD 16947
woo00                                 8a 30'                                68- s J                               87- 30'                 JANUARY  1983
18030                                                    .-v..---C *   .~    Cha '            M         E X I C 0                                                      18' 30
j C e           Consejo
M     E    X    I   C   0                    )             Coroza;
Louisvd     S                  -
Son V,ctor 
DOLQICS r~ ~~ro rns
GoGgias 3 fs ~Progresso
SonAn,ono Awo ,,,                   COROZAL
JCroan        Oronge Wolk DISTRICT
Corte to                                         AMbERGRIS                                                      18' 00'
t8o00'    _..0%.                                                     N r>/Augusl  -CAY
g Ne                                                   - tSon Pedo
sor Fe|Ipe                                          \    Mcok                                BELIZE
SoRNGnto. aCoteod                               ROAD MAINTENANCE
ORANjE WALKTfIT                 j (',                        Ck                                     AND REHABILITATION
DIST/RICT                                                                                                   PRJC
j X   v     ,xBurrell5eurldjlPROJECT
('Bern,onnon    Boorn/ l 
<    I                                gRorcIto
|Do-I,e5:         D    I17            >.                                                                                          r
70C'                               IBELIE                                                                                                                            370 30'-
Hott,en, I   iize
~~ vSTR .                    -CT~ .    City                             TURNEFFE
!     vs  \ 4  R                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ISLANDS
<    ! /               C)~~ ~       ~ ~~~rang  I7EDS T R I ICDT
! ,v \ ~~BELMOPAN. 
jdoSanignacio! -
,ynque                                          M ddlese- 1     -   -   'Project Roads:
;c denaue Pomonr . ,,-                                                                                                       Rehabilitation
17~~~~~~~~~~~~~00                             -no~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ehb70
{ CAS Y O   D l S T R I C T  j             Alto v';             Sorowiono gi'                                             Drainage Improvements
i   (                                    STANrigo N__-.__  Main Roads
Other Roads
el      National Capital
<  t  /   D  I ST Rl CT  }.   ,,                     }                    eo       District Capitals
o        Towns and Villages
-            District Boundaries
.   /     .-   -   International Boundaries
[   r- /         :               e) \;;        qj~~~~~~~~~~~I Seiinie B ght  
i  .-i  r  ,Y H   X?_dip ndep on  e  !,co1 30'
KILOMETERS 9 _ 10            20     30      40    50
/  /  ~~~~~~~~~~ t7gY                                              _i                     Mi~~~~~~~~~~~~~4LES 6  0       20         3
| T O L E D O  Helgote nDISTRIC                  ?tIsey                                   C k*e                              87',30
B,TFa11   /   9  t  .own         rh,. -aP 030 banpr-Pecared by
the 00014 600<0~ stan enC-tysV
Sron Antr,nio  9FallU.S.A, the cnne   the                                                                                        U
0',t * o.- w                                   Co,pota,ona<eenme0VNtonmaak                                      6AHAMAS
I     an noA -t-RnatnI Fe--t
I     CrpobO  T.oOo,,ntO 
I t         .USed and too b-ndORe0 Sh-n 
ic                                                  -~~~~~~~~~E  p1, thrap no not -rpy. - the . 
pan 0! TOeP ttot not,k Rd ton
,t.snto Oi erd,                               0                                                                                         pano!  MEXICO  tte.t t-   oPePto   MEXICO)  -  t
|  fPuntaGorda3                         N                            Ri -ntnnt tntotetyrany  ,               JAMAICA
.Jenadroueatnt nora eptnnceo st ,r                                   COtMNICAN
1160oo0g                         Gulif Ofr    tdor/8lRfO5                                    soon bnounds     16'00'   tS o  3ELIZE                                  REPUBLIC
04HONO,tnAS-
I  ~~~~ -  _  2  \ A \                                                          ;t   ' N CARAGUA                       _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VENf.ZUEfLA
G U A T E MZAL A                                                                                                     SALCOR                             CO         /
8'o3                                2 88I30      -                           8RC HONDURAS



