Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 18773 BR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
AN THE AMOUNT OF US$150 MILLION
TO
THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR THE
SALVADOR URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
May 14, 1999
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Unit
Brazil Country Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Brazilian Reais (R$)
US$1 = 1.70R$
(March 1999)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANTP           -    National Association for Public Transport
(Associa,co Nacional de Transportes Publicos)
BOT                 Build-Operate-Transfer
CBTU           -    Brazilian Urban Train Company
(Companhia Brasileira de Trens Urbanos)
CEPRAN              State Council for Environmental Protection
(Conselho Estadual de Proteg5o Ambiental)
CONDER              Salvador Metropolitan Region Development Company
(Companhia de Desenvolvimento da Regiao Metropolitana de Salvador)
COFIEX              Commission for External Financing
CRA                 State Environmental Resource Center
(Centro de Recursos Ambientais)
CTS                 Salvador transport Company
(Companhia de Transportes de Salvador)
EMU            -    Electric Multiple Units
FB             -    Fixed Budget
GSB            -    Government of the State of Bahia
ICB            -    International Competitive Bidding
IERR           -    Internal Economic Rate of Return
LCS            -    Least Cost System
METROSAL            Proposed name of future Salvador Metrorail system
NCB            -    National Competitive Bidding
NPV            -    Net Present Value
PAR            -    Performance Audit Report
PCR            -    Project Completion Report
PCU            -    Project Coordination Unit
PIU                  Project Implementation Unit
PS                  Salvador Municipality
(Prefeitura de Salvador)
QCBS           -    Quality Cost-Based System
RTCC           -    Regional Transport Coordination Commission
SPE    -            Special Projects Secretariat of the Salvador Municipality
(Secretaria da Prefeitura de Salvador para Projetos Especiais)
SMR            -    Salvador Metropolitan Region
SB                  State of Bahia
SM                  Municipality of Salvador
(Prefeitura de Salvador)
STU/SAL             CBTU's Salvador subdivision
Vice President: Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager/Director: Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Manager/Director: Danny Leipziger
Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Jorge Rebelo



iii
Federative Republic of Brazil
Salvador Urban Transport Project
CONTENTS
Page Number
A. Project Development Objective                                              2
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators        2
B. Strategic Context                                                          2
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project                    2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                          3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices  6
C. Project Description Summary                                                6
1. Project components                                                  6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project       6
3. Benefits and target population                                      7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                       7
D. Project Rationale                                                          7
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection           7
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies 8
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design            8
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                    9
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                         9
E. Summary Project Analyses                                                   10
1. Economic                                                            10
2. Financial                                                           10
3. Technical                                                           10
4. Institutional                                                       11
5. Social                                                               I 1
6. Environmental assessment                                            12
7. Participatory approach                                              13
F. Sustainability and Risks                                                   13
1. Sustainability                                                      13
2. Critical risks                                                      13
3. Possible controversial aspects                                       15



iv
Page Number
G. Main Loan Conditions                                                         15
1. Effectiveness conditions                                              15
2. Other                                                                 15
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                 16
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                16
Annexes
Annex 1.      Project Design Summary                                            17
Annex 2.      Detailed Project Description                                      21
Amnex 3.      Estimated Project Costs                                           24
Annex 4.      Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary, or                                 25
Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary
Annex 5.      Financial Sumiiary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or       28
Financial Summary
Annex 6.      Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                         30
Table A.    Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements                         31
Table Al.   Consultant Selection Arrangements                                 32
Table B.    Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review               33
Table C.    Allocation of Loan Proceeds                                       34
Annex 7.      Project Processing Budget and Schedule                            35
Arnnex 8.     Documents in Project File                                         36
Annex 9.      Statement of Loans and Credits                                    37
Annex 10.    Country at a Glance                                                41
Map IBRD 30090



Federative Republic of Brazil
Salvador Urban Transport Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Country Management Unit 5
Date: May 6, 1999                                                   [ ] Draft       [x]  Final
Task Manager: Jorge M. Rebelo                         Country Manager: Gobind T. Nankani
Prcject ID: BR-PE-48869                              Sector: Transport
Lending Instrument: Sector Investment Loan            PTI:          [ ] Yes         [xl  No
Project Financing Data
[x] Loan      [] Credit    [ ] Guarantee   [   Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount:                  US$150 million
Proposed Terms:                       l   Multiple currency        [x ] Single currency
Grace period (years): 5          [3  Standard variable        [I  Fixed        [XI  LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 15
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Service charge: 0%
Front-end Fee: 1%
Financing plan (US$ million):            Source                     Local          Foreign       Total
IBRD (including front end fee of    2             148             150
1%)
Government of Brazil               40                              40
State of Bahia/                    68                              68
Private Sector                    44                6             50
Total    154             154            308
Borrower:                Federative Republic of Brazil
Guarantor:               n.a.
Responsible agencies:    Companhia Brasileira de Trens Urbanos (CBTU), State of Bahia represented by the
Special Projects Secretariat of the Salvador Municipality
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$ million):                  2000    2001    2002    2003      2004
Annual   25       50       50      20         5
Cumulative            75     125      145      150
For Guarantees:                                                    [ ] Partial Credit   [ ] Partial risk
Proposed coverage:
Project sponsor:
Nature of underlying financing:
Terms of financing:
Principal amount (US$)
Final maturity
Amortization profile
Financing available without guarantee?:                            []Yes                []No
If yes, estimated cost or maturity:
Estimated financing cost or maturity with guarantee:
Expected effectiveness date: December 1999                                 Closing date: December 31, 2003
O0,D PAD Form: July 30. 1997



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project Development Objectives: (see Annex 1 for key performance indicators)
a   The objectives of the proposed project are : (a) to improve the quality of public urban
transport in the SMR by enhancing the development of a fully integrated urban transport
system, under the coordination of a regional transport coordination commission; and (b) to
transfer from the Federal Government to the State of Bahia and Municipality of Salvador,
the ownership and management of the Salvador subdivision of the CBTU system.
Objective (a) would be achieved by financing infrastructure and equipment which are necessary to build
a rail-based system under a BOT type project, fully operated by the private sector, in the corridors which
are justified, and ensuring its integration with buses, ferryboats and non-motorized transport; and by
setting up the regional transport coordination commission in charge of coordinating and recommending
common policies on pricing, financing, and project evaluation in the SMR. Objective (b) would be
achieved by assisting CBTU in all the steps required to transfer to the State of Bahia and Municipality of
Salvador the operations, management and ownership of its Calgada-Paripe line so that it can be
adequately integrated with the new metrorail and bus system. Subsidiary objectives would be the
improvement of the mobility of the low-income population who are the main users of public transport and
the reduction of the environmental impacts (mainly air quality and noise) on the SMR due to road-based
vehicles use.
B: Strategic Context
1 Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS docurment number: Report No. 16582-BR    Date of latest CAS discussion: June 2, 1998
7 ie current Bank's assistance strategy to Brazil was endorsed by the Board on June 12, 1997 and
progress reports on its implementation were discussed by the Board on June 2, 1998 and December 14,
1998. The thrust of the strategy continues to be : to support policies and investments which will
encourage economic growth and social development in a context of macroeconomic stability. The
emphasis is on efficient resource allocation, increased efficiency in the public sector and the appropriate
targeting and delivery of support systems to the poor. The proposed project objectives are in line with
the CAS four main drivers, namely: (a) development and implementation of structural reforms, through
increased private sector participation in the investment and operation of the Metrosal system; (b) fiscal
improvement to reduce Government subsidies through adequate tariff policies and improved financial
management; (c) contribution to poverty reduction by increasing job accessibility for low-income classes;
and (d) satisfactory portfolio performance. Through its involvement in the project, the Bank has already
helped accelerate the discussion of the role of the private sector in urban transport in the Salvador
Metropolitan Region, and will stimulate a thorough review and improvements of sub-sector policies--
particularly tariff and modal integration--at the state and municipal levels. The proposed project is also a
follow-up to the efforts started in 1992 with the CBTU Transport Decentralization Program which aims at
decentralizing the federally-owned CBTU's Salvador subdivision to the State to allow for more effective
modal and tariff integration, without burdening the State with additional operating subsidies. The
proposed project is also anchored on the following ESW: a) Urban Transportation: Issues and Options,
which laid the foundations for the CBTU decentralization program; and b) Essentials for Sustainable
Urban Transport in Brazil's Large Metropolitan Areas. This ESW was widely discussed within the Bank
and with our Brazilian counterparts. They have adopted b) as their urban transport strategy; and c) the
ESW on metrorail systems prepared by TWUTD (TWU-28) and the experience accumulated worldwide
in the financing of rail transit when the high levels of demand so require, the environmental benefits are
significant, alternative modes are incapable of satisfying the demand and the fares will be sufficient to
cover working costs defined as out-of-pocket costs plus depreciation and cost of capital of equipment.



Page 3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy:
Background:
The Salvador Metropolitan Region (SMR), with 2206.45 km2 and 2.5 million inhabitants spread
irregularly over 10 individual municipalities is dominated by the Salvador Municipality (SM) with
2.3 million inhabitants. The SMR concentrates roughly 21% of SB's population on just 0.4% of
its territory. SM alone has 19.4% of the population of the state and 62% of the income of SMR.
SM generates roughly 37% of SB's income and jobs. Each day, 3.7 million person trips take
place in the SMR of which 81% are home-to-work trips. Of the total trips 54.7% are by public
transport, 14.4% are by auto, 28.9% are by foot and the remaining 2% by other modes. Of the
public transport trips 98% are by bus (mostly private operators), 0.7% by suburban train
(STU/SAL), 0.5% by ferry and .8% by other modes. Of the 1.9 million trips by public modes,
about half use more than one vehicle, requiring some sort of modal transfer to be completed.
This level of urban transport activity, dominated by the road-based motorized modes has
significant impacts on the SMR's environment. The poor condition and lack of integration with
other modes in most of the existing CBTU line discourages more rail trips from the Suburbio
area, in favor of buses and the automobile creating heavy congestion during peak hours thereby
significantly increasing home-to-work trip time. Salvador's geography and topography with its
hills is prone to traffic congestion, especially when accidents occur and/or cars breakdown.
There is limited space for fully segregated busways. It is estimated that a "Salvador inhabitant"
wastes 5 days a year more in travel time than it would if traffic congestion was not so high.
Several bus corridors have already more than 15,000 passengers/hour/direction, a level beyond
which safety and efficiency of segregated busways decreases quite rapidly leading to higher
travel times, lower reliability and more accidents.
The main users of the public transport system are from the Miolo and Suburbio neighborhoods
and bear the brunt of these problems: (i) shortage of capacity at peak hours resulting in
overcrowded buses, (ii) long work journeys (2.5-3 hours/day for a round trip) from the
metropolitan periphery to the urban centers, with often more than two modal transfers; and (c)
paying over a fourth of their income towards fares. Lack of coordination between the 2 levels of
government responsible for urban transport, particularly between the SB and the SM, has led to
poor tariff and modal integration, lack of prioritization in urban transport investments and no
common policy on pricing and subsidies. Finally, SMR needs to modernize its traffic engineering
and control technology and introduce traffic area restraint measures to be able to cope with the
present and growing number of road-based vehicles and introduce policies which will discourage
the use of the rapidly growing use of the automobile for home-to-work trips. In view of the above,
the SB and SM administrations have decided that improving metropolitan transport is one of their
main priorities. In urban transport, the main goals of this administration are: to build the basic
"rail-based" network in corridors where bus solutions are not feasible, transforming one link of the
suburban rail system into a modern Metro like operation, increasing the participation of the
private sector in the operation and investment of all urban transport systems to improve
productivity and reduce costs and introducing policies which will promote the use of urban
transport. SB/SM approached the Bank for a loan which will help in achieving those objectives.
The loan received COFIEX approval in July 1997.
Key Issues
*   A number of key issues must be addressed in order to improve the supply of urban
transport services and to guarantee their orderly development and sustainability in the long
term for the SMR. They are: (a) institutional issues; (b) cost recovery and financial
management issues; (c) environmental issues; and (d) transport planning issues.
*   Institutional Issues. The most critical institutional issues are: (a) the fine-tuning of relations
between state and municipal governments and a clear definition of their respective roles in
the financing, planning and operation of urban transport services in accordance with the
1988 Constitution; and (b) the appropriate modification of regulations, including the
elimination of regulatory barriers which might prevent free entry and/or competition in the



Page 4
market for provision of public transport services. The Government's strategy is to create a
formal regional coordination entity empowered by the SMR for planning, coordinating and
setting priorities for new investments and modal integration. This establishment of the
RTCC was a condition of appraisal of the proposed project. A proposal for the
establishment of the RTCC was discussed with the Bank during preparation and resuited in
the establishment of a formal RTCC in August 1998. For regulatory purposes, however, the
Bank has suggested that a multisectoral regulatory body be established. The State will
undertake to maintain the RTCC.
e Cost Recovery and Financial Management Issues. The need to address cost recovery from
a more commercially oriented standpoint by: (a) setting tariffs which, when added to
subsidies, cover at least the long-run variable costs (defined as out-of-pocket costs plus
depreciation of equipment and cost of capital) of the service provided; (b) controlling fare
evasion; (c) appropriate peak and off-peak pricing; (d) improving the financial management
of the systems through wide-ranging cost cutting measures, staff rationalization policies,
and employing more financial managers to run the mass transit systems; and (e) revamping
the funding mechanisms in order to guarantee adequate financing for the implementation of
new mass transit systems and the sustainability of the existing systems. To help achieve
these goals, the Government of the State of Bahia (GSB) has embarked on an aggressive
campaign to promote private sector participation in the urban transport sector and will carry
out the turnkey cum concessioning of the new rail based system. GSB was recently
successful in concessioning out the ferryboat system to the private sector.
Environmental Issues. Air pollution, noise, traffic congestion, and road accidents are major
environmental issues to be addressed in the SMR. The reduction of the environmental
impacts of urban congestion and noise pollution in the urban area could be done through:
(a) the allocation of responsibilities across government levels for the enforcement of the law
and definition of tougher standards; (b) the use of cleaner and quieter systems; (c) where
appropriate, the use of non-motorized transport; (d) improved traffic management and
control; and (e) the strengthening of traffic safety education and the enforcement of traffic
regulations. As part of a long-term strategy, the Government is reviewing the potential role
of market-based incentives to address pollution as well as the implementation-to the
extent possible-of the polluter-pay principle to minimize the fiscal burden implied by de
facto government subsidies to polluters. The contribution of this project to improvement of
air quality related to transport is modest. However, it will lay the foundations for future work.
Transport Planning Issues. The need to strengthen SMR's transportation planning, traffic
data base, traffic management, and economic and financial evaluation of new investments
could be met if there is a formal coordinating agency for urban transport in the metropolitan
region. This agency should be equipped with a battery of sketch planning, demand and
supply models which will test different land use, air quality, and urban transport scenarios.
Furthermore, an integrated land use, urban transport, and air-quality strategy should be
designed and periodically revised. The institutional component of the proposed project has
provisions to finance this type of modes and supporting studies.
Government Strategy
The Federal Government strategy insofar as the CBTU is concerned, is to transfer the ownership,
management and responsibility of that system to the respective states where CBTU's subdivisions are
located. This is a program started in 1992 with Bank financing and is in line with the Brazilian constitution
which states that all urban transport should be the responsibility of the local (State or municipal)
authorities. In return for the transfer of the system to the States, the Federal government is willing to
contribute to its rehabilitation and finance extensions or a new system which will allow the State to serve
a growing urban transport demand at the lowest or no subsidy.
The State's strategy for the SMR is anchored in 4 pillars: a) to establish with the municipalities,
operators and users a regional transport coordination commission; b) to develop and update on a
periodic basis, an integrated land use, urban transport and air quality strategy; c) to introduce financing
mechanisms which will guarantee the long-term sustainability of the urban transport systems; and d) to
promote progressive private sector participation in the investment and operations management of those
systems. The rationale for State's support to the SMR is the following: The Salvador Metropolitan Region



Page 5
is the 6th biggest city of the country in terms of population and is already experiencing traffic congestion
problems in several of its corridors . The SMR was the beneficiary of some of the early busway projects
financed by the Bank , which were very successful. Now, the reserved busway solution is not sufficient
in those corridors and other options including fixed guideway systems must be evaluated wherever peak
hour traffic demand already exceeds 15,000 passengers/hour/direction. Given that the State
Government and the Prefeitura of Salvador are both from the same party, this is a unique opportunity for
the establishment of a regional transport coordination commission which will have the responsibility of
integrating all modes, implementing tariff policies which are cost-based, agreeing on subsidies if need be
and ensuring that technological improvements such as automatic ticketing will be compatible in all
modes. At the same time, the Federal government is decentralizing its STU/SAL subdivision to the
State as part of the program initiated with Bank financing in 1992. The opportunity here to build, under a
BOT type concept, a rail-based system which will be operated under concession by the private sector,
and to privatize other modes which serve the SMR is in agreement with the Urban Transport Strategy
prepared by the Bank in 1992 and updated annually since then. Furthermore, the overall program of
which this project is a subset, will allow the implementation of an integrated urban transport, air quality
and land use strategy and will focus resources on traffic management and area traffic restraint policies
which may help in controlling the explosive automobile traffic growth.
Institutional Framework
There are at present three main government bodies dealing with the urban transport sector in the SMR:
(a) the State Secretary of Energy, Transport and Communications (Secretana de Estado de Energia,
Transportes e Comunicagoes -SETC) which is responsible for regulating (market entry and exit, tariff
setting, safety and quality control) all passenger transport which operates in more than one municipality
as well as the State roads department. It oversees the intermunicipal bus lines, intercity bus terminals
and the ferry-boats. This regulatory function was recently delegated to the Regulatory Agency for
Energy, Transport and Communications (Agencia de Regulag3o de Servigos de Energia, Transportes e
Comunicag6es-AGERBA); (b) the Municipal Secretary of Urban Transport (Secretaria Municipal de
Transportes Urbanos-SMTU) which has a Superintendence of Public Transport (Superintendencia de
Transporte Publico -STP). SMTU through STP regulates (market entry and exit, tariff setting, safety
and quality control) all the municipal bus transport, taxis and elevators; and the Superintendence for
Traffic Engineering (Superintendencia de Engenharia de Trafego- SET) which is responsible for all the
traffic management and control in the metropolitan region. Also involved in metropolitan transport
planning and project implementation are two other agencies: a) The State Secretary of Planning and
Development ( Secretaria de Planejamento e Desenvolvimento) through the Regional Development
Company (Companhia de Desenvolvimento Regional-CONDER); and the Municipal Secretary of Special
Projects (Secretaria Municipal de Projetos Especiais- SPE) which is involved in the implementation of
most transport infrastructure investments such as roads, busways, elevator rehabilitation and the
proposed metrorail in the Municipality. Finally CBTU, a federal enterprise under the Ministry of Transport
runs the existing commuter rail system (STU/SAL).
Since three levels of government have been formulating policies and regulating urban transport without
a formal coordinating arrangement, there has been a lack of consistency in the fares charged by similar
or competing modes, duplication of investments, absence of criteria to prioritize investments, and only
embryonic modal integration of the urban transport system. This has led to bus services continuing to
operate in trunk corridors where the railway is more suited, the lack of promotion of hub-and-spoke
services so as to encourage feeder services, and disparate subsidy policies which are often based on
non-economic considerations. This project will be one more step towards effective integration of the
systems. The Government of the State has decided to delegate to the Prefeitura of Salvador (through a
legal instrument) the regulation of the Metrosal system and the CBTU system after decentralization. A
number of major steps to bring all urban transport under one umbrella have been given. These are
described in detail in reference 13 in the project file.



Page 6
3. Sector issues io be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
e    institutional Issues. A Regional Transport Coordination Commission (RTCC) was created under the
proposed project, as a condition of appraisal by State decree #7417 of August 19,1998. An informal
forerunner to the RTCC already existed and will be strengthened from a forum for the discussion of
regional transport issues to a coordinating body empowered to guide transport planning and
coordination for the SMR. The first year's agenda for the RTCC was discussed with the Bank at
appraisal and confirmed prior to negotiations.
*    Environmental Issues. The proposed project's increased use of rail-based transport and decreased
use of road-based transport would improve air and noise pollution in the project area and lead, most
likely, to a reduction in accidents and less traffic congestion in the area of influence of the system.
*    Cost Recovery and Financial Management Issues. The proposed project would integrate bus
passenger to the rail systems and hence would increase both revenue and cost recovery for CBTU .
The concession of the operations and maintenance of the system to the private sector will reduce
the operating subsidies presently paid by the Government. The objective of the GSB is not to pay
operating subsidies. GSB will be willing to increase its share of investment in the system if
necessary to ensure that, with the proposed tariff, the private sector can have an acceptable return
on equity.
C: Proje&f Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost
breakdown):
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown):
Component                         Category      %of        Bank-       %ofBank  [Total
Total    Financing     financing
(US$M)
Part A is an Infrastructure and Equipment Investment  Physical and   99%        148.1         49%        305.5
I Component to (i) build the Salvador surface metrorail  others
j (METROSAL) under a Build-Operate-Transfer type concept;
(ii) build/rehabilitate the transfer stations between the trains,
metrorail, buses and ferries; and build the housing for
j resettlement; and finance the Project Management Oversight
Consultant and project supervision consultants
Part B is an Institutional and Policy Development    institution-     1%         .4            40%          1
Component to help in financing: a) the preparation of an  Building
integrated Transport Policy, Land Use and Air Quality
Management strategy for the SMR to meet both transport and
| air quality targets and to introduce sound cost-recovery, tariff,
regulatory and subsidy policies; and (b) undertake a
comprehensive traffic management review of the SMR.
Front End Fee (1% of loan)                                                       1.5          100%         1.5
Total              150           49%        308
_~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.          _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
2. Key'p5ofcy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
*    The main reform supported by the project is the pioneering of a public-private partnership in the
construction of a metrorail line under a BOT type scheme. This project is not only jump-starting a
public-private partnership but also creating the enabling environment to attract private sector
investment for future projects in urban transport.
o    The other key policy reform supported by the project addresses the issue of modal integration
under a regional transport coordination commission. Furthermore, it uses this unique opportunity to
ensure that the institutional framework for metropolitan transport in the SMR is shaped in a way that
promotes coordination of policies, safeguards private sector concessionaires, promotes continuing
strategic air quality, urban transport and land use planning and forges financial mechanisms to
improve sustainability of the urban transport systems in the long-run.



Page 7
3. Benefits and target population:
The main quantifiable benefits will be travel time savings and operating cost savings (see Annex 4). A
major non-quantifiable benefit is the structuring effect of the metrorail line in the SMR, increasing
accesibility to city sub-centers and the development of new housing poles. A description of other non-
quantifiable benefits is also given in Annex 4. Beneficiaries are the residents of the Salvador
Metropolitan Region (SMR), particularly low-income households (earning up to three minimum salaries)
who are major users of public transport. The users of private autos will most likely benefit from less bus
congestion. The Government of Brazil will also benefit from the concession of the STU/SAL system to
the private sector because it will eliminate the subsidies which it pays to that operating agency.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The overall coordination, implementation and supervision of the proposed project rests with Municipality
of Salvador, which has established a Project Coordination Unit (PCU); and with CBTU which will help in
the implementation of the project through its own existing Project Implementation Unit, particularly with
the STU/SAL line. The PCU will be supported by a Project Management Oversight Consultant (PMOC)
and supervision consultants financed by the project. The Municipality and CBTU have agreed that the
entity which will carry out the project will be the Companhia de Transportes de Salvador (CTS), a
company controlled by the Municipality of Salvador which will own and manage the Metrosal and the
STU/SAL after its transfer to the State/Municipality.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Salvador was the beneficiary of some of the earlier busway projects financed by the Bank in the 1970s.
The basic underlying justification to finance segregated busways was (and still is) that they can
adequately serve peak-hour traffic up to 18,000 passengers per peak-hour per direction (ppphd),
although beyond 15,000 ppphd they start losing their effectiveness. Introduction of busways would
postpone costly investments in fixed guideway systems, such as a metrorail system, which can handle
more adequately peak-hour demands above 18,000 passengers. Twenty five years later, the most
important busway in Salvador ( Bonoc6 avenue ) is almost saturated and will be unable to handle
effectively the traffic forecast for 2001 and beyond. Before examining the proposed metrorail system, the
project team reviewed several alternatives to handle the proposed traffic forecast. After examining the
several corridors involved it was decided to compare the following alternatives: (a) do-nothing; (b)
introduce 2 segregated busways; and (c) build the metrorail system as proposed. The metrorail based
system mostly at-grade and elevated, was selected as the best alternative in an incremental cost-benefit
analysis in which it was compared with high performing segregated busways with articulated buses. One
of the main disadvantages of the introduction of two segregated busways is that they would require a
substantial amount of expropriation and resettlement as opposed to the metrorail alternative which can
handle the very high levels of demand forecast using the space required for one busway. Indeed, part of
the right-of-way of the proposed metrorail system is the existing Bonoco busway which is presently
almost saturated. Traffic demand levels were estimated by consultants through a demand simulation
using the TRANPLAN model, which tested several scenarios. After several iterations, the selected
alternative consists of the metrorail line from Lapa to Piraja as the main trunk corridor (See map
attached). The alternative analysis then focussed on the optimization of the number of stations required
from the start of operations and those that could be deferred. The decision of the State to concession out
the operation of the system to the private sector was also another feature of the project that made it
more attractive. To define the type of "BOT" type concept which was most appropriate for this project,
the project team, supported by a project finance consultant, reviewed the world and Brazilian
experiences with similar modes, compared the risks and returns involved in each of them and decided
which ones would yield the most attractive return to the private sector and could be implemented faster.



Page 8
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned):
Sector Issue                    Project          Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Decentralization of rail services from  Sao Paulo Metropolitan    S               S
federal to state government with system   Transport
rehabilitation                      Decentralization (Ln.
3457-BR)
Decentralization of rail services from  Rio de Janeiro            S               S
federal to state government with system   Metropolitan Transport
rehabilitation                      Decentralization (Ln.
3633-BR)
Decentralization of rail services from  Recife Metropolitan       S               S
federal to state government with system   Transport
extension                           Decentralization (Ln.
3915-BR)
Decentralization of rail services from  Belo Horizonte            S               S
federal to state govemment with system   Metropolitan Transport
extension                           Decentralization (Ln.
3916-BR)
Other development agencies
IDB-financed improvements of stations  S. Paulo's Metro's Fifth
of ex-FEPASA South line, acquisition    Line
of rolling stock and construction of
Metro's Fifth Line
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly
Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Initial Bank support for the urban transport sector in Brazil was provided through four urban transport
projects totaling US$540 million, of which the First, Second and Third Urban Transport Projects (Loans
1563-BR, 1839-BR, 1965-BR) have been completed. The Fourth Urban Transport Project was canceled
because the government abolished the federal agency in charge of urban transport (EBTU). Additional
Brazilian urban transport projects financed by the Bank (Loans 3457-BR and 3633-BR for US$126 million
and US$128 million respectively) support the rehabilitation and decentralization of the CBTU
subdivisions from the Federal to the State governments in Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro. Loan 3457-BR
(Sao Paulo) became effective on February 3, 1993. Loan 3633-BR (Rio de Janeiro) became effective
March 14, 1994. Loan 3457-BR closed on March 31, 1998 and has met its main objectives. Loan 3633-
BR is expected to close on December 31, 1999. In June 1995, the Board approved two more loans (Lns.
3915-BR and 3916-BR) for US$102 million and US$99 million to finance the decentralization of the
Recife and Belo Horizonte urban rail systems from the Federal Government to the States. These loans
were declared effective in 1996 and are progressing satisfactorily.



Page 9
To build upon the experience of past urban transport projects for the design of the proposed project, an
analysis of "lessons learned" was undertaken. The review was based on Project Completion Reports and
Performance Audit Reports (PCR/PAR) in urban transport and urban development worldwide.
Recognition was made of trends and changes in project design since the PCRs/PARs were completed.
The main lessons identified and incorporated in the design of the proposed project are:
* Institutional Strengthening. The organizations dealing with urban transport at the federal, state and
municipal levels should be reorganized and strengthened. Studies included in the institutional
component must be carefully monitored and translated into action plans which the Borrower must
implement. Dated loan covenants would be included in the proposed project for the creation of the
RTCC and completion of critical studies.
* Lack of counterpart funding has greatly influenced the pace of project implementation and in some
cases has led to cancellation of components. An effort must be made to ensure that adequate
provision of counterpart funds are included in the annual budgets of federal and state enterprises. The
State of Bahia has included the project in its CY99 and CYOO budgets, and has the reputation of
making available, on a timely basis, the counterpart funds required for all Bank-financed projects.
• Slow implementation has been a frequently occurring theme. The reasons have included a lack of
familiarity with Bank procedures, over-optimistic scheduling at appraisal, lack of final engineering
designs at appraisal, changes in political commitment, and lack of counterpart funds. These problems
were mitigated in the proposed project by such measures as: strengthening capacity of operating
agencies for financial management and application of Bank procedures; and requiring at least final
engineering design of the first year's works prior to negotiations, for which technical assistance was
contracted as needed.
* Rail Decentralization. Experience in both ongoing Lns. 3457-BR and 3633-BR suggest that the
decentralization of systems from the federal to the state level must be followed by complete
reorganization of the companies preferably with concessioning of the operations and maintenance of
the systems to the private sector. Otherwise, there is little motivation for government-appointed
managers to reduce working subsidies and improve the level of service offered by the systems.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government of the State of Bahia and Prefeitura de Salvador have, through the creation of a Secretary for
Special Projects and CTS, indicated the importance they attach to the provision and maintenance of an efficient
metropolitan and suburban rail system. The Government has also shown its commitment to the development of
the rail system and to the proposed project by quickly signing an agreement with the Federal Government for the
transfer of the federally-owned and operated CBTU Salvador subdivision and by agreeing to integrate it with the
urban and metropolitan bus. The decision of the State to commit its own funds to the project, its willingness to
accept a public/private partnership in the construction and operation of the system and introduce the institutional
and policy framework required before loan effectiveness, are indications that this is a priority project for the SMR.
Finally, efforts made by the State and Municipality during preparation to ensure the most adequate institutional
framework is in place before the concession, have been noteworthy.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The main value added by the Bank in this project, is its role as promoter of physical and tariff integration
in the SMR and as an honest broker to provide more credibility and ensure accountability in the BOT
type concession process. Bank's experience with the Rio de Janeiro metrorail concessions was also an
asset in preparing this project. Also, the Bank's experience in the other CBTU decentralization projects
will help guide the State of Bahia in its takeover of the STUISAL system.



Page 1 0
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
[x] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$ 527 million; ERR= 25% [] Cost Effectiveness Analysis:
[] Other (Specify)
2. Financial: NPV=US$ 1198million; FRR= 25%
Fiscal impact:
Since the Borrower is the Federal Government, the impact of the US$150 million loan plus its US$8
million per year counterpart fund obligation (over five years) on the Federal finances has been analyzed
by COFIEX and by the Federal Ministry of Finance, before the project was submitted to the Bank, and
also as part of the Federal/State debt rescheduling agreements. This loan is a grant from the Federal
Government to the State because the latter agreed to take over the ownership and management of the
Salvador subdivision of CBTU (STU/SAL), as part of the decentralization program mandated by the
Brazilian constitution and initiated in 1992. When the transfer of this subdivision is completed, the
Federal Government will save US$10 million/year in operating subsidies to the STU/SAL. Since the
State will be responsible for providing up to US$118 million (of which US$50 million are expected to
come frorn the private sector concessionaire) in counterpart funds for the project, over five years, an
evaluation of the fiscal impact of this obligation on the State's finances was undertaken by the State
Secretary of Planning and by the Federal Ministry of Finance. It was concluded that even in the worst
scenario, i.e., if the private sector does not provide the US$50 million it is expected to provide as part of
the concession, the proposed project, as compared with other infrastructure alternatives which would
require investments in roadways, busways and expropriation would have a lesser negative impact on the
finances of the State over the life of the project, as long as the new metrorail system would have no
operating subsidies. This is the main reason why the metrorail system will be concessioned out to the
private sector without operating subsidies. The State of Bahia earned a 'BB' foreign currency issuer credit
rating from Standard and Poor's in March 1998, constrained by the 'BB' rating of the Federative Republic
of Brazil. Given the relative strength of state's fiscal indicators, it would likely earn a rating at par with
the Federative Republic's even today. The State's cashflow position has benefited from efficient financial
management and the proceeds of a number of successful privatizations of state-owned companies,
which suggest that State counterpart funds will be provided as required. Once the project is completed,
the fiscal revenues to be generated by the proposed project due to the real estate development and
changes in zoning laws in the area of influence of the metrorail system (betterment tax) are estimated
conservatively at US$15 million per year, to be split by the State and Municipality. Based on
experiences with other similar systems and the Bonoc6 busway in Salvador, it is expected that additional
sales tax revenues estimated at US$15 million per year will be generated by the easier access to
shopping centers and other commercial establishments in the metrorail's area of influence. Since there is
no investment or counterpart funds obligation on the Municipality, the expected fiscal impact on its
finances will be positive due to the additional sales and property taxes revenues generated by the
project. Finally, the irnpact of the recent devaluation of the Brazilian currency was positive for the project
since it brought the size of the loan required to the level authorized by COFIEX.
3. Technica/:
Compared with other alternatives such as reserved or exclusive busways, this is a sound project from a
technical standpoint because by building only 11.9 km of metrorail line, it will allow the SMR to have a
trunk corridor with high capacity at peak hour on the highest demand corridor of the city, with minimum
resettlement and environmental impact. The construction methods proposed are well known and the
technology required is widely available. The Bank project team and State/CBTU staff reviewed
alternative alignments for the Initial Operating Segment (IOS) of the Metrosal's network. They also
evaluated several options to procure this project including a) a single Build-Operate-Transfer type bid
with all infrastructure, equipment and operating concession included; b) two bids: a turnkey bid
for the infrastructure and fixed installation systems; and a second bid for the operating
concession weUn preovision of rolling stock and other systems by the private sector; and c) a
traditional procurement with several bids for each main component and support from export



Page 1 1
credit agencies. The State/CBTU project team selected option b). The selected alternative was
considered the most cost-effective, viable and fastest to secure the highest private sector participation
in the project without jeopardizing its main objective. The disadvantages and risks of the selected
alternative were carefully evaluated and discussed and risk mitigation mechanisms proposed. This
process has forced the State/Municipality to re-energize their transport planning, economic evaluation
and financial engineering capabilities because they know that any investment by the private sector will
be carefully scrutinized. Furthermore, the State/Municipality and CBTU are equipped to implement this
project and have the capability to provide a quality service on the overall network.
4. Instfitutional:
a. Executing agencies: The implementing agencies are the Municipality of Salvador (SM) and CBTU
through CTS. SM and CBTU will conduct with the help of consultants the turnkey and concession
process. SM and CBTU will be responsible for the actual supervision of the project also with the help of
consultants.
b. Project management: SM will establish and maintain a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) headed by a
Project Coordinator, to manage the implementation of the several components of the Bank-financed
project. The Project Coordinator would report directly to the Secretary of Special Projects of SM and
would participate in Loan Contract negotiations. Project Management Oversight (PMO) consultants
financed under the project would act as full time advisers to the Project Coordinator to provide the
technical support and international experience required for managing the project. In addition to the
Project Coordinator, who will be responsible for the overall financial management of the project, the PCU
will include: a) an engineer, with experience in procurement, to coordinate Part A of the project; and (b) a
management information systems specialist responsible for the reporting and supervision of the project.
The PCU will be supported by a multidisciplinary group (including an environmental engineer and a
resettlement specialist) and a small secretariat which will include an accountant responsible for project
accounts and disbursements.
c. Procurement Capacity- The procurement preparation, evaluation, management and monitoring will
be undertaken jointly by SM and CBTU. CBTU has extensive experience in Bank procurement guidelines
and SBDs and is rated as one of our best borrowing agencies in this area. The Regional Procurement
Advisor undertook a procurement capacity assessment of CBTU and concluded that this agency is
procurement proficient.
d. Financial Management . Both the State/Municipality and CBTU have experience with Bank loans and
will be able to handle all aspects related to the financial management of the project including accounting,
disbursement and auditing functions. CBTU will be the agency responsible for loan disbursements
because this is a loan to the Federal Government. A financial management specialist reviewed CBTU's
financial management systems (accounting and disbursement) and project management information
systems (physical progress and procurement) and concluded that they are adequate to document and
justify the present disbursement by SOEs and to provide all the information required to prepare manually
the Project Management Reports (PMRs), in the format proposed in the LACI implementation handbook
of September 1998. He also concluded that in order to computerize the production of PMRs, CBTU must
prepare a software to integrate its two existing systems. CBTU has presented a time-bound action plan to
the Bank to integrate the existing systems so that it can become eligible for PMR-based disbursements.
5. Social:
Most of Metrosal users are low-income and live in the suburbs of the greater SMR. Improving suburban
and metrorail services in general would enhance the access of this low-income segment of the
population to employment centers, health and educational facilities and other public services. Transport
Users Associations have often stressed to Bank missions and to the precursor of the RTCC the
importance of having an efficient and above all reliable metrorail system. They have also stressed the
need for more integration with other modes. The project was presented several times to the public by the
State and Municipality through the Secretary of Special Projects. Requests from some of the
neighborhoods such as Suburbio and Miolo for better transport were taken into account as well as
requests from users associations which wanted the bus and Metrosal systems connected. Suggestions
received after the public presentations of the system were also incorporated. There is a consensus that
this project furthers the beneficiaries main goal: integration with other modes and between the suburban
rail line and the Metrosal system. No negative social impacts are expected from the proposed project. A
cross-section of the potential users is available with statistics on their average income, travel time, mode
preferences, etc. A willingness-to-pay survey of vulnerable segment of the market was also undertaken



Page 12
to help in the design of the tariff system. All this information was collected as part of the demand analysis
and is available in the Project File as reference 17.
6. Environmental assessment: Environmental Category    [X] A   [ B    lI C
6.1    The project is expected to have a net beneficial impact on the environment. The new metrorail
link will help relieve congestion in major transport corridors and central areas, resulting in lower emission
of pollutants per vehicle-kilometer. Junction improvements and pedestrian overpasses will improve
safety and quality of life. Nonetheless, construction of the line will occasion some minor and localized
negative environmental and social impacts. An Environmental Impact Statement was completed by
specialized consultants and is available in the project file. A resettlement consultant also produced a
comprehensive report on the resettlement impacts of the proposed project (see below). LCSES provided
comments to the EA and Resettlement reports and requested some additional information which was
provided. After approval by LCSES, an executive summary of the EA and Resettlement reports was
circulated to the Board and 2 copies of the full report were sent to the Infoshop prior to appraisal. Here
are some highlights:
6.2    The proposed routing of the "at grade" (5.8 km) and elevated (4.7 km) sections of the
METROSAL line were studied by the resettlement and environment consultants with a view to minimize
resettlement, adverse noise, visual intrusion, cornmunity division impacts and negative impacts on old
historical buildings. The use of tunneling as the method of construction of one segment of the line (1.4
km) will minimize environmental impacts during construction in a densely populated area. This tunnel
was selected mainly to avoid negative impacts in an area with a number of well-known landmarks and to
minimize resettlement. General impacts on "at-grade" and "elevated" sections are expected to consist
essentially oF limited expropriation of land for stations, limited noise, vibration, some visual intrusion.
Dust, traffic disruption and limited disruption to underground utilities and services are expected during
construction. Additional negative impacts during construction will occur due to haulage and final disposal
of excavated materials from the construction sites. Measures to mitigate such impacts are clearly
specified in the EA's detailed action plan and in the bidding documents for works and for the concession.
A package of mitigatory actions, as well as public information, monitoring and evaluation programs
recommended by the EA consultants were included in the bidding documents for the turnkey construction
and the operating concession. A Manual with best practices on mitigation actions for the expected
impacts has been prepared and will be made available to contractors.
6.3    Land and/or property expropriation are limited to the areas close to the metrorail yard and to
some stations. A survey apd cadastre has been recently conducted for the full extension of the line.
Affected properties (512 units in all) will be expropriated. Residential units (490) and commercial
establishments (22) will be compensated for lost assets and assisted in relocating, through grants and
services to be provided by SM with the assistance of the existing State "Viver Melhor' Program. For
those families who select that option, some 250 units of repiacement housing will be built in the vicinity
of their former dwellings. The site tentatively selected is adjacent to a future metro station. Valuation
criteria and expropriation. procedures are clearly defined for such cases. The expropriation decrees for
the PiraWtLapa segment were signed by Salvador's Mayor in March 1999. A Resettlement Plan,
including guidelines and specific detailed relocation options, compensation packages and support
services, as well as institutional arrangements, timetables and budgets for implementation of the plan,
was cleared by the Bank in November 1998 and approved by the SM in December 1998 for the Piraja-
Lapa segment. An official public audience took place on December 22, 1998. The resettlement process
in each link of the Piraja-Lapa segment will be completed prior to the start of any works in that link. A
monitoring and evaiuation program has also been designed and will be undertaken by the SM. The
estimnated budget for the Resettlement Plan is approximately US$16 million and will be totally financed
by the State! Municipality and the Bank loan (housing).
6.4   It was a condition of appraisal that the Final Environmental Assessment Report and the detailed
Resettlement Plan (prepared according to Bank guidelines) be approved by the SM and submitted to the
State licensing authority (CEPRAM/CRA). It was a condition of negotiations that the land for the
construction of housing for the popuiation who must resettle be identified and suitable mechanisms for
purchase and construction are in place. Evidence that the Environmental Assessment has been
approved and that the appropriate license to initiate the works has been issued by CEPRAM/CRA on
April 23, 1999 and was submitted to the Bank at negotiations.



Page 13
7. Participatory approach [key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced; if participatory
approach not used, describe why not applicable]:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The primary beneficiaries of the project are the low-income users of the Miolo and Suburbio areas who
will be able to reduce substantially their travel time commute downtown using a bus-metro combination
and integrated fare. The fare system is being designed in a way to ensure that the out-of-pocket costs to
be paid by the users will not be significantly higher than those paid today. The Associa,ao Nacional de
Transportes Publicos (ANTP) which represents users and operators was involved in the preparation of
the program. The association is very supportive of the project. In most cities where a metrorail system of
this type is introduced there is a structuring effect whose benefits are difficult to quantify but which, in
general, are very positive for the urban setting in which the system is inserted. Stations become in
general main commercial hubs and real estate develops much faster in the corridor served by the line.
Real estate prices before and after implementation will be carefully monitored by the Municipality.
b. Other key stakeholders:
Other key stakeholders are the municipalities of the SMR which are served by the system. In general,
there is a consensus that the Metrosal project is long overdue and will represent a major gain for the
users of the system in terms of travel time, reliability and quality of life.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
One of the main objectives of the proposed project is to establish long-term financial mechanisms and an
institutional framework which will ensure not only project sustainability, but also the financial
sustainability of the SMR's urban transport system. The RTCC is already in operation. The concession of
STUISAL is under study and is expected to eliminate operating and capital subsidies to the system and,
in a very short period, produce "royalties" which will be paid to the government for the concession of the
system. A draft law defining financing mechanisms for the urban transport sector, based on studies
financed under Ln.3457-BR, will be submitted to the Bahia Legislature by December 2000. In this project,
the State continues its strategy towards sustainability of the urban transport sector by granting a
concession of the Metrosal which will not require operating subsidies.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                      Risk Rating      Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
Project cost and time overruns.               Modest to    Use of well-known technology,
Substantial  available from many sources. The
civil works will be carried on a
turnkey lump sum basis, except for
the tunnel and foundations .State
will cover any unexpected cost
overruns due to unidentified
geological conditions missed during
preparation.



Page 14
Risk                      Risk Rating      Risk Minimization Measure
Low       EA was submitted on schedule to
En ihreunen.al License is not obtained on                 local authorities and all steps were
Sc' isefdfule.                                            taken to give ample time for
obtaining the necessary licenses;
bidding documents include generic
language on compliance with
environmental safeguards.
Resettlement Delays.                           Modest    All expropriation decrees will be
signed prior to negotiations and
negotiations for expropriation
completed by effectiveness.
Fu'rthe, Foreign Exchange Devaluation.        Modest to   Introduce in the tariff mechanisms
Substantial  safeguards which will not
discourage potential foreign
investors. Shift the burden of risk to
the State.
Unsustainability of the RTCC.                   Low       Negotiations between the State
I              and Municipal Governments have
I  {           | progressed very well for modal and
tariff coordination.
f 4-
L ' ys in the turnkey and operating             Low       Delays were minimized by starting
,   nession procurement process.                         at pre-appraisal the pre-qualification
for the turnkey and by requiring the
l  l            borrower to produce the major
tender documents by negotiations.
D?e ays in the decentralization of CBTU.       Modest    State has already signed a
"convenio" to start joint
I               management of the STU/SAL.
Decentralization will depend on
CBTU compliance with some
actions which are underway.
INo tirmely availability of counterpart funds.  Modest to    Counterpart funds are included in
Substantial  the Federal and State CY99 and
CYOO budgets and future budget
projections.
Bus ee rou:tes are not concessioned out as    Modest to    Municipality will indicate inthe
agreefi.                                     Substantial   concession contract when and how
it is going to concession out feeder
routes as per plan agreed with the
Bank.
FailuVre to concession out tLhe operations of the   Low to Modest Alternative options to operate the
system.                                                   system under agreement with an
existing metro operator will be
studied.
Failure to obtain private sector financing or  Low to Modest The State has agreed to finance the
higher construction costs due to unexpected               gap.
soil conditions.
I_____       Ow -ra'I Risk Rating              Modest
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



Page 15
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
There are no controversial aspects
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
(a) the approval of the Loan Agreement by the Government of the Federal Republic of Brazil; (b) the
approval of the State Agreement by the Government of the State of Bahia; (c) the approval of the
Project Agreement by CBTU and the Municipality of Salvador; and (d) the duly registration of the Loan
by the Central Bank of Brazil.
2.     During Negotiations, the following aspects were confirmed:
(a)   that the Project Coordination Unit (PCU ) would be structured and adequately staffed
(including a resettlement specialist) and otherwise supported in the implementation of its
responsibility under the project. SM/CBTU provided the Bank with the names and
curricula vitae of the project coordinator assigned to the PCU;
(b)   that procurement would be carried out in accordance with Bank guidelines, including: (i)
the use of standard bidding documents for the procurement of goods and works, under
NCB and ICB procedures; (ii) use of Bank's guidelines for the selection of consultants;
and (iii) the procurement limits;
(c)   that a Special Account in a commercial bank would be opened and maintained;
(d)   that the Special Account, project accounts, and Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) or
Project Management Reports (PMRs): (i) would be audited according to procedures by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; and (ii) audits would be submitted to the
Bank by June 30 of each year;
(e)   that: (i) that a Project Management Information System similar to the one presently used
by CBTU for ongoing loans be installed within 90 days after loan signing by the
Municipality of Salvador; and (ii) pre-agreed operational and financial performance
targets would be included in the semi-annual progress reports to the Bank;
(f)   that the Action Plan recommended in the EA is being duly carried out and the project
will be executed, and subsequently operated in accordance with environmental
practices satisfactory to the Bank;
(g)   that implementation of the Resettlement Plan is taking place in accordance with the
timetable and procedures agreed with the Bank;
(h)   that final engineering and technical specifications of works and goods for the first year of
the program were completed and reviewed by the Bank prior to negotiations.
Resettlement Plan and EA Action Plan: (a) the RP and the EA Action Plan will be implemented in
accordance with the timetable and procedures agreed with the Bank; (b) relocation of families and
commercial activities for each link will have concluded before the service order to initiate construction for
that link is signed.
Annual and Mid-Term Review: (a) at each annual review, SM/CBTU will present the program for the
following year and seek approval from the Bank before proceeding with its preparation and
implementation; and (b) a Mid-Term Review to take place 24 months after loan effectiveness, to review
agreed institutional, operational, and financial performance indicators, and compliance with covenants.
Based on this evaluation, SM/CBTU will propose a revised action plan and any corrective measures
necessary to ensure that the project meets its objectives.
It is a condition of disbursement for Part 1 of the project that the pre-qualification documents for the
operating concession have been issued.



Page 16
Some important dated covenants included in the Legal Agreements are:
(a)    SM will establish an autonomous entity in charge of regulating concessions of urban transport
services under its jurisdiction prior to awarding the concession of Metrosal.
(b)    SM through CTS will be managing jointly with CBTU, the CBTU's subdivision of Salvador not
later than 3 months after the signing of the loan. Not later than 24 months after the signing of the loan,
SB will assume full responsibility for the ownership and operations of the STU/SAL subdivision.
(c)    Retroactive financing of up to US$15 million equivalent (10 percent of loan funds) for
expenditures made after July 1, 1998 (or one year before loan signing, whichever is later) is
recommended because certain project activities, such as the preparation of final engineering designs,
the installation of the project management information systems, were already undertaken or should be
carried out immediately.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[xl The engineering design documents and specifications for the first year's activities are complete and
ready for the start of project implementation. [1 Not applicable.
[x] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[x] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[ I The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[x]   This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ] f[The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval:  . The project
complies with all other applicable Bank policies.]
[signature]
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:  S uorge M. Rebelo
jsignature1
SectorM.fanager/Director:               y  e pz  e
(signaturej
Country Manager/Director:                   * 4Vd



Page 17
ANNEX I
Federative Republic of Brazil
Salvador Urban Transport Project
PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY
Narrative Summary              Key Performance        Monitoring     Critical Assumptions and
Indicators             and                  Risks
Supervision
CAS objective(s) supported by the  *   That the                           (CAS Objective to Bank Mission)
project:                             decentralization of    Not           *   Expect that Government of
The Bank's assistance strategy in     CBTU and the BOT and  applicable        Brazil will continue its
Brazil, discussed by the Board on    concession of the                        efforts of public sector
June 12, 1997 and updated on June    metrorail system is                      reform through ongoing
:2, 1998 is to support policies and  successful.                             technical assistance.
iinvestments that will encourage  *   That the system does                e   Expect that Federal and
economic growth and social           not require subsidies                    State Governments will
dievelopment in a context of         from the government                      continue to strengthen the
macroeconomic stability. Our         and its fiscal impact on                 enabling environment for
emphasis is on efficient resource    the finances of the                      private sector operators in
allocation, increased efficiency in the  State is not negative.               the railway sector.
public sector and the appropriate  *   That the low-income                8   After the February 1999
targeting and delivery of support     classes accessibility to                devaluation, the exchange
systems to the poor. The proposed    work improves and their                  rate will stabilize at the 1.7-
project objectives are in line with the  generalized cost of                  2.R$ per US$1 range.
CAS four main drivers, namely: (a)   travel decreases.
development and implementation of  *   That the loan
structural reforms, through the      disbursement occurs as
decentralization of the CBTU system  scheduled and there is
and the concession of the new        no lack of counterpart
metrorail system to the private      funds.
sector; (b) fiscal improvement to
reduce Government subsidies
through better tariff policies and
improved financial management; (c)
to contribute to poverty reduction by
increasing job accessibility for low-
income classes; and (d) satisfactory
portfolio performance.            .



Page 18
Ns. ra:.iv Ka~m               ey Performanc -a ndicators     Monitoring       Critical Assumptions and
and                    Risks
_______        ________    ____         -___________________       Supervision                                   I
P  ie Deiolpment                By the end of the project:                       (Development Objectives to
Objectives                                                        See attached   CAS Objective)
The obectives of the proposed       50% of stations of the rail-    Table 1A         System will not have
proJect are: 1,R) to improve the    based system integrated with                     operating subsidies
quality of pUDiic irban transport   buses.                                           otherwise will be a fiscal
in the SMf by enhancing the  e      10-40% lower average                             burden to the government.
development oF a fully              generalized travel costs (                        Proposed structural
integrated urban transport          travel times, fares and                          reforms, i.e., concession to
system, under the coordination      reliability) for users between                   the private sector will take
of a regional transport             Miolo and CBD than without                       place.
coordinatior? commission; and       system.
(b) to transfer from the Federal i  Higher share (8%) of rail in
Government to the State of          total urban transport trips
Bahia ard Municipality of           and reduced bus congestionr.
Salvador the Salvador           e   Urban transport coordination
subdivisior or the CBTLi            and planning in the SMR
system,                             wiil be in place.
Project  ro't                   By the end of the project       I                (Outputs to Development
ie:' ifviy operationa.              11 9 km of a metropolitan     See Attached  Objectives)
inatror olitar rail-based       rail systerr built and      1 Table IA      Assumptions
systen, integrated              integrated with other modes.                o   Private sector will be
physically and tariff wvise     7.he conrcession for operation 1                 enticed by the
with other mnodes and     t    an:,d maintenance of that    I                    BOT/Concession.
operated under a long-    !    system to the private sector.                     Federal/State relations will
ternr  oncession by U.e         A forrnai regional transport                     speed up CBTU's
private sector.                 coordination commission for                      decentralization.
A       R aegiona|    the SMR will be in place.                                  The RTCC will be an
T  nsra   o  ri                                                                  influential forum in transport
Coordination Comrnissiorn                                                        coordination of the SMR.
in arge of coordinating                                                   Critical Risks
al metropolitan transoort  1                                                    Project cost and time
in the ISMR.                                                                    overruns.
e   The tmnsfer of the                                                         1 *  Environmental License is not
STU/SAl subdivision from                                                        obtained on schedule.
th ,o Federal to the State                                                  a  Resettlement Delays.
G    Tirnmeit.                                                                  Further Foreign Exchange
Devaluation.
Unsustainability of the RTCC
Delays in the turnkey and
operating concession
I t  tprocurement process.
Delays in the
decentralization of CBTU.
I  No timely availability of
counterpart funds.
*  Bus feeder routes are not
concessioned out as agreed.
*  Failure to concession out the
operations of the system.
Failure to obtain private
sector financing or higher
!    construction costs due to
il ____________________________  !______________                                     unexpected    soil  conditions.



Page 19
Narrative Summary              Key Performance        Monitoring     Critical Assumptions and
Indicators             and                  Risks
Supervision
F'roject Components                                                       (Components to Outputs)
T1he project would comprise three  *  The cost of Part A is  See attached
iinter-related components:           estimated at US$305.5   Table 1A     *   No lack of counterpart
*   Part A is an Infrastructure      million.                                 funds due to recent
and Equipment Investment    *  The cost of part B is                      austerity measuresl
Component to (i) build the       estimated at US$1
Salvador surface metrorail       million.                             *   No delays in project
(METROSAL) under a Build-    By end of 2000:                             implementation due to
Operate-Transfer type concept;  *   1/5 of the infrastructure             procurement problems.
(ii) build/rehabilitate the      of the rail system would
STU/SAL transfer stations        be built;
between the trains, metrorail,    *   The RTCC would have
buses and ferries; build the     been established;
housing for resettlement; and    *   The transfer of the
finance the Project              STU/SAL to the State
Management Oversight             Government would
Consultant and project           have been completed.
supervision consultants.
.   Part B is an Institutional and   By end of 2001:
Policy Development           *   2/3 of the infrastructure
Component to help in (a)         of the rail system would
preparing an integrated          be built;
Transport Policy, Land Use and   *   the RTCC would have
Air Quality Management           been meeting regularly;
strategy for the SMR to meet    *   the inspection and
both transport and air quality   maintenance vehicle
targets and to introduce sound    program would have
cost-recovery, tariff, regulatory  been awarded to the
and subsidy policies; and (b)    private sector;
undertake a comprehensive    *   the integrated land use,
traffic management review of     urban transport and air
the SMR.                         quality strategy would
have been completed
and discussed in the
RTCC.
By end of 2002:
*   the infrastructure of the
rail system would be
completed;
*   the rolling stock and
systems would have
been delivered and
operational tests would
start;
*   The STU/SAL rail link
would be rehabilitated
and connected to the
bus system.



Page 20
Table IA: Monitoring Indicators and Targets
By End of the Calendar Year        | 1999      2000       2001       2002  1  2003
Project Development Objectives
Percentage of rail stations integrated with bus lines   0  0         0          0        50
(integration related objective)
Rail share of urban transport motorized trips (%)  .14   .14         1.1       1.1.     7.8
(congestion related objective)
Generalized cost of travel (travel time plus fare  96.4  97.1       97.8       98.4      53
plus reliability) between Piraja and Lapa in minutes
(accessibility of low-income user related objective)
Project Outputs
Physical lmpinpeientation             _                                                        l
% of the Permanent Way W,iorks completed            |   15    |    55           95      100
.    _   I                     !   _
% of other Civil ' orks complefed                        15          55         95      100
% of System works completed                              0           40         85      100
= of rehabilitation of STU/SAL                           40         100        100      100
Institutional Develop-ment
Concession related process                            Modeling   Concession          System in
______________________________  __ _ completed  completed    operation
Integrated Urban Transport, Land Use and Air            Draft    Draft Final
Quality Strategy                                       Report      Report
completed discussed in a
participatory
___________________________ __  _ _ _style
Establishment of Regulatory entity           j         Prepare   Established
I   _  _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _  _     _ __    L     _    proposals



Page 21
Annex 2
Salvador Urban Transport Project
Project Description
Project Component (Part A) - US$305.5 million (total cost of component)
An Infrastructure and Equipment Investment Component (Part A): to build the Metrosal's Initial Operating
Segment between Piraja and Lapa including the transfer stations between road and rail based systems. This is a rail
rapid transit line 11.9 km in length, with roughly 5.8 kin at grade, 4.7 km elevated and 1.4 km in tunnel. This component
iincludes:
(a)    Civil Works including the Lapa - Pirajd Line to be constructed in the following way. The rail line will go
through a 65m2 cross section, rock tunnel, 35m below ground level, and Campo da Polvora will be an underground in-rock
station. Lapa Terminal, below the existing bus terminal of the same name, will be constructed using the cut and cover method,
and will also house Metrosal's Main Offices and the Operational Control Center within the, to be refurbished, existing
building. From the end of the tunnel, the track will continue along a pre-stressed, pre-cast, elevated concrete guideway over
Vasco da Gama Avenue, and under an existing road bridge up to Brotas Station, which will be constructed against a hillside.
The elevated guideway then continues over Mario Luis Ferreira Avenue, descending to the right-of-way of the existing, at-
grade, central busway, which it will follow to the end of the avenue, including the Bonoc6, at-grade, station. The track then
continues on elevated concrete guideway for another 620m, to the Acesso Norte station. From Acesso Norte station to Piraja
station, the track will be laid on various at-grade, cut-and-fill, or elevated sections, including the viaduct over the BR324
Federal Highway. This section includes 2 elevated stations as well as the Piraja Terminal. The main (130,000m2) maintenance
depot will be at Piraja,. The total length of each type of section is: (a) tunnel - 1.4 km, (b) elevated guideway (4.1 kmn); at
grade (6.4 km). There will be 8 stations of which: Underground stations (2); Elevated stations (4); At grade stations (2). The
tunnel sections, constructed using the New Austrian Tunneling Method (NATM), will consist of 366 m of tail track in rock
tunnel, , south of Lapa Terminal, and 1,034 m of double track tunnel in rock, including the 2 underground stations. There will
be 8 passenger stations on the line, at Lapa, Campo da P6lvora, Brotas, Bonoc6, Acesso Norte, Retiro, Jua and Piraja. The
stations have off-street entrances and 136 m train platforms. Rehabilitate the STU/SAL link between Calgada e Paripe.
(b)    System-Wide Facilities include the following components: (i) a high voltage electrification system,
including three primary 69 kV substations with respective rectifiers and transformers; (ii) a traction power system for
distributing 3 kV power to the trains via an overhead catenary system; (iii) a low voltage electrical system for illumination and
all electrical systems below 380 V and cable trays; (iv) a system for passenger control and ticket collection; (v) auxiliary
systems, including support areas such as punmps, panels, etc.; (vi) escalators and elevators for physically handicapped
passengers; (vii) a telecommunications system, including radio, telephone, data transmnission, time transmission, and closed
circuit television; (viii) a central control system, and Automatic Train Control (ATC) on-board equipment; and (ix) air
conditioning, ventilation, fans, louvers and ancillary equipment.
(c)    Rolling Stock comprising a fleet of ten trainsets to operate this link. These trains will operate under ATC.
The maintenance facility at Piraja will be able to handle the ten trainsets of the initial fleet and the six additional trains when
the line is extended to Pau da Lima Station. Maintenance shop facilities, including all equipment for maintaining the revenue
and non-revenue vehicles, will be part of the yard complex.
(d)    Resettlement Housing to partially finance the construction of houses required to lodge part of the resettled
population.
(e)    Project Management and Supervision to finance (i) the Project Management Oversight Consultant (PMOC)
who will assist the Project Coordination Unit; and (ii) project supervision consultants.
Project Component (Part B) - US$1 million (total cost of component)
An Institutional and Policy Development Component to help in financing (i) consultants to prepare an integrated
Transport Policy, Land Use and Air Quality Management strategy for the SMR to meet both transport and air quality targets and
to introduce sound cost-recovery, tariff, regulatory and subsidy policies; and (b) undertake a comprehensive traffic management
review of the SMR.



Page 22
Concession Design
1. The State of Bahia and Municipality of Salvador decided that the Metrosal and other urban transport
systems in the SMR must be operated by the private sector through long-term concessions at a tariff
set by government. They also decided that these will be positive concessions, i.e., there will be no
operating subsidies paid by the State or Municipality. They are, however, willing to finance most of
the infrastructure and equipment components, leaving the remaining investment to be done by the
private sector at a level which will still produce an acceptable return on equity to the concessionaire.
2. Financial Advisors (Fundagao Getfilio Vargas) were hired by the State to evaluate the options for the
concession and prepare a preliminary background memorandum, a transaction report and an
information memorandum.
3. It was decided that the best way to proceed with the procurement of the project was to split it in two
bids: a turnkey bid for the infrastructure and fixed installation systems; and a second bid for the
operating concession with provision of rolling stock and other systems by the private sector. The
second bid will include an entity called "project integrator" who will act as a supervisor of the civil
works bid on behalf of the concessionaire and the State, under the oversight of the Project
Management Oversight Consultant.
4. Furthermore, amongst the options considered in the second bid were :a) Metrosal only; and b)
Metrosal plus main feeder bus lines. The second option was found to be politically unfeasible and
was discarded. The feeder bus routes would have to be concessioned out separately according to a
route reorganization plan agreed with the Municipality.
5. The financial advisor has prepared a preliminary background memorandum, a transaction structure
report and an information memorandum. The latter will be annexed to the pre-qualification bid
documents for the concession.
6. A willingness-to-pay survey took place and concluded that the users would be willing to pay today
up to 1R$ fare as compared to today's 0.70 R$ flat fare.
7. As mentioned above, the State's mandate is to provide a system affordable to the users, without
State's operating subsidies. Therefore, the design of the concession had to take into account these
two constraints and yet provide the necessary incentives and mitigation measures to create the
enabling environment for the private sector to participate in the investment on rolling stock and
systems and have a satisfactory return on its investment.
8. At present, in Salvador, the tariff charged by any bus is $RO.70 (a flat rate, i.e., it does not vary with
distance or time of day). The same ticket (only at Piraja station) allows users to use more than one
bus to arrive at their destinations, at any time of the day. This integrated flat fare system is one
feature of the present system which the State and Municipality want to maintain after the
introduction of the metrorail system. The Municipality pays the buses on a vehicle-kilometer basis
ard per passenger transported. The remuneration per vehicle-kilometer is set by a standard cost
spreadsheet which is periodically revised and discussed with the bus owners syndicate. The
Municipality established a clearing house (Fundetrans) which receives all the revenues from passes
and special tickets (mainly students) and pays (through electronic transfers) the bus owners within 3
days of the actual date in which they receive the tickets or coupons from the vale-transporte. Bus
owners keep the revenues for tickets sold and collected on the buses. All bus owners, to be licensed
bus operators in Salvador, must belong to Fundetrans by municipal law. Fundetrans is supervised by
the municipality (Municipal Secretary of Transport) which also supervises the statistics on bus
vehicle-kilometers produced and passengers carried. The actual staff of Fundetrans is from the
private sector and all paid by the fund. What this fund allows is that buses which have shorter and
denser routes (with high demand) compensate for longer routes imposed by the municipality which



Page 23
serve in general low-income people who live further from the employment centers. So some users are
paying much more than the actual cost while others are paying less than the cost. This is a system
used throughout Brazil and reflects the concept of total transport cost for the SMR. There are no
public subsidies to the Fundetrans.
9. The financial advisors proposed that the metrorail system be included in the Fundetrans. This
proposal was accepted by the Municipality. That way the objectives of having a flat fare which would
allow for modal integration and would still be within the upper limits of the willingness-to-pay
exercise would be met. The distributive impacts of this system were evaluated to see who were the
gainers and losers. The option calls also for a remuneration tariff (the tariff to be paid by Fundetrans
to the metrorail concessionaire) for the metrorail system which will be different from the tariff
charged to the users. If that remuneration tariff bid by the bidders is higher than the tariff paid by the
users (which will be set by the Municipality), Fundetrans will pay the difference to the
concessionaire. A maximum remuneration tariff to be paid by Fundetrans as well as the tariff to be
charged to users will be set in the bidding documents by the Government.
10. Other than the discount on the remuneration tariff which will be multiplied by a weight set in the
bidding documents, the bidders will also have to bid on the amount of the discount on the total funds
made available by the State for investment in rolling stock and systems (with a minimum required of
50% of the estimated investment); and the concession fee to be paid in equal installments during the
term of the concession. The bidder with the highest net present value of: a) the difference between
the maximum remuneration tariff and its proposed remuneration tariff; b) its proposed discount on
the investment in rolling stock and systems; and c) its concession fee during the term of the
concession, will be the winner. A detailed analysis is presented in the Transactional Structure Report
which will be available in the Project Files. More details are not given here because of the public
nature of this PAD.
11. The specific risks identified in this concession design are:
Risk                                          Mitigation measure
Further Foreign Exchange Devaluation and Impact    A reserve account will be established by the State with the revenues
on Imported Equipment                          obtained from the concession fee
Not being accepted by the Fundetrans           Amendment of Municipal Law to include metrorail in Fundetrans
Compensation for government mandated discounts    Municipality will enact legislation indicating that it will compensate
(gratuidades) imposed by State                for government mandated discounts (gratuidades)
.Bus feeder routes are not concessioned out as agreed   Municipality will indicate in the concession contract when and how
is going to concession out feeder routes as per plan agreed with the
__________________________________   Bank
Sale of monthly passes/ special tickets        A system for selling these monthly passes and special tickets will be
agreed and included in the concession contract
Delays in the completion of the civil works    Penalties to be paid to the State by turnkey contractor could be put in
_______________________________________________  escrow to pay any concessionaire claims due to delays



Page 24
Annex 3
Salvador Urban Transport Project
Estimated Project Costs
This table has been intentionally deleted at the request of the Borrower under the Bank's disclosure policy.



Page 25
Annex 4
Salvador Urban Transport Project
Economic Evaluation of the Project
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
(Values are indicated in US$ million)
'ITXEMS           Preet Vale of Flows             R_a tp
EdronoMic Y     FinciaI        T      .xes   Subsidies
Analys          An:ysis.,
Benefits                    1,079.7         1,198.5         119.0         12.0
Costs                   .   231.6            257.1          25.7          2.6
Net Benefits (NPV)           527.0           585.0          58.5          5.8
IRR (%)                      25.4            25.4             -            -
Cost-Benefit Analysis
An incremental cost-benefit analysis of the proposed metrorail line was undertaken to evaluate the
economic feasibility of the project. The methodology used consisted in comparing the situation with and
without project and quantifying the benefits due to time savings for users of all modes, operating cost
savings for all modes, road maintenance cost savings, accident savings, air pollution savings and the
investment and operating costs. The demand for each mode was determined using a demand model
which estimated the passenger-hours and passenger-kms saved by mode with the project
The main benefits considered were:
. Operating cost savings (these are savings resulting from the lower costs of operating all modes with and
without the project-. The demand model estimates the passenger-kms with and without the project and
these are multiplied by the respective estimated operating costs)
* Travel time savings- These are estimated by determining the passenger-hours saved, by type of trip (home-
to-work, business or other) and multiplied by the value of time for each type of trip. Again the demand
model estimates the passenger-hours with and without project per mode.
. Reduction of accidents-These are estimated by multiplying the average cost per accident per 1000
passenger-kms with and without project. This reduction of accidents is normally a function of the number
of bus-kms saved (minor)
• Reduction in road maintenance costs due to the reduction of bus-kms with the project (minor)
. Reduction of air pollution costs due to reduction in bus-kms with project (minor)
To be conservative the costs of avoided investments in the do-nothing situation were not considered.
The main costs considered were:
The investment costs of the system and the operating costs of the metrorail system. Note that this line is
49% at-grade, 39% elevated and 12% underground. The project will decrease the number of bus-kms
traveled on the urban network through the construction of the metrorail based system and the re-routing
of the buses to the main stations. The bus-kms saved per year are estimated by the demand model. The
main beneficial impacts of the project under evaluation are reduced congestion (mainly due to less buses
on the street), reduction in traffic-related accidents, reduced vehicular air pollution, reduced noise due to
less buses on the street and economic savings from lower operating costs and reduction of travel time.
The above are all quantifiable and were used in the economic analysis. There are, however, a great
number of non-quantifiable benefits which cannot be captured in a standard cost-benefit analysis but are
worth noting:



Page 26
* Accessibility and creation of new opportunities: 1. Promotes the interconnection between residential and
employment areas and social equipment (hospitals, schools) facilities; 2. Strengthens existing sub-
centers; 3. Creates new employment poles in the periphery; 4. It favors the development of new housing
poles; 5. It will encourage new sub-centers of economic activity which otherwise would not be started.
* Land Use and Value:1. It increases land values due to lower generalized travel costs by public transport and
by auto even without changes in the zoning law; 2. It increases the dynamics of the real estate market
which is reflected by the occupation of empty lots and the renewal of older building in the area of influence
of the metrorail.
* Employment Generation: It will promote the creation of jobs with multiplier effects in several sectors of the
economy
A detailed economic evaluation report can be found in the Project File.
Traffic Demand Analysis
Demand analysis was undertaken by specialized consultants (PROTRAN) based on the data provided by
a comprehensive 1995 Origin -Destination Survey which collected data in 235 zones , interviewed close
to 12,000 households and 52,000 people. Traffic demand levels were estimated by consultants through a
demand simulation using the TRANPLAN model, which tested several scenarios with different
combinations of tariffs, travel time and reliability. Tranplan uses the 4 step approach of the Urban
Transport Planning System, namely Traffic Generation, Traffic Distribution, Modal Split and Traffic
Assignment and it is the most commonly used traffic demand package in the U.S.A. After several
iterations, the selected alternative consists of the metrorail line from Lapa to Piraj6 as the main trunk
corridor. The alternative analysis then focussed on the optimization of the number of stations required
from the start of operations and those that could be deferred. Peak-hour traffic estimated for 2002 is
20,000 passengers per hour per direction (200,000/day) increasing to 26,000 pphpd in 2005, 29,826 pphpd
in 2010 and 32,661 pphpd in 2015 (350,000/day). As mentioned above, busways are very effective up to
15,000 pphpd, but start losing their reliability and decrease their speed beyond that level, with a high
potential for accidents especially when the operation exceeds 300 buses/hour. The full demand analysis
was reviewed by independent international consultants. Fixed guideway systems of the type proposed are
worth considering when the peak-hour demand exceeds 1 5,000pphpd in the first year. A metrorail system
can, with the adequate signalling systems which allow 90 seconds headways, transport up to
60,000pphpd. A detailed demand analysis report can be found in the Project File.



Page 27
Sensitivity Analysis/Switching Values/Risk Analysis
IITEMS                                                                     IRR    NV1) B IC
i=10%   i=10%
IBASE CASE                                                                  25,4%             2,9
527.016
Discount Rate            12%          25,4%            2,4
377.178
15%         25,4%             1,9
223.080
BENEFITS                              Time Value               10% Higher 28,8%               3,1
522.821
10%  Lower  23,9%             2,6
466.913
50%  Lower  17,6%             1,8
226.500
90%  Lower   9,4%             1,0
(13.913)
Reduction of Operating   10% Higher 25,9%              2,9
Costs                                         548.340
10%  Lower  24,8%             2,8
507.692
50%  Lower  22,7%             2,5
430.395
100%  Lower  20,0%             2,2
333.773
Rate of Demand           50%  Lower  14,7%              1,5
Growth                                        133.246
COSTS                                 Construction Costs       50% Higher 18,3%               1,9
384.918
100%  Higher  14,2%            1,4
242.820
Operating Costs of      100% Higher 23,5%               2,6
Metro                                         460.652
200% Higher 22,1%              2,4
408.238
SWITCHING VALUES
Reduction of Travel Times and Operating Costs Benefits      66.20 %  Lower
Ridership Growth Rate                                       85.4%    Lower
Construction Costs                                          185 %   Higher
Risk Analysis: Probability of 91.5% for a IRR between 10% and
28%
(1) Thousands of US current dollars
Beneficiaries are the residents of the Salvador Metropolitan Region (SMR), particularly low-income households (earning up to
three minimum salaries) who are major users of public transport. Residents of the Miolo area, one of the poorest of the SMR,
will be the main beneficiaries of the system which will cut their travel time in half (for trips between Lapa and Piraja) and
increase travel reliability, comfort and safety. The reduction in travel time and the improvement in reliability when compared to a
bus operation, are the main reasons why populations are willing to pay a higher tariff. The users of private autos will probably
benefit from less bus congestion in the main streets at least while the space freed by the bus re-routing is not taken by more
automobiles



ANNEX 6
SALVADOR URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
FINANCIAL SUMMARY FOR REVENUE EARNING PROJECT ENTITIES
Calendar Years 2000 through 2024
All figures, except Daily Ridership, in Millions of Current US Dollars
1'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---                                                                                             I    _      Avr _gd-nna
ITEMS                                             2000       20                    2003      2004       2005        20101      2011        2012       2015        2024|Growth
Income Statement Items
Daily Ridership (Passengers / day)
Metro                                                                         0          0    194,246    198,908    203,682    208,570    311,059    318,213      324,259    343,095     400,473               3.1%
Revenues (Year)                                                                 0.00       0.00      15.87      32.50      33.28      34.08      50.83       51.99      52.98       56.06       65.44              3.1%
Operating Income                                                              0 00      0,00       15,87     32.50      33.28      34.08      50.83       51.99      52.98       56.06       65.44               31%
Non Operating Income                                                          0.00      0.00        0.00      0.00       0.00       0,00       0.00        0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00
Net Income Before Tax                                                          -27.13      0.00       3.78      10.62      11.12      11.63      23.01       23.78      24.43       28.47       35.02
Funds Statement Items
Net Profits after Income Tax plus Depreciation                                 -27.13      0.00       4.16       8.88       9.22       9.58      18.15      18.68       19.13       21.92       26.04
Borrowings                                                                      4.14      10.59       9.82       1.88       7.53      3.14        0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00
Equity Investments (+) or Profits available to shareholders(-)                 28.90       4.54       0.05      -4.57      -2.49      -4.73     -16.36      -16.89     -17.34      -21.92      -26.04
Total Sources                5.91      15.13      14.03       6.20      14.26       7.99       1.79        1.79       1.79        0.00        0.00
Capital Expenditures                                                            5.91      15.13      14.03       2.69      1076       4.48        0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00
Working Capital Increase or Decrease (-)                                        0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00
Interest During Construction                                                    0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00
Debt Amortization                                                               0.00       0.00       0.00       3.51       3.51       3.51       1.79        1.79       1.79        0.00        0.00
Total Applications               5.91      15.13      14.03       6.20      14.26       7.99       1.79        1.79       1.79        0.00        0.00                               Oq
Total Debt Service (interest plus amortization plus commissions)                0.00       0.00       0.00       7.32       7.32       7.32       3.82       3.82        3.82        0.00        000                                00
Financial Indicators
IRR of Shareholders (Return on Equity)                             20.0%
IRR of Project (Retum on Assets)                                  17.5%
Operating Income as a % of Revenues                                                       -           1.00       1.00       1.00       1.00       1.00        1.00       1.00        1.00        1.00
Net Income as a % of Revenues                                                  -          -           24%        33%        33%       34%         45%        46%         46%         51%         54%
Debt Service Coverage                                                                     -          -           2.21       2.26       2.31       5.75       5.89        6.01 -           -
Main Assumptions
Concession penod: 25 years (From the begin of 2000 to the end of 2024)
User tariff of US$ 0,52 ( R$ 0,85 ) / passenger, without difference between the single and the integrated tariff.
Remuneration Tariff of Metro: US$ 0,64 ( R$ 1,06 ). Discount over remuneration tariff: 0%
Concession Fee (Canon ): US$ 27 millions
Working Capital was not computed, since it is not very significant in this activity (the revenues will be "cash"
Concessionaire will be responsible for 50% of the initial investment in rolling stock and controlling systems.
A loan from BNDES was considered to finance initial investments in rolling stock and Systems, covering 70% of the total expenditures.



A NNIEX 6
SALVADOR URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
FINANCIAL SUMMARY FOR REVENUE EARNING PROJECT ENTITIES
Calendar Years 2000 through 2024
All figures In Millions of Current US Dollars
2000   20011  20021  203      204     20    20061  20071  2020         009    201    201      212     21      20141  200      21       07     21       09     22       01     22       0231   2024
Assets
CmnenAsses EA A            000    4.AC    0.0    0.22    9.58   1352   14.00   14.00   10.00   18.15   18.68   19.13   2009   21.45   21.92   22.40   22.80   23.30   23.81   24.33   24.83   25.23   25.63   26.04
Net Fixed Assets   5.91   21.04   33.53   34.08   43.90   46.85   44.59   42.33   40.07   37.81    0.055   33.29   31.03   28.79   26.52   24.26   22.00   26.65   24.69   22.72   20.76   21.14   19.27   17.41   15.54
TotalAssets        5.91   2104   37.69   43.56   5312   56.42   58.11   5633   54.07   52.81   93.70   51.98   00.19   49.76   47.90   46.18   44.40   49.45   47.99   46.54   45.09   45.97   44.50   43.04   41.59
Debts              4.14   14.73   24.55   22.92   26.94   26 57   21.29   15.98   10.68    5.38    3.59    1 79    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    o 00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Equ;ly             1.77    6.31   13.14   2046  26.18   29.85   36.83   40.35   43.89   47.43   50.12   50.18   50.16   49.70   47.96   46.19   44.40   49.45   47.90   46.54   45.09   45.07   44.50   43.04   41.59
TotalD& E          5.91   21.04   37.69   43.05   53.12   56.42   58.11   96.33   64.57   52.81   53.70   51.98   50.16   49.76   47,96   46.19   44.40   49.45   47.99   46.54   49.09   45.97   44.50   43.04   41.50
Maln Assumptions
Conoesnon pened 25 years (From the btgin of2000 tothe end of 2024)
User tiaff of USS 0,52 ( RS 0,85 I / passenger, without dlfference betowen the single end the integrated tarif.
Remuneration Taif of Metro: US$ o64 ( R0 1,06 ). Discount over remureation ta0ff: 0%
Concession Fee ( Canon ): US$ 27 millens ( not considOrOd as Capital )
Wordng Capital was not computed, sicoe i is not very nigniftcnt in this activity (the revenues cit be 'cash )
Ccn.esnioaloev/9 he tespvnssih  10 S0q% ot  Wwe watlhlestmt ir roiling stock and scotrolilOt systems.
A loan from BNDES was considered to fiance initial inveStments in rotirg stoc0 and Systems, oovenng 706, of the total expenditures.
0o0
t'i
0



Page 30
Annex 6
Salvador Urban Transport Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement methods (Table A)
Bank procurement guidelines for works, goods and services will be applied (Guidelines-
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995, revised January and August 1996,
September 1997, and January 1999). There will be two main ICB bids with pre-qualification in this
project: A) A lump-sum turnkey bid for the provision of the infrastructure and fixed installations of the
metrorail system; and B) a bid for the operating concession of the metrorail system including provision of
rolling stock and systems. A) will be categorized under works and will be a lump sum contract except for the
foundations and parts of the tunnel which will be costed using unit prices. The procurement documents used
will be an adaptation of the standard bidding documents for supply and installation and major works. B) will
use a specific bidding document to reflect the operating concession and the supply of metrorail rolling stock
and systems. There will be smaller NCB bids for the STU/SAL rehabilitation and housing.
Consultant services will be hired in accordance to Bank guidelines (Guidelines- Selection and Employment
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997, Revised September 1997 and January 1999).
Consultant Services for project management, supervision of works and the integrated Transport Policy will
be undertaken under QCBS procedures. Consultant services for support of the implementation unit will be
hired under SFB procedures.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Prior review thresholds were revised by the Regional Procurement Adviser to reflect the experience
of CBTU with procurement.
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
All disbursements under contracts of less than US$10 million for works, such as systems, permanent way,
and assembly of rolling stock, and of less than US$350,000 for goods would be made on the basis of certified
statements of expenditure (SOEs) prepared by CBTU/SM. SOE limits for consultant service contracts would be
US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for individuals. Supporting documentation for the SOEs would be retained by
CBTU and made available for examination by Bank staff during supervision missions . Once CBTU/SM complete
the requirements to be eligible for PMR-based disbursements, the disbursements will be based on the PMRs.
Special account:
To expedite project execution, a Special Account would be opened in a commercial bank under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank with an authorized allocation of up to US$15.0 million equivalent. This account
would be repienished for the amount of withdrawals on account of eligible expenditures. Authorization is sought for
retroactive financing of up to US$15 million (10 percent of loan funds) in accordance with the Bank's standard
guidelines. This retroactive financing would be for expenditures made twelve months prior to loan signing and cover
items such as the preparation of final engineering designs and the project management information system. The
disbursement arrangements were discussed and agreed upon during negotiations.



Page 31
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements'
(in US$million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                              Procurement Method                Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB       NCB       Other      N.B.F
1. Works
a.. Turnkey Contract                 204.8                                        204.8
(116.4)                                      (116.4)
b.  Metrorail Systemsl                26.0                                          26
l. Systems                         (22.1)                                       (22.1)
2. Rolling Stock                                                     53.4        53.4
c. CBTU Rehabilitation                           11.1                              11.1
(2.0)                             (2)
2. Consulting Services
a.. PMOC & Supervision                                      8.6                     8.6
(6.8)                  (6.8)
b. Technical Assistance                                      0.7                    0.7
(0.5)                  (0.5)
3. Resettlement Housing
a.. Housing                                       1.6                               1.6
(0.7)                             (0.7)
4. Front end fee                                               1.5                    1.5
(1.5)                  (1.5)
Total                                230.8      12.7       10.8       53.4        307.7
(138.5)     (2.7)     (8.8)      (0.0)       (150)
Note:  N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel cofinancing
procedures, consultancies under trust finds, any reserved procurement, and any other
miscellaneous items). The procurement arrangement for the items listed under "Other" and
details of the items listed as "N.B.F." need to be explained in footnotes to the table or in the
text. Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan/IDA credit.
Front End Fee was not included here
1 included in the concession contract and bid in accordance with paragraph 3.13 (a) of the
World Bank Procurement guidelines.
For details on presentation of Procurement Methods refer to ODI 1.02, "Procurement Arrangements for Investment
Operations." Details on Consultant Services can be shown more easily in the Table Al format (additional to Table A. where
applicable).



Page 32
Annex 6, Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(in US$million equivalent)
Selection Method                          Total Cost
Consultant Services                                                                      (including
Expenditure Category                                                                     contingencies)
QCBS    QBS        SFB      LCS       CQ      Other   N.B.F.
A. Firms                      9.0               0.2                                              9.2
(7.0)             (0.2)                                            (7.2)
B. Individuals                                                              0.1                  0.1
______________________________ ______  _______ ______ _______ (0. 1)  _____  (0.1)
Total   9.0                0.2                        0.1                  9.3
Total  (7.0)              (0.2)                      .(0.1)                (7.3)
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS   Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.



Page 33
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Table 6B: Procurement Thresholds
(US$ '000)
Description                Type of Procurement         Prior Review Limit    Contract Value
1. WORKS
Turnkey Contract                            ICB                      All ICB             No Threshold
Systems plus R. Stock and                ICB/NCB                                        ICB>10,000
concession                                                                             NCB 350 to 10,000
CBTU Rehabilitation
NCB                 First NCB contract        < 10,000
Price Quotations from at least       None                  < 350
three Bidders
,                                 ....................I...................-............... ............ ........ ...............................................................................................  ..........................................
2. GOODS                                      ICB                        All                 > 350
(Not applicable. Shown as
reference)                                   NCB                 First two contracts       100 to 350
Shopp..ing                  None                  <100
3. CONSULTING SERVICES
Firms                                                            TORs, short list,          > 100
QCBS                technical evaluation
and contracts
CQS                  TORs, short list,           >50
Individuals                                                        and contracts
CQ                 TOR, CV, contract            <50
1. A Procurement Capacity Assessment of CBTU was undertaken using the appropriate survey forms and CBTU
was considered procurement-proficient by the regional procurement advisor. The thresholds for prior review were
set based on CBTU's prior experience with Bank Procurement.
2. There will be two main bids in this project: a) A lump-sum turnkey bid for the provision of the infrastructure and
fixed installations of the metrorail system; and b) a bid for the operating concession of the metrorail system
including the provision of rolling stock and systems. There will be smaller bids for the STU/SAL rehabilitation
3.  There will be 2 major QCBS request for proposals for the PMOC and engineering supervision.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement Documentation" and contact
the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.



Page 34
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category              Amount in      Financing Percentage
US$million           (%)
1. Turnkey contract
First Contribution                             9.92               65%
Second Contribution                            9.92               65%
Third Contribution                             9.92               65%
Fourth Contribution                            9.92               65%
Fifth Contribution                             9.92               65%
Sixth Contribution                              9.92               65%
Seventh Contribution                            9.92               65%
Eight Contribution                             9.92               65%
Ninth Contribution                              9.92               65%
Tenth Contribution                              9.92               65%
2. Works
A. Metro Rail Systems                         20.96              100%
B. CBTU Rehabilitation                        1.72               20%
C. Resettlement Housing                       0.61               50%
3. Consulting Services                          9.3                86%
4. Front End Fee (1%)                           1.50              100%
5. Unallocated                                 16.71
Total                        150.00



Page 35
Annex 7
Salvador Urban Transport Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                        Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
180
B. Project Schedule                               Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)             09/23/1997            09/23/1997
Appraisal mission departure                     10/30/1998            10/23/1998
Negotiations                                    01/30/1999            05/11/1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   06/30/1999             _/J/19
Prepared by: Prefeitura de Salvador and CBTU
Preparation assistance: Canadian Trust Fund, U.S. Trade Development Fund, French Government
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Specialty
Jorge Rebelo               (Task Manager and Principal Transport Specialist),
David Hughart                       Principal Transport Economist
Armando Araiijo                     Advanced Procurement Specialist
Jose Carvalho                               Sr. Counsel
Daniel Gross                          Resettlement Specialist
Tulio Correa                      Financial Management Specialist
John Flora                               Peer Reviewer
Kenneth Gwilliam                            Peer Reviewer
Ant6nio Estache                            Peer Reviewer
Isaac Popoutchi                        Extemal Peer Reviewer
Allison Turner                            Staff Assistant
Jeremy Coon                               Staff Assistant
Consultant staff who worked on the project
included:
Oliver S. de Lima                   Metro/CBTU Systems Specialist
Kenneth Knight                      Metro Infrastructure Specialist
Pedro Benvenuto                         Institutional Specialist
Benjamin Darche                        Project Finance Specialist
Systra Consultants                         Project Reviewers
Projob Consultants                   Metro Systems Design Specialists
Higesa Consultants                      Environmental Specialists
Avante Consultants                       Resettlement Specialists
Fundac,o Getuilio Vargas                  Project Finance Consultants
TC/BR                                  EPC consultants



Page 36
Annex 8
Salvador Urban Transport Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan, Salvador Municipality/CBTU, November 1998
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. Elementos Complementares do Estudo de Demanda e da Avaliacao Financeira, Prefeitura Municipal de
Salvador, Coordenadoria de Projetos Especiais, September 1998
2. Relat6rio PROJOB, Etapa 1, Projeto de Metro de Salvador, PROJOB Engenharia S/C Ltda, September
10, 1998
3. Metr6 de Superficie de Salvador, Avaliaq&o Economica, Prefeitura Municipal de Salvador,
Coordenadoria de Projetos Especiais, June 1998
4.  Metr6 de Superficie de Salvador, Avaliacao Financeira Preliminar da Concessao, Documento Intemo
para Discussao, Prefeitura Municipal de Salvador, Coordenadoria de Projetos Especiais, Novembro 1997
5. Estrategias para os Transportes Urbanos, Regiao Metropolitana de Salvador, Programa de
Descentralizaqao do Trem Metropolitano de Salvador, Estudos de Demanda, CBTU, Protran Engenharia;
September 1997
6.  Estrategias para os Transportes Urbanos - Regiao Metropolitana de Salvador, Programa de
Descentraliza9co do Trem Metropolitano de Salvador, Estudos de Demanda, Executive Summary;
CBTU, Protran Engenharia, January 1997
7. Estudo de Demanda de Transporte Coletivo de Salvador, Versao Preliminar, TC/BR, June 1996
8. Salvador Urban Transport Project Metro Alignment Alternatives and Technology Selection., Preparation
Mission, Kenneth Knight, May 1998
9. "Salvador Urban Transport Project Metro Design, Costs and Procurement Options", Pre-Appraisal
Mission, Kenneth Knight, July 1998
10. "Salvador Urban Transport Project Metro Design, Costs and Procurement Options", Pre-Appraisal
Mission, N° 2, Kenneth Knight, August 1998
11. Projeto do Metr8 de Salvador, Avaliacao dos Estudo de Demanda, SYSTRA, April 1998
12. Projeto de Descentralizacao dos Trens Metropolitanos de Salvador, Arcabouco Institucional, Pedro
Benvenuto, March 1998
13. Metro de Salvador de Bahia, Etude Institutionnelle et Financiere, SYSTRA, September 1998
14. Estudos de Impacto Ambiental e Relat6rio de Impacto Ambiental para Implantac,o dos Corredores do
Sistema Metr6 de Salvador, Sumario Executivo, Versao Portugu6s, HIGESA Engenharia Ltda, June
1998
15. Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) and Environmental Impact Report (RIMA) for the Implementation
of an Integrated Transportation System - The Salvador Metro, Executive Summary, English Version,
HIGESA Engenharia Ltda, June 1998
16. Transporte Coletivo-Habito de Uso e Valor da Tarifa - Pesquisa de Opiniao, P&A-Instituto de Pesquisa e
Analise, Salvador, Bahia, Janeiro de 1999.
17. Memorando de Informacoes- 0 Projeto e o Concessionrario, Funda,ao Getulio Vargas, Abril de 1999



Page 37                        MOP Schedule D
Brazil
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 31-Mar-99
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval          Company         Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic    Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1973/78/83         CODEMIN                0.00    4.34   0.00      0.00    0.00    4.34   0.00      0.00
1975/96            Oxiteno NE            25.00    0.00   0.00      0.00   25.00    0.00   0.00      0.00
1980/87/97         Ipiranga              40.00    6.32   0.00    150.00   40.00    6.32   0.00    150.00
1980/88            OPP                    0.00    0.00   0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00      0.00
1980/92            DENPASA                0.00    1.00    .12      0.00    0.00    1.03    .05      0.00
1981               Brasilpar              0.00     .04   0.00      0.00    0.00     .04   0.00      0.00
1982/84/86         PISA                   0.00    3.90   0.00      0.00    0.00    3.90   0.00      0.00
1983               SOCOCO                 0.00    0.00   2.50      0.00    0.00    0.00   2.50      0.00
1987/92/96         MBR                    7.02    0.00  10.00      6.23    7.02    0.00  10.00      6.23
1987/96            Perdigao              28.44   10.00   0.00     14.00   28.44   10.00   0.00     14.00
1987/96/97         Duratex               22.00    0.00   0.00     78.00   22.00    0.00   0.00     78.00
1987/97            SP Alpargatas         25.00    0.00   5.00      0.00   25.00    0.00   5.00      0.00
1989/95            Politeno Ind.         14.62    0.00   0.00      0.00   14.62    0.00   0.00      0.00
1990               ENGEPOL                 .88    0.00   0.00      0.00     .88    0.00   0.00      0.00
1990               Ripasa                 2.86    5.00   0.00      0.00    2.86    5.00   0.00      0.00
1990/91/92         Bahia Sul              7.14   20.97   0.00      0.00    7.14   20.97   0.00      0.00
1991               Bradesco-AL           26.03    0.00   0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00      0.00
1l991              Bradesco-Bahia         3.75    0.00   0.00      0.00    3.75    0.00   0.00      0.00
1991               Bradesco-Eucatex       7.50    0.00   0.00      0.00    7.50    0.00   0.00      0.00
]1991              Bradesco-Petrofl       7.50    0.00   0.00      0.00    7.50    0.00   0.00      0.00
1[991              Bradesco-Romi          1.59    .40   0.00       0.00    1.59     .40   0.00      0.00
:1991              Rhodia-Ster            7.14    5.95   0.00      0.00    7.14    5.95   0.00      0.00
[L992              CRP-Caderi             0.00    1.93   0.00      0.00    0.00     .68   0.00      0.00
1992/93            TRIKEM                 0.00   12.86   0.00      0.00    0.00   12.86   0.00      0.00
1993               BACELL                11.00   10.70   0.00     16.20   11.00   10.70   0.00     16.20
1993               CEBRACTEX               .60    0.00   0.00      0.00     .60    0.00   0.00      0.00
1993               Macedo Alimentos      14.50    0.00   0.00      0.00   14.50    0.00   0.00      0.00
1993               Votorantim            13.00    0.00   0.00      1.00   13.00    0.00   0.00      1.00
1993/96            CEVAL                 49.00   20.00   0.00    105.00   49.00   20.00   0.00    105.00
1994               GAVEA                  9.69    0.00   5.50      0.00    9.69    0.00   5.50      0.00
1994               GP Capital             0.00   14.04   0.00      0.00    0.00   14.00   0.00      0.00
1994               ParaPigmentos         30.00    0.00   9.00     33.02   25.50    0.00   9.00     27.77
1994               Portobello            13.36    5.00   0.00      0.00   13.36    5.00   0.00      0.00
1994/95/97         Sadia                 47.00   10.00   9.67    189.78   47.00   10.00   9.67    189.78
1994/96            CHAPECO               25.00    0.00   0.00      5.00   25.00    0.00   0.00      5.00
1994/96            S.A.I.C.C.             0.00    7.85   6.87      0.00    0.00    7.70   6.87      0.00
1995               Bradesco-Hering        7.50    0.00   0.00      0.00    7.50    0.00   0.00      0.00
1995               Brahma- BRA           27.50    0.00   0.00     61.50   27.50    0.00   0.00     61.50
1995               Cambuhy/MC            18.75    0.00   0.00      0.00   18.75    0.00   0.00      0.00
1995               Lojas Americana       26.00    0.00   5.00     14.00   26.00    0.00   5.00     14.00
1995               LATASA - Brazil       14.33    0.00   0.00      2.50   14.33    0.00   0.00      2.50
1995               Rhodiaco/PTA          20.00    0.00   0.00     18.00   20.00    0.00   0.00     18.00
1995/96/98         Globocabo             35.00   27.97   0.00    118.00   35.00   27.97   0.00    118.00
1996               Banco Bradesco        40.00    0.00   0.00     54.36   15.23    0.00   0.00     22.84
1996               Mallory                7.27    0.00   0.00      0.00    7.27    0.00   0.00      0.00
1996               TIGRE                 25.00    0.00   5.00     19.23   25.00    0.00   5.00     19.23
1996/97            Lightel               25.00   18.17   0.00      0.00   25.00   18.17   0.00      0.00
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS) on 05/17/99



Page 38                         MOP Schedule D
Committed                         Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval          Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic    Loan EqiyQai Pri
1997               Bompreco               25.00    0.00   5.00      0.00   25.00    0.00   5.00       0.00
1997                Copesul               40.00    0.00   0.00    180.00   40.00    0.00   0.00    180.00
1997               Guilmana-Amorim        29.47    0.00   0.00     86.21   29.47    0.00   0.00      86.21
1997               Rodovia                35.00    0.00   0.00     79.50   30.02    0.00   0.00      68.18
1997                Samarco               16.20    0.00   0.00      13.33   16.20    0.00   0.00     13.33
1997               Sucorrico              15.00    0.00   0.00      0.00   15.00    0.00   0.00       0.00
1997               Wembley                 0.00   10.00   0.00      0.00    0.00   10.00   0.00       0.00
1997/93            Coteminas              15.00    4.00   0.00     20.00   15.00    4.00   0.00      20.00
1998               Arteb                  20.00    7.00   0.00     20.00   14.00    7.00   0.00      14.00
1998               BSC                    14.00    0.00   0.00      7.50   14.00    0.00   0.00       7.50
1998               Dixie Toga              0.00   15.00   0.00      0.00    0.00   15.00   0.00       0.00
1998               Empesca                 5.00    0.00  10.00      0.00    5.00    0.00  10.00       0.00
1998               Fras-le                10.00   10.00   0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00       0.00
1998               Icatu Equity            0.00   30.00   0.00      0.00    0.00      .19   0.00      0.00
1998               Randon                  7.00    0.00   3.00      0.00    7.00    0.00   3.00       0.00
1998                Saraiva               15.00    3.00   0.00      0.00   15.00    3.00   0.00       0.00
1998               TRG (Tecon Rio)         7.50    0.00   5.50      18.00    0.00    0.00   0.00      0.00
1999               Vulcabras              20.00    0.00   0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00       0.00
TotalPortfolio:               960.14  265.44  82.16   1,310.36  856.36  224.22  76.59   1,238.27
Approvals Pending Commuitment
Loan     Equity   Quasi  Partic
1996               AGUAS LIMEIRA              17.00    1.00    0.00   23.00
1998               BANCO ICATU                30.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999               CIBRASEC                    0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00
1997               CTBC                      35.00    0.00    0.00  150.00
1998               FOSFERTIL                  20.00    0.00    0.00   60.00
1998              FRAS-LE                     0.00    0.00    0.00   15.00
1998               FSA                        35.00    0.00   10.00   45.00
1996               GLOBOCABO 11                0.00    0.00    0.00   38.00
1999              INNOVA                      20.00    5.00    0.00  160.00
1999              INNOVATIVE HS                0.00    0.00    6.25    0.00
1997              IPIRANGA EXPANS.             0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00
1998              IPIRANGA-RI 2                0.00     .09    0.00    0.00
1998              LOJAS RENNER                16.00    4.00    0.00    0.00
1996               OXITENO/ETHYLO              0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00
1998              RANDON                      0.00    0.00    0.00   15.00
1997               SP ALPARGATAS II           0.00    0.00    0.00   30.00
1998               TRIKEM II                 25.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               UNIBANCO                   40.00    0.00    0.00  250.00
1999               WIEST                       9.00    0.00    8.00    0.00
Total Pending Comaiitment:        247.00   22.59   29.25  786.00
Generated by the Operations LIformation System (OIS) on 05/17/99



MIOP Schedule D
Generated: 053 14'99
Status of Bank Group Operations in Brazil
Operations Portfolio
As of 10-May-99
Difference Between
expected
Jriginal Amount in USS Millions                    and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                                disbursements a.
Project ID    Year                BoeroWer                    Purrpose
IBRD        IDA      Canceallations  Undisbursed       JIig    Frm Rev'd
llumber of Closed Projects: 194
Active Prsjects
BR-PE-43874     1999   G'DVERIIMEIIT CF BRAZIL           DISEASE SURVEILLANCE                   100. 50        2.1         0.05            11.n 5I 0..0
BR-PE--54129    1999   GOVERNHENT OF BRA2IL              AIDS 2                                  165.. °.rc                0.0              144.99       -6.67     
BR-PE-58129     1999   FEDERAL GOVERNMENT                EMER. FIRE PREVEIJTIO                    15.0         7. IC       0.                15.0'C       9.'0:
BR-PE-35728     1998   STATE OF BAHIA                    BAHIA WTPR RESCURCES                     51.           .cc 0.C.CG                   41.22       19.61
BR-PE-3889Y     1998   GOVERIINEINT 07 BRAZIL            FED.WTR MGT                             198.Oc        5.00        0.' I            178.73       41.72        5.,
BR-PE-38947     1999   -OVERIIEIIT OF BRAZIL             SC. 8 TECH 3                            155. 0        0. 9G       G. C             138.99       23.99        ?.5
BR-PE-400'33    1998   THE STATE CF MINAS GERAIS         14G STATE PRIV.                         170.1         .             I C)oo         1 /0.0GC    133.34        0.0G
BR-PE-42565     1998   STATE OF PARAIBA                  PAPAIBA R.P5VERTY                        6 0.GG       90G.00                        48.56        1.20 9. Ocg
BR-PE-43420    1998   FED. REPUBLIC CF BRAZIL            WATER S.1MOD.2                          1510,         D.J         G.0C,0           15. 0I       32.50        Q.00
BR-PE-43421     1998   STATE 9If RIO DE JANEIRO          RJ M.TPANSIT PRJ.                       186.00 0C    1.1C                         186.11        82.32         .
BR-PE-48357     1998   REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL                CEI. BAIIK TAT                           20.C         3. .0'C 00                    16.83        8.1C0C0
BF.-PE-50762    1998   GJV. OF BRAZIL                    FUI4DESC5LA1                             62.5         ° °c        0. cl             27.13      -22.886
BR-PE-51101     1998   STATE OF MARANHAO                 4ARA71HAG R.PCVKRTY                       0.0C0       0.100        .00              69.14        6.84        '. O
BR-PE-5791t0    1998   GOVERNMEPIHT OF BP.AZIL           PENISIO1N REFORM LIL                      5.0C.       0. 0i0      0.00               5.00        5.00 C.00
BR-PE-6474      1998   STATE OF SAO PAULG.               LAND MGT 3(SP)                           55. C,       0.0         0. U.             51.91        7.84        0.G0
BR-PE-6549      1998   TBG                               GAS SCTR DEV PROJECT                    130.00C       0.0         0.Q0             130.0CO      75.34        0.1 0
BR-PE-6559      1998   THE STATE OF SAO PAULO             (BF-R)SP.'TSP                           45.00        0.'0C       0.0               45.10       22.17         0.00                      t
BR-PE-34578     1997   RIO GRANDE DO SUL                 RGS HWY MGT                              70.00        0.00        0. 0              66.70       23.37        0.00                      C2
BR-PE-38896     1991   STATE OF RGII                     R.POVERTY(RGN)                           24.CC        0.0'        0.00              15.25        4.29        ,-.rr,
BR-PE-42566     1997   STATE OF PERIIAMBUCO              R.POVERTY(PE)                            39.c         0,.C0       0.,9              16.36        1.01           CO
BR-PE-43868     1997   STATE OF RGS                      RGS LAIND M7GT.POVERTY                  100.10 0      11.    ^ 0 .00                89.45       19.61        C o C
RR-PE-43871     1991   STATE OF PTAUI                     (PIAUI)R.POVERTY                        30.          lI .00      0. 00              9.06       -4.10 1        ,r
BR-PE-43873     1997   FED.REP.OF BRAZIL                 AG TECH DEV.                             60.C0    0 T.. C         I.                219.88      16.69        0.00
BR-PE-46052     1997                                     CEARA WTR PILOT                           9.60        0.01'        . (90             7.89        7.89         ,.o
BR-PE-48870     1997   THE STATE OF MATO GROSSO          MT STATE PRIV.                           45.0        0G.00        0.'0              45.00       38,34        0.00
BR-PE-6475      1997   FED. REP. OF BRAZIL               LAIID RFM PILOT                          90.10        0.00.       0.00 61.25                    16.51        0.0
BR-PE-6532      1997   FEDERAL GOVER71MENT               FED H19WY DECENTR                       30C.500       C.0CC '.CO                   261.02       91.03        0. 00C.
£R-PE-6562      1997   STATE OF BAHIA                    BAHfIA MUN.DV                           lOC.nC,       0.00       10  C              98.26       34.60 1.0Q
BR-PE-37828     1996   STATE OF PARAINA                  (PR) R. POVERTY                         175.C,9        .11 00     U.               141.71       91,64        0.00
BR-PE-40028     1996   FEDERATrVE REPUBLIC OF BR         RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURG                    350 .         0..00      50.00              37.42       4l'.71       0.00
BR-PE-6S12      1996   'VRD                              ENV. CONS (CVRD)                         5C,  C.I                0C00               23.16       12.85        0.0 n
BR-PF-6551      1996   FED. REP. OF BRAZIL               HITH SCTF. REFORMt                      300.01        0. Iu        I C,            226.55      137.37
BR-PE-35717     1995   GsVT OF BRAZIL                    RURAL POV. (BAHIA)                      1050 C'-,JC               0.00              43.12       13.81
BR-PE-38882     1995   FED REPOsBLIC OF BR.A_IL          FECIFE M.TSP                            102,00 C       .0         I I.0             71.95       45.64          30
BP.-PE-38884    1995   G,OVT IF BRAZIL                   RURAL POV.- CEARA                        1G,          0. 0        0. O              22.41        1.01          .,C
8P-PE-38885     2995   GDVT -F BRAZTL                    RUPAL POV.-SERGIPE                       360  '       CJ0                           11.37         .67          00
BF-PE-6436      1815   STATE  -F CEARA        CIT.       CEARA UR.DV/WATER CO                    II0. 0. ,    r               ,o 61.27                   52. 9 - 17,75
BR-PE-6164      1995   FEE REPIJRLIC BFPAZIL             BELO H M.TSP                             99  10       0.J         3         o0      44 .07      29. a         0 0
BR-PF.- 6452    1194  MJIIIISTRY GO EDUCATIOII           IIE BASIC EDUC III                      2 06,,. IF.                .0               23.63       21.30          .0'
BR-PE-6522      1994   ST.OF ESPIRITO SAINTO             ESP.SA7TO WATER                                                                     ' , O,  72.97  1 .14.13
BR-PE-6524      1994   ST.OF MINAS GEPAIS                IIT7IAS 1-1IRC.DEVEL6PMT                                          5. ;  . C         29.44       34.41       2 a.47
PR-PE-6543      1994   GrCVERIIMEIIT                     11. GERAIS BASIC EDUC                                l50.,s          ) ,-           C.2r.31     14.31         ..  I,
BY-PE-655       1994   S-TATE GVTS                       STE HNY MGT TI                          220,.0         .C0       36,S7               6.2'       36.19        6.19
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)



MOP Schedule D
Generated: 05'14/99
t-ifference Retw-ee,o
expected
nDrigiral Amount in US$ Millions                     and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                                     disbursements a
Project ID    Year                 Borro rer                     Purpose
IBRD         IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed         Crig    Frm Rev d
BR-PE-6558       1994   REPUBLIC oF BRAZIL                 PARANA BASIC FDUC                         96.00        0C.0         o.00              19.44        11.11         0.0Q
BR-PE-6545       1993   ITIIAS GERAIS ST.                  WTR D PLN(MINAS GEPA                     145. '         C r5 5.cu                       2.29        7.28         2.28
BR-PE-6541       1993   S.PAULO PARAMA ITS.                XTRP D PLI(SP PARAIIAT                   245.10C0                   9.30               3-.78       4^ .06       -6.24
BR-PE-6547       1993   FED.REP.oF BPAZIL                  I4ETRPD TRANSP. RID                      128.5G                                          .29           30         . 1
BR-PE-6368       1992  CGDVERNMENT                         X.ATER SECTOR MIODERNI                   210.r                                          3.25        3.25
BR-PE-6505       1992   GDVERNMENT OF BRAZIL               IATO GROSSO NAT RES                      205.01         1. C        0.01              62.49        62.49
BR-PE-6453       1991    FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BR         IIE IRRIG I                              21.61          000        69B. 00             18.61      89.62         18.62
BR-PE-6413       1991   STATE OF SANTA CATARINA            131D MGMT II-S. CATAR                     33. 1.                                        1.09        1.13         1. 13
BR-PE-6370       1989   FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BR          FIE IRRI JAIBA                            71.01          00         o.Q.-I              1.25        1.27         9 0C,
BR-PE-6414       1989   COMGAS, SAO PAULO                  IITRL GAS DIST                            94.1          C 06.       G. 0                 .04         .92         0.00
Total                                                                                             6, 3G0 . 2'      1 .11     17.310           3,215.82    1, 511. 51       37.77
Active Projects        Closed Projects           Total
Total Disbursed IIBRD and IDA)                  2,906.-8           17,967.G9            20,873.11
of which has been repaid:                  261.42             3   5               13,666.42
Total now held b, IBRD and IDA:                 5,60. 41             4,659.93           10,520.40
Amount sold                       :                 1.10                45.83                45.83
of which repaid                :                 0.00                45.83                45.83
Tctal Undisbursed                 :             3,215.82                97.83            3,313.65
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 30-Apr-99.
Generated by the Operations Infonnation System (OIS)



Page 41
Brazil at a glance                                                            9/16/98
Latin   Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         America   middle-
Brazil  & Carib.  income      Development diamond*
1997
Population, mid-year (millions)                     163.5      494       571                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                  4,720     3,880     4,520
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                    771.9     1,917     2,584                      T
Average annual growth, 1991497
Population (%)                                        1.4       1.7       1.5     GNP                             Grs
Laborforce (%)                                        1.7       2.3       1.9     per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991-97)                             capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line) 1/  17
Urban population (% of total population)              80        74        73
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      67         70       70
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)              34        32        30
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             7          ..       ..              Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of populaton)                 72         73       79
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                  17         13       15
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-age population)  112       111      107              Bmzi
Male                                                 ..        ..        ..             Upper-middle-income group
Female                                               .._.._..
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    1986       1996     1997
Economic rattos*
GDP (US$ billions)                         152.7   268.1      774.9    820.3
Gross domestic investment/GDP               23.1     19.1      20.7      22.8                     Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP            7.0      8.8       7.1       6.2
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  20.7    21.6       18.6      20.6
Gross national savings/GDP                  19.2    17.1       17.3      18.6
Current account balancelGDP                 -4.3    -1.9       -3.1      -4.1     Domestic                    l
Interest payments/GDP                        1.1      2.4       1.1       1.1   o ves                        Investment
Total debt/GDP                              21.8    40.7       23.1      23.6     Savings
Total debt service/exports                  37.9    46.8       41.7      45.2                     \
Present value of debt/GDP                     ..       ..      21.8
Present value of debt/exports                 ..       ..    280.8         ..
Indebtedness
197646  1987-97    1996       1997   1998-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 2.9      1.9      2.8       3.2       3.5              BrazD
GNP per capita                      0.2      0.0      1.8       1.9       2.0        -     Upper-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services      10.3      5.4      6.1       1.8       5.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976    1986       1996     1997      Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                 13.0     11.2      14.4      12.7
Industry                                    39.7    45.2       36.4      37.8    lat-
Manufacturing                             30.4    33.0       22.9      23.4      a --
Services                                    47.3    43.7       49.2      49.5     0-                -,
Private consumption                         68.8    67.8       62.2      61.9     5 o_}2    93   94   95   95   97
General government consumption              10.5    10.7       19.2      17.5                    GDI      e  GD
Imports of goods and services                9.4      6.4       9.2       8.5   I
(average annual growth)                  1976-86  1987-97     1996      1997      Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
Agriculture                                  3.7      2.5       2.2       2.4    40
Industry                                     2.7      0.1       3.0       3.8
Manufacturing                              2.3    -0.2         2.9      3.8    20
Services                                     2.9      3.1       3.1       3.5
Private consumption                          2.5      3.4       4.6       4.5     a                 94 ' 9  '        97
General government consumption               2.1     -1.6       9.8       8.0
Gross domestic investment                   -2.1      1.2      -0.2       6.2   -20
Imports of goods and services               -3.3    12.1        5.9      13.9            -     Exporls        i Imports
Gross national product                       2.4      1.5       3.2       3.3
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates. 1/ Poverty estimate is from 1990.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. ff data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Page 42
Brazil
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1986      1996      1997   'Inflaton (%)
Domestic pricesI
(% change,i                                                                        2,500
Consumer prices                                 ..   147.1       15.6       69      2000.
Implicit GDP deflator                        47.6    145.3       17.2       7.8    1500°
1,9000
Govemment finance                                                                    son
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                   a
Current revenue                                  .    22.3       31.3      32.1              92   93   94   95   99   97
Current budget balance                          ..    -5.0       -1.2      -1.6                   GDP deflator    c P
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..   -13.3       -5.9      -6.1
TRADE
1976    1986       1996      1997      Export and import levels (US$ millions)
(IJSS milllons)
Total exports (fob)                             ..  22,394    47,747   52,986       75°000
Coffee                                        ..   2,360      2,095    3,094
Other food                                    ..   1,562      4,458     5,729     5 0090
Manufactures                                  ..  11,839    29,676   32,732
Total imports (cif)                                 14,044    53,301    61,358
Food                                           .        .     329       390       25.9000u
Fuel and energy                               ..   3,541      3,459     3,220
Capital goods                                 ..   3,464    20,188    26,232          o
91  92  93  94  95  96  97
Export price index (1995=100J                   ..      68        100       96
Import price index (1995=100)                   ..      85        103       95                CExports     fllmporns
Terms of trade (1995=100)                       ..      80         97      101                                       ---_ ,=   .    .
BALANCE of PAYMiENiTS
(11S$ n7tflion,n)                            1S76    1986       1996      1997      currentaccountbalancetoGDPratio(%)
Exports of goGds and services              10,848   23,870    51,853    56,827      2
imports of goods and senrices              14,687   16,576    64,958    74,158
Resource balance                            -3,839    7,294   -13,105   -17,331 °
91   92          4
Net income                                  -2,719  -12,259   -14,141   -18,329
Net current transfers                          -3      -26      2,899     2,220    -2 
Current account balance                    -6,561   -4,991    -24,347   -33,439   |  t
Financing items (net)                       9,233     -319    33,364    25,629
Changes in net reserves                    -2,672    5,310    -9,017      7,810    -6
Me0mo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)      6,542    5,907    60,089    51,729
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)         3.88E-12  4.97E-9        1 r       1.1
EXTERNAL OEiT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986      1996      1997
(US$ millions)                                                                      Composition of total debt, 1996 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       33,340  109,026   179,047   193,598
IBRD                                      1,172    7,546      5,876     5,743                     A: 5,876   6s8|
I DA                                          0        0          0        0           o:3~3 Ds  3,550
Total debt service                          4,278   11,616    25,091    30,000                                    E: 16,803
IBRD                                        130    1,164      1,638     1,428
IDA                                           0        0          0        0
Cornposition of net resource flows
Official grants                               6       30         80
Official creditors                          384    1,152       -514    -1,786
Private credirors                         5,215     -444    14,514    17,238
Foreign direct investment                 1,555      320      9,889
Portfolio equity                              0        0      3,981         . |                        F: 117,311
World Bank program
Commitments                                 486    1,620       858      1,104     A-lBRD                        E-Bilateral
Disbursements                               173    1,619      1,500     1,416     B-IDA     D-DOtherrmultilteral   F-Private
Principal repayments                         45      608      1,222     1,049        C- IMF                    G - Short-termr
Net flows                                   128    1,011       278       368
Interest payments                            85      556       416       380
Net transfers                                43      455       -138      -12
Development Economics                                                                                                 9116/98



IBRD 30090
. O'G602GUYANA     40°                                PARIPE
\VENEZUELA>/ SURINAME                                                                                         BRAZIL
*M /5     FRENCH GUIANA                     \AI
COLOMBIA                       oo                      'PERIPERI            SALVADOR URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
LAPA-PIRAJA METRORAIL UNE
O    INTEGRATION STATIONS
PER  B    BRA       I                                                                                   *     INTERMEDIATE STATIONS
20'                        /20-                                                                        -      AJOR HIGHWAYS
BRASIA        Svijador Ir s >@  ><   J  ,                                      /CBTU-SA RAILROAD UNE
ARGENTtNA.A \
OC~4
\RO' URUGUAY'               I
7
&  4                 /                ZEIR~~~~~oCJAEIAS
DO0TANQUE
CALCADA                     JUA
4~U  E MENINOS
BONCDO RIO
,    z              L    ,    TL\ D
BARRA      ~            '   '      oA   PITUA                                                                    MUSRNA 
This maop non pro&sced by the Map Design Unit of The WorddBonk,
The b--dores, oolors. denso,ielions and my other samsonio
o   &sip -  do notply,o on t port of Theo Wldo ek
Grop, any Iocbmet on the legal stats oeny esitoy, or any
endoersement or accepfavoseof- b-/shssat.ses.
JUNE 1999



