Report No. PID5892
Project Name                     Brazil-Salvador Urban Transport Project (@)#
Region                           Latin American and the Caribbean
Sector                           Urban Transport
Project ID                       BRPE48869
Borrower                         Federative Republic of Brazil
Implementation Agency            CBTU
Estrada Velha da Tijuca, 77-Tijuca
CEP 20531-080-Rio de Janeiro - RJ, Brazil
tel: (021) 575-3105
fax: (021) 208-1780
Date this PID updated            November 18, 1998
Tentative Appraisal Date         November 30, 1998
Tentative Board Date             July 1999
1.              Background: The Salvador Metropolitan Region (SMR), with 2206.45 km2
and 2.5 million inhabitants spread irregularly over 10 individual
municipalities, is dominated by the Salvador Municipality (SM) with 2.3
million inhabitants. The SMR concentrates roughly    21t of the population ofthe
State of Bahia on just   0.4w of its territory. SM alone has 19.4w of the
population of the state and 62t of the income of SMR. SM generates roughly 37T
of BA's income and jobs. Each day, 3.7 million person trips take place in
the SMR of which 81t are home-to-work trips. Of the total trips 54.7w are by
public transport, 14.4w are by auto, 28.9w are by foot and the remaining 2t by
other modes. Of the public transport trips 98t are by bus (mostly private
operators), 0.7T by suburban train    (CBTU-SA), 0.5w by ferry and .89 by other
modes. Of the 1.9 million trips by public modes, about half use more than one
vehicle, requiring some sort of modal transfer: to be completed. This level
of urban transport activity, dominated by the road-based motorized modes has
significant impacts on the SMR's environment. The awkward location of most of
the existing CBTU line discourages more rail trips, in favor of buses and the
automobile creating heavy congestion during peak hours thereby significantly
increasing home-to-work trip time. Salvador's geography and topography with
its hills is prone to traffic congestion, especially when accidents occur
and/or cars break down. There is limited space for fully segregated busways.
It is estimated that a "Salvador inhabitant" wastes 7 days a year more in
travel time than it would if traffic congestion were not so high. Several bus
corridors already have 20,000 passengers/hour/direction, a level which cannot
be handled by reserved busways and which requires a rail-based alternative.
2.              The main users of the public transport system are from the Miolo and
Suburbio neighborhoods and bear the brunt of these problems: (i) shortage of
capacity at peak hours resulting in overcrowded (>10 pass/m2), (ii) long work
journeys (2.5-3 hours/day for a round trip) from the metropolitan periphery to
the urban centers, with often more than two modal transfers; and (iii) paying
over a fourth of their income towards fares. Lack of coordination between the
two levels of government responsible for urban transport, particularly between
the BA and the SM, has led to poor tariff and modal integration, lack of
prioritization in urban transport investments and no common policy on pricing
and subsidies..Finally, SMR needs to modernize its traffic engineering and



control technology to be able to cope with the growing number of road-based
vehicles, and introduce policies which will discourage the rapidly growing use
of the automobile for home-to-work trips. In view of the above, the BA State
and SA municipal administrations have decided that improving metropolitan
transport is one of their main priorities. In urban transport, the main goals
of this administration are: to build the basic "rail-based" network in
corridors in which bus solutions are not feasible, transforming one link of
the suburban rail system into a modern Metro like operation, increasing the
participation of the private sector in the operation and investment of all
urban transport systems to improve productivity and reduce costs and
introducing policies which will promote the use of urban transport. BA/SA
approached the Bank for a loan which will help in achieving those objectives.
The loan received COFIEX approval in July 1997.
3.              Project Objectives: The objectives of the proposed project are : (a)
to improve the quality of public urban transport in the SMR by enhancing the
development of a fully integrated urban transport system, under the
coordination of a regional transport coordination commission ; and (b) to
rehabilitate and transfer from the Federal Government to the State of Bahia,
the Salvador subdivision of the CBTU system.
Objective (a) would be achieved by financing infrastructure and equipment
which are necessary to build a rail-based system under a Build-Operate-
Transfer (BOT) approach; fully operated by the private sector, in the
corridors which are justified, and ensuring its integration with, buses,
ferryboats and non-motorized transport; and by establishing the regional
transport coordination commission in charge of coordinating and recommending
common policies on pricing, financing, and project evaluation in the SMR.
Objective (b) would be achieved by rehabilitating portions of the CBTU-SA
subdivision which can be integrated with the new rail system and transfer its
operations, management and ownership to the State of Bahia. Subsidiary
objectives would be the improvement of the mobility of the low-income
population who are the main users of public transport and the reduction of
environmental impacts (mainly air quality and noise) on the SMR due to road-
based vehicles use.
4.               Project Description: The project would comprise three inter-related
components: (a) ) an Infrastructure and Equipment component to: (i) to build
the Salvador light Metro under a Build-Operate-Transfer concept and to
rehabilitate sections of the existing CBTU network which are viable ; (ii)
build/rehabilitate the transfer stations between the trains, metr¶, buses and
ferries; b) an Institutional and Policy Development component to help in (i)
Supporting the process of concession of the Salvador metrorail system
(METROSAL) to the private sector through technical assistance for the
preparation and evaluation of bids and implementation of the BOT award
process; (ii) establishing the Regional Transport Coordination Commission for
the SMR ; (iii) preparing an integrated Transport Policy, Land Use and Air
Quality Management strategy for the SMR to meet both transport and air
quality targets and to introduce sound cost-recovery, tariff, regulatory and
subsidy policies; (iv) prepare data collection and feasibility studies for
other priorities of the mass transit system; and (v) an Environmental and
Traffic subcomponent    to support (a)  a pilot program to initiate a vehicle
inspection/maintenance program; and (b) comprehensive traffic management
improvements including centralized traffic light control and if possible
"congestion pricing" .
-2-



5.              Project Financing: The tentative overall cost of the proposed
project is estimated at US$411 million of which US$391.8 million for the
infrastructure and equipment component and the remaining US$19 million for
the institutional development component. The Bank would finance US$150.
million (37%), the Government of Brazil would finance US$69.9 million , the
State of Bahia will finance US$ lllmillion, and US$ 80 million will be
provided by the private sector. The costs indicated include price and
physical contingencies.
6.              Project Sustainability: The   finances of the State of Bahia   have
been reviewed and the State has been considered creditworthy. Financing
mechanisms will be introduced to ensure that operating subsidies (if any) will
be paid on time. An adequate institutional framework will be introduced to
ensure the coordination of transport planning, investment, fare and subsidy
policies in the SMR.
7.              Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector: The
major lessons learned from previous projects in the urban transport sector
are: (i) coordination between the three levels of government in urban
transport cannot be assumed, and must be dealt with very carefully at the
project preparation level, continuously monitored during project
implementation and reviewed in detail during the mid-term project review; (ii)
policies for the sector must be strengthened to minimize distortions resulting
from inefficient physical and financial coordination between modes and to
promote multimodal integration; (iii) tariff levels should allow for
significant recovery of working costs and must be complemented by financing
mechanisms which cover the shortfall; (iv) demand levels forecast by the
borrowers should be carefully scrutinized; (v) availability of counterpart
funds must be assured to avoid costly construction delays; and (vi) a
significant participation of the private sector in the operation and
investments of the urban rail companies are necessary to ensure
sustainability. Finally, in urban railway projects, the problems of fare
evasion and safety at stations must be properly addressed because they have an
impact on ridership and on revenues.
8.              Project Implementation:   Project Implementation will be the
responsibility of a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) within the Salvador
Municipality with representatives of the State, Prefeitura and CBTU. The PIU's
staff will include a procurement specialist familiar with Bank procedures to
speed up the procurement process. This process will start at the pre-appraisal
stage during which pre-qualification documents for the lots in the critical
path would be reviewed.
9.              Program Objective and Poverty Categories:    Approximately  60% of the
urban population earns less than 4 minimum salaries (about US$ 300 per month).
Most of public transport ridership earns less than 3 minimum salaries/month.
If successfully implemented, the project will primarily benefit the poor in
the participating municipalities, since they depend mainly on bus and suburban
rail services to commute to and from work, especially those living in the
Miolo and Suburbio neighborhoods and in "favelas" for whom access to the areas
of employment is a daily ordeal.
10.             Environmental Impact: Noise pollution generated by buses and
automobiles will decrease due to an expected diversion of commuters to rail
based electrified systems. During rehabilitation of suburban train stations
-3 -



and viaducts, it is expected that few surrounding areas will be affected due
to street closure and excavation. Those impacts will be minimized through new
techniques which allow construction without affecting the roads around it.
Population resettlement is foreseen, given that the proposed alignment goes
through areas which were invaded by squatters.. Community participation to
improve safety and the appearance of the stations will be sought. The impact
on traffic congestion, overcrowding of buses, accidents is expected to be very
positive. Overall the environmental impacts of this project should be highly
positive.
11.  Contact Point:               The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending November 20, 1998.
- 4 -



Annex
Motor-vehicle generated air pollution in SMR is a major and growing threat to
public health. Benefits due to its abatement include: decreased incidence of
illness and premature death due to respiratory and cardiovascular illnesses,
and improvements in the overall well-being and quality of life of the
population. Noise pollution generated by buses and automobiles will also
decrease due to an expected diversion of commuters to rail based electrified
systems. During rehabilitation of Metrosal and suburban train stations and
viaducts, it is expected that few surrounding areas will be affected due to
street closure and excavation. Those impacts will be minimized through new
techniques which allow construction without affecting the roads around it.
Population resettlement is foreseen, given that the proposed alignment goes
through areas which were invaded by squatters. Community participation to
improve safety and the appearance of the stations will be sought. The impact
on traffic congestion, overcrowding of buses, accidents is expected to be very
positive. Overall the environmental impacts of this project should be highly
positive. Effects of the construction of the system on water quality changes
within the drainage and wastewater canals and discharge areas of the Metrosal
system will be evaluated. Noise impact, visual intrusion and vibration effects
will be evaluated and mitigation measures proposed. Due to the number of
families expected to be resettled this project falls under environmental
category "A"



