Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4494-BR
Loan Agreement
(Salvador Urban Transport Project)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 3, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4494-BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 3, 1999, between FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) in view of the provisions of the Borrower's Constitution governing 
public metropolitan urban transport and the Borrower's Law No. 8693, dated August 3, 
1993 (the Law) and in order to improve the operational efficiency and financial 
performance of suburban railways services and facilitate their integration with other 
transport services under state and municipal jurisdictions, the Borrower has decided 
to transfer the ownership, management and operation of Companhia Brasileira de Trens 
Urbanos - CBTU (CBTU)'s assets in the metropolitan region of Salvador (the STU-SAL 
System) to the State of Bahia (the State) and the Municipality of Salvador (the 
Municipality);
(B)
the State and the Municipality have accepted the transfer of the STU-SAL 
System, pursuant to the Law, and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to 
in the agreement entered into among the Borrower, CBTU, Rede Ferroviária Federal S.A, 
the State and the Municipality on January 16, 1998 (the Convênio Básico), and the 
State and the Municipality have agreed that the entity which will own and manage the 
STU-SAL System will be Companhia de Transporte de Salvador (CTS), a company controlled 
by the Municipality;
(C)
to attain the objectives of such transfer, the Borrower, the Bank, CBTU, 
the State and the Municipality have agreed that it is necessary that CBTU and the 
Municipality carry out the physical rehabilitation of the STU-SAL System and a plan to 
substantially reduce the operating subsidies of the STU-SAL System, and that a 
Page  2
metrorail system be constructed in the city of Salvador (the Metrosal);
(D)
 the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(E)
the Project will be carried out by CBTU and the Municipality, through 
CTS, with the Borrower's and State's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the 
Borrower will make available to CBTU the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this 
Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement, in the agreement of even date herewith among the Bank, CBTU and the 
Municipality (the Project Agreement) and in the agreement of even date herewith 
between the Bank and the State (the State Agreement);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement. 
Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Concession Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between CTS 
and a private sector company governing the operation (including the acquisition of 
rolling stock, and signalling and telecommunications systems) and maintenance of 
Metrosal by such company for the term stipulated in that agreement;
(b)
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (4) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(c)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(d)
"Environmental Impact Assessment" means the assessment, dated August 
1998, approved by the Bank, of the environmental impact of the works to be carried out 
under Part A of the Project;
(e)
"Project Management Report" means any of the reports prepared in 
accordance with Section 3.03 of the Project Agreement;
(f)
"Resettlement Plan" means the plan, issued by the Municipality in June 
1998, and approved by the Bank, for the involuntary resettlement (desapropriação and 
reassentamento) of the population affected by the carrying out of Part A.1 of the 
Project;
(g)
"SMR" means the metropolitan region of the city of Salvador, comprising 
the Municipality and other ten municipalities surrounding the city of Salvador;
(h)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; and
(i)
"Turnkey Contract" means the contract referred to in Part B.1 of Section 
I of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to a Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to CBTU and CTS.
Page  3
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to one hundred 
fifty million Dollars ($150,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, and in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower, CBTU, the 
Municipality and the State of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in the amount of one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.07 
of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for 
value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage 
per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) 
the London interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
Page  4
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. The Minister of Transportation of the Borrower, and any person or 
persons whom he or she shall designate in writing are designated as representatives of 
the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken 
under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, the 
Borrower shall cause CBTU to perform all its obligations set forth in the Project 
Agreement, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of 
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable 
CBTU to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action 
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
As and when required for the timely execution of the Project, the 
Borrower shall make available to CBTU, on a grant basis, through annual budget 
allocations, the proceeds of the Loan and the counterpart funds required, on the part 
of the Borrower, for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
Concession Agreement, and of the goods, works and consultants' services required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by 
the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by CBTU 
and the Municipality pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall participate in the Project reviews referred to 
in Section 2.10 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01.(a)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting 
practices records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; 
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one 
year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which 
the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made; and
Page  5
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records. 
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section 
and those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested, including a separate opinion 
by said auditors as to whether the 
Project Management Reports 
or statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in 
their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
CBTU, the Municipality or the State shall have failed to perform any of 
their respective obligations under the Project Agreement or the State Agreement. 
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that CBTU, the Municipality or the State will be able to perform any of their 
respective obligations under the Project Agreement or the State Agreement. 
(c)
The Convênio Básico has been amended, abrogated or suspended in a manner 
that, in the opinion of the Bank, may adversely and materially affect the carrying out 
or the achievement of the objectives of the Project.
(d)
Any of the parties to the Convênio Básico shall have failed to perform 
any of its respective obligations thereunder. 
Section 5.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in paragraph 
(a), (c) or (d) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a 
period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the 
Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a) 
The Loan Agreement has been validly registered by the Central Bank of 
Brazil.
(b) 
The Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by CBTU and 
the Municipality, and is legally binding upon CBTU and the Municipality in accordance 
with its terms.
Page  6
(c) 
The State Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the State, 
and is legally binding upon the State in accordance with its terms. 
Section 6.02. The date March 7, 2000 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower: 
Procuradoria Geral da Fazenda Nacional
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco "P" - 8º andar
70048-900 Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
With copies to:
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
  Ministério do Orçamento e Gestão
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco "K" - 5º andar
70040-906 Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Ministério dos Transportes
Subsecretaria de Planejamento e Orçamento
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco "R" - 4( andar
70044-900 Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America 
Cable address:                          Telex:
INTBAFRAD                 248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.           64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the city of Salvador, Brazil, as of the day and year first above written. 
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /s/ Suely Dib de Souza e Silva
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
Page  7
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
By /s/ Gobind T. Nankani
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
           Amount of the
      % of
          Loan Allocated
  Expenditures
           (Expressed in
      to be
Category
              Dollars)
     Financed
(1) 
Turnkey Contract 
 
99,200,000
65% of amounts
paid
(2) 
Goods and works
 
20,960,000
100% of foreign
under the
expenditures and
Concession
85% of local
Agreement
expenditures
(3) Works:
(a) 
under Part A.2
        1,720,000
20%
of the Project
(b) for 
resettlement
housing
   610,000
50%
(4) 
Consultants’ services
 9,300,000
86%
(5) 
Fee
        1,500,000
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement 
(6) Unallocated
16,710,000
TOTAL           
      150,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term:
(a) 
"foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country 
other than that of the Borrower for services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) 
"local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the Borrower 
or for services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures:
(a)
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an 
aggregate amount not to exceed the amount of $15,000,000, may be made on account of 
payments made for expenditures before that date but after a date which is 12 months 
before the date of this Agreement; and
(b)
under Category (1) of the table in paragraph 1 above, unless an 
Page  8
invitation to prequalify for the Concession Agreement has been published, under terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts that are not subject to 
the Bank's prior review, as set forth in Schedule 1, Part D.2 of Section I and Part 
D.2 of Section II, of the Project Agreement, all under such terms and conditions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
B. Special 
Account 
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a 
commercial bank, acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
until the Bank shall have received (i) the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 3.02 (b) of the Project Agreement and (ii) a request 
from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this 
Schedule 1; and 
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Reportpursuant to 
Section 3.02 (b) of the Project Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower 
for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1. 
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 3.03 of the 
Project Agreement; 
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of:  (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the 
records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were 
made on the basis of Project Management Reports. 
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
Page  9
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be. 
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Not 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of $15,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank 
shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Made 
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account 
Page  10
under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and 
(b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance 
Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; 
provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by 
said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not 
exceed $25,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project 
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve the quality of public urban 
transport in the SMR by developing a fully integrated urban transport system, under 
the coordination of a regional transport coordination commission; and (b) to transfer 
from the Borrower to CTS the ownership and management of the STU-SAL System. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A:
Infrastructure and Equipment Investment
1.
Construction of the initial operating segment (Pirajá-Lapa) of the the Metrosal, 
including the transfer stations between road and rail based systems, consisting of a 
11.9 km rail rapid transit line, of which 5.8 km are at grade, 4.7 km are elevated and 
1.4 km are in tunnel.  It will include civil works, installation of signalling, 
telecommunications and electrification facilities and equipment, acquisition of 
rolling stock (ten train sets), construction of houses required to resettle part of 
the population being affected by the metrorail works, and technical assistance for the 
management and supervision of the metrorail construction.
2.
Rehabilitation of the Calçada-Paripe link of the STU-SAL System.
Part B:
Institutional and Policy Development
1.
Preparation of an integrated policy, land use and air quality management 
strategy for the SMR to meet both transport and air quality targets and to introduce 
sound cost-recovery, tariff, regulatory and subsidy policies.
2.
Provision of technical assistance for the coordination of Project execution.
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
   (Expressed in 
Date Payment Due
       Dollars)*
 
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning March 15, 2005
through September 15, 2014
   7,500,000
Page  11
________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided 
in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
