Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4494-BR
State Agreement
(Salvador Urban Transport Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF BAHIA
Dated December 3, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4494-BR
STATE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 3, 1999, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and STATE OF BAHIA (the State).
WHEREAS  (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Federative 
Republic of Brazil (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available 
to the Borrower an amount equal to one hundred fifty million Dollars ($150,000,000), 
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but on condition, inter 
alia, that the State agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set 
forth in this Agreement;
(B)
the State, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower and into the Project Agreement of even date herewith with 
Companhia Brasileira de Trens Urbanos - CBTU and the Municipality of Salvador (the 
Municipality), has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
(C)
the State and the Municipality have agreed that the entity which will own 
and manage the STU-SAL System (as such term is defined in the Loan Agreement) will be 
Companhia de Transporte de Salvador (CTS), a company controlled by the Municipality; 
and
WHEREAS the State, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective 
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project; Obligations of the State
Section 2.01.  (a) The State declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
collaborate with CBTU and the Municipality in the carrying out of the Project by 
providing to the Municipality, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project, and taking, promptly as needed, all action 
required on its part for the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement 
of its objectives.
(b)
Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of paragraph (a) 
above, the State specifically undertakes, whenever there is reasonable cause to 
believe that the funds allocated to the Project will be inadequate to meet the 
estimated expenditures required for the carrying out of the Project, to make 
arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, promptly to provide the Municipality or cause 
the Municipality to be provided with such funds as are needed to meet such 
expenditures.
(c)
The State shall provide the Municipality, promptly as needed, with the 
funds required for the carrying out of the Resettlement Plan in accordance with its 
terms.
Section 2.02.  The State shall maintain the Regional Transport Coordination 
Commission, created pursuant to the State's Decree No. 7417, of August 19, 1998, for 
the purposes of providing guidance in transport planning and coordination in the SMR, 
as provided in such Decree.
Section 2.03.  The State shall participate of the reviews referred to in Section 
2.09 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 3.01.  This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 3.02.  This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and the State 
hereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify the State thereof.
Section 3.03.  All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 4.01.  Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
Page  3
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C.  20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For the State:
Secretaria do Planejamento, Ciência e
  Tecnologia - SEPLANTEC
Centro Administrativo da Bahia
2a. Avenida, n( 250
41745-000 Salvador, Bahia
Brazil
With copies to:
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Ministério do Orçamento e Gestão 
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco "K" - 5( andar
70040-906 Brasília, D.F.
Brazil 
Companhia Brasileira de Trens Urbanos - CBTU
Estrada Velha da Tijuca 77
20531-080 Rio de Janeiro, RJ
Brazil
Ministério dos Transportes
Subsecretaria de Planejamento e Orçamento
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco "R" - 4( andar
70044-900 Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
Section 4.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of the State, may 
be taken or executed by the Governor of the State, or such other person or persons as 
he or she shall designate in writing, and the State shall furnish to the Bank 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 4.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the city of Salvador, Brazil, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gobind T. Nankani 
Authorized Representative
STATE OF BAHIA
Page  4
By /s/ César Augusto Rabello Borges
Authorized Representative
