Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4494-BR
Project Agreement
(Salvador Urban Transport Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
COMPANHIA BRASILEIRA DE TRENS URBANOS - CBTU
and
MUNICIPALITY OF SALVADOR
Dated December 3, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4494-BR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 3, 1999, among INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and COMPANHIA BRASILEIRA DE TRENS URBANOS - CBTU (CBTU) and 
MUNICIPALITY OF SALVADOR (the Municipality).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Federative 
Republic of Brazil (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available 
to the Borrower an amount equal to one hundred fifty million Dollars ($150,000,000), 
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition 
that CBTU and the Municipality agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as 
are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be 
made available by the Borrower to CBTU as a grant; and
WHEREAS CBTU and the Municipality, in consideration of the Bank's entering into 
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to undertake the obligations set 
forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective 
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a)  CBTU and the Municipality declare their commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to 
this end, shall (through CTS in the case of the Municipality) carry out the Project, 
with the assistance of the State, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial, environmental, engineering and public 
transportation practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
CBTU shall make available to the Municipality, through CTS, on a grant 
basis, promptly as needed for the timely execution of the Project, the funds which 
CBTU shall have received from the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of the Loan 
Agreement.
Section 2.02.  (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
Concession Agreement, and of the goods, works and consultants' services required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by 
the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b)
CBTU and the Municipality shall include in any contract for works under 
Part A.1 of the Project clauses, satisfactory to the Bank, requiring that the 
contractor: (i) upon unearthing or locating any artifacts of cultural or historical 
significance, shall suspend work in the relevant vicinity and refer the matter to the 
Municipality, which shall immediately contact the appropriate authorities in Brazil; 
(ii) shall take measures to ensure that local populations are not unduly 
inconvenienced or harmed by loss of access, noise, dust, vibrations or unsafe 
conditions as a result of the works, and (iii) shall employ a full-time public safety 
specialist to interface with the population in areas surrounding the construction 
sites, to ensure the implementation of the measures referred to in (ii) above.
Section 2.03.  CBTU and the Municipality shall carry out the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project.
Section 2.04. (a)  CBTU and the Municipality shall, at the request of the Bank, 
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the Project, the 
performance of their respective obligations under this Agreement and other matters 
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
CBTU and the Municipality shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by CBTU or the 
Municipality of their respective obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.05. CBTU and the Municipality shall each maintain, until completion of 
the Project, a unit with staff, responsibilities and functions satisfactory to the 
Bank, to be in charge, within CBTU and the Municipality, respectively, for the 
coordination of the execution of the Project. The unit in the Municipality shall be 
assisted by consultants to be selected pursuant to the provisions of Section II of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, including a specialist in resettlement of population to 
monitor the carrying out of the Resettlement Plan until its completion.
Section 2.06. CBTU and the Municipality shall carry out, in a timely manner and 
in accordance with the recommendations of the Environmental Impact Assessment, the 
actions required to mitigate any adverse environmental impact caused by the works 
under the Project.
Section 2.07. The Municipality shall: 
Page  3
(a)
carry out the Resettlement Plan in accordance with the terms thereof;
(b)
not initiate any work in any link of the Metrosal segment under Part A.1 
of the Project until the relocation of families and commercial activities under such 
link have been concluded in accordance with the Resettlement Plan; and
(c)
not initiate any work under Part A of the Project, which may prevent 
access to homes or job sites of the population living in, or in an area adjacent to, 
the right-of-way of the rail systems included in Part A of the Project, until the 
Municipality has implemented mitigatory measures according to a plan satisfactory to 
the Bank (including, if required, resettlement of the affected population).
Section 2.08. (a) CBTU shall maintain, during the execution of the Project, a 
project management information system for purposes of tracking the physical progress 
of the Project, in order to enable CBTU to produce the reports referred to in 
paragraph (c) below and the information to be included in the Project Management 
Reports pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) and (c) of this Agreement.
(b) 
The Municipality shall, not later than 90 days after the date of this 
Agreement, establish and thereafter maintain until the completion of the Project, a 
project management information system similar to the system referred to in paragraph 
(a) above, for the same purposes therein specified.
(c) 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 2.04 of this Agreement, 
CBTU and the Municipality shall, until the completion of the Project, prepare and 
furnish to the Bank, not later than February 28 and August 31 of each year, a report 
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request on the progress 
of the Project and the achievement of its objectives (as measured against the 
performance indicators set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement), the compliance of 
their obligations under this Agreement and the availability of funds as required to 
meet their obligations set forth in this Agreement, each such report to cover the 
calendar semester period immediately preceding the issuance of such report.
Section 2.09. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement, CBTU and the Municipality shall:
(a)
in the month of November of each year during the execution of the 
Project, review with the Bank, the Borrower and the State, the progress in the 
execution of the Project and in the achievement of its objectives, and the performance 
of the respective obligations of the Borrower, CBTU, the Municipality and the State 
under the Loan Agreement, the Project Agreement and the State Agreement, respectively; 
and
(b)
in the twenty-fourth month after the Effective Date, conduct a 
comprehensive mid-term review with the Bank, the Borrower and the State of the matters 
referred to in (a) above, and thereafter, take all such action which shall have been 
agreed upon with the Bank, during such review, as necessary for the efficient 
execution of the Project or the achievement of its objectives, such action to be taken 
in the manner and within the timetable agreed upon during such review.
Section 2.10. CBTU and the Municipality shall:
(a)
within three months after the date of this Agreement, start, under terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, a joint management of the STU-SAL System, 
provided that CBTU shall continue to provide all funds required for the operation and 
maintenance of such System; and
(b)
within twenty-four months after the date of this Agreement, put into 
effect the transfer to CTS of the ownership, management and operation of the STU-SAL 
System.
Section 2.11. The Municipality, through CTS, shall, after the transfer referred 
to in Section 2.10 (b) of this Agreement is effected, manage and operate, directly or 
through concessionaires, the STU-SAL System in accordance with appropriate 
administrative, financial, environmental, safety and public transportation practices.
Page  4
Section 2.12. The Municipality shall:
(a)
prior to the initiation of the operation of the Metrosal segment under 
Part A.1 of the Project, put into effect, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, the 
bus integration plan for the SMR (Plano Integrado de Transporte - Subsistema 
Metroviário), issued by the Municipality in October 1998; and
(b)
prior to the award of the Concession Agreement, create, under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, and thereafter maintain, an entity to be 
responsible for regulating concessions of urban transport services under the 
Municipality's jurisdiction.
Section 2.13.  The Municipality shall, not later than December 31, 2000, 
complete a comprehensive traffic management study of the SMR, and provide a copy 
thereof to the Bank.
Section 2.14.  The Municipality, through CTS, shall:
(a)
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the 
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Bank and 
the Municipality, a plan, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Municipality on said plan.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) CBTU and the Municipality, through CTS, shall each maintain a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect their respective 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
CBTU and the Municipality shall:
(i)
have their records, accounts and financial statements referred to 
in paragraph 
(a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently 
applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, for such year as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on 
such statements, records and accounts and 
report of such 
audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, accounts 
and financial statements, and the audit thereof, and 
concerning said auditors, 
as the Bank may from time to time reasonably 
request. 
Section 3.02.  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, CBTU shall, not later than one year from the date of this Agreement or such 
later date as the Bank shall agree, complete the carrying out of a time-bound action 
plan acceptable to the Bank for the strengthening of its financial management system 
referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 3.01 in order to enable CBTU to produce 
the information to be included in the Project Management Reports pursuant to Section 
3.03 (a) of this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Upon completion of the action plan referred to in Section 3.02 of 
this Agreement, CBTU shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar 
quarter a project management report, acceptable to the Bank, each of which shall:
Page  5
(a) 
(i) set forth actual sources and applications of funds for the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and projected sources and 
applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following the period 
covered by said report, and (ii) shows separately expenditures financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said report and expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report;
(b)
(i) describe physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (ii) explain variances 
between the actual and previously forecast implementation targets; and
(c)
set forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as at the end of the period 
covered by said report. 
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank, CBTU and the 
Municipality hereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify CBTU and 
the Municipality thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For CBTU:
Companhia Brasileira de Trens Urbanos - CBTU
Estrada Velha da Tijuca 77
20.531-080 Rio de Janeiro, RJ
Brazil
Page  6
For the Municipality:
SEMPI - Secretaria Municipal da Promoção
  de Investimentos e Projetos Especiais
CTS - Companhia de Transportes de Salvador
Rua Agnelo Brito, 201
40.170-100 Salvador, Bahia
Brazil
With copies to:
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Ministério de Orçamento e Gestão
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco "K" - 5( andar
70.040-906 Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
Ministério dos Transportes
Subsecretaria de Planejamento e Orçamento
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco "R" - 4( andar
70.044-900 Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
Secretaria do Planejamento, Ciência e
  Tecnologia - SEPLANTEC
Centro Administrativo da Bahia
2a. Avenida, n( 250
41.745-000 Salvador, Bahia
Brazil
Section 5.02.  Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement may be taken or executed: 
(a) on behalf of CBTU, by its President or such other person or persons as he or she 
shall designate in writing; and (b) on behalf of the Municipality, by its Mayor or 
such other person as he or she shall designate in writing.  CBTU and the Municipality 
shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated 
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the city of Salvador, Bahia, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR     
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gobind T. Nankani 
Authorized Representative
COMPANHIA BRASILEIRA DE 
  TRENS URBANOS - CBTU
By /s/ Luiz Otavio Mota Valadares
By /s/ Ramiro Abrantes Lopes Ribeiro
Authorized Representatives
MUNICIPALITY OF SALVADOR
Page  7
By /s/ Antônio José Imbassahy da Silva
By /s/ Ivan Carlos Alves Barbosa
Authorized Representatives
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as 
applicable.
Part B:  
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Infrastructure works and fixed installations for the construction of the 
Metrosal segment under Part A.1 of the Project shall be procured under a lump-sum 
turnkey contract (the Turnkey Contract) awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.  The Concession 
Agreement shall also be awarded in accordance with such provisions.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to the procurement undertaken in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.1:
(a)
Prequalification
Bidders for the Turnkey Contract and for the Concession Agreement shall be 
prequalified in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the 
Guidelines.
(b)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for the Turnkey Contract and the Concession 
Agreement shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large 
contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
(c)
Dispute Review Board
The Turnkey Contract shall include the provisions for a dispute review board set 
forth in the standard bidding documents for works referred to in paragraph 2.12 of the 
Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods and works (other than those under Part C.4 below) estimated to cost less 
than $350,000 and $10,000,000 equivalent, respectively, per contract shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of 
the Guidelines. Bidding documents, acceptable to the Bank and in a standardized form 
for the Project, shall be used in the procurement under this Part C.1. Without 
limitation to any other provision of in this Schedule or the Guidelines, the following 
shall apply to the procurement of goods and/or works to be undertaken pursuant this 
Part C.1:
(a)
Contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been determined to 
be the lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be based on price and, whenever 
appropriate, to also take into account factors similar to those referred to in 
paragraph 2.51 of the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall 
always be based on factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure for 
such quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid.
Page  8
(b)
Whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall be advertised 
for at least three consecutive days in a newspaper of wide circulation in Brazil.
(c)
The arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for a joint-venture 
(consórcio) of Brazilian and foreign firms shall be approved in advance by the Bank in 
each case.
(d)
The invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of 
bids, minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices.
(e)
Without the Bank's prior approval, no change order may be issued under a 
contract which would increase or decrease by more than 15% the quantity of goods (and 
related services) without any change in the unit prices or other terms and conditions 
of sale.
2.
Shopping
Goods (other than those under Part C.4 below) estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from three qualified domestic contractors in response to a written 
invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award 
shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required 
work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
4.
Procurement under Concession Agreement
The concessionaire that has been awarded the Concession Agreement shall procure 
goods and works, under such agreement, in accordance with its own procedures.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (i) the Turnkey Contract and the Concession Agreement; and (ii) 
the first two contracts for goods and the first contract for works to be awarded 
pursuant to the provisions of Part C.1 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 
2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part D, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Page  9
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services under Part B.3 of the Project estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply, provided, however, that the terms of reference for the respective assignments 
shall be subject to the Bank’s prior review and approval.
