DOUM       J    LOAN NUMBER 2011 IND
Project Agreement
(Second Small Enterprise Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANK INDONESIA
Dated                                , 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2011 IND
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated            026                1981, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR  CONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and BANK INDONESIA (hereinafter called BI).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of Indonesia (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Bor-
rower an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred
six million dollars ($106,000,000), on the terms and conditions
set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that BI
agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are
hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and BI, part of the proceeds of the loan
provided for under the Loan Agreement amounting to one hundred
million dollars ($100,000,000) will be made available to BI on
the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS BI, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. BI shall carry out Part A of the Project,
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,


﻿- 2 -
financial, and technical practices and in accordance with the
Policy and Strategy Statement.
Section 2.02. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any provision of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, terms and
interest rates for lending under the said Part A of the Project
shall be in accordance with the Rules and Regulations, as such
Rules and Regulations may be amended from time to time by BI.
(b) BI shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of BI and the
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan and except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, BI shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, or any provision thereof'
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, BI
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan made available to it by the Borrower to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) BI shall maintain, or cause to be main-
tained, and shall furnish to the Bank, upon request, reports, and
loan agreements relating to Sub-loans for the said Part A of the
Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) BI shall, and shall cause the Handling Banks to: (i)
maintain records and procedures adequate to record and monitor
the progress of the Project (including its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it), to identify the goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan made avail-
able to it by the Borrower, and to disclose their use in the
Project; (ii) enable the Bank's accredited representatives to
visit the facilities and work sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of such proceeds and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Bank at regular
intervals all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate,
the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan so made available to it and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) The records referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
shall include inter alia separate accounts for all KIK Loan
approvals, disbursements, collections and arrears, on a branch


﻿-3 -
basis, of each Handling Bank. Such separate records shall be
reconciled by the Handling Banks within six months after the end
of each fiscal year of such Handling Bank.
(d) Upon the award by BI of any contract for goods, works or
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank
may publish a description thereof, the name and nationality of the
party to whom the contract was awarded and the contract price.
(e) Promptly after completion of Part A of the Project, but
in any event not later than six months after the Closing Date or
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Bank
and BI, BI shall prepa e and furnish to the Bank a report, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall re.,sonably request, on
the execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost and
the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by
the Bank and BI of their respective obligations under the Project
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 2.05. (a) BI shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of Part A
of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) BI shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part A
of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by BI of its obligations under this Agreement and
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.06. BI shall, by December 31, 1982, prepare, and
deliver to the Bank, a medium-term planning system for the KIK/
KMKP program.
Section 2.07. BI shall, in consultation with the Bank,
prepare and implement, by December 31, 1982, an improved system
for monitoring KIK/KMKP lending operations.
Section 2.08. BI shall, until the Closing Date, maintain a
Central Project Management Unit (which refers to the Desk- for
Small Enterprise Development (DPPK)) and ten Regional Project
Management Units (which refers to the Section for Small Enterprise
Development (SPPK)), all with powers and responsibilities in
accordance with the Rules and Regulations.


﻿Section 2.09. (a) BI, shall, through regular consultations
with each Handling Bank, cause Handling Banks to take such mea-
sures as shall be necessary to ensure that Handling Bank branches
participating in the Project achieve and maintain a satisfactory
level of KIK loan collection performance.
(b) BI shall discuss with the Bank during supervision the
measures being taken or proposed by the Handling Banks to improve
their collection performance.
(c) Not later than the end of each fiscal year of BI,
starting March 31, 1982, or such later date as the Bank shall
agree, El shall review with the Bank the measures taken by BI and
the Handling Banks and the results achieved by the Handling Banks
on KIK loan collection performance in the previous calendar
year.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. BI shall, and shall cause the Handling Banks
to maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices their
operations and financial condition.
Section 3.02. BI shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than nine
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning its accounts
and financial statements and the audit referred to in (ii) above
as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request, including
its KIK liquidity credit account (unaudited) to be furnished every
quarter.


﻿ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of BI thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly so notify BI thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-6-
For B1:
Bank Indonesia
Jalan M.H. Thamrin 2
Jakarta Pusat
Indonesia
Cable address:                       Telex:
DELEGASI                            976-44164
Jakarta                             976-44274
976-44275
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of BI, may be taken or executed by the
Governor of BI or such other person or persons as the Board of
Directors of BI shall designate in writing, and BI shall furnish
to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authen-
ticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
BANK INDONESIA
By (At4              Au horizeRepresentative


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of 1  -ff, 198 A1.
FOR SECRETARY


