Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H239-ET 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Financial Sector Capacity Building  Project) 
 
between 
 
FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated August 7, 2006 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H239-ET 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated August 7, 2006, between FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC 
REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA 
(“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (“Association”).  The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as 
follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Financing 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to ten 
million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 10,300,000) 
(“Grant”) to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04 
The Payment Dates are April 1 and October 1 in each year. 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this 
end, the Recipient shall cause the Project to be carried out by the Project 
Implementing Entity in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: 
(a) 
The Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation has been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the ability of the Project Implementing Entity to perform any 
of its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following: 
(b) 
The event specified in Section 4.01
 
of this Agreement occurs and is 
continuing for a period of 60
 
days after notice of the event has been given 
by the Association to the Recipient. 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS 
5.01. 
The additional Conditions of Effectiveness are that: 
(a) 
The Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Recipient 
and the Project Implementing Entity. 
(b) 
The Project Coordinating Committee (PCC) and a Steering Committee 
(SC) have been established by the Recipient in accordance with Part B.2 
of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
(c) 
The Recipient has adopted the Project Operations Manual, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association. 
Page  4
-
3
-
(d) 
The Recipient has caused the Project Implementing Entity to recruit 
specialists including a finance officer, procurement officer, Project 
officer and an administrative assistant for appropriate training to assist 
with various aspects of Project implementation, reporting, monitoring 
and evaluation. 
5.02 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety days (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is Minister at the time in charge of Finance and 
Economic Development. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance and Economic Development 
P.O. Box 1905 
Addis Ababa, Ethiopia 
Cable:  
Telex:  
Facsimile: 
MINFIN 21147 
  (251-1) 
551355 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
or 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
 64145 
(MCI) 
Page  5
-
4
-
AGREED at Addis Ababa, Federal Democratic of Ethiopia, as of the day and 
year first above written. 
 
FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA 
 
By: 
   /s/ 
Ato 
Mekonnen 
Manyazewal 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By: 
    /s/ 
Herbert 
Acquay 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient in building the foundation 
for a more transparent, well governed, well-regulated, and competitive financial sector 
that allocates resources to the private sector more effectively and efficiently, and ensures 
better finance for all.  
The Project consists of the following parts: 
Part 1:
NBE Institutional Capacity Building
Strengthening the role of the NBE in the regulation and supervision of financial 
intermediaries, economic research and the formulation and implementation of monetary 
policy
,
through provision of technical assistance, consultants’ services, staff training and 
equipment in the following areas: 
(a) 
Regulation and supervision of the banking system, including: (i) 
upgrading prudential regulation and market conduct rules, and their 
monitoring and enforcement by supervision staff, through better on-site 
inspection and off-site surveillance; (ii) developing a framework, policies 
and implementation skills for problem bank resolution and the treatment 
of depositors; (iii) assisting the move from compliance-based to risk-
based supervision, and strengthening the skills of supervisors to 
undertake risk-based supervision; (iv) upgrading IT capability of the 
Banking Supervision Department; and (v) strengthening the corporate 
governance of financial sector institutions. 
(b) 
Regulation and supervision of the insurance system, including: (i) 
upgrading prudential regulation and market conduct rules, and their 
monitoring and enforcement by supervision staff through better on-site 
and off-site surveillance; (ii) assisting the move from compliance-based 
to risk-based supervision; (iii) developing a technical library for 
insurance supervision; and (iv) upgrading IT capability in the Insurance 
Supervision Department. 
(c) 
Economic research, policy formulation and implementation focusing, 
inter alia
,
on:
(i) monetary policy and liquidity forecasting; (ii) financial 
market development; (iii) macroeconomic modeling and analysis; (iv) 
balance of payments analysis; and (v) reserve management, foreign 
exchange operations, and balance of payments and foreign trade 
statistics. 
Page  7
-
6
-
(d) 
Strengthening internal audit focusing, inter alia, on: (i) management 
audit; and (ii) systems audit. 
(e) 
Human resource management focusing, inter alia, on human resource 
planning, recruitment, promotion and performance evaluation and 
manager development. 
(f) 
Bank modernization, including performance measurement and 
management to enhance sustainability of the capacity built through the 
project; strategic planning; and improving the public relations of NBE.  
(g) 
Strengthening the capacity of the legal, information systems, finance and 
currency management departments of the NBE in the areas of human 
resource management and bank moderniztion. 
Part 2:
Financial Sector Infrastructure Capacity Building
Supporting the Recipient through the provision of technical advisory services, 
training, workshops and equipment in the following areas: 
(a) 
Modernization of the payment system including: (i) creation of a national 
payments framework and non-electronic payment systems; (ii) 
developing skills in payments risk analysis and oversight; and (iii) 
upgrading or establishment of clearing houses.  
(b) 
Upgrading and automating the credit information center including: (i) the 
expansion of the existing database; (ii) enhancing the skills of NBE staff 
in the effective use of the data base; (iii) enhancing the skills of 
commercial bank
s’ staff and other parties in the provision of credit 
information; and (iv) designing and implementing a public awareness 
campaign on the importance of credit reporting systems. 
(c) 
Developing the capital market infrastructure including: (i) preparing and 
establishing a centralized depository and clearance, and electronic 
settlement mechanism for Government debt and corporate bonds; (ii) 
supporting the establishment of a stock exchange and developing a 
framework for stock market regulation; and (iii) preparing a strategy and 
action plan for the development of government and corporate bond 
markets. 
(d) 
Creating an asset Registry to facilitate secured transactions. 
Page  8
-
7
-
Part 3
:
New Financial Products
Supporting the Recipient, through a program of technical assistance, training, 
workshops and provision of equipment, in the development and introduction of new 
financial products, such as credit cards, and including, 
inter alia
,
products for: (i) housing 
finance; (ii) leasing finance; (iii) small and medium enterprise financing; (iv) agricultural 
risk management; and (iv) other products that the Project may develop. 
Part 4
:
Professional Skills in the Financial Sector
Supporting the Recipient, through provision of technical assistance, training, 
workshops and acquisition of equipment, in enhancing professional skills in the financial 
sector through: (i) improving the curriculum of the EIBI; (ii) developing certification 
programs for finance professionals; (iii) upgrading the information technology capacity 
of the EIBI; and (iv) developing the research capacity of professional associations. 
Part 5
:
Implementation, Monitoring and Evaluation of Project
Provision of technical assistanc
e
consisting of consultants’ services and training 
to support the NBE in strengthening and mainstreaming of Project related 
implementation and monitoring and evaluation activities. 
Page  9
-
8
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Subsidiary Financing; Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. Subsidiary 
Agreement
1. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project by the Project Implementing Entity, 
the
 
Recipient shall make the proceeds of the Financing available to the Project 
Implementing Entity under a subsidiary agreement between the Recipient and the 
Project Implementing Entity, under terms and conditions acceptable to the 
Association (
“Subsidiary Agreement”). 
2. 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Financing.  Except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the 
Subsidiary Agreement of any of its provisions if in the opinion of the 
Association, such amendment or waiver shall materially and adversely affect the 
carrying out of the Project or the achievement of the objective thereof. 
B.  
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
Project Implementation Plan.
The Recipient shall cause the Project 
Implementing Entity to implement the Project in accordance with the Project 
Implementation Plan and, except as the Recipient and the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not amend or waive any provision of the 
Project Implementation Plan, if in the opinion of the Association, such 
amendment or waiver shall materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the 
Project or the achievement of the objective thereof. 
2. 
The Recipient shall establish and maintain, or cause the Project Implementing 
Entity to establish and maintain, until completion of the project:  
(a) 
The Steering Committee (SC), with the responsibility for Project 
oversight and ensuring effective coordination among the beneficiaries of 
the Project. To this end, the SC shall be comprised of representatives of 
key institutions benefiting from the Project, including the NBE, MoFED, 
Agency for the Monitoring of Public Financial Institutions, Ministry of 
Trade and Industry, and the financial industry associations. The SC shall 
Page  10
-
9
-
meet quarterly during the first year of Project implementation and 
thereafter twice a year. 
(b) 
The Project Coordinating Committee (PCC) comprised of senior 
representatives from relevant units within the NBE, with responsibility 
for co-ordination of the implementation of the Project.  To this end, the 
PCC shall meet on a regular basis as needs arise. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. Project 
Reports
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the Association.  Each Project 
Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such 
report.  
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association, as part of the Project Report, not later 
than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter interim un-audited 
financial reports for the Project, covering the quarter, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient, 
commencing with the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal was made.  The 
audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than six months after the end of such period.
 
Page  11
-
10
-
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
1.
 Goods.
 
All goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth 
or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions 
of this Schedule. 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding. 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods.  
The following table specifies the 
methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which 
may be used for goods.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances 
under which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Method 
(a)  National Competitive Bidding
 
(b)  Limited International bidding 
(c)  Shopping 
(d)  Direct Contracting 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1.
 Quality- 
and 
Cost-based 
Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
Page  12
-
11
-
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
Procurement Method 
(a)  Selection Based on Consultants Qualifications
 
(b)  Single Source Selection 
(c)  Individual Consultants
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review 
by the Association. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may 
specify by notice to the Recipient, to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in 
the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
Category  
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated (expressed 
in SDRs) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(1)  Goods, consultants’ services, 
training and workshops, and seed 
money for pilots for the Project 
 10, 
100,000 
100% 
(2)  Operating costs 
 
200,000 
100% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
10,300,000 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1.
 
For the pu
rposes of this Schedule, the term “Operating costs” means the 
incremental operating costs arising under the Project on account of wages and 
salaries of the new staff to be recruited at NBE to assist with project 
implementation, monitoring and evaluation. 
2.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
3.
 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2009.  
Page  14
-
13
-
APPENDIX 
Definitions 
1. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement; 
2. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004; 
3. 
“EIBI” means Ethiopian Institute of Banking and Insurance; 
4. 
“FY” means the Fiscal Year of the Recipient, commencing July 8 and ending 
July 7; 
5. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005; 
6. 
“IT” means Information Technology; 
7. 
“MoFED” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance and Economic 
Development; 
8. 
“NBE” means the National Bank of Ethiopia, established and operating pursuant 
to the Recipient’s Banking and Monitoring Proclamation No. 83/94; 
9. 
“PCC” means the Project Coordinating Committee referred to in paragraph B.2 
of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; 
10. 
“PIP” means project implementation Plan referred to in paragraph B.1 of Section 
I
of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement; 
11. 
“POM” means the Project Operations Manual, adopted by the Recipient 
containing guidelines and procedures to be used for the purpose of 
implementation of the Project, including, the Project Implementation Plan (PIP), 
the Financial Management Plan, and Procurement Plan, as may be amended from 
time to time in consultation with the Association, and  such term includes any 
schedules to the POM;  
12. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004;  
13. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated May 12, 2006 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs; 
Page  15
-
14
-
14. 
“Project Implementing Entity” means the NBE as herein before defined; and 
15. 
“SC” means the Steering Committee referred to paragraph B.2 of Section I of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
 
