Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H239-ET 
 
Project Agreement 
 
Financial Sector Capacity Building Project 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
NATIONAL BANK OF ETHIOPIA 
 
Dated August 7, 2006  
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H239-ET 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated August 7, 2006, entered into between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (
“Association”) and NATIONAL BANK OF ETHIOPIA 
(“Project Implementing Entity”) (“Project Agreement”) in connection with the Financing 
Agreement of same date between the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia (“Recipient) and 
the Association (the “Financing Agreement”).  The Association and the Project Implementing 
Agreement hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions as defined in the Appendix to the Financing Agreement 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Project 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Financing Agreement or the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE II — PROJECT
 
2.01. 
The Project Implementing Entity declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  
To this end, the Project Implementing Entity shall carry out the Project in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions, and shall provide promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
2.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the Association and the Project Implementing Entity shall otherwise agree, the Project 
Implementing Entity shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of the Schedule 
to this Agreement. 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE III 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
3.01. 
The Project Implementing Entity
’s Representative is the Governor of NBE. 
3.02. 
The Association’s Address is: 
For the Association: 
 
International Association for Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, NW 
 
Washington, DC 20433 
 
United States of America 
 Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INTBAFRAD 
 248423(MCI) 
or 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
64145(MCI) 
3.03. 
The Project Implementing Entity’s Address is: 
 
The National Bank of Ethiopia 
 
Addis Ababa 
P.O.Box 5550 
 
Ethiopia 
Page  4
-
3
-
AGREED at Addis Ababa, Federal Democratic of Ethiopia, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By: 
     /s/ 
Herbert 
Acquay 
Authorized Representative 
 
NATIONAL BANK OF ETHIOPIA 
 
By:  
 
 
 
 
/s/ Ato Teklewold Atnafu 
Authorized Representative 
Page  5
-
4
-
SCHEDULE 
Execution of the Project 
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements
1. 
Overall Coordination and Oversight.
The Project Implementing Entity shall, during 
Project implementation, maintain: 
a) 
The Project Coordination Committee (PCC), with the responsibility for overall 
coordination of the Project implementation and reporting to the SC; 
b) 
The Steering Committee (SC), with the responsibility of Project oversight and 
ensuring effective coordination among different beneficiaries. 
2. Key 
Staff.
The Project Implementing Entity shall, in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association, appoint key staff with responsibility for day to day implementation of the Project. 
The key staff shall include, 
inter alia
,
a
procurement officer, a finance officer, a project officer 
and an administrative assistant, who shall be assigned to the appropriate functional units of the 
Project Implementing Entity, shall be supervised by their unit heads, and retained by the NBE 
after Project closure. 
3. 
Project Implementation Plan.
The Project Implementing Entity shall implement the 
Project in accordance with the Project Implementation Plan, and, except as the Recipient and the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not amend or waive any provision of the 
Project Implementation Plan, if in the opinion of the Association, such amendment or waiver 
shall materially or adversely affect the carrying out of the Project or the achievement of the 
objective thereof. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. Project 
Reports
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project 
and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 (b) of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Association.  Each such Project Report 
shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the Recipient not later 
two weeks after the end of the period covered by such report for incorporation and forwarding by 
the Recipient to the Association of the overall Project Report.  
2. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall carry out, not later than October 31, 2007, a mid-
term review jointly with the Association for the purpose of assessing the overall progress in the 
implementation of the Project. 
Page  6
-
5
-
B.
 
Financial Management, Financial Reports; Audits
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall maintain a financial management system and 
prepare financial statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards 
acceptable to the Association, both in a manner adequate to reflect the operations and financial 
condition of the Project Implementing Entity, including the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project. 
2. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall have its financial statements referred to above 
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association, in accordance with consistently 
applied auditing standards acceptable to the Association.  Each audit of these financial statements 
shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Project Implementing Entity.  The audited financial 
statements for each period shall be furnished to the Association not later than six months after the 
end of the period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
All goods and services required for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Financing shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to the 
Financing Agreement.
 
