                                   Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                          Report No: ICR2346



           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                             (P087641)

                                        ON A

                                      CREDIT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 13.00 MILLION
                         (US$20 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      TO THE

                             REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA

                                     FOR THE

                YEREVAN WATER AND WASTEWATER PROJECT



                                    June 28, 2012




Urban, Water Supply & Sanitation Sector Unit
South Caucasus Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective April 6, 2011)
                    Currency Unit = Armenian Drams (AMD)
                               AMD1 = US$0.0026
                               US$ 1.00 = AMD391
                                  FISCAL YEAR
                                  July 1-June 30


                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB     Asian Development Bank
AHC     Asset Holding Company
AMD     Armenian Dram
AWSC    Armenia Water and Sanitation Company
BP      Bank Policy
CAPEX   Capital Expenditure Program
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
DCA     Development Credit Agreement
EBRD    European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ECA     Europe and Central Asia
EMP     Environmental Management Plan
ERR     Economic Rate of Return
FM      Financial Management
FY      Fiscal Year
CGE     Compagnie Générale des Eaux
GOA     Government of Armenia
ICB     International Competitive Bidding
IDA     International Development Association
IFRS    International Financial Reporting Standards
ISR     Implemenation Supervision Report
KfW     Kreditanstlat fur Wiederaufbau
kWh     Kilo Watt-Hour
MDP     Municipal Development Project
MWWP    Municipal Water and Wastewater Project
mWh     Mega Watt-Hour
NPV     Net Present Value
NRW     Non-Revenue Water
O&M     Operation and Maintenance
OP      Operational Procedure
OPEX    Operating Expenditures
PA      Project Agreement
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PDO     Project Development Objective
PICR    Project Implementation Completion and Results Report
PMU    Project Monitoring Unit
PPF    Project Preparation Facility
PPP    Public-Private Partnership
PSRC   Public Services Regulatory Committee
QAE    Quality at Entry
QCBS   Quality Cost Based Selection
QSA-   Quality of Supervision
SCWE   State Committee for Water Efficiency
TA     Technical Assistance
TOR    Terms of Reference
UfW    Unaccounted-for Water
WW     Water and Wastewater
YWSC   Yerevan Water and Sanitation Company
YWWP   Yerevan Water and Wastewater Project




                   Vice President:       Philippe H. Le Houerou
                 Country Director:      Elene Imnadze (Acting)
                  Sector Manager:       Sumila Gulyani
             Project Team Leader:       Zaruhi Tokhmakhian
                ICR Team Leader:        Zaruhi Tokhmakhian
              ICR Primary Author:       Alain R. Locussol
                                                           Republic of Armenia

                                              Yerevan Water and Wastewater Project

CONTENTS


Contents

     Data Sheet
     A. Basic Information
     B. Key Dates
     C. Rating Summary
     D. Sector and Theme Codes
     E. Bank staff
     F. Results Framework Analysis
     G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
     H. Restructuring (if any)
     I. Disbursement Profile


1.     Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ......................................................................... 1
2.     Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ......................................................................... 5
3.     Assessment of Outcomes .................................................................................................................... 13
4.     Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ................................................................................... 16
5.     Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance................................................................................ 18
6.     Lessons Learned.................................................................................................................................. 19
7.     Comments on Issues raised by Borrower, Implementing Agencies and Partners. .............................. 22
Annex 1: Project Cost and Financing ......................................................................................................... 24
Annex 2: Outputs per Component .............................................................................................................. 25
Annex3: Financial and Economic Analysis ............................................................................................... 26
Annex 4: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ........................................... 35
Annex 5: Beneficiary Survey Results ......................................................................................................... 37
Annex 6: Summary of Borrower’s ICR ...................................................................................................... 48
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Yerevan Water &
Country:                 Armenia                 Project Name:
                                                                          Wastewater Project

Project ID:              P087641                 L/C/TF Number(s):        IDA-40380

ICR Date:                04/02/2012              ICR Type:                Core ICR

                                                                          MINISTRY OF
Lending Instrument:      SIL                     Borrower:                FINANCE AND
                                                                          ECONOMY

Original Total
                         XDR 13.00M              Disbursed Amount:        XDR 12.89M
Commitment:

Revised Amount:          XDR 13.00M

Environmental Category: F

Implementing Agencies:

Municipal Development Project Management Unit

Co-financiers and Other External Partners:




B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
      Process              Date              Process         Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)

Concept Review:          03/19/2004   Effectiveness:             09/15/2005          09/15/2005

Appraisal:               11/08/2004   Restructuring(s):                              12/25/2010

Approval:                02/24/2005   Mid-term Review:                               05/22/2010

                                      Closing:                   02/28/2011          12/31/2011
C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR

Outcomes:                                              Satisfactory

Risk to Development Outcome:                           Moderate

Bank Performance:                                      Satisfactory

Borrower Performance:                                  Satisfactory




C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)

          Bank                        Ratings                 Borrower                  Ratings

Quality at Entry:            Moderately Satisfactory   Government:             Satisfactory

                                                       Implementing
Quality of Supervision:      Satisfactory                                      Satisfactory
                                                       Agency/Agencies:

Overall Bank                                           Overall Borrower
                             Satisfactory                                      Satisfactory
Performance:                                           Performance:



C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators

     Implementation                                    QAG Assessments (if
                                     Indicators                                        Rating
      Performance                                            any)

 Potential Problem Project                             Quality at Entry
                               No                                            None
at any time (Yes/No):                                  (QEA):

 Problem Project at any time                           Quality of Supervision
                             No                                               None
(Yes/No):                                              (QSA):

DO rating before
                               Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:
D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                       Original             Actual

Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)

Sanitation                                               1                       1

Water supply                                            99                      99




Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)

Pollution management and environmental health             20                    20

Rural services and infrastructure                         20                    20

Urban services and housing for the poor                   40                    40

Water resource management                                 20                    20




E. Bank Staff
         Positions                        At ICR                  At Approval

Vice President:             Philippe H. Le Houerou   Shigeo Katsu

Country Director:           Asad Alam                D-M Dowsett-Coirolo

Sector Manager:             Sumila Gulyani           Hossein Razavi

Project Team Leader:        Zaruhi Tokhmakhian       Brian Steven Smith

ICR Team Leader:            Zaruhi Tokhmakhian

ICR Primary Author:         Alain R. Locussol
F. Results Framework Analysis


Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The project development objective is to provide Yerevan with safe continuous water supply
while reducing environmental pollution.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

The project development objective is to provide Yerevan with safe, constant water supply while
reducing environmental pollution.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)



                                                Original Target                         Actual Value
                                                                     Formally
                                                 Values (from                            Achieved at
   Indicator               Baseline Value                            Revised
                                                   approval                             Completion or
                                                                   Target Values
                                                 documents)                             Target Years

Indicator 1 :     Increased weighted average of daily hours of drinking water service

Value

quantitative or   19.6 h                      24 h                 21 h            21.3 h

Qualitative)

Date achieved     06/01/2006                  02/28/2011           12/31/2011      12/31/2011

Comments

(incl. %          Exceeded end-of-project target

achievement)

                  Increased percentage of water samples in compliance with bacteriological safety
Indicator 2 :
                  requirements

Value

quantitative or   93.05 %                     100 %                98 %            99.5 %

Qualitative)

Date achieved     06/01/2006                  02/28/2011           12/31/2011      12/31/2011

Comments          Exceeded end-of-project target
(incl. %

achievement)

                  Decreased number of sites in Yerevan Municipality with wastewater discharged into
Indicator 3 :
                  water courses upstream of existing treatment works

Value

quantitative or   17                           8                                    7

Qualitative)

Date achieved     06/01/2006                   02/28/2011                           12/31/2011

Comments

(incl. %          Exceeded end-of-project target

achievement)




(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)



                                                   Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                                     Formally
                                                    Values (from                         Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value                             Revised Target
                                                      approval                          Completion or
                                                                      Values
                                                    documents)                          Target Years

Indicator 1 :     Decreased water production

Value

(quantitative     885 l/c/d                    929 l/c/d           840 l/c/d        755 l/c/d

or Qualitative)

Date achieved     06/01/2006                   02/28/2011          12/31/2011       12/31/2011

Comments

(incl. %          Exceeded end-of-project target

achievement)

Indicator 2 :     Increased water consumption

Value             151 l/c/d                    140 l/c/d                            159 l/c/d
(quantitative

or Qualitative)

Date achieved     06/01/2006                   02/28/2011                         12/31/2011

Comments

(incl. %          Exceeded end-of-project target

achievement)

Indicator 3 :     Decreased unaccounted for water (percentage of water losses)

Value

(quantitative     86.3 %                       55 %               82 %            82.6 %

or Qualitative)

Date achieved     06/01/2006                   02/28/2011         12/31/2011      12/31/2011

Comments

(incl. %          Close to end-of-project target

achievement)

Indicator 4 :     Decreased water production through pumping and gravity supply (ratio)

Value

(quantitative     45/55                        35/65                              18/82

or Qualitative)

Date achieved     06/01/2006                   02/28/2011                         12/31/2011

Comments

(incl. %          Exceeded end-of-project target

achievement)

                  Increased domestic water metering (as a percentage of domestic subscribers provided
Indicator 5 :
                  with water meters).

Value

(quantitative     89.60 %                      100 %              96 %            96.80 %

or Qualitative)

Date achieved     06/01/2006                   02/28/2011         12/31/2011      12/31/2011
Comments

(incl. %          Exceeded end-of-project target

achievement)

Indicator 6 :     Decreased electricity consumption (increased energy efficiency)

Value

(quantitative     119 MWh                       96 MWh                 94 MWh       50 MWh

or Qualitative)

Date achieved     06/01/2006                    02/28/2011             12/31/2011   12/31/2011

Comments

(incl. %          Exceeded end-of-project target

achievement)

Indicator 7 :     Timely submission of progress reports, including performance

Value
                                                Quarterly -
(quantitative                                                                       Quarterly - Submitted
                                                Submitted
or Qualitative)

Date achieved

Comments

(incl. %          Progress Reports - On time

achievement)

Indicator 8 :     Satisfactory technical and financial audit reports

Value
                                                Annually -
(quantitative                                                                       Annually - Submitted
                                                Submitted
or Qualitative)

Date achieved

Comments

(incl. %          Auditors' Reports - On time

achievement)
Indicator 9 :     Target oriented progress reports – by PMU

Value
                                               Quarterly -
(quantitative                                                                      Quarterly - Submitted
                                               Submitted
or Qualitative)

Date achieved

Comments

(incl. %          Progress Reports - On time

achievement)

Indicator 10 :    New piped household water connections that are resulting from the project intervention

Value

(quantitative     0                            24840.00                            24840.00

or Qualitative)

Date achieved     06/01/2006                   02/28/2011                          12/31/2011

Comments

(incl. %          This is a IDA Core Indicator. Target achieved

achievement)

                  Piped household water connections that are benefiting from rehabilitation works
Indicator 11 :
                  undertaken by the project

Value

(quantitative     0                            29360.00                            29360.00

or Qualitative)

Date achieved     06/01/2006                   02/28/2011                          12/31/2011

Comments

(incl. %          This is a IDA Core Indicator. Target achieved

achievement)

Indicator 12 :    Number of water utilities that the project is supporting

Value
                  0                            1                                   1
(quantitative
or Qualitative)

Date achieved     06/01/2006                   02/28/2011                        12/31/2011

Comments

(incl. %          This is a IDA Core Indicator. Target achieved

achievement)

                  Number of people in urban areas provided with access to Improved Water Sources
Indicator 13 :
                  under the project

Value

(quantitative     0                            298000.00                         298000.00

or Qualitative)

Date achieved     06/01/2006                   02/28/2011                        12/31/2011

Comments

(incl. %          This is a IDA Core Indicator. Target achieved

achievement)




G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs


           Date ISR                                                             Actual Disbursements
 No.                                DO                            IP
           Archived                                                                (USD millions)

  1        05/20/2005           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      0.00

  2        01/02/2006           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      2.27

  3        06/21/2006           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      2.31

  4        02/26/2007           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      2.88

  5        04/02/2008           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      6.24

  6        12/12/2008           Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      7.70

  7        05/01/2009           Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory                 8.52
  8     02/12/2010          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                      11.78

  9     04/21/2010          Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory                12.12

 10     12/20/2010          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                      16.01

 11     06/29/2011          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                      17.83

 12     12/27/2011          Satisfactory            Satisfactory                      19.63




H. Restructuring (if any)


                            ISR Ratings at   Amount
                  Board
 Restructuring              Restructuring Disbursed at Reason for Restructuring & Key
               Approved PDO
    Date(s)                                Restructuring       Changes Made
                  Change
                             DO      IP in USD millions

                                                             (1) Revise the PDO to allow
                                                             consistency in using different
                                                             words to express constancy of
                                                             water supply, such as in the PAD
                                                             and legal agreements, and in the
                                                             lease contract between the
                                                             Government and the private
                                                             operator.

                                                             (2) Revise 2 of the Project’s PDO
                                                             indicators (out of 3) and 5 of the
   12/25/2010        Y            S        S       16.01     intermediary indicators (out of 8) -
                                                             Several of the end-of-project target
                                                             values for PDO and intermediary
                                                             indicators needed fine-tuning.

                                                             (3) Reallocate the credit proceeds
                                                             among 3 categories to allow more
                                                             civil works.

                                                             (4) Extend the closing date of the
                                                             Project by 10 months to allow
                                                             timely and quality completion of
                                                             remaining activities.
If PDO and/or Key Outcome Targets were formally revised (approved by the original approving body)
enter ratings below:

                                                                  Outcome Ratings

Against Original PDO/Targets                                         Satisfactory

Against Formally Revised PDO/Targets                                 Satisfactory

Overall (weighted) rating                                            Satisfactory



I. Disbursement Profile
                           Yerevan Water and Wastewater Project
                  Project Implementation Completion and Results Report




1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design


1.1.Context at Appraisal

   1. Country Background. Armenia, a small landlocked country with few natural resources,
   achieved an impressive growth after the early 1990s period that followed independence from
   the Soviet Union, characterized by hyperinflation, economic contraction and fiscal crisis.
   Successful stabilization and structural reform programs resulted in annual growth rates of 5.5
   percent during the 1994-2000 period, 6 percent in 2001 and 12 percent during 2001-2003
   driven by an increased inflow of remittances and foreign investments.

   2. Sector Background. About two thirds of the country’s total population of 3.2 million
   live in urban centers, of which about one third or 1.1 million in the capital city Yerevan.
   Local governments are responsible for the water and wastewater (WW) service in their
   territory. However, the shares of the Yerevan Water and Sanitation Company (YWSC), a
   public WW utility company with a paid-in capital of US$27 million equivalent, are all owned
   by the State Committee for Water Economy (SCWE) of the Territorial Administration
   Ministry which, since 2001, oversees the WW and irrigation sectors. Similarly, the shares of
   the Armenia Water and Sanitation Company (AWSC) that serves about 0.62 million people
   located in 37 secondary towns and 283 rural communities are held by the SCWE. The three
   towns of Gyumri, Vanadzor and Armavir (total population about 0.32 million), which benefit
   from financial assistance of the German KfW, have created their own WW utility companies.
   About 560 rural communities operate their own WW systems. The Water Code adopted in
   2002 allows various models of public-private partnerships (PPPs), ranging from short-term
   Service and Management contracts to medium-term Lease contracts and long-term
   Concessions. In 2003, the Public Services Regulatory Committee (PSRC) was given the
   responsibility for resetting WW tariffs and WW service standards.

   In 1998, the Bank granted a US$30 million IDA Credit for a Municipal Development Project
   (MDP) that significantly improved the performance of the WW service provided by the
   YWSC hitherto characterized by high levels of operating and capital development
   inefficiencies. The outcome of the MDP closed in 2006 was rated “satisfactory?, its
   sustainability “likely? and its institutional development impact “substantial? in its Project
   Implementation Completion and Results (PICR) report. According to the latter, between
   2000 and 2006, the “Management contract? signed between the Government of Armenia
   (GOA) and the YWSC with the private professional operator ACEA of Italy, helped:
        Improve the permanence of the water service from an average 7 to 18 hours/day;

                                               1
         Increase the number of customers with a permanent water supply from 28 percent to
          50 percent;
         Reduce average water consumption from an assumed 250 liters per capita per day
          (lcd) to a metered 110 lcd;
         Decrease Unaccounted-for Water (UfW) from 870,000 m3/day to 723,000 m3/day,
          actually translating in an increase from 73 percent to 80 percent of water production;
         Limit energy consumption by 48 percent;
         Increase the individual metering ratio from almost zero to 80 percent; and
         Improve the bill collection ratio from 20 to 79 percent.

   3. Rationale for Bank Assistance. Following the MDP positive experience, the GOA
   decided to replicate the Management contract model to the AWSC. In FY04, the Bank
   approved a US$23 million IDA Credit, complemented by a US$20 million Additional
   Financing approved in 2008, for a Municipal Water and Wastewater Project (MWWP) aimed
   at improving the WW service in the AWSC service area. The MWWP has been closed at the
   end of 2011 and its PICR report is being prepared in parallel with this PICR report. Also,
   following the MDP positive experience the GOA decided to pursue a more advanced form of
   PPP in Yerevan with a Lease of the WW service that transfers most commercial risks as well
   as significant responsibilities for implementing a comprehensive rehabilitation program of
   the WW infrastructure to its private partner. The Yerevan Water and Wastewater Project
   (YWWP) was thus conceived as the natural continuation of the Bank support provided to the
   GOA under the MDP and the MWWP for modernizing its urban WW sector. In the early
   2000s, financing requirements for achieving this objective were estimated at about US$700
   million, of which US$150 million for Yerevan; these figures have since been updated to
   US$1,700 million and US$600 million respectively. No specific financing plan and cost
   recovery arrangement have so far been developed to test the feasibility of these investment
   programs. In the early 2000s, other financing agencies involved in the urban WW sector
   included USAID, which helped develop the sector legal framework and KfW, which
   financed the improvement of the WW service in the three towns listed above. Since, the
   sector has been able to attract financing from the Asian Development Bank (ADB), the
   European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD), and the French Government.

1.2.Original Project Development Objectives and Key Indicators

   4. Original Project Development Objectives. The main objective of the YWWP as stated in
   the 2005 Project Appraisal Document (PAD) and Development Credit Agreement (DCA)
   was to “provide safe and continuous water supply for Yerevan while reducing environmental
   pollution?.

   5. Original Key Performance Indicators. The achievement of the PDOs was to be
   measured by a series of indicators related to continuity of water supply, water quality and
   number of wastewater discharges upstream of wastewater treatment works. If the PAD did
   not include any specific targets, the Lease contract, signed late in 2005, included clear annual
   objectives; the latter were later renegotiated between the SCWE and the private Operator (the
   “Lessee?) in 2010 to reflect more realistic targets based on experience gained during initial


                                                2
    years of operation. In particular, the target number of hours of water supply were reduced for
    Contract years 3 to 7, increased for years 8 and 9, but unchanged for year 10.

1.3. Revised Project Development Objectives and Key Indicators

6. Revised Project Development Objectives. The PDOs were reformulated in January 2011
   when the DCA was amended to read “provide Yerevan with safe and constant water supply
   while reducing environmental pollution? by replacing the word “continuous? by the word
   “constant? to ensure consistency with the language used in the Lease contract between the
   Government and the private Operator.

7. Revised Key Performance Indicators. The amended DCA listed the following PDO level
   results indicators, fully consistent with the revised Lease contract:
        Weighted average of daily hours of drinking water service: to evolve from the
            baseline figure of 19.6 hours/day to 21.0 hours/day in year 5 (instead of an initial
            target of 24 hours/day);
        Percentage of water samples in compliance with bacteriological safety requirements:
            to evolve from the baseline figure of 93.0 percent to 98.0 percent in year 5 (instead of
            an initial 100 percent); and
        Number of sites in the Yerevan municipality with wastewater discharged into water
            courses upstream of existing treatment works: to decrease from the baseline figure of
            17 to 8 in year 5 (no change).

    The amended DCA also included a series of other indicators to characterize progress to be
    achieved with regards to increased efficiency of WW operations (figures below refer to
    baseline and year-5 target):1
        Water consumption decrease: from 151 to 140 lcd;
        Non-revenue water: from 86.3 percent to 82 percent of production;
        Ratio of pumped to gravity water production: from 45/55 to 35/65;
        Percentage of domestic subscribers with a metered connection: from 89.6 percent to
           96.0 percent; and
        Electricity consumption: from 119 to 94 million kWh.

    The revised DCA finally included Bank core indicators for WW projects, although they were
    not directly connected to the stated PDOs:
         New domestic water connections resulting from project interventions: 24,840;
         Domestic connections benefitting from rehabilitation works under by the project:
            29,360;
         Number of subscribers in rural areas provided with access to improved water sources
            under the project: 12,500; and
         Number of people in urban areas provided with access to improved water sources
            under the project: 298,000.
1
  There are some discrepancies between the figures provided by the MDP PICR to describe achievement of the MDP
in 2004 and the baseline data provided in the 2011 YWWP DCA amendment. The latter are believed to be more
accurate.

                                                      3
   While the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of 2004 identified the poor financial condition
   of public WW utility companies as the major constraint for infrastructure development and
   service improvement, neither the original PAD nor the amended DCA clarified financial
   performance objectives to be achieved by the Yerevan WW operations.

1.4.Main Beneficiaries

8. Borrower. The PAD did not provide a clear picture of whom the Bank was lending to,
   beyond the GOA. It did not mention the YWSC, the Yerevan municipal WW utility
   company legally responsible for the service provided to customers, as the main beneficiary of
   the YWWP, and thus did not discuss its mandate, organizational structure, contractual
   obligations and procedures.

9. Customers. The PAD did not specifically identify YWWP end beneficiaries. But its
   economic and financial analysis clearly mentioned that YWSC customers, who would enjoy
   a permanent water supply and improved bacteriological water quality, would save on coping
   costs, such as individual pumping, storage and disinfection, as well as on time spent fetching
   water. Beneficiaries were more clearly identified in the amended DCA, which includes core
   indicators for WW projects. The PAD did not specifically discuss how low income
   households would benefit from the project and/or how their WW budget would be protected
   following future tariff increases.

1.5.Original Components

   The YWWP had two components.

10. YWWP Fund. This component was designed to finance specific investments aimed at:
       Saving energy (US$10.5 million) by: (i) switching water production from pumped
        sources to gravity sources, when feasible; (ii) increasing gravity production; (iii)
        refurbishing existing pumping plants; and (iv) phasing out old and inefficient
        pumping plants.
       Improving transmission and distribution systems reliability (US$6.75 million) by: (i)
        rehabilitating storage reservoirs; (ii) realigning transmission mains in areas prone to
        landslides; (iii) increasing control over village water supplies; and (iv) improving
        distribution system water flow transferability to enable supply from different water
        sources.
       Reducing environmental pollution (US$1.5 million) by: (i) eliminating wastewater
        discharges upstream of the wastewater treatment plants; and (ii) concentrating
        wastewater discharge to the site of the treatment plant after pre-treatment including
        screening and sand trapping.

11. Technical Assistance. In addition to refinancing the Project Preparation Facility (PPF)
    (US$2.0 million), the TA component (US$1.25 million) was designed to finance:
        The cost of the interim YWSC operational management;
        Financial and technical audits; and

                                               4
            The incremental operating costs of the Project Management Unit (PMU).

1.6.Revised Components

12. The 2011 DCA amendment did not revise project components, but mostly reallocated
    proceeds of the IDA Credit among disbursement categories.


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1.Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

13. Soundness of the Background Analysis. Project preparation activities financed by the PPF
    focused mostly on drafting the Lease contract, organizing the selection of the Operator and
    identifying the construction program to be implemented. Both the GOA and its consultants
    performed satisfactorily as evidenced by the mobilization of a reputable Operator after a fair
    and transparent selection process.

14. Assessment of the Project Design. The GOA and the Bank opted for a fairly simple design
    of the YWWP.
         Technical: the YWWP objectives were rightly focused on improving the permanence
            of the water service, saving energy and reducing the number of wastewater discharge
            points in receiving bodies.
         Institutional: the outcome of the YWWP was predicated upon the successful
            implementation of a ten-year Lease contract signed in December 2005, i.e., eight
            months after the YWWP was approved, by the SCWE (the “Lessor?) and the Closed
            Joint Stock Company “Yerevan Djur? (the “Lessee?) and its sole shareholder and
            professional partner Compagnie Générale des Eaux (CGE, now Veolia) of France
            which had submitted the lowest evaluated bid. Under the Lease contract, Yerevan
            Djur was, in addition to operating the WW service at its own commercial risk,
            requested to finalize and implement, on behalf of the Lessor, the rehabilitation
            program described above.
         Financial: the PAD mentioned that: (i) sales revenues were to be sufficient to cover
            the Lessee’s expenses and profit; and (ii) the Leasing Fee to be paid by the latter to
            the Lessor was to cover the rental of operating equipment such as vehicles, offices
            and laboratories and to service the debt attached to the MDP and the YWWP. The
            financing of the Lease contract by the WW tariff, rather than by an external financing
            source – as was the case for the Management contract implemented under the MDP –
            was a very positive step in the direction of establishing the financial sustainability of
            Yerevan’s WW operations. The YWWP economic and financial analysis of the PAD
            mentioned that the average WW tariff of AMD56/m3 (US$0.14/m3) in 1997 was
            increased to AMD90/m3 (US$0.23/m3) in 2004, in particular for compensating for
            the reduction of volumes on which bills were established.2 The PAD did not clarify if
            the above tariff was supposed to cover the depreciation of existing WW fixed assets.
2
 Prior to universal metering bills were established on an assumed consumption of 250 liters per capita per day (lcd);
after meters were installed average consumption was measured at about 150 lcd.

                                                          5
           As a result of the absence of clarity about WW asset ownership and debt liability by a
           public company, Yerevan Djur, the private Lessee has been treated throughout project
           implementation as YWWP main beneficiary (see discussion on Financial
           Management in paragraph 26). In particular, its audited financial statements have
           been submitted to the Bank for review. But Yerevan Djur is simply a contractor to
           whom specific tasks related to the provision of the WW service have been outsourced
           and its financial statements only report on its activities.

15. Lessons from Earlier Operations. The YWWP was designed to move from a Management
    contract, with explicit incentives to perform under the form of bonuses and penalties paid or
    applied to a Manager, to a Lease with more implicit incentives to perform created by the
    transfer of operational and commercial risks to the Lessee. Leases have been the preferred
    PPP option when the Lessee can be financed from sales revenues and the extension of WW
    infrastructure still requires public financing. The Bank has, since the mid-1980s, supported
    several WW projects relying on Lease contracts; the main lessons learned from these
    experiences are the benefits of:
         Creating a public “Asset Holding Company – AHC?, owner or concessionaire of the
            WW fixed assets and responsible for financing their renewal and extension, acting as
            Lessor. In such an arrangement the Lessee is: (i) requested to collect from the
            customers the “Customer tariff? set by the Regulator; (ii) allowed to retain the
            “Lessee tariff? proposed in its bid; and (iii) required to transfer the difference, the
            “Lessor tariff?, to cover the AHC operating and financing costs and depreciate its
            fixed assets.
         Signing a Project Agreement (PA) with the Lessor. In such an arrangement, the Bank
            typically requests that: (i) funds made available to the Government are on-lent to the
            Lessor on terms compatible with its loan repayment capacity, that could combine a
            mix of equity contribution, development grants and long-term debt; (ii) the Lessor
            submits audited consolidated financial statements for review; and (iii) the Lessor
            achieves minimum financial performance specified in the PA, such as cash generation
            or return on fixed assets.
         Requesting the Lessee to implement, on behalf of the Lessor, the parts of the capital
            expenditure program (CAPEX) that directly influence its technical and commercial
            performance, such as the rehabilitation and construction of connections, tertiary and
            secondary water pipes and sewers, and pumping stations. The development of the
            trunk infrastructure could possibly remain under the responsibility of the Lessor.
            Such an arrangement helps limit disputes between the Lessor and the Lessee on the
            latter not being able to perform because of delays in infrastructure development
            projects by the former.

   By requesting Yerevan Djur to implement a CAPEX mostly consisting of rehabilitation
   activities, the YWWP properly reflected the lessons learned from implementation of Lease
   contracts in other countries. By not requesting an AHC to be incorporated – as suggested in
   the PAD – and consolidated financial statements to be issued by the Lessor, the YWWP
   could not help establish a clear picture of the financial situation of the WW service in
   Yerevan.


                                                6
16. Adequacy of the Government’s Commitment. The GOA strong commitment to reforming
    the WW sector was demonstrated under the MDP and the preparation of the YWWP with: (i)
    the passing of the Water Code; (ii) the creation of the SCWE; (iii) the transfer of
    responsibility for resetting WW tariffs and monitoring performance of operators to a semi-
    autonomous regulatory body (PRSC); (iv) the successful implementation of the initial YWSC
    Management contract; (v) the replication of this PPP model to the AWSC and the three
    independent WW utilities supported by KfW financing; and (vi) the decision to finance new
    PPP arrangements in Yerevan from the tariff rather than from external sources. Also the
    GOA capacity to efficiently implement WW projects has been demonstrated under the MDP,
    whose outcomes were rated satisfactory.

17. Assessment of Risks and Mitigation Measures. The PAD identified a wide range of risks to
    PDOs and component results.
        Negligible risk to PDOs. The availability of counterpart GOA funds was rated
          negligible based on the MDP experience. Actually, as the YWWP was to be
          implemented by an autonomous revenue earning entity, it would have been
          appropriate to expect counterpart funds to come from cash generated from operations
          rather than from the GOA budget.
        Moderate risks to PDOs. The GOA commitment to reforming the WW sector was
          rated moderate based on the MDP positive experience. The risk associated with the
          recovery of operating and capital costs from the tariff was also rated as moderate, but
          the mitigation measure envisaged, i.e., the indexation of Yerevan Djur tariff, took
          only care of the Lessee’s costs, as explained above.
        Main Risk to Component Results. The PAD rated the failure to recruit a Lessee as a
          substantial risk to component results. As the success of the YWWP was highly
          predicated upon the good performance of the latter, this should have been listed as a
          risk to PDOs. The mitigation measure proposed, i.e., restructuring the project,
          employing an interim Manager and extending the arrangement implemented under the
          MDP tends to confirm that it would have been prudent, as is customary for this type
          of project, to request Board approval for the YWWP after the selection of the Lessee
          and the substantial completion of negotiations of the Lease Contract.
        Other Risks to Component Results. Two risks associated with the capacity of the
          Lessee to recover its costs from collection of water bills and to reduce its operating
          costs (mostly energy costs) were adequately rated moderate, based on the experience
          gained under the MDP. Finally risks associated with the capacity of the GOA to
          provide strategic guidance and comply with fiduciary and safeguard requirements
          were rated negligible, also based on the MDP experience.

18. Quality at Entry. No Quality at Entry (QAE) review was carried out after Board approval.
    The PAD, by choosing to be short, may have oversimplified the objectives and the design of
    a project aimed at modernizing WW operations in Yerevan. The 2004 PAD did not quantify
    performance indicators to be achieved, an oversight that was later corrected when the DCA
    was amended in 2011. Also, the PAD did not clarify which WW utility company would be
    the end beneficiary of the IDA Credit and thus did not discuss its past and likely future
    financial performance. Also, the PAD did not propose on-lending terms of the IDA Credit to
    the beneficiary utility company. The short processing time of less than 12 months between

                                               7
   the review of the Project Concept Note (PCN) and Board approval, could have resulted in
   major implementation problems, had the GOA failed to sign the Lease contract with a
   reputable Operator.

2.2.Implementation

19. Lease Contract. The Lease contract was signed late in 2005 and Yerevan Djur mobilized in
    June 2006; at project completion, the Lease contract had been in effect for more than five
    years. Its first two years were devoted to identifying and preparing an effective rehabilitation
    program, reorganizing the company, training the staff, separating technical and commercial
    functions, “sectorizing? the distribution network and regulating pressure. This initial period
    also focused on installing pressure loggers to monitor service constancy, and on establishing
    a call center to allow customers easy access to technical and commercial services. The PMU
    completion report (Annex 6) mentions that considerable achievements have been recorded
    especially in sectorization of the distribution network and improvement of water supply
    constancy, prevention of breakdowns, reduction of leakages and illegal use of water.

20. Component 1 – YWWP Fund. The above achievements were made possible, in addition to
    the know-how injected by the Lessee, by the successful implementation of the investment
    program financed by the YWWP Fund. The Lessee was responsible for identifying
    construction projects, preparing preliminary and detailed designs, drafting bidding
    documents, evaluating bids and supervising construction; contracts were however signed by
    the PMU, also in charge of paying contractors. The Lease contract included an indicative
    investment program to be implemented by the Lessee – identical to the work program
    described in the PAD – but mentioned that the Lessee would have the right to determine the
    detailed capital investment program. The Lease contract also specified procedures to be
    followed for mitigating negative consequences of construction activities and addressing
    social risks. For improving the water supply service, construction focused on:
         Rehabilitating water production facilities, mostly boreholes and spring captation;
         Replacing chlorination stations;
         Constructing and rehabilitating water lines of various diameters, replacing air release
            valves and manholes;
         Reconstructing pumping stations;
         Installing flow meters, pressure reduction valves, and self-regulated booster pumping
            stations.
    The YWWP also improved wastewater collection and discharge in receiving bodies through
    the construction or reconstruction of various sewers.

21. Component 2 – Technical Assistance. As initially envisaged, this component financed
    technical and financial audits, the PMU operational expenditures and refinanced the project
    preparation facility (PPF).

2.3.Monitoring and Evaluation: Design, Implementation and Utilization

22. Design and Implementation. As already mentioned, performance indicators targets were
    clarified when the DCA was amended in 2011. An independent technical auditor was

                                                 8
   employed by the PMU to certify data provided by Yerevan Djur as part of its contractual
   reporting obligations. If there were some initial disagreements on baseline data and
   procedures to be followed, the arrangement put in place eventually worked well and figures
   provided are deemed to be reasonably accurate. Basically key performance indicators
   documented were:
       The improvement of the constancy of the water supply by estimating a weighted
           average of the numbers of hours of service per day;
       The improvement of the bacteriological quality of water at delivery points by
           documenting the percentage of water samples in compliance with bacteriological
           safety requirements;
       The improvement of the ambient water quality by counting the number of sites of raw
           wastewater discharges upstream of existing treatment;
       The decrease of the water production as a result of demand management programs
           through improved commercial practices and physical losses reduction; and
       The decrease of energy consumption as a result of increased use of gravity sources
           and rehabilitation of pumping plants and improvement of pumping programs.

   Several other technical indicators were documented, as shown in Annex 2, but as already
   mentioned no particular focus was prudently put on the complex issue of UfW reduction.
   Customer satisfaction was also monitored as part of the Lease contract. Two different
   financial auditors were also employed for certifying financial statements issued by the PMU
   and Yerevan Djur.

23. Utilization. The YWWP has generated a wealth of operational data that should help set
    realistic future objectives for the WW service in Yerevan. It has also generated a wealth of
    financial data that could be used for carrying out a detailed analysis of the financial
    performance of the WW operations in Yerevan and for supporting a strategy for financing its
    future development. Taking into account the ambitious capital expenditure program
    (CAPEX) contemplated, this is obviously one of the key issues to be addressed.

2.4.Safeguards and Fiduciary Compliance

24. Safeguards. YWWP triggered OP/BP 4.01 Environmental Assessment, OP/BP 4.11
    Physical Cultural resources, and OP/BP 7.50 Projects on International Waterways. The
    YWWP closed with a satisfactory performance on the Bank’s safeguard policies
        The YWWP was classified as environmental Category FI, which was not adequate
           taking into account the nature of the activities it was designed to support; individual
           investments underwent environmental screening and only activities classified as
           Category B or C were supported under the project. The Environmental Management
           Plan (EMP) framework developed during project preparation outlined main principles
           applicable, listed expected environmental issues and mitigation measures common to
           individual investments, and provided guidance on screening, categorization, review,
           and scoping of the specific environmental work required for handling individual
           activities. The EMP framework has generally been complied with. Environmental
           monitoring of civil works, especially the recording of such monitoring, had been a
           weakness of the PMU that was corrected at a later stage of project implementation,

                                                9
           when a consultant licensed for carrying out technical supervision of civil works was
           commissioned in compliance with a new national legislation.                 Tracking
           environmental compliance was made an integral part of his terms of reference (TOR)
           and the quality of reporting on environmental compliance of works greatly improved.
          Most works financed under the YWWP were classified as environmental Category C
           due to their minimal potential environmental and social risks. They were mostly
           confined to rehabilitating existing infrastructure and were undertaken in the urban
           areas with no sensitive environmental receptors. Environmental and social gains
           from the YWWP clearly exceed minor temporary negative impacts of construction
           activities. One good example is the upgrade of the sewerage system in one of
           peripheral districts of Yerevan that contributed significantly to improving sanitary
           conditions. The low corporate culture of securing the workplace and using protective
           gear by personnel gradually changed under the project as a result of persisting Bank
           messages.
          OP/BP 4.11 was triggered to safeguard any chance finds may have been encountered
           during earthworks; but no such case has been recorded.
          OP/BP 7.50 was triggered because the project financed the rehabilitation of
           wastewater collection schemes which discharge into the Hrazdan River – a tributary
           of a cross-boundary Araks River. The investment however was limited to
           rehabilitating existing infrastructure and did not affect adversely the quality or
           quantity of water flows to riparian. The YWWP was thus determined to fall under the
           exception to the notification requirements of paragraph 7(a) of Bank OP 7.50, as
           approved by ECA Regional Vice President on December 14, 2004.

25. Procurement
        Lease contract. Although the Bank did not finance the Lease contract, the PPF
          financed the consultants who prepared the bidding documents; the latter were
          reviewed by the Bank Legal Department as well as by procurement specialists to
          ensure that the Lease contract was altogether acceptable and the selection process
          would be fair and transparent.
        Construction, goods and consultant services. The YWWP financed a total or 79
          construction contracts, 18 contracts for the supply of goods and eight consultant
          contracts for a total of US$17.4 million. Out of these 105 contracts, 63 were subject
          to post review. All construction contracts valued at more than US$0.6 million and
          goods contracts valued at more than US$0.1 million were awarded after International
          Competitive Bidding (ICB) and subject to prior review. All consultant contracts
          valued at more than US$0.1 million were awarded following the Quality Cost Based
          Selection (QCBS) procedure.
        Bank procurement supervision. The Bank carried regular procurement supervisions
          and rated the “compliance? and “performance? risks as “moderate?. Supervision
          reports never identified governance issues that could have adversely affected the
          procurement process.

26. Financial Management. The Bank closely supervised the FM performance of both the PMU
    and of the Lessee who implemented the rehabilitation program financed under the YWWP.
    FM supervision missions have been carried out annually since project effectiveness.

                                              10
          PMU. The financial management arrangements under the project, including planning
           and budgeting, accounting, internal controls, funds flow, financial reporting and
           external audits were consistently rated satisfactory. The level and timeliness of
           government co-financing was also satisfactory. The project’s FMRs were received on
           time and found acceptable by the Bank. The auditor expressed unmodified (clean)
           opinions of the project’s financial statements (which were received on-time) and
           raised no major issues in management letters. The PMU has adequate internal
           controls in place. The controls over operating expenditures were also regularly
           reviewed and found to be adequate.
          Water and Wastewater Utility Company. The June 2006 and February 2007 FM
           supervision reports mention the YWSC, the utility company legally responsible for
           the WW service in Yerevan, as the project beneficiary. Auditors issued disclaimer of
           opinion on the YWSC FY2005, FY2006, and FY2007 financial statements, mostly
           related to depreciation of fixed assets, loan recording, accounts receivable and several
           other issues related to the presentation of the balance sheet. As of February2008,
           Yerevan Djur, the Lessee under the Lease contract with the SCWE, is introduced as
           the project beneficiary. At this point, it was agreed that Yerevan Djur would employ
           specialized consultants to prepare its financial statements according to International
           Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and restate its assets and liabilities. As of
           FY2008, thanks to an active collaboration financial consultants and auditors, Yerevan
           Djur’s financial statements complied with IFRS and auditors expressed “clean?
           opinions. The entity’s audited financial statements were usually received after the
           due date.

2.5.Post-Completion Operation/Next Phase

27. Lease Contract. The Lease contract with Yerevan Djur will expire in 2016. The incentives
    created by this PPP model have so far proven to be well adapted for addressing the main
    challenges of the WW service in Yerevan, i.e., improving the constancy of water supply,
    reducing operating expenditures (OPEX), improving commercial operations (metering,
    billing and collection) and improving customer management. Also, the transfer of
    responsibility for implementing a CAPEX consisting mostly of rehabilitation projects to the
    Lessee has proven to be a positive decision. The GOA has not decided yet on the next steps.
    Of course, the Lease contract could be renewed, either after open bidding or direct
    negotiations with Yerevan Djur. The possibility of transferring the responsibility of
    financing the CAPEX to the Operator as part of a long-term Concession would depend
    mostly upon the future pricing policy to be implemented and availability of debt financing in
    local currency on terms compatible with an industry that depreciates its fixed assets over long
    periods (see discussion in paragraph 30).

28. Public Partner to the Lessee.
        As discussed above, if the GOA decides to continue with the Lease contract option, it
           would be highly beneficial to create the missing AHC, mostly to clarify the financial
           situation of WW operations in Yerevan. The AHC would then become the signatory
           party to the Lease and beneficiary of funds made available to the GOA by its
           international financing partners. Funds would have to be on-lent on terms compatible

                                                11
             with its capacity to service a debt; on-lending conditions could include a mix of
             equity contribution, development grants and long-term loans.
            If the GOA decides to evolve the Lease contract into a Concession, there would be no
             need for creating an AHC since all fixed assets would be transferred to the
             Concession for its duration and the Concessionaire would be requested to depreciate
             them and to finance their rehabilitation and extension.

29. Non-Revenue-Water Reduction Strategy. The PAD mentioned the abnormally high level of
    Unaccounted-for Water (UfW), a concept now replaced by that of Non-Revenue Water
    (NRW), but did not set reduction targets. The Lease contract did not specify UfW reduction
    targets either. The amended DCA proposed reducing UfW from a baseline value of 86
    percent to a target value of 82 percent. Although measuring NRW as a percentage of
    production could be misleading when per capita consumption declines as a result of
    successful demand management programs, NRW in Yerevan is way above industry standards
    of 20 percent and below.3 Yerevan Djur estimates that half of 82.6 percent NRW it was able
    to achieve is due to physical leaks, and half to commercial losses. i.e., faulty individual
    meters and water theft through illegal connections.
         Limiting commercial losses by replacing all existing poor quality meters located in
            each unit of apartment buildings currently belonging to customers, by accurate anti-
            magnetic class C meters that would then be the property of the WW utility company,
            is a project that could reasonably be carried out by the Lessee.
         Limiting physical losses on the public distribution network would require the gradual
            replacement of aging and poor quality distribution pipes, a very large investment that
            may not be economically justified, now that energy consumption has been reduced by
            substituting gravity water sources to pumped ones.
         Limiting physical losses located on internal distribution networks of apartment
            buildings would require a revision of the condominium legislation, an action that is
            beyond what public and private parties involved in the WW sector could achieve.
    Reducing NRW to internationally accepted levels may not be a realistic objective in the
    medium-term for Yerevan, and before deciding on the next PPP model, it would be beneficial
    to develop a NRW reduction strategy justified by further energy savings and potential
    environmental gains for “managing expectations? of all parties.4
30. CAPEX Financing Strategy. Current estimates for the future long-term CAPEX for the
    Yerevan WW systems are in the range of US$600 million, of which about US$80 million for
    the coming five years. So far, Yerevan has been able to secure financing for a total of about
    US$84 million through several externally financed projects, including the MDP (US$30
    million) and the YWWP (US$20 million). In the absence of significant GOA budget
    contributions and commercial debt in local currency on term adapted to the WW sector, the
    rehabilitation and renewal of the Yerevan WW infrastructure is likely to remain highly
    dependent upon the availability of external financing. A consolidated financial forecast of
    the Yerevan WW service should help identify, within the constraints imposed by acceptable

3
 It is preferable to express NRW in liters per day per connection or liters per day per km of distribution pipe.
4
 Because of the high level of leaks collected by sewers, the effluent is too diluted for allowing an optimum
operation of the wastewater treatment plant.

                                                          12
    future tariff adjustments – the WW tariff would obviously have to be limited to levels
    corresponding to the assessed customer “willingness-to-pay? and GOA “willingness-to-
    charge?– a medium-term CAPEX and the mix of cash generation, long-term debt and
    development grants to finance it that would be affordable.


3. Assessment of Outcomes Rating: Satisfactory

3.1.Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation Rating: Satisfactory

31. Objectives. The original and revised PDOs, that mostly replaced the word “continuous? by
    the word “constant? to qualify the targeted permanence objective of the piped water service,
    remain highly relevant to the situation of the WW service in Yerevan in 2012: (i) improving
    the constancy of the service; (ii) maintaining the bacteriological quality of water; and (iii)
    reducing pollution of receiving bodies are still very high on the GOA agenda. Other
    objectives pursued by the project, i.e., reducing: (iv) water consumption through demand
    management; (v) water production by limiting physical losses; (vi) energy consumption
    through improved source management remain also fully relevant.

32. Design. The original project design remains highly relevant to future WW activities in
    Yerevan. Outsourcing the responsibility for the WW service to a professional private
    Operator within a contractual framework transferring all risks that can reasonably be
    mitigated by the latter and including explicit performance objectives to be achieved, such as
    constancy of service and water quality, or implicit incentives such as metering, billing and
    collection should obviously be continued. Also, engaging an independent technical auditor
    for monitoring the Lessee’s performance guarantees that data generated are reasonably
    accurate. The TOR of technical auditors should probably be extended to monitor the
    performance of public partners of the PPP, i.e., the Lessor and the Regulator.
    However, by not clarifying the financial objectives of the Lessor and the principles for
    resetting WW tariffs in a PA covenant and by not requesting the GOA and its agencies to
    prepare consolidated financial forecasts, the YWWP may have missed the chance of
    developing a medium-term vision of the financial situation of Yerevan WW operations.5
    This issue is further illustrated by the apparent confusion between the Customer tariff (in
    theory to be set by the Regulator) and the Lessee tariff (specified in the Lease contract):
    CGE’s bid proposed a regular decrease of the Lessee tariff after the initial five years of the
    Lease contract to reflect expected operating efficiency gains by Yerevan Djur. Because the
    Customer tariff has so far mistakenly been equated to the Lessee tariff, the Regulator has
    requested the decrease to apply to customers. As a result, Yerevan Djur does not generate
    surpluses to contribute cash to the CAPEX and to finance renewal of WW assets. This
    shortcoming could probably be addressed after consultation with key stakeholders, i.e., the
    SCWE, the Regulator and Yerevan Djur.



5
 Typical covenants for WW utility companies request sales revenues to cover: either (i) O&M costs plus
depreciation of fixed assets plus a return on fixed assets sufficient to service the debt and remunerate equity; or (ii)
O&M costs plus minimum cash contribution to the CAPEX, plus loan principals and interests.

                                                           13
33. Implementation. The original project implementation arrangement remains highly relevant
    to future WW projects or programs. As already mentioned the transfer of the responsibility
    for identifying, preparing and implementing rehabilitation projects to the Lessee was the
    right decision. The need for a PMU may have to be reassessed if the PPP arrangement
    gradually evolves towards a Concession whereby the private partner would be in charge of
    financing the rehabilitation and extension of the WW systems.

3.2.Achievement of Project Development Objectives Rating: Satisfactory

34. The Project has achieved the revised PDOs. Performance indicators of the 2011 amended
    DCA, that followed the revision of the contractual targets of the Lease contract, have been
    met. Original targets of the Lease contract, used as proxies for performance indicators for
    measuring achievement of the original PDOs, have however only been partly met.
        The average duration of water supply increased from 19.6 hours/day (baseline) to
          21.3 hours/day; the end-of-project amended target was 21 hours/day (to be compared
          with an original Lease contract target of 24 hours/day);
        The percentage of water samples in compliance with bacteriological safety
          requirements increased from 93 percent (baseline) to 99.5 percent; the end-of-project
          amended target was 98 percent (to be compared with an original Lease contract target
          of 100 percent); and
        The number of sites where wastewater is discharged into water courses upstream of
          existing treatment works decreased from 17 (baseline) to seven (end-of-project target:
          eight). It could be argued however that, as formulated, this PDO reflected more an
          output than an outcome and that the overall objective of “reducing environmental
          pollution? should have been documented by measuring the evolution of the ambient
          water quality in the Hrazdan River.
    Also:
        Water production decreased from 885 lcd (baseline) to 755 lcd (end-of-project target:
          840 lcd); and
        Electricity consumption decreased from 119 mWh/year (baseline) to 50 mWh/year
          (end-of-project target: 94 mWh/year).

3.3.Efficiency Rating: Satisfactory

35. In a country where adding infrastructure was the traditional answer for solving problems, the
    YWWP has continued the “cultural change? initiated under the MDP and proven that the
    quality of the WW service can be improved through a combination of professional
    management of operations, properly designed financial incentives and well-targeted
    rehabilitation programs.

36. Financial Efficiency. Yerevan Djur has been able to cover its operating costs, including
    financing costs and depreciation of fixed assets (Annex 3). The ratio of sales revenues to
    total operating costs has remained at an average of 1.02 between 2006 and 2011 and is
    projected to reach an average 1.22 between 2012 and the end of the Lease contract in June
    2016. However, as already mentioned, only operating assets with short life duration are
    depreciated by the Lessee and the Lease fee paid by Yerevan Djur to the GOA is calculated

                                               14
       for just covering the repayment of the two IDA Credits extended for the MDP and the
       YWWP. Between 2006 and 2011, Yerevan Djur financial performance has improved despite
       slightly decreasing sales (from 59.3 million m3/year to 58.4 million m3/year), thanks to an
       increased average tariff (from AMD104/m3 to AMD144/m3 or US$0.27/m3 to US$0.37/m3,
       a reduction of energy costs (from 0.33 kWh to 0.22 kWh/m3 produced) and staff costs under
       control, with a staffing ratio now at 3.5 employees per 1,000 water connections. But major
       efficiency gains could still be contemplated with a collection performance at only 80 percent
       in 2011 (to be compared to 63 percent in 2006) and an abnormally high NRW that was still
       above 80 percent when the project closed (paragraph 29). At project completion, the net
       present value (NPV) for a discount rate of 12 percent and financial internal rate of return
       (FIRR) of Yerevan Djur future cash flows were estimated at US$1.2 million and 16 percent
       respectively.6 These figures cannot however be compared with estimates at appraisal since
       the PAD mentioned that “because of the nature of project and ex-post selection of
       investments, it is not possible to calculate an economic and financial rate of return for the
       project with a reasonable degree of accuracy?.

37. Economic Efficiency. From the economic point of view, the main benefit of the YWWP has
    obviously been the reduction of energy consumption from 119 mWh in 2006 to 50 mWh in
    2011: a 58 percent gain. The economic analysis carried in Annex 3 estimates a NPV at
    US$1.1 million (for a discount rate of 12 percent) and an economic rate of return (ERR) of
    24 percent of based on project components specifically designed to support the energy
    efficiency program (valued at US$3.1 million). If the total amount of US$17.8 million
    invested for improving the water supply service is taken into account, the NPV and the ERR
    are of minus US$0.1 million and 11 percent respectively, still counting only energy savings
    as the only quantifiable benefit. The lack of baseline data and data at project completion, did
    not allow an estimate of other benefits such as time saving, avoided coping costs and
    reduction of waterborne diseases. Also, it was not possible to estimate the economic
    efficiency of the limited program aimed at reducing pollution in the Hrazdan River upstream
    of the wastewater treatment plant for which US$1.2 million was invested under the project.
    The 2011 Project restructuring, because of its limited nature, had obviously no impact on
    these estimates.

3.4.Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

               Overall rating: Satisfactory
               Relevance: Satisfactory
               Achievement of the PDOs: Satisfactory
               Efficiency: Satisfactory

38. The revised PDOs were achieved and revised performance indicators were met. The
    implementation arrangement delivered a project implemented on time and within budget and
    in compliance with Bank safeguard and fiduciary requirements. The YWWP initiated a
    move towards financial sustainability of Yerevan WW operations, with sales revenues
    projected to be sufficient for covering O&M and financing costs and depreciating short life

6
    Assumptions used and calculations are available in the project files.

                                                            15
   operating assets. The YWWP main economic benefit has been the significant energy savings
   achieved; several other benefits, such as the reduction of coping costs or the improvement of
   the ambient water quality upstream of the wastewater treatment plant could not be estimated.

3.5.Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

39. The YWWP did not include any PDO and/or component specifically targeted at improving
    the WW service to low income households or at reducing the burden of the water bill on their
    budgets or at addressing specific gender issues. It may be noted however that women, who
    traditionally are the main users of water for carrying out domestic tasks and responsible for
    coping with a poor water service are likely to be the main beneficiaries of a project that
    essentially focused on improving the reliability of the water service.

3.6. Summary of Findings of the Beneficiary Survey

40. The beneficiary survey of December 2011 (Annex 5) collected data from a representative
    sample of 400 households in Yerevan. Overall, 65 percent of the respondents thought that
    the management of the WW service improved between 2006 and 2011, 29 percent said that it
    remained the same and six percent believed that it worsened.
         Constancy of the water supply service. 70 percent of customers reported a service of
           21 to 24 hours per day, with no noticeable difference between household expenditure
           quartiles (average of 19.8 hours for the lower quartile vs. 20.9 hours for the higher
           quartile). 61 percent of households reported an improvement in the constancy of the
           service since 2006, against 35 percent that said that it remained about the same.
         Water quality. All categories of customers mentioned a perceived improvement of
           the water quality. The survey highlighted an increased consumption of bottled water
           increased between 2006 and 2011, mostly in case of piped water service interruption.
         Customer service. 74 percent of customers clearly expressed satisfaction with the
           response time to problems signaled to the Yerevan Djur, a noticeable improvement
           over the 2006-2011 period.
         Tariff. While 46 percent of households considered that the current level of the water
           bill was adequate, 39 percent considered it to be “rather high? and 16 percent “very
           high?, even if it represents only a small fraction of household budgets: (i) lower
           quartile: average monthly bill AMD2,165 for a household of 4.7 people
           (US$5.5/month/household), or about 2.1 percent of the total monthly household
           spending; and (ii) higher quartile: average monthly bill AMD2,380 for a household of
           2.7 people (US$6.1/month/household), i.e., only about 0.9 percent of the total
           monthly spending.


4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome Rating: Moderate

41. Technical. This risk is rated negligible. The YWWP mostly supported: (i) the rehabilitation
    of existing WW facilities and the implementation of good operating practice for pumping
    plants, disinfection equipment, storage reservoirs, distribution networks; (ii) the improvement
    of commercial operations and customer services; and (iii) the limitation of discharge of

                                                16
   effluents upstream of the wastewater treatment plant with the main objectives or reducing
   production and distribution costs, increasing sales revenues and limiting environmental
   pollution. These activities are all expected to be high on the medium and long-term agendas,
   as a result of the cultural change introduced by the MDP and YWWP in the way a WW
   business is to be carried out.

42. Financial. This risk is rated moderate. Even if as already pointed out: (i) the customer
    willingness-to-pay for improved WW services and GOA willingness-to charge are not yet
    properly assessed; (ii) clearer tariff setting principles still have to be developed; (iii) further
    improvement of the WW service still remains highly dependent upon availability of external
    financing; (iv) availability of financing on highly concessionary terms is likely to be limited;
    and (v) the independence of the Regulator is somewhat limited, the Yerevan WW operation
    currently recovers its operating and maintenance (O&M) costs and services its debt, albeit on
    highly concessionary terms, from sales revenues. Further efficiency gains, by replacing
    individual meters in apartment buildings (for increasing billing) or by fixing physical leaks
    (for further reducing energy expenditures), combined with politically acceptable tariff
    increases, should help generate cash surpluses to contribute to a “reasonable? CAPEX and to
    service a debt on terms closer to market rates. As already mentioned, the creation of an
    AHC, (or the transformation of YWSC or SCWE into an AHC) should help clarify the
    consolidated financial situation of Yerevan WW operations.

43. Economic. This risk is rated moderate. Further reduction of water consumption is more
    likely to result from improved metering and stricter enforcement of collection procedures
    than from major economic changes in the country or the region.

44. Social. This risk is rated moderate. Access to the piped WW service is almost universal in
    Yerevan. Beneficiary surveys (Annex 5) show that household WW expenses are currently
    below the usually accepted threshold of four percent of the total household budget, and that
    limited tariff increases should be acceptable now that the quality of service had markedly
    improved. The main issue to be addressed in the medium-term is likely to be the design of a
    WW tariff structure or of targeted subsidies for protecting low income households against
    increasing water bills.

45. Political. This risk is rated moderate. It is highly unlikely that the already mentioned
    cultural change introduced by the MDP and YWWP can be overturned, even if major
    political changes occur.

46. Environmental. This risk is rated moderate. Activities aimed at limiting energy and water
    consumptions can only have a positive impact on the environment. However the unusually
    high water production and NRW levels in Yerevan affect the proper operation of wastewater
    treatment plants because they translate into low concentration of the effluents discharged.

47. Government Ownership. This risk is rated moderate. Even if the GOA has hitherto taken
    major steps for modernizing its WW sector, there is always a risk that a new government
    ideologically opposed to PPP in the provision of an essential public service decides not to
    extend the Lease contract with a “foreign? operator beyond 2016 or even engage in its early

                                                  17
   termination. Successful PPPs implemented in similar situations have usually been based on
   the gradual transfer of managerial responsibilities to local staff and of the (partial) ownership
   of the operating company to local private interests. Yerevan Djur, whose foreign
   professional partner is no longer permanently based in the country, should thus gradually be
   perceived as a “true Armenian? private company. If a new government opts for not
   extending the PPP experience, the cultural change is likely to have a long lasting effect, even
   if financial incentives may no longer be the main engine for improving performance.

48. Other stakeholder ownership. This risk is rated moderate. The success of the YWWP has
    been heavily predicated upon the good performance of the PPP and in particular that of the
    Lessee. As long as the latter generates profits, it is likely to remain in business. So, one of
    the issues to address in the medium-term would be to ensure that the Regulator’s decisions
    are sufficiently transparent and predictable so that the Lessee can adapt its business plan for
    guaranteeing profitability. Also, although there is no evidence that this is currently the case,
    there is always a possibility that Yerevan Djur’s foreign partner adjusts its international
    development strategy and decides to pull out of the operation. As already mentioned,
    Yerevan Djur is already managed by an Armenian team with limited back support for
    headquarters and it is usually admitted that the transfer of know-how has already taken place.

49. Governance. The risk is rated moderate. The decision to extend the Lease contract
    arrangement or to evolve it into a Concession arrangement would have to be taken at the
    latest by 2015, after consultation with all stakeholders, including Yerevan Djur. The
    procedure to be followed for selecting the future private partner would have to be agreed
    upon at that stage. If an open bidding process is likely to be acceptable to most parties, it
    carries the risk of having to select an operator with limited experience or interest in the
    business because, simply because it would have submitted the lowest bid. Direct
    negotiations with a preferred partner – an option that should not be discarded – would require
    a mechanism for ensuring transparency and fairness of the process. Private commercial
    operations and improved metering technology (anti-magnetic class C meters equipped with
    remote reading equipment) are likely the best options for reducing petty fraud by customers
    and petty corruption by service provider agents.

50. Natural Disaster Exposure. The risk is rated moderate, even if Yerevan is located in a
    highly seismic area.


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance


5.1.Bank Performance

   Rating: Satisfactory

51. Quality at Entry. The quality at entry QAE is rated moderately satisfactory. The Bank opted
    for supporting a simple and well-focused project and a PPP model that was well adapted to
    the issues to be addressed.

                                                18
    However, the beneficiary WW utility company should have been clearly identified in the
    PAD, a financial forecast of its operations should have been prepared and standard financial
    performance indicators should have been specified in a PA.

52. Quality of Supervision. The quality of supervision (QSA) is rated satisfactory. The Bank
    ensured that GOA delivered a quality project on time and within budget. PDOs were
    properly monitored, and both Yerevan Djur and the PMU complied with fiduciary and
    safeguards requirements. Bank aide memoires were well documented and annexes covering
    procurement, FM, environmental protection issues were of high quality. Also, the assistance
    provided to implementing agencies has been highly valued by the Borrower.

5.2.Borrower Performance

    Rating: Satisfactory

53. The Borrower performance is rated satisfactory. As already mentioned, the GOA was able to
    implement an in-depth reform of its WW sector based on an advanced form of PPP and the
    implementing agencies, the PMU and Yerevan Djur, were able to deliver a quality project on
    time, within budget, and in compliance with Bank fiduciary and safeguards requirements.


6. Lessons Learned

6.1.Positive Lessons

54. Government Commitment. As earlier mentioned in the PICR of the MDP, the GOA
    commitment to reforming the WW service in Yerevan proved to be the key factor for the
    success of the YWWP. The SCWE, the key stakeholder in the reform process, considers that
    Armenia, a country where most WW services are now operated under three different PPPs, is
    becoming a model for the region. It also rightly notes that the facts that Yerevan Djur:
        A private professional operator now under Armenian management with limited back
           office support from its foreign professional partner, is able to exceed its contractual
           obligations is a proof that know-how has been properly transferred and that
           contractual incentives are working well; and
        Has become one of Armenia’s largest tax payers without having to increase the WW
           tariff beyond the automatic contractual indexations is a proof that the sector is on the
           right track for financial sustainability.7

55. Quality of the Operator. When the outcome of a project depends highly upon the
    performance of the Operator, it is essential to: (i) mobilize a reputable international partner
    for establishing and developing a locally incorporated Operator; (ii) ensure that the
    conditions of the Lease contract are acceptable to both parties; and (iii) establish a true
    “partnership? between public and private parties. The Bank supervision aide memoire of
    December 2011 noted that:

7
 A statement that should be qualified however: if Yerevan WW operations were to depreciate its fixed assets, they
would not generate a positive net income and therefore would not be taxable.

                                                        19
          The independent technical auditor concluded that for the third consecutive year the
           quality of the service provided by Yerevan Djur has improved, as evidenced by a
           steady reduction of volume of water produced, energy consumed and physical and
           commercial losses, which provides good prospects for further improvements in
           coming years; and
          The objectives of establishing a partnership between the public authorities and their
           local private partner and transferring knowledge to the latter by its international
           shareholder have been successfully met, even if its presence in Yerevan is still
           deemed desirable.

56. Operator Autonomy and Risks. The Bank last supervision aide memoire also noted:
        Autonomy in CAPEX Implementation. A key element of the successful PPP has been
          the autonomy granted to the Lessee while ensuring that contractual obligations were
          met through independent technical audits. The YWWP has demonstrated that a
          CAPEX independently designed and efficiently implemented by a Lessee is the key
          for achieving operational performance and limiting contractual disputes. The Bank
          (as well as other external financing institutions) procurement and environment
          protection guidelines, that private companies are usually not familiar with, need to be
          clarified upfront to ease compliance; and
        Commercial and Financial Risks. Transferring increased risks to the Lessee has
          allowed: (i) much improved commercial operations (metering, billing and collection);
          and (ii) financial resources, including those provided by Operator under the form of
          working capital, to be efficiently managed to achieve operational improvements.

57. Partnership with the Bank. The quality of the partnership between the public and private
    partners of the PPP and the financing institution(s) that support it is essential for ensuring
    achievement of the PDOs. The decentralization of Bank supervision responsibilities, in
    particular that related to procurement, financial management and environmental protection
    has proven to be highly beneficial. The locally based Bank team has played a key role in
    ensuring that Bank guidelines were properly understood, and complied with.

6.2.Other Lessons

58. The Bank should act as a Bank. A PAD for a WW project implemented by revenue-
    earning utility company should answer two key questions, in the following order: (i) who are
    we lending to; and (ii) what are we lending for? The PAD provided a clear answer to the
    second question only, even if it did not carry out an economic and financial analysis of the
    project. In order to fully answer the first question, it would have been necessary to prepare a
    realistic medium-term financial forecast of Yerevan WW operations, agree on a financial
    performance to be achieved and covenant it in a PA. The issue of WW tariff resetting would
    have then been addressed and one of the two options mentioned in footnote 5 should have
    been chosen. Had such a discussion taken place, the issue of depreciation of WW fixed
    assets would have been identified: it would have then been clear that Yerevan Djur, which
    did not exist when the project was appraised and is not the owner of the fixed assets, could
    not really be considered as the beneficiary entity. Also, when reviewing audit reports of
    financial statements of a revenue-earning WW utility company, the Bank should comment on

                                                20
   its financial performance and follow up on the evolution of key ratios, and agree on action
   plans for improving tem, if necessary. Annex 3 carries out a rapid review of Yerevan Djur
   financial performance, even as already mentioned it reflects only one aspect of Yerevan WW
   operations.

59. Building the Debt Servicing Capacity. The PAD and a PA should have clarified on-lending
    terms of the proceeds of the IDA Credit by the GOA to the beneficiary entity as well as
    mitigation arrangement of the foreign exchange risk. On-lending an IDA Credit dollar-for-
    dollar, as has been the case for the YWWP, is not a good strategy for helping a WW utility
    company develop its capacity to eventually access local commercial debt and capital
    markets.

60. PDOs should be more Strategic. Improvements of a WW service have to be assessed
    against reliability, efficiency, financial and environmental sustainability and affordability
    criteria.
         The YWWP made good progress on improving the reliability of the WW service and,
             to some extent, addressed environmental sustainability issues;
         Even if the YWWP achieved significant progress in terms of energy consumption,
             Yerevan WW operations, with NRW in the 80 percent range, still have long way to
             go before they can be considered efficient;
         The YWWP did not really focus on the financial sustainability of Yerevan WW
             operations but, as already mentioned O&M costs, including that associated to the
             Lease contract, and the debt service are already covered by sales revenues; and
         The YWWP did not touch upon affordability issues; future projects should emphasize
             poverty implications of any reform of the tariff reform process and the targeting of
             subsidies.

   After two IDA financed projects (MDP and YWWP) with strong institutional development
   components one could have expected a clearer vision for further improving the performance
   of the WW service, especially since the GOA is unlikely to have access to debt on
   concessionary terms for urban WW in the near future. As discussed above, a comprehensive
   strategy should address four inter-related issues:
        Identify an “affordable? medium-term CAPEX and its “affordable? financing plan,
           i.e., the optimum mix of cash generation, long-term debt and development grants to
           finance the CAPEX;
        Clarify customer tariff resetting principles and mechanisms and review of efficiency
           of subsidies;
        Prepare realistic plans for future operating efficiency gains, in particular with regards
           to NRW and energy consumption; and
        Identify feasible future PPP arrangements and options for transferring additional risks
           and responsibility to the private partner.

61. The Need for Good Baseline Information. Economic justification of projects that mostly
    focus on rehabilitation of existing facilities and operations is always difficult without reliable
    data before and at the completion of the project. If energy savings are usually easy to
    identify, time savings, reduction of coping costs, health improvements and environmental

                                                 21
   improvements are much more difficult to document. Future projects should consider
   establishing good baseline information for better supporting estimates of economic benefits
   in an environment where the competition for financing is likely to remain strong.


7. Comments on Issues raised by Borrower, Implementing Agencies and Partners

62. Implementation of the CAPEX. Annex 6 provides the PMU detailed completion report. It
    includes two main parts. The first one described the investment program implemented and
    its achievements measured against the PDOs. This section, already summarized in this PICR
    does not attract specific comments.

63. Possible Improvements to the Lease Contract. The second part of the PMU completion
    report suggests several improvements to the Lease contract arrangement, while highlighting
    that the five-year experience has so far proven to be positive, to allow a smoother future
    implementation. The key suggestions are summarized below; Bank comments are palced
    between brackets..

64. Baseline Data. There is a need for the Lessor and the Lessee to jointly check after
    implementation has started the accuracy of baseline data and the realism of performance
    indicators provided in the bidding documents, especially when they attract penalties for non-
    compliance. (This is a standard issue in the design and management of Lease contracts).

65. Distribution of Responsibilities for Maintenance Works. There is a need for clarifying in
    more detail the distribution of responsibilities between the Lessor, in charge of financing the
    CAPEX, and the Lessee, in charge of financing regular and preventive maintenance,
    especially in a context where the CAPEX focuses almost exclusively of rehabilitation work,
    i.e., deferred maintenance. (This is also a recurrent issue in Lease contracts that is however
    difficult to address when the exact status of assets is not known).

66. Special Account. The existence of a “Special Account? managed by the Lessor and to be
    replenished by GOA budget would provide flexibility for financing emergency works. (As
    already mentioned, this Special Account should preferably be replenished by cash surpluses
    generated by the Lessee, i.e., the difference between the Customer and Lessee tariffs).

67. Assistance to Low-Income Household. The creation of a “Social Fund? managed by the
    Lessor to assist low-income households paying their bills would address social issues and
    make the Lease contract more attractive to private operators. (As suggested above, the
    clarification of the WW tariff level and structure should include an analysis of adapted
    mechanisms for targeting subsidies to needy groups).

68. Individual Metering. In the absence of a condominium legislation allowing the Lessee to
    bill an apartment building for the consumption metered at the building entrance, as is
    customary, further reduction of commercial losses would require the replacement of poor
    quality individual meters owned by customers by meters that cannot be tampered with and
    owned by the WW utility company in each unit of apartment buildings. (This is potentially a

                                                22
    low-cost/high-return project that could either be financed by the Lessor and implemented by
    the Lessee or financed by the latter out of its sales revenues, after the Lessee tariff has been
    adjusted for reflecting this additional task).

69. Asset Valuation and Registration. In order to facilitate hand-over of the assets leased to the
    Operator, assets should be properly registered and their realistic value recorded.8 (This is a
    standard issue of Lease contracts, although in most examples WW fixed assets are registered
    and reported by the Lessor and operating assets are financed by the Lessee).

70. Regulation of the Lessor. Interestingly, the PMU raises the issue of regulation of the
    Lessor, whose performance in a successful PPP is as important as that of its private partner.
    (This is a recurrent issue in this type of arrangement that has usually been addressed by the
    creation of a public AHC operating on business principles similar to that of the Lessee).

71. Tariff Adjustments. The PMU advocates a more flexible mechanism for adjusting WW
    tariffs. (As already mentioned, it would be necessary to differentiate between:
 The “Lessee tariff?: (i) obtained after bidding; (ii) regularly adjusted according a contractual
    cost index formula for protecting revenues of the Operator against inflation; and (iii) usually
    renegotiated after at mid contract for passing onto customers efficiency gains achieved by the
    Operator during the initial period; and
 The “Customer tariff? reset by the Regulator in application of GOA pricing policies, that
    should allow revenue of the WW operation be sufficient to cover O&M costs, depreciate
    fixed assets and yield a return on fixed assets sufficient to meet financing costs).




8
 The commencement of the Lease contract was delayed because the GOA was in the process of registering fixed
assets.

                                                      23
                                 Annex 1: Project Cost and Financing


        1. Project Cost by Component (US$ million equivalent)


                    Components                 Appraisal         Latest       Percentage
                                               Estimate         Estimate          of
                                                                              Appraisal
         Component 1
    A    For achieving Energy savings            10.50            8.26             78.67
    B    For Improved Reliability in the          6.75            9.53            141.19
         Provision of Water Supply and in
         Operational Control
    C    For Reduction of Environmental          1.50             1.18            78.67
         Pollution
         Sub-Total                               18.75           18.97            101.17
         Component 2
         Technical Assistance                     1.25            2.12             196.6
         Refinancing of PPF                        2.0            1.04             52.03
         Total                                   22.00           22.13            100.59


        2. Financing by Disbursement Categories (US$ million equivalent)

  Disbursement Category         Appraisal Estimate        Latest Estimate             % of
                                                                                    Appraisal
                              Total    IDA     GOA      Total    IDA       GO          %
                                                                            A
Civil Works                   12.28    11.16   1.12     13.74   12.35      1.39           112
Goods and Equipment            4.58     4.05   0.53      4.32    3.79      0.53            94
Consulting Services            2.59     2.47   0.12      1.21    1.08      0.13            47
Incremental Operating          1.17     1.01   0.16      1.47    1.29      0.19           126
Costs
YWSC Operation and             0.28    0.25    0.03      0.27    0.24      0.03            96
Management
Refinancing of PPF             1.09     1.06   0.03      1.04    1.01      0.03            95
Total                         22.00    20.00   2.00     22.05   19.76      2.29           100




                                                24
                                             Annex 2: Outputs per Component

       Indicators listed below are those of the amended DCA of January 2011

                                                       Unit        Baseline   Original   Revised   Achieved     Comments
                                                                              Target     Target
PDO Level Results Indicators
Weighted average of daily hours of drinking water     Hours          19.6       24.0      21.0       21.3     Exceeded
services
Percentage of water samples in compliance with          %            93.0       100       98.0       99.5     Exceeded
bacteriological safety requirements
Number of wastewater discharge sites upstream of        U            17          8         8          7       Exceeded
the treatment plant
Affordability of WW services                                                                                  Dropped in
                                                                                                              2011
Intermediate Results Component 1
Water consumption                                      lcd           151        140       140        159      Exceeded
Water production                                       lcd           885        929       840        755      Exceeded
Unaccounted-for-water                                   %            86.3       55.0      82.0       82.6     Target almost
                                                                                                              met
Water production pumping/gravity                      Ratio         45/55      35/65      35/65     18/82     Exceeded
Residential water metering                             %             89.6       100        96.0      96.8     Exceeded
Electricity consumption                              mWh/year        119        96          94        50      Exceeded
Intermediate Results Component 2
Timely submission of progress reports                                NA                    S          S
Satisfactory technical and financial audits                          NA                    S          S
Target oriented progress reports by PMU                              NA                    S          S
IDA Core Indicators
New residential water connections from the project      U                                24,840     24,840    Target met
Household water connections benefitting from            U                                29,360     29,360    Target met
rehabilitation works
Number of water utility supported by the project        U             1                    1          1       Target met
Number of rural subscribers with access to              U                                12,500     12,500    Target met
improved water source
Number of people in urban area with access to           U                                298,000   298,000    Target met
improved water source

       lcd: liters per capita par day
       nWh/year: mega watt-hour per year
       U: Unit




                                                              25
                            Annex3: Financial and Economic Analysis


Background
The Yerevan Djur Closed Joint Stock Corporation (Yerevan Djur) was formed in 2005 to
execute a 10-year Lease contract signed between the GOA, represented by the SCWE (the
Lessor), Yerevan Djur and its sole owner, Compagnie Générale des Eaux of France (now
Veolia). Yerevan Djur began its operations on June 1, 2006. Under the Lease contract, Yerevan
Djur is allowed to use the Lessor’s water and wastewater (WW) facilities as well as the Lessor’s
equipment and inventories.
Some of the fixed assets transferred for the use of Yerevan Djur were financed by the US$30
million IDA Credit granted for the Municipal Development Project (MDP, Credit 3095-AM).
The Lease contract also assigns Yerevan Djur to implement the US$20 million Yerevan Water
and Wastewater Project (YWWP) financed by the IDA Credit 4038-AM. The repayment of
these Credits becomes due during the Lease period, the former in 2008 and the latter starting in
2015. Besides these IDA Credits, the GOA also borrowed EUR24.4 million from the French
Emerging Countries Fund for refurbishing Yerevan wastewater treatment plant.
The IDA Credits were not assigned to Yerevan Djur through Subsidiary Loan Agreements
(SLAs); thus, Yerevan Djur is not liable for repaying them. Neither is Yerevan Djur liable for
replacing fixed assets with long depreciation periods (drinking water production and distribution
facilities and wastewater collection and treatment facilities) used for its operations. These assets
and corresponding liabilities were not transferred to its balance sheet, but in practical terms, the
cash flow generated by Yerevan Djur’s operations is the only resource available for repaying the
Credits and replacing fixed assets.
The following financial analysis is thus limited to that of Yerevan Djur financial statements.
Financial statements of the owner of the WW assets, including information on the value of the
fixed assets and future obligations under the French Emerging Countries Fund were not
available.

Operating and Financial Performance
The YWWP financed activities aimed at achieving energy efficiency, service reliability and
pollution reduction. The combination of these investments and professional management of the
Company have yielded visible service improvements. Key achievements include increase in the
number of hours of water service, number of water connections and total volume billed to
customers, despite lower per capita consumption (Table 1). The YWWP also improved
metering; 96 percent of individual connections are metered. The YWWP also reduced non-
revenue-water (NRW) by four percentage points, but NRW remains at an abnormally high level
by industry standards.




                                                26
                                Table 1: Summary of Service Indicators
                Yerevan Water and Wastewater                                  20051               20113
                Operations
                Asset Summary
                Annual volume production (million m3)                         356.6              334.7
                Annual volume billed (million m3)                              59.3              58.41
                Transmission (km)                                              447                387
                Distribution (km)                                             1,795              2,047
                Daily regulating reservoir, operational (m3)                 222,400            246,400
                Water treatment capacity (m3/day)                               -                  -
                Sewerage pipeline (km)                                        1010               1013
                Service Area and Level
                Total population in service area                           1,348,0002          1,200,000
                Population served                                          1,127,000           1,150,000
                Number of subscribers                                       322,000             330,445
                Coverage (%)                                                 83.6%                96%
                No. of operating Districts/Zones                               8                   2
                No. of connections                                                              437,000
                % of metered connections                                      89.6%               97%
                Average consumption (lcd)                                      151                140
                Average daily hours of service (hours)                         18.4               21.5
                Average tariff per m3 (AMD)                                   104.2               144
                Efficiency Indicators
                Unaccounted for water                                         83.4%               82%
                Operating cost per m3 produced                                                    24.8
                Staff per 1000 connections                                                         3.5
                Energy per volume produced (kWh/m3)                            0.33               0.22

            1
             Sources: Data taken from lease contract appendix, baseline performance in World Bank supervision
            documents or supplied by Yerevan Djur for ICR; 21999 Census, quoted in the baseline social survey
            (2004); 3 Communication from Yerevan Djur for ICR (2012)


Operational improvements have translated into improved operating margins (Table 2), even if
earnings before interest, depreciation, taxes and amortization (EBIDTA) went down slightly
between 2007 and 2009 due to increasing electricity and staff costs: while Yerevan Djur
operations consumed less electricity, its energy expenditures went up by an average of eight
percent per year since 2006. Also, the coverage of operating expenses including interest and
depreciation from sales revenues went down during the period, with revenues falling below cost
in 2007 and 2009.




                                                             27
                                     Figure 1: Costs and Revenues




 When losses due to currency exchange are taken into account, the Company’s income statement
 for the first four years show net losses (Table 3). Yerevan Djur predicts positive cost coverage
 for future years (2012 to 2016) under the Lease.



             Table 2: Summary of Yerevan Djur Financial Performance Indicators

Financial Indicators                                  2006        2011          Ave           Ave
                                                                              (06-11)      Projected
                                                                                            (12-16)
Working Cost Coverage (EBIDTA)                        1.14        1.13          1.07          1.55
Operating Cost Coverage (incl. interest &             1.10        1.06          1.02          1.22
depreciation)
Collection Efficiency                                 63%         79%           76%          80%
Collection Days                                       133          75            85           72
Return on Revenue                                     13%         16%            8%          35%


 Revenue increases were matched by efforts to collect them: the Company improved collection
 efficiency from a poor 63 percent in 2006 to an average of 76 percent in later years. It targets an
 80 percent average collection in the remaining Lease period, which is still very low by industry
 standards. Accounts receivable expressed in equivalent days of billing significantly improved
 from 133 to an average 85. Importantly, the amount of receivables being written off by the
 company as bad debts has decreased over its operations by 60%, from AMD 776 million to
 AMD 309 million.

 Debt Service, Depreciation and Financial Internal Rate of Return during Lease Period

 Although Yerevan Djur is not liable for depreciating fixed assets with long depreciation periods
 used for its operations and for servicing the debt, certain provisions under the Lease contract
 provide for part of these obligations. Yerevan Djur has to make semi-annual Lease payments
 from December 2005 to June 2015 to GOA budget in accordance with schedule provided for in
 the Lease contract. The total anticipated Lease fee payment is AMD3,999 million (US$10.7

                                                 28
million) and as of date, Yerevan Djur has already paid AMD2,269 (US$6.1 million) or 56
percent of the amount. The Lease fee should be sufficient to cover the principal and interest
falling due during the period 2005-2015. Based on the historical and projected cash flows, the
debt service coverage ratio during the period 2008-2016, i.e., when principal payments are due,
should be about 2.2, considering IDA obligations, but excluding the French loan.
Likewise, under the Lease contract, Yerevan Djur has the obligation to return specific properties,
plants and equipment with short depreciation periods – such as vehicles, laboratories, hardware
and software – and the value of inventories handed over to execute the Lease contract. The
Company has been setting aside funds equivalent to the current price of inventories as well as the
equivalent of the depreciation of fixed assets to be returned at the end of the Lease period. Thus,
for all intents and purposes, depreciation is being covered under the Lease period for those assets
covered by the lease agreement, assuming the Lease contract includes all assets used and
necessary for the provision of services.
At project completion, the net present value (NPV) for a discount rate of 12 percent and financial
internal rate of return (FIRR) of Yerevan Djur future cash flows were estimated at US$1.2
million and 16 percent respectively.

Comment on Debt Service Post Lease Period (Year N+)

Cash flow projections were developed using assumptions on inflation (four percent per year),
volume of water sold (based on an additional 5,000 new connections added annually), NRW at
70 percent and financial targets on cash management (accounts receivable remaining at the
equivalent of 70 days of billing and accounts payable at an equivalent 30 days of operating
expenses) and tariffs increasing from AMD132/m3 to AMD140/m3 by year N+3 to estimate the
NPV and the FIRR of the project. The latter come up to US$0.8 million and 16 percent
respectively.
 The projections, that cannot accurately anticipate all contingencies, were also undertaken to test
whether the current level of operating performance and tariff rate would be sufficient to generate
cash for covering the debt service attached to the two IDA Credits. From the projections, debt
service would be comfortably covered to year N+8. Without adjusting the tariff steeply, or
further improving performance, cash flows would rapidly turn negative in year N+9. As
discussed in the main text, tariff resetting principles to be defined by the GOA and to be applied
by the Regulator PSRC should clarify if the future tariff should cover: (i) O&M costs, contribute
cash to the CAPEX and principal and interests; or (ii) O&M costs, depreciation of fixed assets
and yield a return on fixed assets sufficient to cover financing costs (interests on debt and return
on equity). As discussed in the main report, the Municipality of Yerevan interprets that the bid
tariffs proposed by the Lessee should be applied directly to customers. However, these rates
(which decline in the last 5 years of the Lease contract) reflect efficiency gains in operation, but
do not cover capital development.




                                                29
                                             Table 3: Yerevan Djur Financial Summary (2006-2016)
                                                                                              Note: Figures for 2016 cover the five-month period of the Lease contract only

Financial Summary Yerevan Water and Wastewater   Historical                                                 Company Projections
(in million AMD)                                   2006       2007      2008        2009         2010         2011       2012      2013       2014       2015       2016
Income Statement
Operating Revenues (Net of Grants)                   4,362     6,904     7,422       7,697        8,318        8,807      8,373     8,997      9,318      9,043      3,589
Total Revenues (incldg grants and others)            4,397     6,920     7,435       7,709        8,663        8,807      8,373     8,997      9,318      9,043      3,589
Cost of Sales                                        2,656     4,887     4,885       5,212        4,873        4,559      4,204     4,037      3,922      3,608      1,396
EBITDA                                               3,814     6,684     7,197       7,382        7,350        6,549      6,022     5,863      5,751      5,440      2,064
Net Income Before Taxes                               (371)     (969)     (392)       (552)         972        2,936      2,412     2,982      3,150      3,022        298
Net Profit/(Loss) for the Year                        (333)     (979)     (282)       (493)         705        2,758      2,370     2,841      2,983      2,887        312

Balance Sheet
Cash and Equivalent                                    247       122       475         234          613          771        100       309      1,399      2,676      3,786
Trade Receivables                                    1,611     1,890     1,499       1,486        1,726        1,426      1,358     1,459      1,511      1,466      1,397
Total Assets                                         4,888     6,554     4,795       4,968        5,714        6,135      5,286     5,542      6,351      6,873      6,328
Current Liabilities                                  2,001     2,009     3,154       3,626        3,259        2,638      1,524     1,117      1,155      1,037      1,072
Long-Term Liabilities                                1,515     3,862     2,039       2,461        2,729        3,334      3,469     3,393      3,048      2,347        777
Capital                                                  0       500       500         500          500          500        500       500        500        500        500
Reserve                                                -          70       -           -            -            -          -         -          -          -          -
Accumulated Profit/(Loss)                             (333)   (1,380)     (383)       (877)        (172)         152        318       880      1,551      2,091      1,412

Cash Flow
EBIDTA                                                 638       524         60        166        1,227        1,191      1,169     1,889      2,331      2,417      1,069
Changes in Working Capital                            (948)      836       706        (267)         294          271        (40)      (49)       (25)         22         33
Taxes                                                  -        (262)     (138)         (3)        (205)        (172)       (82)     (184)      (212)      (179)       -
Cash flow from Operating Activities                   (310)    1,099       627        (104)       1,316        1,290      1,048     1,656      2,093      2,260      1,102
Proceeds from Borrowing                                865       150       419         688          -            -          -         -          -          -          -
Principal Repayments                                   -         -         -          (108)        (218)         -          -         -          -          -          -
Interest Income/Expenses                               -         -         -           (13)           (3)        -          -         -          -          -          -
Cash flow from Financing Activities                    555     1,100     1,047         462        1,094        1,085        325     1,171      2,093      2,260      1,102
Cash flow from Investing Activities                    243      (102)      364        (246)         391          141       (671)      209      1,090      1,363        967
Free Cash                                              231       122       475         234          613          753        100       309      1,399      2,762      3,729




                                                                               30
Economic Benefits Analysis

In addition to increased sales revenues and reduced operating costs savings generated by the
project, already reflected in the Company’s financial performance, the PAD anticipated the
following economic benefits: (i) reduced energy use; (ii) benefits to household in time saved
from fetching water; (iii) avoided coping costs for households such as investment in booster
pumps, storage tanks, and disinfection equipment; (iv) avoided cost of expanding, rehabilitating
water production; (v) reduction in wastewater related issues such as damage to the environment
and properties; and (vi) reduction in the incidence of water borne diseases.
A full analysis of the project economic ERR could not be done given the lack of quantitative data
on costs and monetized benefits.        Instead the likelihood of realizing the PAD-identified
economic benefits are discuss below.
Energy Savings. Annual electricity consumption came down by 58 percent the from base year
(119 mWh/year) to 2011 (50 mWh/year) and the first two months of 2012 are showing even
further reduction compared to the same period in the previous year (Fgure2). While it is was
already observed that despite the drop in consumption, the Company spent more for electricity
due to increases in kWh unit prices, the avoided costs can potentially generate significant
savings, i.e., the Company could have been paying 1.5 times more for electricity. Assuming that
the savings were only realized in 2010 when the energy saving projects (valued at US$3.10
million) were completed and fully operational, and using a discount rate of 12 percent, the NPV
and ERR of the energy saving component of the project are estimated at US$1.1 million and 24
percent respectively. If however the total cost of the water supply project component is taken
into account (US$17.8 million), these figures fall to minus US$0.1 million and 11 percent, still
using energy saving as the only quantifiable benefit (see discussion below).

                     Figure 2: Monthly Electricity Consumption in kWh




Time Saved in Fetching Water. A baseline study carried out in 2003 found that approximately
240,000 households were relying on communal taps and fetching the equivalent of about 15
liters per capita per day (lcd). The PAD estimated that time savings would be the equivalent of
one person-hour per day of water fetching.        Using the low income household average
expenditure as a proxy, each saved hour would save about AMD362 (about US$1.0), assuming a

                                               31
two-person income family. This would translate into an economic benefit of about US$40,000 in
the first year and thereafter, declining marginal benefit.
Avoided Costs for Investments on Storage and Coping. The PAD suggested that improved
service and water quality would reduce household coping costs, such as that related to booster
pumps, individual storage tanks, household disinfection equipment, water boiling or purchase of
bottled water. While there is evidence of improved level of service and water quality, available
data cannot help conclude on the reduction of coping costs resulting from the project.
However, the avoided costs could be significant. The 2003 baseline report mentioned that 95
percent of households that received less than 20 hours of water per day spent on water storage
(Table 4); at that time, it was estimated that only 33 percent of households received 20 hours of
water per day. In the 2011 beneficiary survey (Annex 5) the proportion of households receiving
less than 20 hours of water supply service had fallen to 30 percent (Figure 3). Thus, the marginal
increase in number of households receiving 20 hours or more of service per day is around 87,000
households.
The same survey shows that bottled water consumption has increased during the 2003-
2011period, suggesting that bottled water consumption is not directly related to the quality of the
piped water service.


                                        Table 4: Water Storage Practice
                                                         Water Storage Device

                            Bucket/      Scuttlebutt    Bath      Tank     Barrel    Tank    Cistern
        Needs               bottle 10                                                                  Total
                                              50       100-150   200-300   300-500   1-2 t    3t +

1    Drinking/cooking          50             11         0.3       0.5       0.2     0.2        -       61

2     Bathing/washing          2.5            12         31        7         1       0.6      0.3       55

3        Altogether            1.0            1.6        2.1       1.9       1.0     1.0        -       8.2
Source: Sociological Baseline Report (2003)




                                                         32
                   Figure 3: Distribution of Customers - Hours of Supply




                               Source: Sociological Baseline Report (20011)




Avoided Infrastructure Expansion Costs. The Yerevan WW infrastructure has in the past been
over dimensioned and poorly built and maintained. There is obviously a need for continuing the
effort initiated under the MDP and YWWP for rehabilitating existing facilities, i.e., investing in
deferred maintenance and replacing leaky pipes and connections. There is obviously no need
for expanding water production or wastewater treatment facilities.
Avoided Damage to the Environment. About US$1.5 million or 11 percent of the Credit was
spent to eliminate eight raw wastewater discharge points upstream of the Aeratia wastewater
treatment plant. However, since the latter does not currently provide any bacteriological
treatment, the completed investments are unlikely to have an impact on ambient water quality
downstream of the treatment plant.
Reduction in Incidence of Water Borne Diseases. The baseline sociological report finds that
about 25,000 members of 60,000 families could have been affected by water-related diseases.
However, no other data is available on this matter, including a comparison to the end-line, to
make any conclusions about the potential economic benefits.

Other Matters
Transfers. Despite the lack of conclusiveness on a number of potential benefits, it is worth to
note that the project has also generated “transfers? into the economy by way of taxes and labor.
Labor transfers present value are approximately US$25 million and taxes about US$1.3 million
or 1.36 times of the IDA credit of US$ 20 million. Labor transfers include wages and social
security benefits, while taxes include income taxes.
Benefit Incidence. Although largely perception-based, the beneficiary survey (Annex 5) shows
that improved continuity of service and improved customer responsiveness seems to have
benefited low and high income households in a similar manner. Perception on the improvement
of the quality of water is, however, consistent across income groups.
Tariff Affordability. While 46 percent of households considered that the current level of the
water bill was adequate, 39 percent considered it to be “rather high? and 16 percent “very high?,

                                                   33
even if it represents only a small fraction of household budgets: (i) lower quartile: average
monthly bill AMD2,165 for a household of 4.7 people (US$5.6/month/household), or about 2.1
percent of the total monthly household spending; (ii) higher quartile: average monthly bill
AMD2,380 for a household of 2.7 people (US$6.2/month/household), i.e., only about 0.9 percent
of the total monthly spending. Considering the high level of service in Yerevan, this would
suggest that the level of tariffs is approximating the current level of willingness-to-pay of
customers. This would have implications on future tariff increases needed to cover the full cost
of service provision, which likely need to be accompanied by education campaigns and visible
additional benefits for customers.




                                              34
         Annex 4: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes
   (a) Task Team Members

             Names                      Title            Unit        Responsibility/
                                                                       Specialty
Lending
Brian Steven Smith           Sr. Financial Specialist   ECSIE      Task team lead
                             TL Since: 01/01/2000
Jonathan S. Kamkwalala       Sr. Infrastructure         ECSSD      Task team lead
                             Specialist
                             TL Since: 06/09/2006
Zaruhi Tokhmakhian           Operations Officer         ECCAR      Operational
                                                                   support
Paul Kriss                   Lead Urban Specialist      ECSSD      Operational
                                                                   support
Solvita Klapare              Environmental Economist    ECSIE      Economic/financial
                                                                   analysis
Alexander Astvatsatryan     Sr. Procurement             ECSO2      Procurement
                            Specialist
Plamen Stoyanov Kirov       Sr. Procurement             ECSPS      Procurement
                            Specialist
Arman Vatyan                Sr. Financial               ECSPS      Financial
                            Management Specialist                  management
Julian A. Lampietti         Sr. Social Development      ECSSD      Social
                            Economist
Andrina A. Ambrose-Gardiner Sr. Finance Officer         LOAG1      FM/disbursement
Rita E. Cestti              Sr. Water Resources Econ    ECSSD      Operational
                                                                   support
Junko Funahashi              Sr. Counsel                LEGEC      Legal
Lars A. V. Rasmusson         Consultant                  ECSSD     Water engineer
Milane de Jesus Reyes        Program Assistant           ECSIE     Team support
Caroline van den Berg        Senior Economist           EWDWS      Peer review
Jan G. Janssens              Program Manager            EWDWS      Peer review

Supervision/ICR

Jonathan S. Kamkwalala       Sector Manager, Water      AFTWR      Task management
                             TL Since:06/09/2006
Ahmed A.R. Eiweida           Country Sector             ECSSD      Task management
                             Coordinator
                             TL Since: 2010
Zaruhi Tokhmakhian           Operations Officer         ECSS6      Task management
                             TL Since: May 2011                    and operations
Manuel G. Marino             Lead Water and             ECSS6      Technical inputs
                             Sanitation Specialist
Lars A. V. Rasmusson         Consultant                 ECSS6      Engineer
                                           35
Alexander Astvatsatryan         Sr. Procurement                ECSO2       Procurement
                                Specialist
Arman Vatyan                    Sr. Financial                  ECSPS       Financial
                                Management Specialist                      management
Salim Benouniche                Lead Procurement              MNAPR        Procurement
                                Specialist
Ahmet Gokce                     Consultant                     ECSO2       Procurement
Garik Sergeyan                  Consultant                     ECSO3       Financial
                                                                           management
Darejan Kapanadze               Sr. Environmental              ECSS3       Environmental
                                Specialist                                 safeguards
Armine Aydinyan                 Consultant                     ECSO2       Procurement
Milane de Jesus Reyes           Program Assistant              ECSSD       Team support
Gayane Davtyan                  Program Assistant              ECSSD       Team support


   (b) Staff Time and Cost

                                               Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
       Stage of Project Cycle            No. of staff          USD Thousands (including
                                         weeks                 travel and consultant costs)
Lending
                 FY05                           19                        116.7
                                Total:          19                        116.7

Supervision/ICR
              FY06                              28                        91.75
              FY07                              22                        62.00
              FY08                              26                       191.15
              FY09                              25                        80.65
              FY10                              32                        87.90
              FY11                              22                        60.80
              FY12                              14                        56.64
                                Total:         169                       630.89




                                              36
                         Annex 5: Beneficiary Survey Results
Yerevan Water and Wastewater Project: End-line Assessment

Final report, January 24, 2012

Prepared by Advanced Social Technologies NGO for The World Bank Armenia Office




                                          37
Background

For many years the Yerevan water supply system suffered from problems associated with the
poor condition of the water and wastewater networks, limited institutional capacity, and weak
financial performance of the water utility. Over the past decade, the Government of Armenia has
strived to improve access, reliability and quality of the drinking water and its infrastructure.
While recognizing that the main reason for the poor water services was the weak management of
the available water resources, with the support of the International Development Association
(IDA) the government introduced an example of a performance-based management contract for
Yerevan in 2000, under a Municipal Development Project. Since then, private sector
participation is increasingly seen by the Armenian government as a key component of sector
reform strategies aimed at not only at improving service provision, but also as an agent of
institutional change.
To improve accessibility, reliability and quality of drinking water, IDA provided the first credit
of US$30 million to Yerevan’s water sector with Municipal Development Project (MDP) in
1998, which closed in January 2006. Recognizing the need for continued support, the
government requested another IDA credit to support the on-going Yerevan Water and
Wastewater Project (YWWP) (US$20 million), which was approved by IDA in February 2005.
The closing date was December 2011.
The current study aimed at assessing the level of achievement of the following KPIs set forth at
inception of the second phase of the project: (i) access to water and wastewater services; (ii)
duration of water supply; (iii) water quality; (iv) service quality by the utility, (v) water metering
and (vi) revenue collection. Additionally, the assignment aimed at describing the incidence of
benefits (access to water and wastewater services) among poor and non-poor households.

Methodology

The main data collection method was a representative sample survey of 400 Yerevan households
implemented in the period of 10-20 December, 2011. The sample size allowed ensuring a margin
of error of 5% at 95% confidence level.
The sample was distributed proportionally among 12 Primary Sampling Units (PSUs)
representing the administrative districts of Yerevan, and the households in each district were
selected through a random route technique. 9 In each household, the interview was conducted
with the most informed person.
The survey instrument was a structured questionnaire designed in collaboration with The World
Bank task team and pretested in one PSU. Besides measuring the current satisfaction with water
and wastewater services, the questionnaire tried to capture the respondents’ perceptions of their
possible improvement or worsening over the past five years.

9
 With no access to the actual list of households (to which, in Armenia, only the National Statistical Service has
access), geographically stratified random route sampling is the only valid substitute.

                                                         38
To measure benefit incidences among poor and non-poor households, the questionnaire included
a detailed section on household expenditures. The total monthly per capita expenditures were
then used to break down the achieved sample into quartiles, 1 representing the poorest
households. Table 1 below summarizes the data on monthly per capita spending of each of the
quartiles. Although the breakdown is based on reported expenditures, it is still believed that
estimates of expenditures are much less biased than estimates of incomes, and hence are better
proxies of household welfare.



Table 1. Expenditure quartiles based on monthly per capita spending, AMD

 Quartile     Average              Minimum             Maximum
              spending             spending            spending
 Quartile 1               21,737               8,540               30,583
 Quartile 2               38,461              30,750               45,625
 Quartile 3               53,352              45,750               63,558
 Quartile 4              100,411              64,145              443,333


When interpreting the findings it is necessary to consider, however, that while the survey was
quite representative in terms of allowing valid extrapolations to the general population, the
margin of error on quartile-level extrapolations was 10%.

Findings

Access to water and wastewater services

The survey reported that all 400 interviewed households had access to water and wastewater
services, thus suggesting that in December 2011 [close to] 100% of the households in Yerevan
were covered by the water service company (Veolia).
While 10% of the respondents reported that they were not residing in their current place of
residence 5 years ago, the remaining 90% reported that they were using centralized water
services back in 2006 as well.

Duration of water supply

The survey suggested that in the three months preceding the survey, 70% of the water users in
Yerevan had 24-hour water supply (see Chart 1).
The average duration of water supply was estimated at 20.4 hours suggesting a 4% increase as
compared to the base value of 19.6 hours in 2005.




                                              39
Chart 1. Average duration of water supply, October-December 2011

 80%                                                                            70%
 70%
 60%
 50%
 40%
 30%
 20%                                   15%
 10%                     6%                           4%            5%
          1%
  0%
       1-4 hours       5-8 hours   9-12 hours 13-16 hours 17-20 hours 21-24 hours



The survey suggested that the overall increase in the duration of water supply may have
benefited the poorest households the least, but considering the high margin of error the finding is
very tentative.

Chart 2. Average duration of water supply by quartiles (October-December 2011)

 25                                            20.9               20.9
         19.8               20.1
 20
 15
 10
  5
  0
       Quartile 1         Quartile 2         Quartile 3       Quartile 4



The majority of the respondents (61%) thought that the duration of water supply has improved as
compared to 5 years ago, every third respondent thought it remained the same (in 85% of these
cases the current duration of water supply was 24 hours), while 4% noticed a negative trend.

Chart 3. Perceived change in the duration of water supply since 2006

 40%                                         35%
 35%                        33%
           28%
 30%
 25%
 20%
 15%
 10%
  5%                                                         3%
                                                                             1%
  0%
        Improved         Somewhat      Remained the        Worsened      Significantly
       significantly     improved         same                            worsened



                                                                   40
While quantifying the actual improvement was impossible due to possible recollection bias, the
survey suggested that poorer households may have witnessed less significant improvement than
better-off households.


Chart 4. Perceived improvement in the duration of water supply since 2006 by quartiles
 50%
                 42%
 40%
                                            38%             36%
                                    34%
                                                   31%
 30%
         18%                18%                                   20%
 20%

 10%

  0%
         Quartile 1         Quartile 2      Quartile 3      Quartile 4

                 Improved significantly   Somewhat improved


Water quality

In the context of the survey, water quality was assessed through three indicators of taste, color
and smell. Considering that all categories, but especially taste, is very subjective, the respondents
were specifically asked to rate the provided water in relation to absence of unpleasant or strange
taste, rather than based on how much they like the taste.
To measure the improvement of the quality of water over since project inception, the respondents
were asked to rate the indicators now and [as best they can recall] five years ago. While the
indicators were rated separately using a 1-to-7 point rating scale (7=very good), the overall
quality was then assessed through averaging the three estimates.
As shown in Chart 5 below, the results suggested that the quality of water has somewhat
improved in all aspects.

Chart 5. Perceived improvement in the quality of water since 2006

 7

 6                              5.4                             5.3
             5.2                                5.2
 5     4.6                4.7             4.6             4.6

 4                                                                       2006
                                                                         2011
 3

 2

 1
         Taste              Color          Smell         Composite




                                                          41
While the results implied that improvement of the duration of water supply may have better
benefited the richer households, the findings regarding water quality suggested that the
improvement equally benefited poor and rich households.

Chart 6. Perceived improvement in the quality of water since 2006 by quartiles
 7

 6                                 5.4                                     5.4
                5.2                                   5.2
                             4.9                                     4.7
 5        4.5                                   4.5

 4                                                                                       2006
                                                                                         2011
 3

 2

 1
          Quartile 1         Quartile 2         Quartile 3           Quartile 4



The questionnaire included as well an indirect question regarding quality of water - inquiring
about consumption of bottled water in the household and the reasons for doing so. The fact of
consumption as such was not considered to be an indicator of bad water quality, but it may be
useful to know that over the past five years the proportion of households that often or sometimes
purchased bottled water for household consumption increased from 9% to 35%.


Chart 7. Consumption of bottled water in 2006 and in 2011

 100%                                                   91%

  80%
                                                               65%
  60%
                                                                                  2006
  40%                                                                             2011
                                          21%
  20%                  14%
                                    7%
                2%
     0%
                 Often             Sometimes                 Never



The survey established that quality related issues determined the decision to buy bottled water in
only 28% of cases (half of which attesting to respondents’ actual experience, while another half
having to do with perceptions), while the most common pattern was buying bottled water in
cases of service failures or maintenance activities (see Chart 8).



                                                                      42
Chart 8. Reasons for buying bottled water in 2011

 60%        56%

 50%

 40%

 30%

 20%                        14%           14%           14%
 10%
                                                                       2%
  0%
       Service failures   Bad water    Don't trust    Safer for    Don't have 24
                           quality      quality       children     hour supply

Water safety

In the course of 2011, as evidenced by the respondents, water borne deceases affected 1% of
Yerevan households. Prior to 2006, 1.5% of the respondents reported similar incidences,
suggesting improved bacteriological safety.
Both in 2011 and prior to project inception all respondents reported that medical treatment of the
deceases incurred additional costs [of about 35,000 AMD in 2011].

Service quality by the utility

The data suggested that 57% of the households experienced water service failures in 2011 (the
percentage excludes internal system failures for which the utility is not responsible), each of the
households reporting an average of 3 such incidents. According to the respondents’ accounts, the
utility took care of the problem in an average of 29.9 hours.


Chart 9. Average time spent by the utility on solving the issues

 45%                                      40%
 40%
 35%
 30%                                                    26%
 25%
 20%                        15%
 15%        11%
 10%                                                                   8%
  5%
  0%
         Less than 5      5-12 hours   13-24 hours   25-48 hours   More than 48
           hours                                                      hours

While the survey suggested that the poor may have benefited somewhat less than the rich when it
came to continuity of water supply and water quality, the findings allowed assuming that the
response time to service failures was rather income indifferent.

                                                          43
Chart 10. Average time spent by the utility on solving the issues by quartiles (hours)

 40.0
                                                32.0         31.2
              27.1             29.0
 30.0

 20.0

 10.0

  0.0
           Quartile 1        Quartile 2       Quartile 3   Quartile 4


The respondents have rated their satisfaction with rapid response to the failures by the utility at
an average of 5.2 on a 1-to-7 rating scale (7=very satisfied).


Chart 11. Satisfaction with rapid response by the utility
 40%
                                                           34%
 35%
 30%
                                                                        24%
 25%
                                                  19%
 20%                                                                            16%
 15%
 10%
                                      5%
  5%        1%          2%
  0%
           1-Very       2                 3         4        5           6     7-Very
        dissatisfied                                                          satisfied



Comparing these results with the respondents’ recollections regarding pre-project situation, the
survey suggested that a) the incidences of failures may have somewhat decreased (from 60% in
2006 to 57% in 2011; and b) the responsiveness of the utility has significantly increased (see
Chart 12).




                                                                 44
Chart 12. Satisfaction with rapid response by the utility in 2011 and in 2006 (mean
estimates)
 7

 6
                                       5.2
 5
               4.1
 4

 3

 2

 1
           Pre-project             Post-project

As per the survey, 46% of water users in Yerevan were aware that the utility had a hotline, and
48% of them have contacted the hotline at least once during 2011. The quality of service
received an average rating of 5.1 on a 1-to-7 point rating scale (7=very satisfied).


Water metering, tariffs and revenue collection

All 400 respondents reported to have a water meter installed in their households. The average
monthly household bill on water services was estimated at 2,308 AMD suggesting consumption
of approximately 15 m3 of water per month.
The survey suggested as well that although per capita water consumption increases with the level
of overall spending (from 460 AMD in the poorest quartile to 882 AMD in the richest quartile)
in neither case does the water bill exceed 2% of the households overall monthly per capita
spending.

Table 2. Water consumption by quartiles
                                                                           Average total   Bill on water as
                   Average                              Per capita water
                                        Average                             per capita     percent of total
Quartile        monthly bill for                         consumption
                                      household size                         monthly          per capita
                 water (AMD)                                 (AMD)
                                                                            spending           spending
Quartile 1                 2164                   4.7               460            21737                2%
Quartile 2                 2374                   4.0               594            38461                2%
Quartile 3                 2344                   3.2               733            53352                1%
Quartile 4                 2382                   2.7               882           100412                1%


Remarkably, 98% of the respondents reported to have regularly paid their monthly bills without
any delays throughout the past year.
As far as the perceptions regarding the current tariff are concerned, 46% of the respondents
thought it was adequate, and only 16% thought it was very high.


                                                        45
Chart 13. Perceptions regarding the current tariff
 50%                                         46%
 45%
                             39%
 40%
 35%
 30%
 25%
 20%        16%
 15%
 10%
  5%
  0%
          Very high       Rather high      Adequate


To better understand the motives behind criticism, we asked all respondents who thought the
tariff was very high or rather high to explain their position. Thus, the majority of these
respondents (62%) reasoned their criticism by general comments pertaining to low incomes, 25%
thought that water is “Armenia’s own natural resource? and hence should not cost that much,
while 11% considered price-quality ratio and believed the tariff to be inadequate to the level of
service.
The survey suggested that 14% of the households would be ready to pay a higher price to get
better service quality (longer duration, better quality, less failures). When asked whether they
would have been ready to do so five years ago, 16% of the respondents said yes.
Although the absolute number of respondents who expressed willingness to pay more than they
currently do was very small (only 56 respondents) and hence the estimate cannot be considered
reliable, it may be useful to know that they were ready increase their monthly spending by 34%
to buy better service (from an average of 2,300 AMD to an average of 3,090 AMD).

Water system management

The overall satisfaction with water system management in Yerevan was rated at 5.1 on a 1-to-7
point rating scale.




                                               46
Chart 14. Overall satisfaction with water system management
 35%                                                    32%         33%
 30%
 25%
                                           20%
 20%
 15%
 10%
                                                                             9%
                                  5%
  5%      2%
                        0%
  0%
       1=Very bad       2            3      4            5           6     7=Very
                                                                            good


The majority of respondents (65%) thought that water system management in Yerevan has
improved over the past 5 years, and only 6% thought the trend was negative (see Chart 15).

Chart 15. Perceived changes in water system management over the past 5 years

 50%
                               44%
 45%
 40%
 35%                                        29%
 30%
 25%        21%
 20%
 15%
 10%                                                            4%
  5%                                                                          2%
  0%
        Significantly        Improved    Remained the         Worsened    Significantly
         improved                           same                           worsened


Considering the overall improvement in the duration of water supply, water quality and service
efficiency it wasn’t surprising to find that only 30% of the respondents wanted to revert from the
current public-private partnership scheme back to state-managed services.




                                                               47
                             Annex 6: Summary of Borrower’s ICR

Background

The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) on the Yerevan Water and Wastewater Project is
submitted pursuant to the requirement of Appendix 7(1)(e) of General Conditions of the Lease
Contract, according to which the ICR should be submitted by the Lessee no later than 6 months
after the closing date of the Project - December 31, 2011.

Yerevan water and Wastewater Project (YWWP)

The Credit Agreement was signed between the Republic of Armenia and International
Development Association (World Bank) on April 15, 2005, which was ratified by the RA
National Assembly on July 8, 2005 and became effective on September 15, 2005. The amount of
the Credit with grace terms, allocated by the World Bank, was USD 20 million, and the
proportion of the RA Government participation (co-financing) – USD 2 million.
By the Yerevan Water and Wastewater Project implemented within the scope of the Agreement,
the RA Government was aimed at continuing the improvements of the Yerevan water and
wastewater services started under the previous Municipal Development Project, financed by the
World Bank, and the reforms conducted in the “Yerevan Water and Sewerage? Closed Joint-
Stock Company. For this purpose the RA Government decided to transfer the right for use of the
water systems used by the “Water and Sewage? CJSC for 10-year lease to the Operator involved
through International Bidding.

The key objective of the Yerevan Water and Wastewater Project was the provision of reliable and
constant water supply to the City of Yerevan, at the same time reducing the level of the
environmental pollution. The Project consists of two components: “YWWP Fund? and
“Technical Assistance?.

The first component in the amount of USD 18.75 million is included in the Lease Contract as
YWWP Investment Indicative Plan Fund, and the specific investments stated by the latter
directly support the objectives for the Contract implementation. By the way, the specific
investments at the expense of the YWWP Fund had been defined by the Lessee during the
Project implementation process.

The main categories and sub-categories of the YWWP Investment Indicative Plan are as follows:

A - Energy saving
A1 – Arzni Water Source: expansion of the existing gravity water supply.
A2 – Garni Water Source rehabilitation: Replacement of the old non-productive pumping station
     with a new one
A3 – Sectorization of the remaining part of the distribution network
A4 – Replacement of the old distribution networks

B - Water supply reliability improvement and operation supervision
B1 – Water transmission, Arzni Water Source. Re-routing of the water line in the areas prone to

                                              48
slide
B2 – Village networks. Reduce the number of connections made to the water lines, through
      installation of bulk meters; water reservoirs rehabilitation; replacement of the old
      distribution water lines relevant to priorities
B3 - Reservoirs rehabilitation and construction of new ones. This will be subject to analyses of
need in different sites and impact of volume of the additional water storage.
B4 – Laying of water lines for improvement of inter-connections between different zones.

C – Environmental pollution reduction
C1 – Wastewater collection; wastewater collectors, storm water chambers and pumping stations
repairs and, if necessary, expansion aimed at prevention of outflow of the uncontrolled
wastewater into the water basins.

Further, by the “Yerevan Djur? CJSC suggestion the following sub-categories, not included
previously, were included in the Investment Indicative Plan as well:
    Clause B5 – Water treatment improvement,
    Clause B6 – Replacement of the multi-apartment buildings booster pumps.

Pursuant to the Credit Agreement Annex as of 28.06.2007, the amount, allocated for the expenses
managed by the Lessee, was defined for USD 19.2 million, including the amount remained from
the Credit Advance Payment.

Secondly, the component of the Technical Assistance includes the expenditures for the Project
Financial and Technical Audit, PMU operational and other expenditures.

Lease Contract

As a result of the International Bidding organized for Lease Contract, the French Company
“Compagnie Generale des Eaux? was awarded the winner, as a company that had submitted the
most responsive Bid, significantly meeting the bid requirements and suggested the lowest
“Average Rated Tariff?, calculated on the basis of the “Base Tariffs? and “Tariff Adjustment
Factors? (billed water, inflation, exchange rate and energy value) for the whole term (10 years)
of the Lease Contract.

The Lease Contract for Water Systems within the “Yerevan Water and Sewerage? CJSC Service
Area was signed on December 14, 2005 between the Government of the Republic of Armenia
represented by the State Committee for Water Economy of the RA Territorial Administration
Ministry, French Company “Compagnie Générale des Eaux? and “Yerevan Djur? CJSC Lease
Company, established in Yerevan by “Compagnie érale des Eaux?. The Contract started on June
1, 2006 after fulfillment of the preconditions stated by the Contract.

For performance of the Services by the Lessee, all the facilities, equipment and materials under
possession of the Yerevan “Water and Sewerage? CJSC as of the Starting Date were transferred
to the Lessee in the order stated by the GOA Decree N 309-N on “Transfer of the Facilities, used
by the Yerevan “Water and Sewage? CJSC, for lease and Reorganization of the Company?, as of
February 16, 2006.

                                              49
The objective of the Lease Contract is to improve:
- Efficiency, viability and quality of the services provided to the Subscribers;
- Efficiency of the water and wastewater systems, facilities and infrastructures and the services.

The initial two years of the Contract was a period of fundamental studies of the system and
definition of directions for making more effective investments. At completion of the 2nd Contract
Year there were already undertaken reforms for the “Yerevan Djur? CJSC organizational
structure, which were focused on increase of operativeness of the system operation activities,
sectorization of the water supply distribution network and regulation of the pressures, separation
of the operation and commercial functions and clarification of powers and responsibilities of the
Company sub-divisions, optimization of the staff and formation of differentiated (according to
the work result), flexible and effective system for allocation of the salaries.
     In the 1st year, through cooperation between the Lessor and the Independent Technical
        Auditor, a “Pressure Logger Installation Plan and Water Supply Constancy Program? was
        approved and enforced, which is continuously improved. In 60 zones of the Yerevan City
        there have been installed 76 pressure loggers which ensure the registrations of duration of
        the water supply to the subscribers (based on the continuous measurements of the water
        pressures in the area under the control of each logger) and with the help of the latter
        accurate calculation of the indicator for water supply constancy (average duration of
        water supply hours during the day) in the Yerevan City. During the 5th Contract Year there
        were improved and are already in use the new water supply constancy plan, logger plan
        and the new logger maps. It will give opportunity for more dynamic response to the
        change of the logger areas caused by the water supply network changes.
     Since the 1st Contract Year it was established the Call Center with a general “1-85? phone
        number. It is accessible for the “Yerevan Djur? CJSC all clients through the fixed urban
        and cell phone numbers.
     Since the 3rd Contract Year there have been established “1-85? Call Services also in the
        two “Arevelq? and “Arevmoutq? Operation Directorates of the Company, which are in
        direct contact with the “1-85? Call Center of the Head Office, which has considerably
        increased the promptness of response to the clients calls. It was introduced the
        computerized program for response to the clients' calls, which is under continuous
        improvement. It has the opportunity for making 10 thousand individual call notifications
        to the subscribers during the water cuts.
     In the Company there operates also the Customer Service Department with its 5 Front
        Offices situated in the different districts of the City of Yerevan. The establishment of this
        entity promoted the formation of new quality relations and ensuring confidence between
        “Yerevan Djur? and the customers and prompt response to the complaints/ inquiries of
        the customers. It was introduced the system for automation of the customers complaints/
        inquiries, which is continuously improved. Due to this system the subscriber's application
        with its all package is being put into circulation, reaches the Customer Service
        Department and is being provided directly to the implementer. At the same time, the
        program allows getting information on each case, defining direct control by responsible
        persons and getting reports.
     The programs for water billing, fee collection and accounting have been improved.. Since
        February, 2010, the water supply hours are also being included in their bills, which is one

                                                 50
     of the guarantees for increase of the mutual confidence and accountability.
    Considerable achievements have been recorded especially in activities for sectorization of
     the distribution network of the City of Yerevan and improvement of the Standard for
     Water Supply Constancy due to the latter. For the 5th Contract Year, the average duration
     of the water supply hours during the day has made 21.26 hours or 88.6% of the day hours
     instead of the 82.5% as stated by the Contract which had become possible due to the
     sectorization works carried out in the distribution network, network management
     improvement, and prevention of breakdowns, leakages and illegalities. During the 6th
     Contract Year, in November 2011 this Standard has reached up to 96 % or in average 23
     hours daily.


YWW Investment Plan

The implementation of the Yerevan Water and Wastewater Project under the World Bank funding
had a significant influence for the considerable improvements in the water supply services,
recorded during the 5 years of the Lease Contract.

Taking into account the above mentioned changes made in the Credit Agreement, during the 5
Contract Years there have been implemented 101 Contracts in the amount of USD 17.4 million in
total, which are presented in the last, revised Procurement Plan (see attached).

During the 5 years of the Contract execution the following works have been carried out under the
YWWP Credit Fund.
    Construction and reconstruction of sections of D50-800 mm water lines with total length
        of 39.6 km;
    Reconstruction of sections of D200-1200 mm sewers with total length of 4.9 km;
    Reconstruction of Garni, Zovuni, Gyumush and Arzni Pumping Stations, installation of
        modern new-type pumps, construction of new captations;
    Construction and reconstruction of 57 manholes of drinking water lines;
    Construction of 12 manholes for sewers,
    Installation of 29 flow meters for Aparan-Katnaghbyur;
    Installation of 250 new-type self-regulated booster pumps in Shengavit, Erebouni,
        Kentron, Mashtots-Shahumyan, Arabkit-Zeytoun and other districts, reconstruction of
        booster pumping stations;
    Rehabilitation of Electrolamper, Lukashin and Marash DRRs;
    Implementation of works on water pressure sectorization in the distribution network,
        water lines reconstruction and booster pumping stations grouping, in particular in:
Norq-Marash Commune, Hyusis District, Nor-Norq 9th Massif and Avan-Arinj, Ajapnyak
District, Davitashen 3rd District and Futchik Street, Arabkir and Qanaqer-Zeytun Districts,
Arabkir 1st and Arabkir ½ zones, Arabkir 11 zone, Shengavit Commune, Mashtots District, 16th
District, Shahumyan, Kentron and Erebouni Districts;
    Repair of the Araratyan boreholes structures;
    Rehabilitation of Garni sources and Goghti captations, construction of Gyumoush
        captation, reconstruction of Arzni captations and sanitary zone;
    Reconstruction of chlorination stations, procurement and installation of chlorination

                                              51
     equipment;
    Replacement of air release, outlet, linear valves on all the water lines, reconstruction of
     manholes, and construction of outlets and implementation of other works included in the
     Procurement Plan.

As a result of the Project implementation, considerable achievements have been gained in the
activities on sectorization of the water supply distribution network of the Yerevan City,
improvement of the network management, prevention of breakdowns, leakages and illegalities
and, due to the latter, improvement of the Standard for Water Supply Constancy.

In comparison with the Base Year (01.05.2005 – 30.04.2006), in the Contract Year 5:
     Average duration of the daily water supply hours has increased by 8.5%;
     Water production has decreased by 6.56%, moreover, pumped water production has
      decreased by 33.3%;
     Total water loss (difference between the produced and consumed water volumes)has
      decreased by 7.65%;
     Energy consumption has decreased by 38.7%;
     Points of the sewage discharge into the water basins was decreased by 59%;
     Number of domestic subscribers with water meters has increased by 8%.

The Table on the progress of the key Performance Standards, recorded during the Yerevan Water
and Wastewater Project implementation process, is attached.

To improve the distribution network management and increase the effectiveness, wide
sectorization plans are under continuous preparation and implementation in the Company.
Valves, pressure reduction valves and flow meters are being installed in the different districts and
zones of the city. With the help of the pipe detection devices there are detected and eliminated a
number of illegal and unused connections subjected to accidents. As a result of improvement of
the water supply network, the number of zones with round-the-clock water supply increases day
by day.
The installation of the self-regulated pumps gives the opportunity for reducing the pressure of the
network in the given water supply district and, at the same time, providing round-the-clock water
supply in the multi-storey buildings. New equipments are being installed in the pumping stations,
which will work through detectors. As a result of installation of the latter, the frequency of the
accidents, the leakages and the energy cost will reduce.

However, for the purpose of increase of the sectorization results and reduction of the leakages,
additional investments are necessary for capital repair of the detected obsolete water lines,
replacement of the damaged sections and implementation of reconstruction works.

In parallel with the progress in the supplied water quality and quantity, considerable progress
was achieved also in terms of reduction of discharge of untreated wastewater into the river,
which was recorded also in the Memoir of the World Bank Interim Supervision Mission as of
March 22-26, 2010. Within the scope of the YWWP, investments of USD1.35 million are
envisaged for the sewage system in order to prevent the discharge of the uncontrolled wastewater
directly into the water basin, to connect them to the sewage system. Studies have been conducted

                                                52
by the “Yerevan Djur? specialists on the main points of the outflow of the wastewater into the
open water basins, and the factual outflow points have been recorded. During the initial 5 years
of the Lease Contract, as a result of the works carried out within the scope of the Project, the
following 10 discharges directly into the river have been prevented:
- Construction of the D200-400 mm, 265 m long sewer on Galshoyan Street;
- Construction of D200-250 mm, 375 m long sewer in the neighborhood of Myasnikyan Street;
- Reconstruction of a sewer in neighborhood of the Biochemical Institute – D 800mm, L=185 m
– from reinforced concrete, 10m – metallic ones;
- Reconstruction of a sewage underwater pipeline near the Kievyan Bridge;
- Construction of a sewer, starting from Metropol Hotel and Khorhrdaranakan Street, adjacent to
the Wine Factory, up to the Etchmidzin old highway, passing above the Hrazdan River;
- Repair of a sewer collector beneath Nzhdehi Metro and Railway Bridge;
- Reconstruction of the sewage collector L=100 m between the Buildings 35 and 37 on Nzhdeh
Street;
- Construction works of sewers (Halabyan 48);
- Connection of a sewer, flowing into the Hrazdan River, to an underwater pipeline D500mm, in
Noragyugh District;
- Reconstruction of a sewage collector near the 42 and 44 buildings on Nzhdeh Street.

The Lease Contract does not contain any target for energy consumption. However, the reduction
of the energy consumption is important for the YD commercial activity.
Though during the initial three years of the Lease Contract the reduction figures of the energy
consumption by YD were not high, however during the last two years those became noticeable.
In the 4th Contract Year the energy saving made 17.3 million kw.h (or 15%), and in the 5th Year –
25.7 million kw.h (or 26%).

A number of arrangements have been carried out aimed at the energy cost reduction. In
particular:
1. In the scope of YWWP it was reconstructed the Gyumush Pumping Station, modern new-type
pumps and other equipment installed, due to which additional 330 l/sec water is pumped into the
Yerevan water supply system. The water produced in Arararyan ¾ pumping stations was reduced
by the same volume. There were reconstructed also the captations, general area improvement
was carried out.

2. New-type pumps were installed also at Arzni water sources, as a result of which additional 330
l/sec water volume else is received, which has also given the opportunity for reduction of the
water volume received through Araratyan ¾ pumping stations.

3. The water abstraction from Araratyan Pumping Station was reduced also as a result of optimal
re-distribution of the water volumes in the Yerevan distribution network and reduction of the
leakages.

4. As a result of activities on energy consumption control and water supply network
improvement, the energy costs of the operation services and booster pumping stations have been
also reduced. In parallel with the sectorization works of the Yerevan water supply distribution
network, within the scope of the YWWP there were procured and installed 250 new-type self-

                                               53
regulated booster pumps. They give the opportunity for reducing the network pressure in the
given water supply district, at the same time ensuring 24-hour water supply.
    Standard,       Year 1         Year 2      Year 3      Year 4       Year 5
  according to
      Years
Energy            118.47 mil.   115.33     116.20 mil.   98.9 mil.     73.18 mil.
Consumption       kw.h          mil.       kw.h          kw.h          kw.h
                  or            kw.h       or            or            or
                  325 K         or         318 K         271 K         201 K
                  kw.h/day      316 K      kw.h/day      kw.h/day      kw.h/day
                                kw.h/day

The activities for the energy consumption reduction are continued. For October 2011 it made
110.97 K kw.h/day.

The unaccounted-for-water (commercial and technical losses) in the Yerevan water supply
distribution network makes more than 80% of the volume reaching the City and the villages.
However, it is worthy of note that through the private sector participation for the first time since
the beginning of the Projects it was recorded a tendency of reduction of the technical losses
percentage, that was resulted by the sectorization works and leak reduction plans, continuously
carried out in the different districts of the city,.

The leakage from the water lines, along with other circumstances, depends on the daily hours of
the water supply and the figure of the water pressure existing in the pipes. When in a certain area
the water supply hours average duration increases, the reason is either the increase of the water
supply hours or the increase of the pressure. Both factors bring to the increase of leakages in the
network that is still obsolete and in poor state. The further necessary improvement of the service
level will require new investments especially in the distribution network, as well as at the head
and booster pumping stations.

The solution of issue on operation of the water systems in 32 villages is a also a matter of
importance. Within the scope of the YWWP and the “Yerevan Djur? “Enhanced Maintenance
and Repair Program?, during the past 5 years significant works have been carried out in the
villages (about AMD 500 million and AMD 75 million respectively), the water supply constancy
in the villages is being improved at the utmost. However, in general, the service level is far from
being satisfactory. In parallel with the above mentioned, there are problems in the water supply
systems of the villages, for solution of which there is a need of significant capital investments.
Especially, there are serious problems in the villages canalization, operation of the existing
sewers and their capital repairs. The Lease Contract does not envisage provision of wastewater
services in the villages. Therefore, the issues on organization of wastewater services in the
villages and the investment sources necessary for the latter, still remain unsolved. And though
“Yerevan Djur? CJSC assists in the breakdown elimination works of the sewage networks in the
villages at the utmost, presently it is unable to carry out those works completely. While the issue
requires prompt solution both in terms of environmental protection, and healthcare. Especially
issue on canalization and wastewater existing in 4 residential areas situated on higher levels
(Garni, Aparan, Arzni and Gyumush) is also a matter of importance, which is risky for the water

                                                54
sources and water mains may bring to water pollution.

The Lessee's performance has improved also in terms of billing and collection. During the
Contract Year 5 The rate of the water fee collection has increased up to 97.9 %, compared with
84.3% as recorded for the Base Year. The highest progress of the collection rate was stated for
the domestic subscribers: from 73% in the Base Year, in the 4th Year it has reached up to 96.9%
and in the 5th Year- 96.4%.

During the past years, as a result of a number of arrangements implemented in the “Yerevan
Djur? accounting system, the latter was also improved, and the Financial Statements
International Standards system was introduced. Meantime, to ensure the above mentioned
activities, as well as to improve the accounting system, the Company introduced the accounting“
Armenian Programs?.

Problems Arisen during the Lease Contract Execution

During the past 5 years there were recorded also numerous problems, disagreements with the
Lessor, which have been discussed and solved as far as possible. In the Lease Contract there
have been made a number of amendments, which have been stated in 50 Agreements signed
between the Parties. Those amendments might be less, if a number of circumstances had been
taken into account , clearer responsibilities for the Contract Parties and clear mechanisms for
fulfillment of different functions had been stated initially. There are still many unsolved issues,
that may cause serious disagreements between the Lessor and the Lessee, which are under
negotiations and presently serve as obstacles for regular execution of the Contract. The “Yerevan
Djur? CJSC considerations on the latter are described below. We think that those will be taken
into account during the “Lease Contract? format revision and improvement.

1. A number of base data stated by the Lease Contract have insufficient technical substantiation,
in particular the “base volumes of the retail water supply? estimated by the Lessor for the 10
Contract Years, which were the figures that the Bidder had taken as basis for definition of the
base tariffs. In this connection, the low base tariffs stated by “Yerevan Djur? have caused
difficulties for the Company, which makes impossible carrying out maintenance and repair works
of necessary volume. Therefore, in the Lease Contract flexible mechanisms should be envisaged
for revision of the tariff adjustment procedures for the provided services according to years, as
for the long-term contracts it is difficult to state proper tariff at the beginning of the Contract,
being still unaware of the real state of the leased system and peculiarities existing in the sphere
of the services provision. Those should be more flexible and correspond with the specific and
unpredictable situations.

2. At the Contract starting it is necessary to check the changes of the data from those brought in
the Lessor's RFP document and placed in the Data Room, which had been taken place during the
period from the bidding starting until the contract starting (it may exceed a year), and take them
into account while stating the tariff.

3. In the preparation stage of the Bid Proposal, draw serious attention at the fact whether the
service levels stated by the Contract are appropriately substantiated (accuracy and

                                                55
trustworthiness of the base data, serving as basis for the tariff definition) and whether the
standards are realistic. For example, the base indicator (for the year preceding the Contract
starting) for the water supply constancy (average duration of the hours of the water supply to the
subscribers) had been estimated 76.7%, which had served as basis for stating the indicators for
10 years of the Lease Contract , while in reality the base indicator had been 72.3%. Thus, for not
meeting the indicator of 80.5% stated for the 2nd Year, the Lessee was fined for AMD 225
million. Further, an Agreement was signed between the Parties, by which, keeping the target of
95% stated for the 10th Year the same, the other indicators were revised and realistic ones stated
according to the Contract Years. As a result, since the 4th Contract Year “Yerevan Djur? ensures
not only the amended indicators for those years, but also exceeds the indicators initially stated
under the Contract. In order to avoid such problems, mechanisms should be envisaged in the
Lease Contract for adjustment of some unreliable “Base Data?, based on the studies made during
the initial years and experience gained, and for revision of performance standards on the basis of
the latter.

4. In the “Lease Contract? the Lessor's and the Lessee's obligations and responsibilities should be
stated more definitely. In particular, the following should be clearly stated:
- The Lessee bears the responsibility for the maintenance and repair works only for the leased
Facilities, detailing the types and volumes of the works according to different water structures;
- Those capital construction works (Facilities major repairs, networks expansion and renovation
works), the financing of which is under the Lessor's responsibility;
- The time periods and mechanisms for eliminating the consequences of emergencies and
compensating the costs for repair or replacement of the major breakdowns or significant
malfunctions (that could not be predicted by the Lessee at the moment of take-over of the
Facilities) by the Lessor.

To avoid disagreements the clear definitions of the following conceptions should be provided:
“Emergencies?, “Ad hoc reports?, “Major bursts?, “Substantial failures of the Facilities?, etc.

5. To organize the financing of the above mentioned and other prompt expenditures compensated
by the Lessor operatively and smoothly, it is reasonable to envisage by the Lease Contract a
“Special Account? (frozen amounts fund) at the Lessor, which will be replenished by annual
budgets.

6. From the Lessor's “Special Account? there may be made also other expenditures envisaged for
the   functions in relation with its responsibilities, including expenditures for land allocation for
the newly constructed objects, receipt of certificates for the property right and other similar
expenditures.

7. In the Contract, among the Lessor's responsibilities, it may be envisaged establishment of a
fund for assistance of the vulnerable households, which will improve the accessibility of the
services for all the groups of population and will make the Contract more attractive for private
sector involvement in the sphere.

8. Under the Lease Contract the Lessee undertakes only the services of the water systems that are
the property of the Lessor. However, the issue of the service of the internal water supply

                                                 56
networks that are the subscribers' property, remains unsolved. However, the studies showed that
the unaccounted-for-water (commercial and technical losses) in the internal network make 40-
50%. The network breakdowns, obstructions and outflows are risky for the population and the
buildings safety, and the subscribers have no appropriate professional entities and capabilities for
proper provision of the internal networks service. Although “Yerevan Djur? has no undertaken
the responsibility for their service under the Contract, however it is often being compelled to
spend significant amounts for the internal networks. The same is the problem with the
connections of the individual residential houses, as their length overpasses the ones that are
stated by norms, and their public section is beyond the YD responsibility. Thus the issues on the
technical operation and service of the subscribers' internal water and wastewater networks, as
well as the service, displacement, testing, repair, replacement and installation of the individual
water meters that are the property of the subscribers, should be made clear by the Lease Contract.
These services can be transferred to the Lessee against appropriate service fee. Meantime, as to
the private houses, taking into account that the water meters of the domestic subscribers are
mainly installed in their own areas that are unaffordable for the water supplier, and the fact that
the breakdowns of the water lines laying before the water meters can bring to high water losses,
the issues on bringing the water meters out of the own areas and their installation in the
separating points of the properties and construction of non-freezing manholes should be solved
as well.

It is worthy of note that because of the non-tested (overdue), low quality and already outdated
water meters, used presently, the Company loses considerable proceeds. The delay in solution of
the issue of their replacement brings to under-estimation of the billed water, which serves as a
reason of significant losses for the Company.

The arrangements on replacement of the overdue individual (apartment) water meters or bringing
the meters out of the private houses own areas, as well as other widescale arrangements can be
implemented at the expense of the involved different Credit or Grant funds.

The Lease Contract should clearly regulate also the issues on the service of the public drinking
fountains and memorial fountains, water volumes accounting and making payments, and state the
mechanisms for compensation of the expenses related to increase of the volume of non-profitable
services (in particular, storm water system).

9. The issues on compensation of the water volumes used with the purpose of firefighting, as
well as city cleaning also need for legislative regulation.

10. At the Lease Contract starting it rose a necessity for clarifying and regulating the RA
legislative framework (in connection with environmental and nature use fees, VAT and Profit
Tax), which also served as an obstacle for the regular implementation of the Company's
functions and ensuring of the envisaged indicators during the initial Contract Years.

The mechanisms for compensation of the amortized value of transfer of the property right of the
structures, works or equipment, constructed or acquired by the Lessee during the Contract
execution, to the Lessor at the Contract completion, the issues on relative Profit Tax and VAT,
should be regulated under the Lease Contract initially.

                                                57
11. In the Lease Contract there should be clarified and simplified also the activities on transfer of
the water systems existing during the Contract execution or newly constructed non-state
(commune, share, private) ones, for lease.

12. During the pre-starting stage of the Contract the technical state and the market price of the
equipment and materials to be transferred for lease should be evaluated realistically, in order to
facilitate the process of their hand-back activities easily. Although at the Lease Contract starting
it was conducted study of the facilities, however no factual inventory was made, which caused a
number of problems and likely, the hand-back activities at the completion of the Contract will
become difficult. Presently it rose a necessity for regulating at the utmost the terms of hand-back
of the facilities after the Contract completion, as well as the procedures for hand back of the
Facilities unnecessary for operation during the Contract execution.

13. The procedures for assessment of the Performance Standards envisaged by the Contract and
the ones for calculation of penalties on the basis of this assessment should be clarified, agreeing
those with the Independent Technical Auditor beforehand, as those calculations will be made by
the latter. We think that in the Contract there should be stated also fines for non-fulfillment of the
contractual obligations or other failures by the Lessor.

14. The mechanisms for the Contract re-negotiation in case of “Disruption of Economic
Equilibrium? also need clarification.

However, along with the problems and failures above, the initial 5 years of the Contract
execution had been difficult, but effective in terms of improvement of the water and wastewater
systems of the Yerevan City and services provision to the population. And, as mentioned above,
the implementation of the YWWP has considerably promoted the progress recorded.

While analyzing the above mentioned experience and results of the YWWP implementation
within the scope of the Lease Contract, assessing the importance of retaining and developing of
the progress and achievements gained by the Project, we think that the continuation of the
investment project in this stage of the Contract execution is of significant importance. It is
especially important for bringing the results of the sectorization works, currently carried out in
Yerevan, to completion, and ensuring more noticeable results in improvement of the quality of
the water supply services.




                                                 58
                                                                                             MUNICIPALITY OF
                                                                                             YEREVAN




MAYOR
~~, 0015, ~. bl'hwh, U.l'q~2ml1111: 1   Argishti str., Yerevan, 0015, Republic of Armenia. ~bn.'/tel.: (+37410) 514101, 514 200, !JIw~u'l fax:
                                           (+37410) 545 944, tl.llmuml E-mail: inbox@yerevan.am


      To: Jean-Michel Happi Country Manager World Bank Armenia Office Europe and
                                                                Central Asia Region
                                Re: Yerevan Water and Wastewater Project. IDA-4038




                   Dear Mr. Happi
 I would like to extend our gratitude to World Bank for all the support provided during implementation of the
Yerevan Water and Wastewater Project, which is a success. The success of the Project was due to the fact that
the project was well aligned with the strategic objectives of the Government and supported the key objective of
the Yerevan Water Supply and Wastewater Removal Strategy to provide constant, clean and affordable water
supply service.

The main objective of the YWWP -to provide safe and constant water supply for Yerevan while reducing
environmental pollution, improve the effectiveness, viability and quality of service to Customers, and the
performance ofthe water and wastewater facilities, was achieved.

We have reviewed the Implementation Completion Report of the Project and share the views, assessment
achievements and lessons learned from design and implementation ofthe project. We believe that project will
contribute to sustainability of the project achievements and outcomes. Yerevan Water and Wastewater Project
has greatly contributed to the water supply and sanitation system, thus serving a good example ofPPP for other
similar projects that could be implemented in Armenia and elsewhere ..

We are looking forward to further opportunities of collaboration with the World Bank.




                                                                      59
.::;.::;.0015. p. f:;pltwli, Upq.~2m~~ 1, hhu: (+374 10) 514 101,514 200, ~wpu' (+374 10) 545 944, tt·$nuw'mayor@yerevan.am


          ~wuwzluwphwJpfi f!wfilIlt     bphwfiJwfi q.pwuhfiJwq}l mfiophfi UJ.wpnfi d-wfi-U}lzht ~w1llUJllpfi
                ~wpqhI}llllWpnfi ~WlllutP
        l.wJmfinuf b.tf uhp hpw!umwq}1mmpJmfil! ~wuwZ!uwphwJpfi f!w filIltfi , lJphwfip
Qpwuwmwqwpwpuwfi h Qpwhhnwguwfi Opwqpp ppwqwfiwguwfi l!fipwgpmu gmgmpb.pwb"
w2wqgmpJwfi hWuwp: t5pwq}1Pl! hW2Illl.l1hg zfinphptl wJfi pwfip, np wJfi lWtlWqnlJfiu
hwuwlllwmwu!uwfihgtlmb" tp l.mJmummu}l l.mup.mUJ.b.mmJilJmu qwnwtlwpmpJwfi
nwquwtlwpwqwfi filllwmwqfihppu L. odulln}mqnuf tp. bp.11mu pmIJ.mpp. Qpwuwmwqwpwpuwfi L.
lIhrtmw2phpp hhnwguwfi nwquwtlwpmpJwfi hpufiwqwfi filllwmwqfihpp p.p.mqnp.btfmul!:
        lJQQt5 hpufiwqwfi filllwmwqu t lJphwfi pWIlWPP hmtfmp. mUJ.mhmlb.l wfitlmwfiq, q.mJmfi
11 tfmm~b.IP 2pwuwmwqwpwpmtf' upwdUluwfiwq utlmqb.gub.lntl ZP2wqw uP2wtlwJPP wllmnmmUl!,
pwphlwtlhl f!wdwfinlll1fihppfi mpwuwqptlIlll. munwJmpjmfifihpp npwql!, pfi~lllhu fiwL. pmp./\p.mgub.l
2Pwuwmwqwpwpuwfi h 2pwhhnwguwfi hmtfmqmp.qb.p.p., ump.pmtlnp.mtfub.p.p. Zwhwqnpb"tfmh m
qmnmtlmp.tfmh mp.l}]mhmtlb.mntJilJmul!, p.uW tfmup.h tlqmJnttf t bp.mqp.p. mtlmp.mp.u
2pmtfwmwqwp.mptfmh np.n2 gmgmhp.2ub.pP. pmpb.lmtlmtfl!:
        illUmufiwupphl hfip t5pwqpp }lpwqwfiwguwfi mtlwpmwqwfi l.wztlhmtlmpJmfil! h hmtfUlup.m
hfip fihpqwjwgtlwb" mhuwqhmfihpp. 11 b"pwqpp fiw!uwqb"mupg m ppwqnpb"mupg pWlltlwb" ~wuhpp.
fitlw6mufihpp qfiwhwmwqwfifihpp. hb.m: ~wtlwmmu hfip, np b"pwqpPl! qW2wq9p 6hnp phptlwb"
fitlw6mufihpp h wJlIl)mfipfihpp qWJmfimgtfmhl!: lJphwfip Qpwuwmwqwpwpuwfi L. Qpwhhnwguwfi
t5pwq}1Pl! tWlllhu filllwumhl t 2PwuwmwqwpwpuUlfi h 2pwhbnwguwfi hwuwqwpqp qmp.qmgtfmul!'
mpwuwqpblntl fTlb.mmqmh-Umuhmtlnp. hmtfmqnpbmqgmJilJmu lwtl oppfiwq fiuwfiwmPlll
b"pwqphppfi, npnup qwPIlll. tpfi ppwqnpb"tlhl ~wJwumwfimu qwu npht wJl tlmJpmtf:




                                                            60
