                                                                                                             97776
Armenia: Safe and Constant Water Supply in Yerevan                                                    April 14, 2011




 Enhanced Public-Private Partnership in Delivery of Water Services in
 Armenia


Overview
The quality, reliability, and efficiency of water supply services have improved dramatically for
Yerevan, the capital and largest city of Armenia. The International Development Association
(IDA) has supported the government of Armenia in providing safe and stable water supply and
reducing environmental pollution through two water and wastewater management projects.
Over 332,000 households in Yerevan have benefitted from improvements in the duration of
water supply and water quality.


Challenge                                             MULTIMEDIA
For many years the Yerevan water supply
system suffered from problems associated with
the poor condition of water and wastewater
networks, limited institutional capacity, and weak
financial performance of the water utility. Over
the past decade, the government of Armenia has
strived to improve access, reliability and quality
of the drinking water and its infrastructure.

Approach
The government of Armenia recognized that the              
main reason for the poor water services was the
weak management of the available water
resources. In 2000, with the support of the International
Development Association (IDA) under a Municipal
                                                                    More Results
Development Project, the government introduced an example
of a performance-based management contract for Yerevan.

                                                                   332,000
Since then, private sector participation is increasingly seen
by the Armenian government as a key component of sector
reform strategies aimed not only at improving service
provision, but also at facilitating institutional change. The      households in Yerevan have
                                                                   benefitted from improvements in
Yerevan Water and Wastewater Project (YWWP) builds upon            the duration of water supply and
earlier reforms and continues to strengthen Yerevan’s water        water quality between 2006 and
                                                                   2011
supply while reducing environmental pollution. The
government opted for increased private sector participation –
a lease contract for ten years.
                                                                   MORE INFORMATION
Results                                                             Municipal Development Project

The public-private approach piloted and then expanded on            Yerevan Water and Wastewater
                                                                    Project
water and sanitation has been innovative and has delivered
substantial results. YWWP is one of the pioneer projects in           Yerevan Municipality
the Europe and Central Asia Region in terms of public-
                                                                      Veolia Jur
private partnership in the water sector under lease contract
between the City of Yerevan and a private operator, Veolia.
In Yerevan, over 332,000 households (about 1.1 million
inhabitants) have benefitted from the following improvements
between June 2006 and January 2011:

       The duration of water supply with a base value of 19.6 hours, after a significant decline
       to 17.4 hours, has increased to 21.5 hours (end of project target (December 2011): 24
       hours/day).

       The number of sites for wastewater discharges has been reduced from 17 at baseline to
       8 (end of project target: 8).

       Water quality remains high, bacteriological safety increased from 93 percent at baseline
       to 98 percent (end of project target: 98 percent).

       Electricity consumption decreased from 119 gegawatt hour (GwH) at baseline to 92 GwH
       (exceeding end of project target: 94 GwH).

       New piped household water connections resulting from the project intervention – 21,373.

       Piped household water connections that are benefitting from rehabilitation works –
       26,120.

       People provided with access to improved water services – 273,000.



Bank Contribution
To improve the access, reliability and quality of drinking water, IDA provided the first credit of
US$ 30 million to Yerevan’s water sector with the Municipal Development Project (MDP) in
1998, which closed in January 2006. Recognizing the need for continued support, the
government requested another IDA credit to support the on-going Yerevan Water and
Wastewater Project (YWWP) (US$ 20 million), which was approved by IDA in February 2005.
The closing date is December 2011.

Partners
There is a strong partnership among key development partners in Armenia’s water sector. The
French government provided funding for Yerevan’s water and wastewater services, including
some investments in the Aeratsia wastewater treatment plant. Since activities to be covered
under the French loan are interrelated with investments currently taking place under the IDA
Credit and with envisaged subsequent investments, the activities are closely coordinated. The
coordination efforts bode well for future improvements of the sector.

Moving Forward
Significant investment is still needed, however, to reduce excessive amounts of unaccounted
for water, rehabilitate poor water and wastewater infrastructure, and continue institutional and
financial capacity building. The shortcomings in the system can only be remedied through a
rehabilitation of water supply systems with well established prioritizations and the adoption of
regulatory and institutional changes that introduce adequate incentives and instruments to
improve efficiency and improve the management of the supply systems and infrastructure.

Beneficiaries
In Yerevan, over 332,000 households (about 1.1 million inhabitants) have benefitted from the
water improvement measures carried out under the Project.
Aghavni is a nurse who has worked at the maternity hospital for more than 15 years: “ A few
years ago water supply at the hospital was very problematic, and the hospital would get water
for a few hours only in the morning. Nurses had to collect water in tanks to be used during the
whole day to bathe the newborns and attend to other needs. Nowadays, our hospital has a
new water supply system which functions round the clock. Now it is a pleasure to help mothers
deliver healthy babies; there are no fears that the water maybe cut off .”
