                                                                                                                   93816
                                                                                                              January 25, 2012
In Armenia: Clean, Constant Water in Yerevan
Vigen Sargsyan, Sr External Affairs Officer in the Armenia
World Bank Office, offers this story.
                                                                   Photo Gallery
One day every summer, water consumption skyrockets in
Armenia's capital Yerevan as people celebrate Christ's
Transfiguration. Starting in the morning, everyone pours water
over one another until the streets are soaked.

Aside from that one day, the rest of the year, water is treated
as a precious commodity in Armenia. It is expensive and not
always plentiful or clean enough to meet the needs of the
capital's citizens.
                                                                   Related Links
Henzel Khatchatryan, a water supply worker for almost half a
century, explains that the system was neither maintained nor       The World Bank in Armenia
modernized, yet was expected to supply a growing number of         Municipal Development Project (1998-
new apartments.                                                    2006)

                                                                   Yerevan Water and Wastewater Project
"We could not keep up with construction in the 1970's and            (2005-2011)
80's—new buildings were being built, but residents were
stuck with the old utility network. Expanding the city and
building apartments was a priority, construction of new utility systems was not," he says.

                         Neglected for decades, municipal water and wastewater systems leaked,
                         wasted and misused water. As a result, most residents only had water a few
                         hours a day. When water did come out of the tap, it was often unhealthy.

                         Armenia's government has strived over the past decade to improve access to
                         reliable and safe drinking water. Two projects, financed with $50 million in World
                         Bank funds, have made improvements in water delivery and quality, and
                         customer service.
Henzel Khatchatryan
                      "Five years ago when we were preparing to buy this 6th floor apartment, our
main concern was how long water was available," says Davit Hovsepyan.

                         "We thought we'd have problems, that there would be water only for a few
                         hours a day. But the situation has improved each year. Now, we usually have
                         an around the clock supply," he adds.

                         Now, thanks to the projects, 332,000 households in the capital have running
                         water 21 hours a day, up from six.

                         Water quality and customer service began to improve after reforms put a private
Davit Hovsepyan          company in charge of managing the utility company.

Installing water meters was a big change, and one of the first. There are now 300,000 meters covering
96% of individual and institutional water users; in 1999 there were 1,000 for the whole city. And
consumers are cooperating: collection rates have climbed to 99%.

Most of the city's pumping stations have new, efficient systems that use 40% less energy, saving
electrical costs.

Wells have been rebuilt, minimizing operating costs and water losses. Chlorination stations were
refurbished or constructed at nine water sources.

                         Yerevan's water supply is monitored in real time through a new software
                         program. The entire network of water mains and pipes can be seen on a single
                         computer screen which shows who is receiving water at any given time, and
                         where bottlenecks occur.
                        "The software program helps to identify where accidents occur," says Martin
                        Maralchyan, YerevanJur Zoning Group Manager.

Martin Maralchyan        He points to a screen: "Here, the indicator should have been 95 liters per
                         second, but it has been reduced by 10 liters. In such cases, we immediately
inform the repair and restoration department so that they can take care of the problem."

Regulatory valves and electronic recording devices help deliver water to neighborhoods based on
demand—insuring a more continuous supply. Yerevan's main reservoirs have been completely
rehabilitated and operate to full capacity, which also insures a continuous water flow.

A customer service hotline answers consumers' questions and responds to emergencies around the
clock. People report problems with water quality or meters, and water or sewage main breaks.

When investigating complaints, the water company often finds illegal connections and breaches of
operation and safety—on average 500 a month.

                        Water from 15 different pipeline junctions around the city is tested daily in a
                        laboratory renovated and equipped with World Bank support. Also, water in 27
                        reservoirs and over ten springs is tested. Any consumer complaint is
                        immediately investigated.

                        "We immediately contact the resident, dispatch the team, test and provide an
                        answer," says Sofia Asatryan, YerevanJur's Central Laboratory Director. "Praise
                        God, serious cases are seldom. Most dissatisfaction relates to the taste, but this
Sofia Asatryan          is caused by chlorination and you cannot avoid that."

Over the last ten years, the country has significantly improved the way it manages and protects its water
resources. Considerable investments are still needed, though, to reduce excessive leaking and
rehabilitate old infrastructure. Institutional and financial capacity needs more reinforcing, as well.
