Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6731-BD
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BANGLADESH
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
May 26, 1987
Transportation Division
South Asia Projects Department
This doaunent has a restrcted dtibution and may be used by recipents only in the performnwce of
thdir offlcial dutIes ts content may not otherwise be disclosed whout Wodd Ban ann



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     Bangladesh Taka (Tk)
US$ 1.0        =  Tk  30.90
SDR 1.0        *  US$ 1.306
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: METRIC
Metric                         US System
1 meter (m)                     3.2808 feet (ft)
1 square meter (I2)        u   10.764 square feet (sq.ft)
1 cubic meter (m )         =   35.315 cubic feet (cu.ft)
1 kilometer (km)           =   0.6214 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)        0.3861 square mile (sq.mi)
1 metric ton                    2,204.6 pounds (lbs)
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ACRONYAS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AADT             Annual Average Daily Traffic
ADB              Asian Development Bank
BR         =     Bangladesh Railway
ERR        =     Economic Rate of Return
GOB              Government of Bangladesh
ICB        =     International Competitive Bidding
IDA              International Development Association
IWT        =     Inland Water Transport
LCB        =     Local Competitive Bidding
MVOC       =     Motor Vehicle Operating Cost
NPV              Net Present Value
ODA              Overseas Development Administration
OPEC-Fund        OPEC Fund for International Development
PCWD             Project Civil Works Director
RHD        3     Roads and Highways Department
RMP        =     Road Master Plan
SMEC       =     Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation
SOE              Statement of Expenditure
TOR        -     Lerms of Reference
Upazilas         Local Governments
UNDP             United Nations Development Programme



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
BANULADESf
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY  ..................;..................         i
I.  INTRODUCtION 1
II.  THE TRANSPORT SECTOR  ..................                           2
Ai  The Transport System                                           2
B. The Road Subsector                                              5
C.  IDA Involvement in the Road Subsector                          9
III.  THE PROJECT ......................... ...... ....*e*              10
A.  Project History and Objectives  .......................    10
B.  Project Description  .......................... ...          11
C.  Civil Works                                ........           12
D.  Institutional Development Program                     ...    13
I.  Project Cost and Financing                                    17
F -Implementation                      ....                       19
Cs Procurement  .. .......... .   ....................    20
H* Disbursements                                                  24
I.  Reporting and Auditing                                        25
J. Environmental Impact  ....... .......... ................    25
IV.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION  *.* ....... ..... ................           26
A.  Benefits                                                      26
B* Risks                                                          29
V.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS                            29
The project was prepared on the basis of an appraisal mission in January 1987
by Jaffar Bentchikou (mission leader and Highway Engineer) and Anthony Ramuglia
(Senior Transport Economist). The economic parts of this report were prepared
by Jerry Bigosinski (Economist, Consultant). Secretarial assistance was
provided by Mrs. Margaret Carter.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offecial duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



-ii-
ANNMMCS
Annex 0.1  -  Selected Documents in the Project File       .............   32
Annex 2.1  -  Traffic Growth by Mode          .............................    33
Annex 2.2  -  RHD Road Network          ...................................    34
Annex 2.3  -  RHD Organization and Staffing         ......................    38
Annex 2.4  -  Road Construction and Maintenance Expenditures
and Financing                     ......  43
Annex 2.5  -  Comparison of Road Sector Revenues
and Expenditures ............. ;                       44
Annex 3.1  -  Terms of Reference for the Supervising Consultant ..   45
fnnex 3.2  -  Draft Terms of Reference for the Road Master
Plan Study ....................................        55
Annex 3.3  -  Agreed Road Maintenance Action Plan  .... ............    63
Annex 3.4  -  Draft Terms of Reference for the Road Materials
and Standards Study ... ..........  .................    70
Annex 3.5  -  Terms of Reference for the Domestic Construction
Industry Study 000 ....... ....................   78
Annex 3.6  -  Project Cost Estimates and Financing Plan 0000000000    84
Annex 3.7  -  Project Implementation Schedule ....................     89
Annex 4.1  -  Summary Project Benefits         ...........................    92
Annex 4.2  -  Sensitivity Test Results         ...........................    93
LAP
LIRD No. 20236



BANCLADESH
ROAD REMABILITATION AND MAINTEMANCE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMOARY
Borrower      s People's Republic of Bangladesh
Credit Amount : 8CR 78.1 million (US$ 102 million equivalent)
Term          s Standard
Project
Description   s  The project  includes Civil  'Works and  an Institutional
Development  Program:   (a)  The  Civil  Works  comprise:
(i) road rehabilitation works  on about  305 km  of roads
and bridges in the northwest of Bangladesh, which will be
split into two tranches of contracts awarded about two
years apart; (ii) deferred maintenance works on about 335
km   of  other   major  roads   in  the   northwest;  and
(iii) supervision  of   the   civil   works.    (b)   The
Institutional   Development   Program   comprises:    (i)
preparation of a Road Master Plan; (ii) implementation of
an  action  plan  for   improved  road  maintenance;  and
(iii) implementation  of an action plan to strengthen the
construction industry.
Project
Benefits
and Risks     : Roads  have deteriorated to the  extent that they require
restoration before they can be made maintainable. The
proposed  rehabilitation  and   deferred  maintenance  of
project roads will reduce vehicle operating -costs, road
maintenance costs  and  travel  times.   The  feasibility
study indicates that the economic rate of return of each
project component is 28X or more and overall exceeds 382.
The first projeet risk involves failure to maintain
project roads. It will be minimized by implementation of
the Road Maintenance Action Plan and its linkage to
disbursements on civil works.
The second project risk arises from the.linkage of second
tranche IDA disbursements with implementation of the
Institutional Daeelopment Program which may delay Civil
Works. Thip calculated risk is worth taking because it
minimizes  the   greater   risk   of   failure   of   the
Institutional Development Program. Furthermore, it has
been minimized by the design of the program which
includes a limited number of elements, all of which can
be closely monitored, and the appointment of a Project
Coordinator to oversee project implementation.
The third project risk is that of civil works failure due
to the lack of adequate engineering and management
capacity to cope with the sharp increase in overall work



-ii-
volume. This risk has been minimized by: (a) project
tranching; (b) the establishment of a special Project
Civil Works Director's Office with appropriate technical
assistance;  and  (c) training  of   RED  staff  for  the
supervision of contracted works.
Summary Pro'ect Cost Estimates a/
(US$ Million)
Estimated Costs:                           Forei8n      Local     Total
I  Civil Works                              40.6       71.2     111.7
II  Institutional Development Program         3.6        1.4       4.9
Base Cost                            44.1      72.5      116.6
Physical Contingencies                4.4        7.3      11.7
Price Contingencies                   2.7      26.7       29.3
Total Project Cost                   51.2     106.4      157.6
Financing Plan;
Organization                             Foreign      Local     Total
IDA                                        43.8       58.2     102.0
OPEC-Fund                                   3.4        4.6       8.0
ODA    b/                                   0.4        0.1       0.5
Others b/                                   3.6        1.7       5.3
Government                                   -        41.8      41.8
Total                                 51.2     106.4      157.6
a/ A total of US$28.7 million equivalent of taxes and duties are included
in local costs (US$106.4 million equivalent) and will be financed by
Government. Some totals do not add up due to rounding.
b/ Figures reflect estimated financing requirements. UNDP has been approached
for financing technical assistance elements included in "Others".



-iii-
Estimated IDA Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year
FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96
Annual         2.9    8.4   16.5   23.8   21.9   16.2    8.9    2.7    0.7
Cumulative    2.9   11.3   27.8   51.6   73.5   89.7   98.6  101.3  102.0
Economic Rate of Return:
ERR is 28% for the least attractive project component and exceeds 38% for
the overall project.
!: IBRD 20236
ASPTR
May 26, 1987



BANGLADESH
ROAD REACUILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Background.   Bangladesh's  investment  program  in  the  transport
sector as a whole, and in the road subsector in particular, has led to
imbalanced investments among transport modes and to insufficient road
investments over-emphasizing new construction of secondary and tertia'y r ads
at the cost of maintenance  of the full network.   In addition Load matei.als
are scarce and expensive and have been inefficiently used because of the poor
standards followed, inadequate supervision and the almost total lack of
compaction. As a result, recent traffic growth has damaged most of the
present primary  road network.   Its very  poor condition  requires extensive
rehabilitation to bring it to a maintainable stage.
1.02      IDA has supported  two road projects in  Bangladesh.  The first one
included construction of the Feni Bypass which had a premature pavement
failure under unexpected axle loadings soon after completion, in part due to
poor  design  and   workmanship,  and  had   to  undergo  major   repair  and
strengthening works.  The. second  one had a  difficult implementation period.
Nevertheless project  objectives  have  been  largely  met.   Meanwhile,  IDA
curtailed lending to the road subsector due to COB's lack of commitment to
maintain the  existing national  road network.   Recently, however,  COB  has
recognized the necessity for proper maintenance and has asked IDA and ADB t-
support relevant projects in different regions.
1.03      Rationale for IDA Involvement.   IDA's involvement in the subsector
has already led to a recognition of the need for proper maintenance, the
efficacy of making  contractors fully responsible  for works using  their own
equipment and materials and the consequent reduction of force account
maintenance works in favor of works by contract. IDA's proposed involvement
in this project, in collaboration with OPEC-Pund, ODA, UNDP and ADB, is
designed to foster a program of policy improvements focussed on a better
balance  between  road  construction  and   maintenance  works  and  improved
efficiency in planning auL implementation. The development of a Road Master
Plan under the present project will help prepare a suitable framework for
future road projects in Bangladesh.



-2-
II. THE TRANSPORT SSCTOR
A. The Transport System
2.01      The transport  system of Bangladesh  is defined and  constrained by
geography and climate. The extensive river systema, accounting for 5-6Z of
the area of Bangladesh, flow in a north-to-south direction wich the country
divided in half by the mighty Jamuna (Brahmaputra) River. Because of this,
east-west transport is constrained and roads and railways costly to build.
Transport is also affected by the climate which is governed by the monsoon
season (roughly six months). During that period, part of the road network
becomes intermittently flooded and impassable while the navigable portion of
inland waterways expands.   On the other  hand, increased  irrigation demands
and siltation have reduced the length of dry season navigable waterways in
recent years.
2.02       The  present  modern  transport  system  consists  of  a  recently
developed, rapidly growing but poorly maintained road network served by a
predominantly private road transport industr,-; an aged, ailing and heavily
subsidized  government-owned   railway  and   an  extensive,   resilient  and
relatively efficient inland water transport system dominated by private
carriers. The country's seaborne commerce is served by two deepwater ports
and there is also a small but growing civil aviation industry.
2.03      Transport system improvements  are a priority  consideration of the
Third Five-Year  Plan (FY86-90).   Total  transport  sector  investments  are
projected at 41.4 billion Taka (US$1,340 million) including 15.0 billion Taka
(US$485 million) of private sector investments primarily in the road and
inland water  transport industries.   Much public  sector investment  in  the
transport sector will be to complete ongoing projects and for the improvement
and maintenance of the existing facilities and equipment. Priorities for new
projects are accorded to facilities connecting Upazila headquarters to the
transport network.
2.04      While main transport objectives are generally in line with the Bank
strategy for sector development, they lack explicit policies and programs for
lowering overall transport costs and increasing efficiency of the transport
sector.  They  put too  much emphasis  on  the  rail  mode.   They  lack  the
integrated  program  of   construction,  modernization,   rehabilitation  and
maintenance that  the road  subsector needs.   The proposed  and future  Bank
transport projects in Bangladesh will seek to address these issues.
Traditional Vs. Modern Transport
2.05      Within the  transport sector,  there is  active coexistence  of the
traditional (wind, animal, man-powered) and modern (motorized) transport



-3-
modes. The traditional transport component includes such non-motorized modes
of transport as country boats, bullock carts, cycle rickshaws, bicycles and
man-pulled carts. These are labor-intensive and employ technologies which
have evolved slowly and changed little over the centuries.
2.06      The significance of  traditional transport in  the national economy
tends to be overlooked. While it is not possible or desirable to effectively
service  modern  industry,   large  scale   agriculture  and   commerce  with
traditional transport, there are still significant areas where traditional
transport can play a useful role especially in a country like Bangladesh with
its low labor costs.
2.07      According to  the most  recent estimates,  there were  some 660,000
country boats in operation in 1977 with about 40% operating commercially.
The total carrying capacity of the country boats was estimated at about
950,000 tons compared to 360,000 tons for the total (public and private)
motorized fleet.   It was  also estimated  that in  1977 there  were  510,000
bullock carts with a carrying capacity of 250,000 tons compared to a-truck
fleet with a carrying capacity of 100,000 tons. More recent (1983) estimates
of cycle rickshaws used for passenger and cargo transport place their number
at 100,000 to 150,000.
2.08      The  modern  transport  system  described  in  more  detail  below,
includes trains, motorized road vehicles, ships and aircraft and their
infrastructure. As such, it requires significant investment and considerable
funding for appropriate maintenance of both the infrastructure and equipment.
However, because of economies of scale and more intensive utilization, unit
costs of modern transport are generally significantly less than those of
traditional transport (Annex 2.1, Traffic Growth by Mode).
Rail
2.09      There are about  2,900 kms in Bangladesh's  rail network.  Of this,
some 970 kms, mostly in the western half of the country, are broad gauge and
the rest, mostly in the eastern half of the country, are meter gauge. The
meter gauge network is currently carrying 77% of the passenger-kms and 71% of
ton-kms.
2.10      Truncated as a result  of the partition and  heavily damaged in the
War of Independence, the Bangladesh Railway has never fully recovered its
earlier  predominant  position.   Commodity  traffic  cannot  be  efficiently
carried by  railwar because  of short  average  hauls,  shipping  delays  and
unreliability. Its volume declined from 3.2 million tons in 1979/80 to 2.8
million tons in 1984/85. Much of the present commodity traffic is captive
public sector freight. Passenger traffic (133 million passengers in 1984/85)
has grown only modestly despite strong GOB encouragement and continues to be
plagued by a high volume of ticketless riders. Inefficient management and



-4-
heavily subsidized cperations are other symptoms of the general malaise
characterizing the Bangladesh Railways.
Inland Water Transport
2.11       Inland  Water  Transport  (IWT)  is  the  oldest  medium  and  the
traditional long distance means of transport in Rangladesh, well suited to
its deltaic topography. There are over 8,000 km8 of navigable waterways
during the monsoon season but only 4,800 khs during the dry season.
2.12      IWT is  dominated by privately  owned, non-motorized  country boats
which, in recent years, have accounted for about 70t of its passenger and
cargo carrying capacity.   The mechanized  IVT, both  public and  private, is
relatively more important on the all-seas6n, more heavily travelled routes
between major urban and comercial centers and between them and the deep
water ports.
2.13      The  mechanized IWT  carried 5.7  million tons  of  cargo  and  141
million passengers  in 1984/85.   In recent  years, the  cargo and  passenger
traffic-has grown, respectively, at 41 and 8t annually. The growth might
have been higher had it not been for the growing competition from road
transport,  increasing  siltation  of   navigation  channels  and  inadequate
riverine port facilities.
Aviation
2.14      Civil aviation is growing but  still small and carries a negligible
portion of domestic traffic. Air transport links Dhaka, the capital, with
major cities and with several countries in Asia and Europe.
Sea Ports and Shipping
2.15      Bangladesh  has two  seaports, one  at Chittagong  in the  east and
another at Chalna  in the west.   Chittagong is the  older and larger  of the
two, handling 7.0 million tons of seaborne comerce in 1985/86. The Chalna
Port and anchorage (2.0 million tons in 1985/86) was constructed in the 1950s
to relieve the congestion at Chittagong 8nd to provide a seaport for the
western part of Bangladesh which, before indtpendence, had relied on the
Indian port of Calcutta for the movement of sea cargo, primarily jute
exports. Both ports are general cargo potts with low productivity and long
ship turnaround times. The Chittagong Port Project (Credits 1504-2 and
1247-BD) was approved May 18, 1982, to provide container facilities and
improve cargo handling operations at Chittagong.



-5-
B. The Road SubSector
The Road Network
2.16      The major road network  consists of about 6,200  kms of paved (some
one-lane only) and about 4,700 kmas of unpaved roads constructed by the Roads
and Highways  Department (RHD).   In addition,  some 133,000  kms  of  mostly
fair-weather roads,  constructed and  maintained  by  the  local  governments
(Upazilas), serve  as feeder,  farm-to-market and  tertiary roads.   Many  of
these are passable for only a few months of the year and then only by
four-wheel drive vehicles.  Even tho main roads  are cut from time to time by
monsoon floods  and many  have  inadequate  ferry  crossings  at  key  points
(Anne" 2.2, RED Road Network).
2.17      The general shortcomings of  the road network notwithstanding, road
transport has consistently increased its share of the total freight traffic
carried by motorized transport modes. From about 44Z of total ton-kms in
1977 the  road transport  share has  risen to  about 551  in 1985.   The road
network also carried  about 511 of  inter-city passenger traffic  in terms of
passenger-kms; this  figure has  varied little  over  the  last  decade,  due
largely to the competitive strength of the inland water transport which has
offset the decline in rail transport effectiveness.
2.18      Road Traffic  and Transport Industry.   The intensity  of motorized
traffic on Bangladesh roads is still relatively low despite the country's
high population  density and  limited road  network.  Average  daily  traffic
exceeds 1,000 vehicles on only 11 and is below 250 vehicles daily on 521 of
RHD roads.  Much  of the road  traffic consists of  heavier vehicles  such as
buses and truchzs which frequently travel overloaded contributing, together
with the insufficient and faulty road design, to the deterioration of the
roads and bridges.
2.19      However, road traffic  has grown rapidly in  recent years averaging
8.32 annually between 1980 and 1985, due in large part to the rising level of
economic activity, easing of restrictions on motor vehicle imports and the
expansion of motor vehicle asbembly operations in the country. Passenger
road traffic is carried almost entirely bw buses; intercity passenger car
travel is still in the embryonic stage. Most cargo traffic is carried in two
uaxle 7-ton trucks between major urban centers and between them and the sea
ports.
2.20      The road transport industry presents a mixed picture.  The trucking
industry, privately owned  and highly competitive,  operates largely  free of
restrictions on entry and tariffs and is, on the whole, profitable. While
there are no reliable motor vehicle fleet estimates in the country, the
commercial  transport  fleet  is  estimated   at  16,500  trucks.   Passenger
transport is provided by about 15,500 public and private buses and minibuses
operating on fixed routes and charging uniformly low tariffs set by the



-6-
Government. The publicly-owned passenger transport service has been steadily
losing money and is heavily subsidized, while private operators cope with the
low tariff problem by overloading and overcharging.
Road Administration
2.21      The  Roads and  Highways Department  (RED) of  the Roads  and  Road
Transport Division, Ministry of Communications, has primary responsibility
for planning, design, construction, operation and maintenance of the national
and regional highway systema. Construction of feeder roads has also been
temporarily vested with RHD until the local governments (Upazilas) are
capable of taking over this responsibility. COB has recently agreed to let
local  contractors  carry  out  road  construction  projects.   RHD  is  also
responsible for the planning, construction and maintenance of bridges,
culverts and ferry terminals, operation of ferry services, repair and
maintenance of road construction equipment and other ancillary activities.
2.22      To  fulfill these  functions, RED  is organized  into nine  "wings"
(departments). Of these, five zonal wings (Dhaka, Chittagong, Chittagong
Hill Tracts, Rajshahi and Khulna) are responsible for the planning, design,
construction and maintenance of all roads, bridges, ferries and ferry
terminals in the zone except those included in foreign-assisted projects,
which are the responsibility of a Special Projects Wing. The remaining three
wings are concerned with Administration, Planning and Development, and
Mechanical (equipment, workshops, ferries and storage). AL present, RHD is
overstaffed, bureaucratic and inefficiently organized. It lacks a proper
accounting system, formal training facilities and programs, and acceptable
levels  of  planning   and  supervising  its   activities  (Annex   2.3,  RED
Organization and Staffing).
Road Construction
2.23      From less  than 100 kms  at the end  of the  Second World  War, the
paved road  network in  Bangladesh has  expanded to  over 6,200  kms  at  the
present time. As a result, the basic national grid, except for a few gaps,
is substantially in place but has substandard pavement strengths, thicknesses
and widths (which trigger high maintenance costs and provide insufficient
capacity) and many unbridged rivers. In addition, relative to its population
density and by comparison with neighboring countries, the road network
remains underdeveloped at the secondary and tertiary level. This situation
is due to inefficient project selection procedures, poor technical standards,
inadequate supervision, an almost total lack of compaction and the high
construction cost resulting from substandard soil characteristics, periodic
flooding  and  the  scarcity  of   traditional  construction  materials.   In
addition, COB has given priority to new construction even though high
construction costs and moderate traffic volumes make some of the selected
investments premature and cost-ineffective. As a result, insufficient money
has been allocated to routine and periodic maintenance of the primary road



-7-
network which has deteriorated to the point that there is now a need for
urgent rehabilitation of many roads and bridges.
2.24      As in the case  of countries of the region  that are facing similar
problems and that are classified in Category IV of the Road Deterioration
Problem in Developing Countries (Transportation Department, February 1987),
Bangladesh needs an integrated program of construction, modernization,
rehabilitation and maintenance in the road subsector, to meet the burgeoning
demand for road transport and sustain its economic development. The donors
active in the sector are providing several key elements to such a program,
and thus compensate  for the  weaknesses of  the Third  Five-Year Development
Plan. Japan is financing (FY87 - US$35 million) a bridge across the Meghna
River and has studied another bridge at the Meghna-Gumti crossing, both on
the Dhaka-Chittagong Highway. ODA (UK) has studied and plans to finance
(FY87 - US$20 million) a country-wide bridge rehabilitation program. China
is financing (FY87 - US$35 million) a new bridge across the Buriganga River
near Dhaka.  ADB is  financing  (FY88-US$120  million)  a  Road  Improvement
Project on about 375 km of national roads in the south and a Feeder Roads
Improvement Project (FY86-US$58 million) which includes 310 km of roads in
the northern part of the country.
2.25       In  addition   to  financing  high   priority  rehabilitation  and
maintenance needs, the proposed project will also include an Institutional
Development Program which, through proposed Road Master Plan and Road
Materials and Standards Studies, will assess the relative balance of the road
subsector objectives, explicitly develop the integrated program which is now
only implicit and ensure its use in preparing future Five-Year Plans.
Maintenance
2.26      Road maintenance on  major roads is performed  by the zonal offices
of  RED.   Maintenance  of  other  ro4ds   is  the  responsibility  of  local
governments. In addition, RHD looks after some 2,003 bridges although no
standard inventory of the latter is kept and no up-to-date inventory of
condition is available.   According to recent  surveys, routine  and periodic
maintenance is generally inadequate and one-third of the existing roads and
bridges are in poor condition and urgently need repairs.
2.27      This sad state of affairs has policy, organizational, financial and
technical roots. On the policy level, GOB has long assigned low priority to
road  maintenance,   in  favor   of  new   construction   and   improvements.
Organizationally, RED lacks proper structure for effective road maintenance.
This is true  of both  the headquarters  and zonal  wing offices  and applies
especially to the planning and supervision of road maintenance activities.
Budgetary allocations for road maintenance have been woefully inadequate in
recent years, averaging less than one half of real needs. This has resulted
in substandard maintenance on some more heavily-travelled roads and bridges
and total lack of maintenance on others. Lack of adequate equipment and



-8-
spare parts has been another factor hindering efficient road maintenance
activities. This has been due, in part, to financial constraints but also to
the heterogenous nature and obsolescence of RHD's equipment pool.
2.28      The  Road Maintenance  Action Plan  (paras 3.18-3.31), another  key
element of the project's Institutional Development Program, will address
these problems.
Financing
2.29      New  investments and  improvements in  the road,  bridge and  ferry
systems absorbed 7 billion Taka (US$227 million) or 80% of available funds
during the second plan period (FY1981-85). The pace of new construction
accelerated in the most recent period averaging over 1.6 billion Taka
annually, due in part to the greater availAbility of foreign aid funds (Annex
2.4, Road Construction and Maintenance Expenditures and Financing).
2.30      Road  maintenance expenditures,  financed  from  current  revenues,
averaged under 400 million Taka per year in recent years as against an annual
need for about 900 million Taka necessary to maintain tue existing network's
conditior. As a result, the condition of major, more heavily-travelled roads
has deteriorated rapidly to a point where total rehabilitation is necessary.
It is the purpose of this project to rehabilitate the roads which have been
neglected too long and to slow down the deterioration process through
deferred maintenance elsewhere.
2.31      According to a recent Road Sector Taxes and Expenditure Study, road
sector revenues, including a concealed fuel tax (difference in petroleum
product prices between ex-refinery and world price levels), reached 3.9
billion Taka in FY 1984/85 and an estimated 5.4 billion Taka in 1986 as a
result of  a  sharp  drop  in  world  petroleum  prices.   In  recent  years,
therefore, road sector revenues have been more than sufficient to finance
adequate road sector  maintenance levels.   While, therefore.  it may  not be
necessary to raise the overall level of such user charges, there are reasons
to believe that the distribution of these charges by vehicle type may be
inequitable and need revision. Further studies will be carried out and a
Road User Charges Action Plan to realign them will be developed by GOB with
technical assistance to be provided in connection with ADB's proposed Road
Improvement Project. Agreement was reached at negotiations that GOB will
submit to IDA  by  June 30,  1989 proposals  for a  Road User  charges Action
Plan, and that satisfactory implementation of the agreed Action Plan will be
a condition  of IDA  disbursements on  the second  tranche of  rehabilitation
contracts (Annex 2.5, Comparison of Road Sector Revenues and Expenditures).
Construction Industry
2.32      The  institutional foundation  for  the  construction  industry  in
Bangladesh is  weak  or  non-existent.   The  construction  industry  is  not



-9-
officially recognized as a manufacturing industry and thus is heavily taxed.
While it is common practice to involve the private construction industry in
both road  construction and  iaintqnance work,  the form  used for  all local
contracts is long outdated and is 4 one-sided contract which gives RHD total
power over the contractor, Who is mostly  a simple purveyor of labor.  Credit
to contractors is limited and generally must be covered by mortgages of real
estate  property.   These  constraints   limit  the  ability   of  the  local
construction industry, inter alia, to participate effectively and efficiently
in the increasingly impoirtant rpad and bridge construction, rehabilitation
and maintenance work.
2.33      A Construction Industry  Study (paras 3.32-3.34), which  is part of
the  project's   Institu.ional  Development   Program,  will   address  these
constraints and establish the steps necessary to permit the development of a
strong and vital modern construction industry capable of meeting the nation's
road construction and maintenance needs.
C. IDA Involvement in the Road Subsector
2.34      A Credit  (53-PAK) for US$22.5  million to  the then  Government of
East Pakistan was approved  on June 11, 1964, to  finance construction of 129
miles of highway between Dhaka and Chittagong. Because of the Indo-Pakistan
conflict (1965),  project execution  was seriously  disrupted.   The  project
scope was revised in 1967 and again in 1970 with the credit amount remaining
the same.   Effective December 29,  1971,  disbursements  were  stopped  with
US$3.6 million disbursed mainly for consulting services. With the emergence
of Bangladesh, the credit was reallocated to 408-BD.
2.35      This  credit  (First  gighway  Project)  for  US$25.0  million  was
approved on June 29, 1973, to finance the 18-mile Feni Bypass Road, the
Sitalakhya Bridge, the Surma Bridge, and construction of the new headquarters
building for RED. The Feni Bypass was opened to traffic on July 1, 1979, but
began to deteriorate rapidly under unexpected axle loadings, in part due to
poor design and workmanship. Since the estimated rate of future pavement
deterioration would exceed the maintenance capacity of RHD, it was decided to
provide a Supplementary Credit (Credit 1301-BD) of SDR 5.6 million to repair
and strengthen the Feni Bypaps. This work was completed successfully in
December 1986.
2.36      Meanwhile,  a Second  Highway Project  (Credit 964-BD)  for US$10.0
million, was approved on December 13, 1979 to finance the 15-mile Comilla and
Chandina bypasses on the main Dhaka-Chittagong Highway this work was
completed March 31, 1987 after a difficult implementation period which
included a series of delays.
2.37      Project Completion  Reports for  the two  above projects  are being
prepared. Project objectives have been largely met. However, the following
lessons have been learned and have been taken into account in the proposed



-10-
project: (i) pavement designs should cover the possibility of substantial
increases in traffic and axle loads; (ii) modern construction standards are
difficult to follow for local contractors; and (iii) contracts should not
provide for the horizontal splitting of works but should include all works in
a given section of road in order to minimize coordination problems.
2.38      During the 1980-83  period, several other possible  projects in the
road subsector were identified but failed to materialize because of GOB's
apparent lack of commitment to improve its low construction standards and to
maintenance of its main road network.   However, as the national road network
deteriorated, it became obvious that road transport and economic development
was being hampered. Early in 1984, GOB recognized that its main roads had
deteriorated beyond the capability of RHD to restore them to satisfactory
condition and asked both IDA and ADB for assistance in rehabilitating them.
2.39      Under UNDP financing, IDA is executing agency for the Jamuna Bridge
Appraisal Study. This bridge would be the first fixed link between the two
parts of the country divided by the Jamuna River. Construction of the bridge
by 1992 is  possible and would  generate additional  road traffic  within the
northwest region and between it and the eastern half of the country,
complementing the proposed project and increasing its economic return by
feeding traffic to and from project roads and reducing total transport cost.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project History and Objectives
3.01      The  country's inadequate  road  network  is  now  in  need  of  an
integrated  program  for  construction,   modernization,  rehabilitation  and
maintenance, to meet  the burgeoning demand  for road transport.   Because of
the extent of the needs and GOB's limited absorptive capacity, the project
focusses on the major trunk roads and bridges in the northwest of Bangladesh,
%hich is an  area of food  surplus production.  A  parallel ADB  project will
simultaneously cover the most important sections of major trunk roads in the
south.
3.02      An agreement has been  reached with ADB on a  division of the roads
to be  studied and  financed ani  on a  common approach  to the  standards of
maintenance, institutional  matters and  cost recovery  issues.   On  July 5,
1985, a contract was signed with consultants Snowy Mountains Engineering
Corporation (SMEC), Australia, for feasibility and engineering studies for
the proposed project with UNDP financing (BDG/84/047, amount US$650,000) and
the Bank as executing agency. Thereafter, the UNDP financing was increased
to US$l,480,000 and the SMEC contract amended to cover a second phase, which
extended the study to include detailed engineering for road rehabilitation
work, bidding documents and procurement assistance to GOB, as well as a study



-11-
of requirements  on roads  scheduled for  deferred maintenance.   Phase 1 was
completed in May 1986 and Phase 2 is expected to be completed in June 1987.,
3.03      The rehabilitation  works will be  carried out  in two  tranche.s of
contracts and  awarded two  years apart.   This  approach  has  been  adopted
becauses (i) GOB has limited absorptive and financial capacity to implement
the project  in parallel  with other  projects in  the  sector;  (ii) skilled
manpower and construction materials are limited; ($ii) tranching will permit
the mazimum  involvement by  the local  construction iddustry;  and  (iv) the
average price per kilometer of works will be minimized.
3.04       A  larger  three-tranche  project  was  initially  considered  but
resource limitations made it prudent to limit the size and scope of the
project as now designed, and to designate the third tranche of works to a
subsequent project which would be timed to lend continuing support to the
Road Master Plan and implementation of the action plans for road maintenance
and the construction industry, which will be developed during the project now
proposed.
3.05      The project objectives are to:
(a) reduce transport cost of passengers and goodts, in particular
food-related products, by restoring the most important major trunk
reads in the northwest of Bangladesh, the main food surplus region,
to maintainable condition;
(b)   introduce   institutional  and   technical  improvements   in  the
programming of works, the administration and maintenance of the
road system and in technical standards and materials; and
(c) upgrade the capabilities of the local contracting industry to
undertake road works as an alternative to inefficient force account
works.
B. Project Description
3.06      The project includes  Civil Works and  an Institutional Development
Program.
(a) The Civil Works include:
(i) rehabilitation or reconstruction of about 305 km of roads
and bridges in the northwest of Bangladesh;
(ii) deferred maintenance works on about 335 km of other major
roads in the northweot; and



-12-
(iii) supervision of the above works and detailed engineering
studies.
(b)  The Institutional Development Program includess
(i) preparation and use of a Road Master Plan for identifying
future road investments and ranking them in terms of
economic priority;
(ii)   implementation  of   an  action  p.an   for  improved  road
maintenance; and
(iii)   preparation  and  implementation  of   an  action  plan  to
strengthen the construction industry.
C. Civil Works
Rehabilitation Works
3.07       Rehabilitation  works,  the  first  element  of  the  civil  works
component, consist of reconstruction to adequate standards, by widening of
road embankments and overlaying, widening or reconstruction of pavements and
bridges, of 224 km of N-S Nagarbari-Bogra-Rangpur Road (from Nagarbari to
Pirganj), 68 km of N-6 Kashinathpur-Rajshahi Road (from Kashinathpur to
Pabna, including 5 km of construction of the Pabna Bypass Road) and 13 km of
1-74 Paksey Perry Road.  The works will  be carried out by contracts, grouped
into two tranches (136 and  169 km respectively) of works  to start about two
years apart.
3.08      Project preparation work has shown that overlays are not economical
on most of the sections because of  the high deflection of existing pavements
which would require thick  overlays.  Pavements have been  designed in such a
way  that   contractors  may   use  either   equipment-  or   labor-intensive
technologies.   In  case  of  the  latter,  a  minimum  of  modern  equipment
(compactors and crushers in particular) is made technically necessary by the
construction standard now adopted to face higher traffic and axle loads.
Deferred Maintenance Works
3.09      The proposed project would include financing for a program of about
335 km of deferred maintenAnce (works made necessary by the backlog of
periodic maintenance) of national and regional roads of economic priority in
the Northwest.   The program  is economically  feasible and  is  a  necessary
complement to the program of rehabilitation works which, due to financing
constraints aA implementation capacity limitations, cannot be implemented
all  at  once.   This  deferred  maintenance  program  should  slow  pavement
deterioration and allow rehabilitation of the corresponding sections to be
postponed for a few years. The works will be carried out by contract



-13-
following detailed engineering by the consultant supervising the civil works
program.
Supervision
3.10      The  above works  will be  supervised by  a consultant.   The  same
consultant will also review  and, if necessary, update  bidding documents for
Tranche 2, car-y out the detailed engineering  for and supervise the deferred
maintenance works, and implement the training program of RHD staff for
planning, organizing and supervising maintenance works carried out by
contract.
3.11      The supervising  consultant will also  carry out a  revision of the
detailed engineering and bidding documents for future (the former third
tranche) reconstruction works of N-6 Pabna-Rajshahi (130 km) and N-74
Pabna-Kushtia (37 km) in order to incorporate any lessons learned from the
basically similar works of the project and from the test sections which have
been included (Annex 3.1, Terms of Reference for the Supervising Consultant).
D. Institutional Development Program
3.12      A  program of  institutional and  technical developments  has  been
prepared  and  will  be   implemented  by  RHD   with  appropriate  technical
assistance.
Road Master Plan
3.13      In  the past,  expenditures on  both new  capital  investments  and
maintenance have been inadequate and the split between them sub-optimal. In
recognition of this, GOB agreed to strengthen RED's capacity to plan, program
and budget the local and foreign resources avai.lable to the road subsector.
3.14      The  Road Master  Plan (RMP),  incorporating  the  above-identified
objectives, will result from the use of modelling tools already available in
RED and adapted to Bangladeshi conditions under the SMEC Study and the Road
Sector Development Study carried out by Kimpsax (both under UNDP financing).
The data base will be updated and extended to cover the RED road network by
additional data collection on road roughness, deflections, road inventories,
traffic  surveys,  vehicle   operating  costs   and  road   construction  and
maintenance costs. The modelling will transform population growth forecasts,
agriculture production and other economic parameter growth forecasts into
road transport demand forecasts and thus enable the consultant and RED to
define the future shape and capacity of the road network at the 10 and 20
year horizons, as well as rank the necessary investments in order of economic
priority.
3.15      GOB  will use  the  Road  Master  Plan  to  prepare  its  five-year
development plans and to identify projects to be financed in the road



-14-
subsector  with  local  and  foreign  financing.   Detailed  feasibility  and
engineering studies would then be necessary on the sections identified. This
long-term view should ensure the constant flow of investment projects that
the road subsector needs to assist the economic development of Bangladesh.
Also, as the master  plan and modelling tools  will be developed  in RHD with
adequate training of RHD staff or local consultants, its regular updating
will be facilitated (Annex 3.2, Terms of Reference for the Road Master Plan
Study).
3.16      Agreement has been reached that ADB will be the executing agency of
this technical assistance component which is expected to be financed by UNDP.
GOB, ADB and IDA will submit to each other for comment, before they are
finalized, the terms of reference (TORs), draft consultant reports and other
study outputs. Agreement was reached at negotiations that the RMP Study will
start by March 31, 1988 under TORs satisfactory to IDA, that GOB will review
its recommendations and  findings with IDA  and will take  into account IDA's
comments before finalizing them, and that its satisfactory completion wiTl be
a condition of IDA disbursements on the second tranche of rehabilitation
works contracts.
3.17      Although no explicit  agreement on the size  and composition of the
annual investment budget for the sector was  sought at this time, the project
will prepare the groundwork, which is lacking, for a more efficient
investment program. Hence, at negotiations, agreement was reached that all
investments in the road subsector will substantially follow the Road Master
Plan and economic criteria (such as NPV and ERR) and take into account the
road maintenance capacity. An understanding was also reached that once the
Road Master Plan had been finalized, it would be used as a basis for
identifying new investments in the road subsector and at least 75% of such
investments would follow the Plan.
Road Maintenance Action Plan
3.18      Following the findings and conclusions of the UNDP-financed Kampsax
Maintenance Study executed by ADB, an action plan has been proposed to
improve the  effectiveness  of  road  maintenance  operations.    While  most
actions will be implemented on a country-wide basis, some, as indicated, will
be tested on a pilot basis in the Northwest.
3.19      Agreement was reached at negotiations  on a Road Maintenance Action
Plan and that satisfactory implementation of the elements of this Action Plan
will be a condition of IDA disbursements on the Tranche 2 contracts. The
Action  Plan  will  include  in   particular  the  elements  described  below
(paras 3.20-3.31), (Annex 3.3, Road Maintenance Action Plan).



-15-
3.20      Road  Maintenance Budgets.  GOB agreed  at  negotiations  that  the
budgets for road maintenance will be increased to cover the needs shown by
the Kampsax Maintenance Study (Annex 3.3, Table 1) and that they will be used
exclusively for road maintenance expendituresp excluding any upgra-ding wrs
3.21      Maintenance by Contract.  Most road works are presently carried out
by force account or by using contracted labor. The works are in general
inefficiently organized, lack skilled workers, operators and mechanics, and
are carried out with obsolete worn-out equipment devoid of essential elements
such as pneumatic-tyred compactors which are a necessary complement to
labor-intensive technologies. Major effort and financing would be needed to
improve the quality of the force account works and workshop organization,
train the staff, and renew and complement the equipment fleet, should the
current procurement method be retained.
3.22      As  a consequence,  the Maintenance  Action  Plan  is  based  on  a
cost-effective alternative calling for contracted works, with the contractor
fully responsible for organizing the works and supplying labor, equipment and
materials. The system is to be progressively introduced for most deferred
road maintenance and some routine maintenance works.
3.23      Training.  RHD staff will be organized and trained to pian, program
and supervise the maintenance works by contract. The training program will
be implemented by the supervising consultant in the Northwest on a pilot
basis. Additional training for the remaining force account works is also
included in the Maintenance Action Plan.
3.24      Materials and Standards Study.  Road  standards currently in use by
RHD are in some cases obsolete and often lead to pavements too narrow and too
thin for  the  traffic  they  support,  motorized  and  non-motorized.   This
obviously red ces investment costs but the savings are more than offset by
increased vehicle operating costs and maintenance expenses. Good materials
are in short supply, for example, there is little river gravel or stone
outside the Sylhet region.   However, manufactured bricks and  river sand can
be found country-wide. Existing pavement standards and techniques rely
mainly on penetration macadam, grouting or brick soling, which do not require
much road-making equipment but also are not an efficient use of the scarce
road materials.
3.25      Revision  of the  road standards  has  been  initiated  during  the
pre-appraisal mission by agreement with RHD and ADB on common improved
standards to be  used under the  projects being prepared.   Furthermore, this
action will be continued by using, to the extent possible, the engineering
studies being carried out and the corresponding project works to define,
compare and test improved materials and techniques.



-16-
3.26      In  addition, under  the Road  Maintenance Action  Plan,  GOB  will
,employ consultants to carry out a Materials and Standards Study with the
following objectives:
(a)  to inventory  materials which can  be economically  and efficiently
used  in  road   construction  and   maintenance,  and   study  the
feasibility of further site investigations or development of
artificial aggregates;
(b)  to develop  pavement construction and  maintenance techniques which
would make optimal use of local materials (river boulders, bricks
and sand) and minimize transport costs;
(c)  to develop a catalog of pavement structures for Bangladesh; and
(d)  to  draft an  unified set  of  road  construction  and  maintenance
standards (geometric and other essential parameters) a4d technical
guidelines for RED staff.
(Annex 3.4, Terms of Reference for the Road Materials and Standards Study).
3.27      The start  of the Road  Materials and  Standards Study  under  TORs
satisfactory to IDA will be a conditioh of IDA disbursements on the second
tranche of rehabilitation works contracts. COB is currently seeking grant
financing for the  study.   At negotiations,  agreement was reached  that the
TORs, draft consultant reports and other study outputs will be reviewed with
IDA.
3.28      Planning and Mana_ement.  To improve planning,and management of the
maintenAnce operations,  Maintenance Planning  and Monitoring  Cells will  be
established in RHD in order to: (i) establish a road maintenance information
and management system, (ii) prepare or review annual maintenance programs and
budgets; and (iii) assist in the implementation of the annual programs and
monitor progress and quality of maintenance works.
3.29      Reorganization of RED  in the Northwest.   A limited reorganization
of RED with the available personnel will be implemented on a pilot basis in
the Northwest in order to separate maintenance activity and staff from
construction.
3.30      Revision of  the accounting  system.  GOB  will review  the present
accounting system for maintenance in order to allow a more detailed
identification of maintenance expenditures.
3.31      Equipment  Pool.  Remedial  actions to  improve the  operation  and
maintenance of RHD's equipment pool have been studied and recommendations
made in the Maintenance Study. These actions are included in the action plan
on road maintenance, although this is not a high priority activity as GOB has



-17-
agreed to put greater emphasis on using contractors to carry out priority
maintenance activities.
Construction Industry Study
3.32      It was agreed that a study of the domestic construction industry is
necessary in order to identify the changes needed to develop a more efficient
industry, to allow its members to contribute more to the economic development
of the country and to increase the benefits to Bangladesh generated by
construction  projects   being  implemented   or  prepared   through  foreign
assistance. The study will investigate thoroughly the constraints the
induatry is facing and prepare an action plan of measures for its development
by bringing to Bangladesh international practices in the industry.
3.33       Agreement  was  reached  that  the  study  would  be  designed  to
coordinate with the development of the RMP in such a way as to permit the
preparation of a major program of deferred road maintenance by contract. The
study will be carried out by consultants selected under ODA procedures and
financing.   The Ministry of Planning will sponsor the study and its start is
planned for July 1987 (Annex 3.5, Terms of Reference for the Domestic
Construction Industry).
3.34      At  negotiations, agreement  was reached  that  the  start  of  the
Construction Industry Study will be a condition of credit effectiveness of
the proposed project, the results of the .tudy and proposed action plan will
be reviewed with IDA, and satisfactory implementation of the agreed action
a!A!_ will be a condition of IDA disbursements on the contracts for the second
tranche of road rehabilitation works.
E. Project Cost and Financing
3.35      Project cost estimates are shown on the following page.  Total cost
is estimated at US$157.6 million equivalent of which 321 is foreign exchange
and 681 local cost (including 181 taxes). Cost estimates are in May 1987
prices  and  include  physical  contingencies  of   101,  as  well  as  price
contingencies of 3Z for 1987, 1% for 1988, 1989 and 1990 and 3.51 thereafter
for the foreign cost and of 101 each year for the local cost. The project
will be financed by IDA (US$102.0 million equivalent)* the OPEC Fund (US$8.0
million equivalent), ODA (US$0.5 million equivalent), and possibly UNDP
(US$5.3 million equivalent). The IDA credit will cover 791 of project costs
(net of tax) while external financing would in total cover 901 of such costs,
as is standard for IDA projects of this nature in Bangladesh. GOB will
finance US$13.1 million of local costs in addition to taxes (Annex 3.6,
Project Cost Estimates and Financing Plan).



-18-
IT.MSIIII dS6.. ..lStates
~~~~~..  a** . . . .s.  ..* ............ t .st|...... Soon.
*~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ ~ Stl                                                 iO l    3
.._.........
t. KMISIlITSTIO         IU
....................I.....                             . .... ...... ....           .. ...     ....
sansia  gIsImy No. II                   t.2ut     so   i,sta   1totat  mast'1    *t.s                as       t
S.h-Iot.S KN45ILITeTIO  nM              3.016   1,06   3.0t1    IL."1$  3440   It?".                31        Is
a. 511091I    MIA U ICtI    OiSU             t42       54    1I5      3.14     1. 131    1S.31          3          4
3. su51swtssas                                *1 , as ,tl             2.614 4,363    1.#0               Ss         I
1*-Toat l CIVIL  OlS                          1.1       .       43    II. 561  4.1II  m1jt                 35        la
IL IUSIIUTIOSlt O       nV     lliT 9R9 6        42      119    In5      1.38   *.SSS    4,510             7          4
Tot  USAtINI COstS                              2.i41   1.3t3  3.64    72,113  44.*1;i   11449               36       1
"fosiol Contiflu..                            324       13     ISO      1. 212   4.413   1165             to        to
Prtta Contein ego o                           824       82            IL 2  01.5  23I    21.311           t        3
-i;; ..; *s.... ......   ........ .. ... .* $$Xw ........   ...... ..    e*|sJ......
19445 NidtP  cOuts                              3,45 1.          4.571   L66432  11.1W   I17.615             31       IN6
Sta33 t333s3 $**333  304.83333  33333%3 33333333333333   3333*
...................................................................................................
Ivitom                          tvtiltopN           .m m                         Of
IUIIUtiUU                        rfntfriM
cteriTiN Et   - FMO AMITitiitf IRissistr VWi                        Umti  tetsI l
Am"        i   _mt i   Ant    i   Ant    i   tmt   i  &Wd                                  i    .i t                 *
NWLOAIEIST                IIa sos" I   a 0311        *S   6511tu  6031   eols   onwses
eivt NM
|. ibititatl    "Mt                                                                                                                                            u
.....................                                                                                    2.67 "          A.11                 64 4.B               I
allow        04111111  OL S              4L tM     1    LOS  0 u SS                       qfS 2                                   S    Per. ft.   Ter2al        .te 4
atimi  glow   vt   6          333333       ?33   313333       333 33           333             33333  333  33313 TO      33  33333333333333
mi           feiw a 1   to it  441        cmS  61    -.00  1-               -      -          -    -    2,64l   2        8114       4      24.3        4.601     11,
NM            ---tt ^lill1 iw 1 i   -               -1,6 -            -.061    4 nn,                                          34148 1t 1m
2. 61t1O6 i UINTItIWI ES m,634   II                            -   -           -     -             -        5 .533   ti     as"        4       1.*0      3.1 3      1  Sit
*-ToalCIsVIt                                  16o                                                     . -     1te      t    1 6        6        L  S  7 3  11S     2     4
a    cfivitn"   mm i                     ii_.  -;   -;         -;   -      *n       i       .       2-               -     Si-*               4ei        ,
L  IuS?IIUTIOfhL K118101453  P5*5                     . .                        475      a     4,342   53                -     581    4           4.023     1. "IF
...... ..............  ....... ............ ...   ... , .... .....   ...... .......   .............   .......... ............ ,_........ .... ......   ....... ...   .......   ........
fatol aita1*ut                                   11.In1             N O55     1    41       5     S. 34     3    41. 10   21   1       *t.6     100  St.118   17.        18 t on
***"3 3** *33   *3**3 3  s33  overs3e3  $3"3    ,3333 gone  3333333 on33  *3*3***3 .33   *             3 some3 33 3** 3*3*3e
.................... o*9^*...*..................................................   ..................   ...................................   .  ......................- v - -- - o* - *o



-19-
Cofinancing
3.36      The OPEC-Fund has  indicated that it will  allocate US$8 million to
the project to finance a single civil works contract in the first tranche of
rehabiliation works. The terms of the loan will be 2% interest, 1% service
charge and 17 years maturity including 5 years of grace. IDA will administer
the loan for purposc-s of procurement and disbursement.
3.37      ODA will provide  grant funds to finance  the Construction Industry
Study (US$0.5  million equivalent).   It is  expected that  UNDP  will  grant
finance the Road Master Plan Study (US$2.2 million equivalent) with ADB as
the executing agency. UNDP has also been approached to finance the Road
Materials and Standards Study (US$3.1 millibn equivalent).
F. Implementation
3.38      The project will be implemented by RHD and the Chief Engineer, RHD,
will have overall responsibility for the project.
3.39      The Civil  Works element of  the project will  be implemented  by a
Project Civil Works Director (PCWD), who will establish his office in the
Northwest and report directly to the Chief Engineer. His deputy will be the
Team Leader of he supervising consultant. His staff will be the supervising
consultant staff complemented by RHD staff seconded to the supervising
consultant.   The  PCWD   will  have   authority  to   administer  authorized
expenditures under all civil works contracts and the supervising consultant
contract, to certify the said expenditures for which the signature of his
deputy will also be required and to approve all additional work orders up to
Tk 100,000. Additional work orders above Tk 100,000 and up to 10% of the
contract amounts will be approved by the Roads and Road Transport Division of
the Ministry of Communication.
3.40      The Institutional Development  Program element of  the project will
be implemented by the Additional Chief Engineer, Special Projects, RHD, with
the exception of the Road Master Plan Study which will be implemented by the
Additional  Chief   Engineer,  Planning   and  Development,   RHD,  and   the
Construction Industry Study which will be implemented by the Ministry of
Planning.
3.41      The Additional Chief Engineer,  Special Projects, will be appointed
as Project Coordinator. The Project Coordinator will keep track of project
objectives and agreements, coordinate actions under the Civil Works and
Institutional Development Program elements when a link exists or has been
established, keep up-to-date an overall project implementation schedule,
gather data for and prepare quarterly progress reports, and keep and
administer project accounts and disbursements.



-20-
3.42      To assist in project coordination, the Project Coordinator may call
a meeting of an informal coordination comittee which will be chaired by
himself and include the Additional Chief Engineer, Planning and Development,
the Project Civil Works Director and bis deputy (the supervising consultant
team leader), the Senior Economist of Planning and Development, the Project
Director of the ADB Road Improvement Project, and the official of the
Planning Commission  responsible for  the Construction  Industry Study.   The
committee will have an advisory role only. It will discuss only issues which
concern more than one unit or one project element. It will propose solutions
to the issues discussed  o the Chief Engineer, RHD.
3.43      A reement was reached  at negotiationi. that GOB  will establish the
Pf'WD positions select a candidate from  amons the Superlntending Eni-neers on
the basis of merit, performance and experience, and send his resume to IDA by
June 30, 1987; and once IDA's "no objection" is given, GOB will appoint the
candidate to  the position  (on an  ad hoc basis  if necessary)  and initiate
action on  his promotion  to the  rank of  Additional  Chief  Engineer.   The
Official appointment of the PCWD and Project Coordinator will be conditions
of credit effectiveness.
3.44      GOB's Project Evaluation  Committee has approved  the draft Project
Proforma.  Final  approval  of  the  Project  Proforma  by  COB's   Executive
Committee  of  the  National  Economic  Council  and  effectiveness  of   the
OPEC-Fund loAn are  conditions of  credit effectiveness.   The IDA  credit is
expected to be effective by October 1, 1987. The project is expected to be
completed by December 31, 1995 and the credit to be closed by June 30, 1996
(Annex 3.7, Project Implementation Schedule).
C. Procurement
3.45       The  rehabilitation  works  will   be  procured  by  international
competitive  bidding  (ICB)  in  two   tranches,  after  prequalification  of
contractors. Each tranche is divided into small (below US$5 million) and
large contracts in a slice-and-package situation where ell contracts in the
tranche will be bid simultaneously and bidders will be allowed to bid for
individual or several contracts, except contractors prequalifled for small
contracts only.   For the  first tranche,  a general  procurement notice  was
published  in   the  Development   Business   dated   April 16,   1986,   the
prequalification dossiers from potential  contractors were received August 2,
1986 and bidding documents were distributed to prequalified contractors
January 19, 1987.
3.46      Bids for  Tranche 1 contracts  were opened  in public  on April 19,
1987. The appointed consultant carried out the bid evaluation which has been
submitted to RHD and IDA. The signature of the six contracts, e-pected by
October 1, 1987, is a condition of credit effectiveness. The start of the
works will be one month after contracts signature.



-21-
3.47      A similar procurement procedure,  including a new prequalification,
will be  followed for  Tranche 2 works.   The schedule  aims at  starting the
Tranche 2 works by October 1, 1989. The following will be conditions of IDA
disbursements on  the corresponding  contracts and  should be  completed   by
October 1, 1989:
(a) satisfactory implementation of a Road User Charges Action Plan
acceptable to IDA (para 2.31);
(b) satisfactory completion of the Road Master Plan Study (para 3.16);
(c) satisfactory implementation of the agreed Road Maintenance Action
Plan (para 3.19);
(d) the start of the Road Materials and Standards Study under TORs
satisfactory to IDA (para 3.27); and
(e) satisfactory i!plementation of the Construction Industry Action
Plan (para 3.34).
3.48      The deferred  maintenance works included  in the project  which are
small and scattered and thus are not likely to interest foreign bidders not
already installed in the country, will be procured by local competitive
bidding (LCB) following procurement procedures in accordance with IDA's
procurement guidelines.
3.49      The  supervising consultant  will  assist  GOB  in  preparation  of
bidding documents and an evaluation method acceptable to IDA for the deferred
maintenance works. GOB has agreed at negotiations to extend their use to all
maintenance works carried out by contract.
3.50      The following changes to local  procurement procedures, in order to
make them acceptable to IDA, were agreed at negotiations for the project's
deferred maintenance works:
(a) no numerical limitation will be placed on qualified firms which may
be registered except that firms of a member country or goods
mAnufactured in a member country may be excluded if, as a matter of
law  or  official   regulation,  Bangladesh   prohibits  commercial
relations with that country, provided that the Bank is satisfied
that such exclusion does not preclude effective competition for the
supply of goods or works required;
(b) prior registration of local firms may be made a condition of
qualification to bid, but unregistered eligible foreign bidders are
permitted to participate in the bidding.   The bidder to whom it is



-22-
proposed to award the contract, however, may be required to
register before award is made;
(c) any of the following forms of earnest money and/or performance
guarantee  will  be   accepted:   bid  bond   through  local  bank,
government securities, certified check, guarantee by local bank or
performance bond;
(d) all sources eligible under World Bank procurement guidelines will
be accepted as eligible source countries;
(e) prior concurrence of IDA will be obtained before rejecting all bids
and/or negotiating with bidders;
(f) any re-bidding because of lack of competition will be on a fully
open basis (not limited) and t;me for re-bidding will not be less
than 30 days;
%I) no preference of any kind will be given to any bidder;
(h) no "bracketing" (rejection of bid outside pre-established brackets)
will be used;
(i) performance security will be required of all successful bidders on
a uniform basis;
(j) all disputes will be resolved in the local courts or through
arbitration  carried   out  in   accordance  with   the  Bangladesh
Arbitration Act of 1940 by fully independent arbitrators, or a sole
arbitrator agreed between the parties and not in any way associated
with the parties to the dispute or having any responsibility for
the contract or the work thereunder;
(k) no discretionary power to waive any procurement procedure will be
given;
(1) COB will reimburse contractors for any additional costs incurred
because of Governmental  delay/non-performance as specified  in the
contract and which are not subject to dispute in accordance with
paragraph (j) above, and IDA will not be requested to reimburse
such expenses;
(m) GOB will reimburse contractors for unilateral modifications of work
and the costs related thereto; IDA may be requested to reimburse
such expenses resulting from such modifications as IDA may find
were made in tkie interest of the project or were beneficial to the
project; and



-23-
(n) a contractor's performance guarantee will apply only to the
specifi'c contract under which it was furnished and not to any other
losses unrelated to such contract.
3.51      Local  contractors will  have a  7.31 preference  for  civil  works
contracts awarded under ICB. However, in order to assess the eligibility of
domestic-foreign joint  ventures, a  questionnaire has  been included  in the
bidding documents. Its language has been specifically framed to avoid abuses
of the preference where the foreign partner would benefit more than the local
partner.
.3.52      The civil  works on some  road.sections (limited  in length  and in
number) require land acquisition for which the process has not been
completed. The detailed engineering studies have always considered an
alternative and satisfactory design which requires no land acquisition. At
negotiations, agreement was reached that if for any section, at the time of
contractor mobilization, the land acquisition process has not been completed,
the corresponding alternative design on the existing acquired land will be
adopted.
3.53      A shortlist  of six consulting  firms for the  supervision contract
has been  agreed.  Agreement  in principle  on:   (i) letter  of  invitation,
(ii) terms  of   reference,  (iii) evaluation   criteria   and   methodology,
(iv) annex of supplementary information, and (v) proposed contract, was
reached at negotiations.
3.54      Signature of the contract  for supervising consultant services will
be a condition of credit effectiveness.
3.55      Technical assistance will be procured in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines for consultants.   The appointment  of the  supervising consultant
and the negotiated contract remain to be reviewed by IDA. All procurement
decisions, the estimated costs of which exceed US$200,000, would be subject
to IDA's prior review resulting in a coverage of 90% of the total estimated
value. Procurement arrangements are summarized in the following table.



-24-
Amounts and Methods of Procurement
(US$ million)
Procurement Method    al         Total
Project
Category                     ICB       LCB     Other            Cost
1.  Rehabilitation Works             122.7      -         -              122.1
(79.7)                             (79.7)
2.  Deferred Maintenance Works         -       5.9        -               5.9
(4.2)                     (4.2)
3. Technical Assistance,
Fellowships and Training        -         -       13.2             13.2
(7.9)            (7.9)
4.  Unallocated                       13.6     0.7       1.5             15.8
(8.9)   (0.4)    (0.9)            (10.2)
136.3     6.6      14.7            157.6
(88.6)   (4.6)    (8.8)           (102.0)
=2 ===   _u=                        uawu
a/ Amounts financed by IDA are in parentheses.
H. Disbursements
3.56      In line  with the  nine-year disbursement  profile for  IDA highway
projects in South Asia, the credit is expected to be disbursed by June 1996.
The IDA credit will be disbursed on the basis of the following table (Annex
3.6, Project Cost Estimates and Financing Plan).
Allocation and Disbursement of IDA Credit
Category       Description                          Amount         z
(US$ million)
1       Rehabilitation Works                                   70
(a) Tranche I                           28.9
(b) Tranche II                          50.8
2       Deferred Maintenance Works                 4.2         70
3       Technical Assistance, Fellowships
and Training                             7.9        100
4       Unallocated                               10.2         -
Total:          102.0
-m .



-25-
3.57      No reimbursement  of less than  US$50,000 will be  made by  IDA.  A
Special Account for IDA participation will be established and maintained in
US Dollars by RED in a commercial bank. An authorized allocation of US$6.5
million (amount corresponding to about four months of disbursements) will be
disbursed from the IDA credit upon receipt of a withdrawal request at credit
effectiveness and thereafter will be regularly replenished.
3.58      All disbursements  will be  documented, except  disbursements under
local civil works contracts costing less than the equivalent of US$50,000
each which will be disbursed on Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) certified by
the PCWD and the Chief Engineer of RHD. Documentation supporting the SOEs
will  be  retained  and   made  available  for   IDA  representatives  during
supervision missions.
I. Reporting and Auditing
3.59      With  the help  of the  supervising consultant,  RHD  will  prepare
quarterly progress reports in a format and content acceptable to IDA. The
last one will be the Project Completion Report, to be issued no later than
six months after physical completion of the civil works. It will include in
particular project cost and disbursement data, general characteristics of
project execution, project benefits, the degree to which objectives were
achieved and GOB and IDA performance of their respective obligations.
3.60      An independent auditor, acceptable to  IDA, will audit annually the
project accounts and financial statements, including the special account and
disbursements on SOEs, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
acceptable to IDA.   Audit reports will  be sent  to IDA  no later  than nine
months after the end of the corresponding fiscal year.
J. Environmental Impact
3.61      The whole of the  works lie within a road  reserve which has served
the same purpose for centuries, with the exception of the Pabna Bypass.
Project roads are  in no  sense an  intrusion on  the environment.   The road
works may adversely affect the environment during the construction phase
(noise and  dust), but  there will  be no  long-term  effect.   However,  the
completed works will be a general enhancement of the environment by providing
to pedestrians a larger dry surface than the existing road during the
monsoon.



-26-
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Benefits
4.01      The project's civil works consist of a rehabilitation component and
a deferred maintenance program, both located in the northwestern region of
Bangladesh. The rehabilitation component comprises portions of the 267 km
long Highway No. 5 between Nagarbari and Saidpur, the 197 km long Highway
No. 6 between Kashinathpur and Nawabganj and the 37 km long Highway No. 74
between Khushtia and Dashuria. There are ten national and regional highways
with a total length of 386 kms included in the deferred maintenance program.
The network covered by the economic evaluation is somewhat larger than the
project's network. It includes rehabilitation and deferred maintenance of
economically feasible road sections which were defsrred to the potential
follow-up (tranche 3) project.
Traffic
4.02      Traffic on  project roads includes  both motorized  and traditional
(man- and animal-powered) vehicles. Only motorized traffic is considered in
the economic evaluation of the project. Ng traffic diversion is expected
from other roads or from other transport modes.
4.03      Traffic counts on project  roads and on other  roads in the project
area were carried out in 1985 for the rehabilitation component, and in 1986
for the deferred maintenance program.  According  to these studies, base year
Average Annual Daily Traffic (AADT) estimates for motor traffic range from
550 to 1,900 vehicles on different sections of the Highway No. 5 and from 300
to 1,450 vehicles on Highway No. 6 and are about 770 vehicles on Highway
No. 74. For the ten shorter roads included in the deferred maintenance
program, the base year daily traffic volumes ranged from 440 to 1,800
vehicles.
4.04      During  the project  period, motor  traffic  on  project  roads  is
expected to grow  at 5-10  annually.   Most of thAis  growth will  reflect the
economic and demographic growth of the northwestern region and would occur
with or without the project. However, for all road sections, some more than
others, generated  traffic, induced  by lower  transport costs,  is a  factor
contributing to the projected traffic growth.
4.05      Separate  traffic and  commodity forecasts  have been  prepared for
trucks carrying agricultural products and for trucks bringing in general
freight, for passenger vehicles and for all other vehicles (auto rickshaws,
tankers,  semi-trailers   and  tractors).    The   truck   traffic   carrying
agricultural products from farms to the markets and from markets to the ports
will be  determined by  the agricultural  production forecasts.   The  trucks
bringing in general freight are forecast to grow at the same rate as truck



-27-
registrations generally.   The growth  of the  passenger motor  traffic  will
respond to the increased access to motor vehicles and to socio-economic
growth factors. Other motor traffic is projected to grow as a constant share
of all traffic. As motor traffic flows and volumes have been studied on a
network basis, different traffic growth rates have been obtained throughout
the road network in the project area.
-Benefits
4.06      The project  quantifiable economic  benefits include  motor vehicle
operating cost savings, road maintenance cost savings and passenger time
savings.  Each of these benefits is briefly discussed below.
4.07      Motor Vehicle Operating  Cost (MVOC) Savings (85X  of total project
benefits). The MVOC savings have been estimated by computing operating costs
with and without the project, taking into account project-induced changes in
both the surface condition and vehicle travel speeds. Full MVOC savings have
been applied to the projected normal traffic growth; for generated traffic
MVOC savings have  been reduced to  reflect the fact  that this  traffic flow
would not have materialized without the project.
4.08      Road Maintenance Cost Savings (42 of total project benefits).  Road
maintenance costs have been estimated for all road links in the network
system with and without the project. As expected, maintenance cost savings
on project roads have been partly offset by increased costs due to higher
generated traffic flows on unimproved non-project roads.
4.09      Passenger Time Savings  (112 of total project  benefits) consist of
travel time savings for passenger vehicle occupants, 822 of whom are bus
passengers. Most passenger travel in the area is closely linked with the
economic and social activity of the region. Because of this, full travei
time benefits, estimated at 2-3 Taka per passenger hour, have been assumed
for all public and private passenger transport.
4.10      Summary Project Benefits.  The value of individual project benefits
is shown in Annex 4.1, Summary Project Benefits, which also gives the summary
of benefits by major project components and the aggregate value of benefits
for the project as a whole. The total value of benefits resulting from the
project, is 42.9 billion Taka.
4.11      Intended Beneficiaries.   The primary beneficiaries  of the project
are  the  users   and  providers  of   road  transport.   The   project  will
substantially  reduce  the  time  and  cost   of  passenger  travel  for  the
predominantly public  transport users.   Lower vehicle  operating  costs  for
commercial transport will translate, through competition in the privately
owned trucking industry, into the lower delivered costs of inputs and
products  of  this  important  agricultural   surplus  area.   Other  project



-28-
beneficiaries include vehicle owners and operators and GOB through reduced
maintenamce expenditures on project roads.
ProJect Evaluation
4.12      The economic  feasibility of the  project and its  major components
have been measured, using the economic rate of return (ERR) and the net
present value (NPV) method. The useful life of the project was estimated at
20  and  10   years  for  the   rehabilitation  and   maintenance  components
respectively. No residual values were expected to materialize at the end of
the project. The results of this analysis are shown below:
Economic Evaluation Parameters
Project Component            ERR              NPV (15)
________________              X              Million   Taka
Rehabilitation                32                3,403
Highway No. 5              34                2,161
Highway No. 6              30                1,023
Highway No. 74             28                  159
Maintenance                  119                 1,752
Total Project                 38                4,728
* Totals do not add up because of differences in starting dates.
The whole project has  an ERR of 38%.   The ERRs for  the road rehabilitation
and maintenance components are 321 and over 50 respectively. The NPV of all
project components remains  positive at  15Z rate  of discount.   The results
indicate that all projects are economically justifiable and eligible for IDA
financing.
4.13      The project evaluation  presented in this report  does not consider
the impact on project roads of the proposed Jamuna Bridge. If the bridge is
constructed, additional traffic will use project roads benefitting from the
proposed road improvements.
Sensitivity Analysis
4.14      The key variables  employed in the economic  evaluation were tested
for the effects of alternate values on the economic feasibility of the
project. Specifically, it was assumed that project costs would increase by
201 and that there would be no passenger time benefits.



-29-
4.15      The  effects of  these changes  on the  basic  economic  evaluation
parameters are summarized in Annex 4.2, Sensitivity Test Results. It will be
noted that although the ERR of the project in the worst case is reduced to
251 for the rehabilitation component, it is still over 501 for the
maintenance component and the project remains economically sound.
8. Risks
4.16      The first  project risk is  that GOB may  fail to  maintain project
roads. This would reduce their useful life and increase MNVOC. The project
minimizes this risk  by including in  the Institutional  Development Program,
the Road Maintenance Action Plan which provides solutions to the most
important financial, organizational and technical road maintenance issues and
by linking its implementation to disbursements on civil works.
4.17      The second project  risk arises from the  linkage of second tranche
IDA disbursements with implementation of the Institutional Development
Program which may  delay Civil Works.   This calculated risk  is worth taking
because it minimizes the greater risk of failure of the Institutional
Development Program. Furthermore, it has been minimized by the design of the
program which includes a limited number of elements, all of which can be
closely monitored, and the appointment of a Project Coordinator to oversee
project implementation.
4.18      The third project  risk is that of  civil works failure  due to the
lack of adequate engineering and management capacity to cope with the sharp
increase  in  overall  work  volume.   This   risk  has  been  minimized  by:
(a) project tranching; (b) the establishment of a special Project Civil Works
Director's Office with appropriate technical assistance; and (c) training of
RHD staff for the supervision of contracted works.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Agreements Reached at Negotiations
5.01      The following agreements were reached or confirmed at negotiations:
(a) that GOB will submit to IDA by June 30, 1989, proposals for a Road
User Charges Action Plan (para 2.31);
(b) that the Road Master Plan Study will start by March 31, 1988 under
TORs satisfactory to IDA, that GOB will review its recommendations
and findings with IDA and will take into account IDA's comments
before finalizing them (para 3.16);



-30-
(c) that all future investments in the road subsector will substan-
tially follow the Road Master Plan and economic criteria and take
into account the road maintenance capacity (para 3.17);
(d) a Road Maintenance Action Plan acceptable to IDA (para 3.19);
(e) that the budgets for road maintenance will be increased to cover
the needs shown by the Kampsax Maintenance Study (Annex 3.3, Table
1) and that they will be used exclusively for road maintenance
expenditures, excluding any upgrading works (para 3.20);
(f) that for the Road Materials and Standard3 Study draft consultant
reports  and  other  study  outputs   will  be  reviewed  with  IDA
(para 3.27);
(g) that the results of the Construction Industry Study and proposed
action plan will be reviewed and agreed with IDA (para 3.34);
(h) that GOB will establish the PCWD position, select a candidate from
among the Superintending Engineers on the basis of merit, perfor-
mance and experience, and send his resume to IDA by June 30, 1387;
and once IDA's "no  objection" is given, GOB  will appoint the can-
didate to the position (on an ad hoc .basis if necessary) and
initiate action on his promotion to the rank of Additional Chief
Engineer (para 3.43);
(i) that the project's bidding documents and evaluation methodology for
deferred maintenance works will be extended to all maintenance
works carried out by contract (para 3.49);
(j) that changes to local procurement procedures for the project's
deferred maintenance works carried out by contract, listed in
para 3.50, will be made in order to make them acceptable to IDA;
and
(k) that at the time of contractor mobilization, if the land acquisi-
tion process has not been completed for any section of civil works,
the corresonding alternative design on the existing acquired land
will be be adopted (para 3.52).
Actions Required by Credit Effectiveness
5.02      The  following are  conditions of  credit effectiveness;  they  are
expected to be completed by October 1, 1987:
(a) the start of the Construction Industry Study (para 3.34);



-31-
(b) the official appointment of the PCWD and Project Coordinator
(para 3.43);
(c) the final approval by GOB of the Project. Proforma (para 3.44);
(d) the effectiveness of the OPEC-Fund loan (para 3.44);
(e) the signature of the six Tranche 1 rehabilitation contracts
(para 3.46); and
(f) the signature of the contract for supervising consultant services
(para 3.54).
Conditions of Disbursement on Tran;he 2 Contracts
5.03      The  following will  be conditions  of  IDA  disbursements  on  the
Tranche 2 rehabilitation contracts; they are expected to be completed by
October 1 1989 (para 3.47):
(a) satisfactory implementation of a Road User Charges Action Plan
acceptable to IDA (para 2.31);
(b) satisfactory completion of the Road Master Plan Study (para 3.16);
(c) satisfactory implementation of the agreed Road Maintenance Action
Plan (para 3.19);
(d)  start  of  the  Road  Materials  and  Standards  Study  under  TORs
satisfactory to IDA (para 3.27); and
(e) satisfactory implementation of the Construction Industry Action
Plan (para 3.34)..
5.04      Based on the foregoing agreements, the proposed project constitutes
a suitable basis for an IDA credit of US$102 million equivalent to GOB.
ASPTR
May 26, 1987



-32-
Annex 0.1
BANGLADESH
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Selected Documents in the Project File
1. Terms of Reference for Rehabilitation and Maintenance, Phase I and II,
ASPTR, November 1985.
2. Inception Report, Consultancy Services for Road Rehabilitation and
Maintenance Study, SMEC/EPC, November 1985.
3. Draft Final Report, Consultancy Services for Road Rehabilitation and
Maintenance Study, SMECt May 1986.
4. Phase 1 Final Report, Consultancy Services for Supervision, SMEC/EPC,
May 1986.
5.  Phase 2 Draft Report on Road Maintenance, SMEC/EPC, November 1986.
6. Prequalification of Contracts for Road and Bridge Works in Northwest
angladesh.
7. Prequalification Questionnaire, Government of Bangladesh, July 1986.
8. Report on Consultancy Services for Evaluation and Recommendation for
the Prequalification of Contractors, SNEC, August 1986.
9. Interim Report - Phase 2, Consultancy Services for Construction
Supervision, SMEC/EPC, November 1986.
10. Prequalification of Contractors, Roads Division, 1986.
11. Prequalification of Firms for C nstruction Supervision, Roads Division,
1986
12. Tender for Civil Works, Corrigendum No. 1 to Contracts Nos. 1/1, 1/2,
1/5 and 1/6, SNEC, 1986.
13.  General Addendum No. 1, SMEC, 1987.
14. Full Set of Bid Documents, Contract 1/2, and Selected Bid Documents,
Contracts 1/1, 1/3, 1/4, 1/S, 1/6, SNEC, 1987



-33-
Annex 2.1
BANGLADESH
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Traffic Growth by Mode
(M llion)
Ton-Kilometers             Passenger Kilometers
Year               Road    Rail       IWT         Road    Rail       IWT
1976/77             1,370     712    1,026         8,953   5,160   3,646
1977/78             1,489     786    1,163          9,566   5,606   3,896
1978/79             1,618     838    1,178        10,220   5,956   4,164
1979/80             1,759     855    1,201         10,918   6,555   4,314
1980/81             1,912     787    1,180        11,665   6,780   4,530
1981/82             2,037     845    1,291         12,516   7,086   5,314
1982/83             2,169     814    1,319         13,429   7,436   5,605
1983/84             2,310     779    1,345        14,409   7,982   5,896
1984/85             2,460     748    1,381        15,460   8,428   6,203
Z   Distribution
Ton-Kilometers          Passenger Kilometers
Year               Road    Rail       1w?T     Road    Rail      1W?
1976/77               44      23        33        50       29       21
1977/78               43      23        34        50       29       21
1978/79               45      23        32        50       29       21
1979/80               46      22        31        50       30       20
1980/81               49      20        31        51       29       20
1981/82               49      20        31        S0       29       21
1982/83               50      19        31        51       28       21
i983/84               52      18        30        51       28       21
1984/85               54      16        30        51       28       21
Source; Bangladesh Intermodal Transport Study
ASPTR
April 7, 1987



-34-
Annex 2.2
Page I of 4
BANGLADESH
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE REPORT
RED Road Network
Table 1:   Classification of Roads under RHD
Category of Roads                               Definition
1.  National Highways             Highways connecting national capital with
different divisional and old district
headquarters, port cities and international
highways.
2.  Regional Highways             Highways connecting different regions and
new district headquarters not connected by
national highways..
3.  Feeder Roads                  Roads connecting important growth centers
(Type A)                     and places of socio-sconomic importance
(other than Upazila headquarters) with
the paved road system.
4.  Upasila Connecting Roads      Roads connecting Upazila headquarters with
(Type A)                     the nearest paved road system.
Source: Senior Economist, RHD.
December 1986



-35-
Annex 2.2
Page 2 of 4
4                                     -B~~~~~~~~~~~ANCLADBES
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE REPORT
Table 2:  RED Road Network as oan June 30, 1985
--Type of Road--                (Length in miles)
Asphalt     Brick
and         paved or
Category of Road     cement      partly    Gravel    Earthern  Track    Total
concrete    paved      road       road              Length
road        road
3           1. National Highways      1,665.41      24.40     5.00      34.87    22.50   1,752.18
2.  Regional Highways      667.52       53.79     4.00      25.71    12.50     763.52
3. Feeder Roads             800.20     313.83   132.50     479.51    43.60   1,769.64
4. Upasila Connecting
Roads                 728.64     675.62    23.75     811.21   253.65   2,492.87
3,861.77   I,067.64   165.25   1,351.30   332.25   6X?78.21
Source: Senior Economist RED
December 1986



-36-
Anne" 2.2
Page 3 of 4
ROAD RIHABILITATIOW  MID NAITMT3hNCE RPORT
Table 3t Zonal Distribution of LenRth as Per Type of Roads under RID
(As on June 30, 1985)
-TypY" of Road              (Length in miles)
Asphalt     Brick
and         paved or
Name of Zone            cement       partly    Gravel    Earthern   Track    Total
concrete    paved       road        road              Length
roads       road
1.  Dhaka                      727.36       264.92    66.25    293.94        -      1,352.47
2.  Chittagong               1,076.83       168.95    69.00    355.61       88.10   1,758.48
3.  Chittagong Hill Tracts    124.65         79.22    11.00    118.61    104.32       437.80
4.  Rajshahi                 1,109.25       304.25   304.25    267.57       15.00   1,696.07
5. Khulna                      823.68       250.30    19.00    315.57    124.83   1,533.38
Total       3,861.77    1,067.64   165.25  1,351.30    332.25   6,778.21
Percentage          56.97z      15.752    2.44Z    19.942       4.90S      lOO1
Sources Senior Economist RHD
December 1986



-37-
Annex 2.2
Page 4 of 4
BANGLADESH
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE REPORT
Table 4s Lengthof RED's Paved Roads by Categories and Pavement Width
(As on June 30, 1985)
Mileage of Paved Roads as Per Pavement Width
Below                                 Over
Category of Roads       12'     12'  13'-17'  18'   22'      22'    Total
1.    National Highways       281     197    21      727   394     46      1666
2.    Regional Highways       113     184    28      325    16      1       667
3.   Feeder Roads             151     421    42      174     5      7       800
4.    Upazila Connecting
Roads                328      371     5      23      2      -      729
Total   873   1,173    96   1,249   417      54    3,862
Percentage 22.60   30.37  2.49   32.34 10.80   1.40   100.00
Sources Senior Economist RED
Dscember 1986



-38-
Annex 2.3
Page I of 5
BANGLADESH
ROAD REBABILITAtION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
RHD Organization and Staffing
*       ~~Organization
1.      Since independence there has been  a strong political thrust directed
towards increasing the length of roads and consequently the principal highway
agency, Roads and Highways Department (RED),  has devoted most of its efforts
towards  new  construction   or  improvement  projects   and  little  towards
maintenance.   The  organizational  structure  of  RHD  is  directed  towards
a          planning, design and execution of new projects.  Thera are virtually no staff
whose duties are specifically tied to road maintenance, and with a weak cost
accounting. system  it   is  difficult  to   discover  real   expenditure  on
maintenAnce. RED is responsible for planning, constructing and maintaining a
network of roads and bridges in Bangladesh which is currently 6,900
kilometers long.   The Department  is  responsible  to  the  Roads  and  Road
Transport Division of the Ministry of Communications. RED is divided into
nine Wings.   These include  five territorial  wings called  zones, based  in
Dhaka, Chittagong, Chittagong  Hill Tracts, Rajshahi  and Khulna.   The other
four wings are Administration, Mechanical, Planning and Developent, and
Special Projects. The five zones are responsible for both construction and
maintenance.  The five  zones are divided  into nine circles  which are split
into divisions and subdivisions again on a territorial basis for work
execution. There are also circles and divisions for planning and design.
The structure of the organization is shown in Tables 1 and 2.
2perational Divisions
2.      The five  operational wings, called  zones, are responsible  for road
maintenance of all RED roads. Within the zones, the responsibility for
planning  and  execution  of  road   maintenance  rests  with  the  division.
Including three recently created divisions, there are thirty-five divisions
with territorial responsibilities. The size of these divisions and the
length of  road for  which they  are responsible  varies  considerably.   The
divisions are also responsible for the operation of ferries and maintenance
of ferry terminals and for construction and improvement of roads.  As well as
civil works, the division controls a first line workshop which is normally
under  the  charge  of   one  of  the   Subdivisional  Engineers.   Executive
responsibility for road maintenance lies with the thirty-five divisions, each
headed by an Executive Engineer. These divisions are also responsible for
construction,  and  at  present   there  is  no   separate  road  maintenance



-39-
Annex 2.3
Page 2 of 5
organization. There is no overall planning of road maintenance or monitoring
of work done.
Staffing
3.      The authorized establisment of RHD is 9,862 staff, comprising 1' chief
engineer, 8 additional chief engineers, 33 superintending engineers, 96
executive engineers, 179 subdivisional engineers, 216 assistant engineers, 1
senior economist,  1 economist,  39 other  professionals,  726  sub-assistant
engineers, 4647 office assistants and 3915 class 4 employees. However 15 to
251 of the above sanctioned posts are vacancies. The breakdown of the above
staffing is in Table 3.
Source:  Kampsax Report
December 1986



ROAD RMBILITATI11 AND  }NrT3VAN  PRoJECT
Table Is  Operational Strcture of lD (Zones)
N.T. CIRCL                             ZONE
4 DivisioNS       3 DivisiO         4 DivisiWm        3 DIVISIONS       IDVSI          4 DivisioNS        3 DIVISJIS     4 DIVISIINs       4DVS
l*Um*i            CHITYIIOI          CUIUA             RuralI            hIIIfl         11111.11
KNAUMMI-11    NOMIS LIE                      SIRAJUIM           DINW?1         EUSIA             SAO             wl-
I .                                          a
Creted in mid-1986.



IANGLADESH
ROAD RBIIABILITATrOU AND NAXTMUE CE PROJECT
Table 2i Strmeture of R1D (IQ. a_ Necbanical)
111*6^                                                       ulltn11I                                                    L
-RAMhII  A PROIRU   CIRCLE        -SPEIE. PROEC OFFICE           EMIDIR OFFICE                 CMRLEII~
1-CUII a STRI-CEiCCmn OFFICE                                                                  C                  CIRCLE
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m _
I (ECEMIC#.) CICLE          -AR PROIECT OFFICE           -TR    S uST  1              EUW
-PROJEII CUTROl CIRCLE                                          ESTAE.ISRIENT OFFICE          c UE                               cum
-ROD KWIIIICANRACItE                     T   Rft               -AKRIiUltIE           _I _T
3 IDIIIINSS       2 IIYORtI
CIITT_@M                           a" IIEII
SMIA                   T                                 WIM l;
s -                     -    Tu
2 IhVIS611 N          1S   DIIIU       2 DW IUI        2 DIVSIIL S,
}    |        | StU~RIET|                  J     I 



BANGLADESH
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Table 3: RHD Staffing
WorkshoP & Ferrv Circles                     Construction Circles          Other  Other
Number of                                    Number of-                       -
Sub-                                       Sub-
Circles  Division Division  Staff         Circles  Division  Division  Staff  Staff  Staff
Chief Engineer                                  -                               -         -          -        -         9       9
ACE, Administration                             -        -         -            -         -          -        -       513    513
ACE. Planning & Development           -         -        -         -            -         -          -        -       394    394
ACE. Mechanical                       5        16       41      1,646           -         -          -        -       146  1.752
ACE. Special ProJects                           -        -         -            -         -          -        -       571    571
ACE. Dhaka Zone                             -       -              -            2         8         25      1.324    263  1.587
ACE. Chittagong Zone                            -        -         -            2         7         24      1,083    263  1.356
ACE. Chittagong Hill Tracts Zone   -            -        -         -            2         4         it        625    126    751
ACE, Khulnc Zone                                -        -         -            2         9         27      1,302    263  1.565
ACE. Rajshahi Zone                    -         --                 -            2         7         22     11,061    263  1.324
TOTAL     9.862
oob
IS.
Ln



-43-
Annex 2.4
BANGLADESH
ROAD REMABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Road Construction and Maintenance Expenditures and Financing 1/
(Million Taka)
1980/81   1981/82   1982/83   1983/84   1984/85   Total
1980-85
Etpenditures
Investment            1,129      938       1,682      1,547      1,672    6,968
Maintenance             241       255        265        280         300    1,341
Establishment            58        71         91        105         116      441
Total                 1,428    1,264       2,038      1,932      2,088    8,750
Financing
Local                 1,334    1,191       1I892    1,749        1,810    7,976
Foreign                  94        73        146       183         278       774
Total                 1,428    1,264       2,038    1,932        2,088    82750
Foreign Aid as Z
Investment             8.3      7.8         8.7      11.8        16.6      11.1
Maintenance as X
Total Expenditures   16.9      20.2        13.0      14.5        14.4      15.3
1/ RED roads only.
April 79 1987



-44-
Annex 2.5
BANGLADESH
ROAD RIAUILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Comparison of Road Sector Revenues and Expenditures
(Million Taka)
1980/81   1981/82    1982/83    1983/84   1984/85
Revenues
Road Sector Taxes
and Charges               1,031       936        *931      1,393     1,602
Concealed Fuel Tax 1/       1,639     1,782      1,937       2,105     2,288
Total                       2,670     2,718      2,868       3,498     3,890
Expenditures
Roads and Highways
Department                1,428     1,265      2,038       1,932     2,088
Other Road Sector 2/          192       210         236        245       270
Total                       1,620     1,475      2,274       2,177     2,3S8
Estimated Surplus           1,050     1,243        594       1,321     1,532
_u   _8u                -           -
11 -Difference i& price of petroleum products between the BPC es-refiniery
price and world prices.
2/ Traffic police, other police, Ministry of Communications, maintenance
non-RED roads.
mATE
April 3, 1987



-45-                     Annex 3.1
Page I of 10
BANGLADESH
ROAD REHABILITATION AND WNTENANCE PROJECT
Terms of Reference for the Supervising Consultant
I.* BACKGROUND
1.        The People's Republic  of Bangladesh has a  population in excess of
100 million people and has an economy which is largely dependent on agricul-
ture. Northwest Bangladesh, bounded by the Padma/Ganges River on the south,
the Jamuna/Brahmaputra River on the east, and the border with India on the
north and west, is an important food-surplus area of the country and depends
on road and river transpoit to move produce to other areas.
2.        Due to a combination  of circumstance, including unforeseen traffic
growth, both in volume and loading, some inadequate designs, and insufficient
budget over the past years, the condition of the primary national road net-
work has deteriorated. Much of this network now needs a major rehabilitation
effort to restore it to a level at which its roads can be maintained by
normal routine procedures.
3.        Recognizing this need the  Government of Bangladesh with assistance
from the International Development Association has identified, and is
implementing a project for the rehabilitation and deferred (periodic) main-
tenAnce of approximately 600 km of national and regional highways in the
area.
4.        The project is to consist of three primary components, which are:
(a)  the rehabilitation of approximately 300 km of national highways, in
two packages consisting of 6 and 5 contracts respectively;
(b) deferred maintenance works over approximately 300 km of national
and regional highways; and
(c) development of skills within the Roads and Highways Departmnt,
particularly in the supervision of contract maintenance works.



-46-
Annex 3.1
Page 2 of 10
II. OBJECTIVES
5.        The Government intends  to engage a consultant  with the objectives
of ensuring that the civil works of rehabilitation and deferred maintenance
are carried out in accordance with the requirements of the various contracts,
that suitable dtsigns and documents are prepared for the deferred maintenance
works and that Roads and Highways Department personnel are provided with
training in methods of contract supervision.
III. REHABILITATION WORKS
Description of the Works
6.        The 300  km of rehabilitation  works are  divided into  2 packages,
consisting of 11 contracts in total. These contracts are located as shown on
Figure 1 and provide for the rehabilitation of approximately 40 km of road
for each of the 8 major contracts and of 8 km of road for each of the 3 minor
contracts.
7.        These rehabilitation works will comprise:
(a) widening of road embankments, and strengthening or reconstruction
of pavements;
(b) the construction of 4.7 km of new road to bypass the town of Pabna;
and
(c)  the reconstruction or repair of 700  m of bridges and the construc-
tion of 900 m of reinforced concrete box and pipe culverts.
The rehabilitated roads will generally have 7.3 m wide pavements and 2.45 m
wide shoulders and will be provided with an asphaltic concrete surface.
8.        The breakdown of the works by package is as follows:
(a) Package 1 - reconstruction of 136 km of National Highway N5,
repair of 2 bridges and the construction of 211 m
of box and pipe culverts.   In  addition, Contract
1/1 contains provision for a pavement test section
of 5 km length.
(b) Package 2 - reconstruction of approximately 160 km of National
Highways N5, N6 and N74, construction of 600 m of



-47-
Annex 3.1
Page 3 of 10
replacement bridginp and the installation of 436 m
of  pipe and  box  culverts.   The bridges  are  of
reinforced and prestressed concrete construction.
It is expected that the first package of contracts will be awarded in October
1987. The second package may be awarded in late 1989. All. have contract
periods of 36 months. Bids are currently being invited for Package 1 con-
tracts, under International Competitive Bidding conditions, from Bangladeshi
and foreign contractors who are eligible under IDA and IBRD procurement
guidelines and  who  have  been  prequalified.   A  further  prequalification
process will be undertaken to select suitable bidders for the second package.
Scope of Services
(a) Package 1 Works
9.        The Consultant will undertake the  supervision of the six contracts
in the package under the direction of the Roads and Highways Department.  The
Department will appoint one of its senior officers as Engineer for the
Contracts.
10.       The Consultant will set  up suitabl* site supervision organizations
to ensure that the works under contract are completed in accordance with the
documents. Specifically, the Consultant will be required to:
(a) provide such information as is necessary for the Contractor to set
out the works and check that this setting out is correct;
(b) review the Contractors' work proposals, working drawings, etc. to
the extent required by the Contract, advise modifications where
necessary and recommend these proposals for approval;
(c) review the Contractors' works programs and, where necessary,
request revisions of these to account for the current status of the
works;
(d) agree with the Contractor systems of measurement for interim cer-
tificates and carry out the necessary measurements, calculations
and certifications for such certificates;
(e)  make recommendations to the engineer on the Contractor's claims for
additional payment, extensions of time and other matters, based on
the Consultant's interpretation of the Contract Documents, the
relevant site conditions and the Contractor's detailed submissions;



-48-
Annex 3.1
Page 4 of 10
(f) in the event of variations to the works being required, prepare the
necessary documents, negotiate these with the Contractor and submit
the agreed Variation Order to the Engineer for approval;
(g) through Resident Engineers, inspectors and other staff as may be
required, supervise the day to day operations of the Contractor to
ensure compliance with the contract;
(h) maintain detailed diaries of relevant events and activities;
(i) test materials to be used in the works prior to incorporation, test
completed parts of the works for compliance with the Contract,
carry out deflection analysis of the various stages of the road
works to determine what, if any, variations to pavement structures
are required and generally ensure that  the final structures are in
accordance with the intent of the Contract;
(j)  determine,  in consultation  with the  engineer, suitable  pavement
structures to be included in the test sections, monitor their
construction and performance and report on their effectiveness;
(k) set up and maintain a correspondence and document storage and
retrieval system to record all  relevant communications between the
parties to the contract, all measurement and qualicy control
details and variations to the works as they occur;
(1) maintain as built drawings and documents;
(m) call and keep minutes of routine sits meetings between the parties
to the contract;
(n) prepare monthly progress reports for each contract in a form
acceptable to IDA and RED. These reports will include as a minimum
details of the physical and financial status of each contract,
details of delays and the budgetary effect of these and particular
problems with su"gested solutions;
(o) carry out final inspections of the works and recommend the issue of
completion certificates;
(p) check the Contractors' final accounts and certify them correct for
payment; and



-49-
Annex 3.1
Page 5 of 10
(q) prepare completion reports in a form acceptable to MED and IDA.
In setting up the  management and cost accounting  systems, it is anticipated
that the consultant will make appropriate use of microcomputer-based methods.
(b)  Package 2 Works
11.       The consultant will undertake the following tasks:
(a)  review   the  Package  2  documents  in  the  light  of  Package  1
experience, in particular  the outcome of  the trial  pavement sec-
tions, and prepare the necessary amendments and design revisions;
(b)  prepare   a   prequalification  questionnaire  and   advertise  the
presqualification procurement notice apropriately;
(c)  analyze  the prequalification  submissions  and  prepare  a  report
summarizing the evaluation and nominating the contractors who have
been prequalified. In doing this, the consultant will be required
to undertake such addtional investigations into the capabilities of
possible bidders as  may be necessary.   These may  include inspec-
tions of works for which they have been responsible, interviews
with past and present clients and meeting with the firms' manage-
ments.
(d) prepare a suitable Invitation to Bid and subsequently issue docu-
ments to interested prequalifiei Contractors.
(e) analyse bids received, recommend contract award and prepare formal
documents for execution.
(f) supervise the contract works in the same manner as set out for
Package 1.
12*       In preparing the proposal, the  Consultant will divide the scope of
works into two parts. The first will include all those activities described
above except the actual supervision of the Package 2 Contracts. The second
part will add the additional resources required to undertake this supevision.
The financial proposal will be prepared in like manner.
13.       If the Department  decides to proceed  with the Package  2 works at
the scheduled time then it  will direct the Consultant  to mobilise the addi-
tional resources required accordingly. If, on the other hand, these works
are deferred significantly or cancelled then the consultancy will involve



-50-
Annex 34.1
Page -6 of 10
only those resources  defined in first  of.tbe two  parts referred  to above.
The Agreement between the Department and the Consultant will be drafted to
reflect the possibility that the second part may not be taken up.
Time Schedule
14.       It  is anticipated  that a  contract for  the Consultancy  will  be
aw-rded in August and the Consultant will commence his assignment in Septem-
ber 1987. Provided that Package 2 works commence in late 1989 as presently
scheduled, the estimated termination date for the consultancy is the end of
December, 1992.   If package  2 is  cancelled or  substantially delayed,  the
consultancy will terminate at the end of December, 1990.
Assistance to be provided by RHD
15.       The Department will undertake to:
(a) nominate personnel to act as technical assistants to the consult-
ant; these officers will be responsible for routine contact between
the department and the consultant avd will be responsible for
ensuring that the services proceed in accordance with the consult-
ancy contract and conform to the requirements and policies of the
department; and
(b) undertake to assist the consultant to obtain visas and import
privileges for his expatriate personnel.
16.       The department may also require  that the consultant include in his
teams engineers and technical staff from the department. These individuals
will not be substitutes for the consultant's own staff but will be respon-
sible to the consultant as though they were such.
Facilities and Department
17.        Each construction contract includes the provision and maintenance,
by the contractor, of vehicles, laboratory and survey equipment, computers
and furnished office space. The department will provide these at no cost to
the consultant for the duration of his services. However, the consultant
shall include in his proposal a list of facilities and equipment he considers
necessary to adequately supervize the works and provide detailed costs for
these. In the event that the department is unable to provide the items
mentioned above, or accepts that additional or different equipment is
required, then the consultant shall provide these on a reimbursable basis.



-51-
Annex 3.1
Page 7 of 10
At the conclusion of the  consultancy these items will be  handed over to the
department.
IV.   PERIODIC MAINTENANCE WORKS
Description of Works
18.        The  department has  identified approximately  300 km  of regional
highway for which  deferred maintenance works  are required and  are economi-
cally viable. The location of these are shown in Figure 2. It is intended
that these  works will  be carried  out by  contract under  Local Competitive
Bidding procedures.
19.        The  treatments  proposed  include  asphaltic  concrete  levelling
courses and bituminous surface treatments. The areas over which a particular
treatment is to be applied are set out in the report of a Road Maintenance
Study carried out for the Department in an earlier phase of this project.
Scope of Services
20.        The Consultant will undertake  the following activities under this
component of the consultancy.
(a) Investigation
21.        The  Consultant will  review the  findings of  the  previous  Road
Naifttenance Study,  essentially by  evaluating the  present conditlon  of the
existing road  surfaces.   This  re-evaluation  will  include  roughness  and
deflection measurements and the development of an appropriate condition
assessment procedure.
(b) Design
22.        Using results obtained from  the investigation phase, the Consult-
ant will  refine the  mix of  levelling course  and surface  treatment.   The
Consultant will also consider slurry seals and other treatments for postpon-
ing the need for a major rehabilitation and/or restoring the road surface.
ge will then break the works up into packages suitable for bidding.



-52-
Anne" 3.1
Page 8 of 10
(c) Documentation
23.        The Consultant will prepare  a set of bidding  documents and a bid
evaluation method for the  periodic maintenance works.   These documents will
be developed from  World Bank sample  bidding documents, suitably  amended to
allow for Local Competitive Bidding.
24.        It  is the  Department's intention  that these  documents and  the
evaluation method will become the standard for all of its future periodic
maintenance works throughout Bangladesh.
(d)  Bid Invitation
25.        The Consultant  will invite  registration from  Contractors inter-
ested in bidding for the works and will arrange issue of documents to those
who register.
(e) Bid Evaluation
26.        The  Consultant will  develop a  suitable evaluation  technique to
provide the Department with an appropriate Contractor for each package of
work and subsequently will prepare the necessary formal award documentation.
(f)  Supervision
27.        The Consultant  will work  with selected  departmental engineering
and technical personnel to supervise the works and ensure that they are
carried out to the specified quality and within the contract time. As part
of this activity the Consultant will train the Department staff in methods of
contract supervision.   The training  component of  the consultancy  is dealt
with subsequently in these Terms of Reference.
(g) Study of Rajshahi-Nawabganj Section of N6
28.        As part of this component  of the consultancy the Consultant shall
undertake a study of the flood prone section of National Highway X6 between
Rajahahi and Nawabganj. This study will investigate means of reducing the
effect of flooding on road connections between these towns and may include
complete relocation  of the  road to  higher  ground.   The  evaluation  will
include an economic assessment of the various options developed.



-53-
Annex 3.1
Page 9 of 10
(h) Reports
29.       The  Consultant will  provide monthly  reports throughout  the full
duration of the consultancy and these will detail progress on both the design
and execution phases of the works.
Time Schedule
30.       The Department's  intention is that  the deferred  maintenance com-
ponent will commence in October 1987 and that bids will be invited and ini-
tial contracts awarded so that site works can commence in October 1988. The
works will then be progressively awarded to provide an even flow of work over
the anticipated project duration of three years, i.e., up to the end of 1991.
Assistance to be provided by RHD
31.        The Department will  appoint suitable staff to  work with the Con-
sultant's team in all activities from initial investigation to supervision of
the works.
32.        In addition, the  Department will provide  the assistance detailed
earlier in these Terms of Reference for the Consultant's expatriate staff.
Facilities and Equipment
33.        The  Department does  not  anticipate  directly  providing  either
facilities or equipment and accordingly the Consultant will detail in his
technical proposal the facilities and equipment he will require to carry out
this component of the consultancy.   The costs of these,  which will be reim-
bursed to the Consultant, are to be detailed in the financial proposal.
Equipment so provided will be handed over to the Department at the conclusion
of the consultancy.
V. TRAINING
Scope of the Consultancy
34.        Training  of local  personnel, both  of  the  consultant  and  the
Department, is the third component of the consultancy and is considered
equally as important as the other two. In particular the Consultant will
undertake training of the Department's staff in the procedures involved in
planning, designing and the supervision of deferred maintenance works carried
out by contract. He will also be expected to provide appr-%oriate training to



-54-
Annex 3.1
Page 10 of 10
his own local staff and departmental personnel in the supervision of the
rehabilitation works.
35.        The Consultant will include in his proposal a detailed plan of his
approach to this aspect of the consultancy, including a breakdown between
formal and site training.and a full listing of the facilities and equipment
which he considers will be required to successfully achieve the objective of
developing these skills within the local staff organization.
VI.   STAFFING
36.        The Consultant  will provide personnel  for each component  of the
consultancy who have a wide experience in their particular fields and who, in
the case of expatriate staff, have worked on similar projects preferably
outside their own home countries.
37.        Since the scope of  the consultancy involves techniques relatively
new to Bangladesh it is anticipated that expatriates will fill some if not
all of the key senior positions.   However, wherever possible, the Consultant
will make use of available Bangladeshi nationals, by associating with a local
consultancy firm which has access to such staff.
38.        The sub3ect  of staffing is  also dealt with  in the Supplementary
Information for Consultants.



-55-
Annex 3.2
Page 1 of 8
BANGLADESH
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Road Master Plan Study
Draft Terms of Reference
I. BACKGROUND
1.        GOB and IDA have agreed on the need to strengthen RHD's capacity to
plan, program and budget the local and foreign resources available to the
road sub-sector, and thus to develop a series of rolling three-year plans as
planning and budgeting tools.
2.        In  the meantime,  GOB and  the Asian  Development Bank  (ADB)  had
agreed to 2 technical assistance projects comprising:
(a) a screening study of the national and regional network, totalling
4,000 km, to determine the improvement priorities based on road
condition and socioeconomic impact; and
(b) a technical and economnic screening study of the road network under.
the administration of RED in the Northwest to determine the
improvement priorities according to their impact on socioeconomic
development, particularly on surplus production and distribution.
3.        In order to  minimize duplication of  efforts, GOB and  the ADB and
IDA have agreed to merge the 3 technical assistance elements into a single
study of a Road Master Plan (OMP).
4.        The Road Master  Plan will result  from the use  of modelling tools
(HDM 3 modified) already available in RHD and adapted to Bangladeshi condi-
tions under the RRM study carried out by SMEC and the Road Sector Development
studies carried out  by Kampsax (both  under UNDP financing).   The data base
will be updated and extended to cover the RED road network listed in Annex A
by additional data collection on road roughness, deflections, road inven-
tories, traffic surveys, vehicle operating costs and road construction and
maintenance costs. The modelling will transform population growth forecasts,
agriculture production and other economic parameter growth forecasts into
road transport demand forecasts and thus enable the consultant and RED to
define the future shape and capacity of the road network in 10 and 20 years
as well as rank the necessary investments in order of economic priority and
prepare  the  road  development   elements  of  the   Fourth  Five-Year  Plan
(1991-1995).



-56-
Annex 3.1
Page 2 of 8
5.        GOB  will use  the Road  Master Plan  to identify  projects  to  be
financed in the road sub-sector with local and foreign financing, including
ADB and IDA. Detailed feasibility and engineering studies will still be
necessary on the sections identified. This should ensure the constant flow
-'        of foreign-financed projects  that the  road sub-sector  needs to  assist the
economic development of Bangladesh.   Also, as the master  plan and modelling
v         tools will be developed in RED, with  adequate training of RHD staff or local
consultants, its regular updating will be facilitated.
6.        Agreement has been reached that ADS will be the executing agency of
the technical assistance project  to be financed  by UNDP.  GOB,  ADB and IDA
will submit to each other for comment, before they are finalized, TORs, the
consultant shortlist, the proposal evaluation report and draft consultant
reports and other study outputs.
-I. OBJECTIVES
7.        The  paved road  network  has  been  constructed  during  the  last
'two/three decades and, as a result, the basic national grid is substantially
complete but many roads  are substandard both  structurally and geometrically
and there are  many unbridged river  crossings.  Moreover, the  secondary and
tertiary road networks remain underdeveloped. The entire road network suf-
fers from poor and insufficient maintenance.
8.        Consequently, Bangladesh  needs an integrated  program of construc-
tion, maintenance, rehabilitation, and modernization of its road network to
meet the burgeoning demand for road transport and to sustain the country's
economic development.
9.        The RMP has the following objectives:
(a)  to find the optimal investment balance between:
(i) construction of new secondary and feeder roads;
(ii) construction of bridges on primary roads to replace exist-
ing ferries:
(iii) rehabilitation of existing primary roads; and
(iv) modernization of existing primary roads.
(b)  to find the optimal balance between investments and maintenance;



-57-
Annex 3.2
Page 3 of 8
(c)  to find the  optimal level of expenditures  in investment and main-
tenance given local resource  constraints (financial and technical)
and the probable level  of foreign leading in  the subsector in the
next few years; 1/
(d) to prepare the Fourth Five-Year Plan and proposals for projects to
be added in the lending programs of the major donors active in the
sector
(e) to define the basic grid on which the highway network should
develop and for each segment of the grid, the optimal phasing of
investments and maintenance over time; and
(f) to provide data to the Planning and Monitoring Cell (PMC) on road
maintenance of RED (Road Maintenance Action Plan) for updating or
preparing road inventories on RND roads. These inventories will
-also be a major tool for managing the network and planning and
budgetting maintenance.
-II. SCOPE OP WORK
Review of Relevant Studies and Detailed Work Plan
10.       The consultant will review the  relevant studies carried out in the
subsector in the past ten years, complement the list if necessary, and
extract any information  that may be  used by the  present study.   A partial
listing is shown in Annex B.
11.       Based on the information collected  from past studies, the consult-
ant will update and revise  the original work plan and  present it as part of
the inception report.
Technical Data Collection
12.       The consultant will collect or  update the following technical data
in the format required by the  NDM Model.
1/ This can be difficult. To provide adherence to priorities, the consult-
ant may want to consider a core program of top priorities for reasonably
assured funds, then a supplementary program if more funds become avail-
able.



-58-
Annex 3.2
Page 4 of 8
(a)  VOC.   The consultant  will identify  a  small  number  of  typical
vehicles which will represent the vehicle fleet. For each vehicle
type, the consultant will collect  vehicle characteristics and unit
cost data in order to estimate vehicle operating costs. The con-
sultant should also review the appropriateness of the vehicle
categories available in the HDM 3 model to the Bangladeshi fleet,
and recommend adaptation as necessary.
(b) Construction and Maintenance Costs. The consultant will estimate
the set of unit costs for construction and maintenance works that
he will use in the modelling phase on the basis of both a survey of
cost of similar works carried out recently, and a detailed analysis
of  the  most   important- cost  components   including  equipment,
materials consumables and labor.
(c)  Road Data.   The  consultant will establish a  reference system for
the RED roads. It will consist of a list of reference points which
already exist and are clearly identifiable or which will be created
by the consultant and permanently marked (paint marking or wood
stakes will not be accepted). Road distances between 2 reference
points or the last reference point and the end of a section will in
all cases be  less than  5 km.   The reference  system will  give a
framework for road data  collection and preparation  of road inven-
tories. The following data will be collected on paved roads:
si)  Roughness.   The consultant  will  use  a  response-type  road
roughness measuring system to collect data on existing rough-
ness on RHD roads.   The system will be  calibrated  and peri-
odically checked in accordance with the International Rough-
ness Index (IRI) standard.
(ii)  Deflection.   The consultant  will measure  existing  pavement
deflections under a standard 8 T axle.   All measurements will
be carried out when the pavements are soaked, preferably about
the end of -the monsoon. In his proposal the consultant may
consider one of the following two options:
a. importing temporatily and using a high speed deflec-
tometer and collecting a high density of data (300
measurements or more per km) on all RED paved roads; or
b.  setting up several  teams using the  Benkelman  beam and
collecting a low density of data on: (i) national paved
roads, and (ii) other paved roads which carry more than
500 motorized vehicles per day (vpd), and sampling only
the other roads.



-59-
Annex 3.2
Page 5 of 8
(iii) Pavements
a.  Widths.  The consultant will measure at least once every
km, pavement and shoulder widths on RHD paved roads.
b. Structures and CBRs. The consultant will open test pits
in the existing pavements and shoulders, every 25 km, in
order to determine the existing pavement structure,
measure thicknesses of each individual layer, determine
bearing capacity and measure CBR and moisture content of
the natural subgrades and shoulders. Between two test
pits, the Dynamic Cone Penetrometer (DCP) will be used
on the shoulders to assess the variability of CBRs of
the subgrades and on  the pavements (if  driving the DCP
through the macadam layers is not found possible, then
the consultant will  bore a pre-hole  through it) layers
to assess the pavement thickness and bearing capacity
profile. DCP on pavements should be at 2 km intervals
for national paved roads and roads with more than 500
vpd and at 5 km intervals on other paved roads. The
consultant will ensure that deflection data is available
for the sites selected for the DCP.
(iv)  Cracking. The consultant will measure on typical sections the
cracking incidence of the pavement surfacing. He will there-
after assess the cracking incidence on the rest of the paved
network by visual assessment and comparison with the typical
sections. The consultant may in ais proposal propose a dif-
ferent method.
(v)   Potholing.   Similarly,  the   potholing  incidence  will  be
measured on typical sections and assessed on the rest of the
network.
(vi)  Rutting.   Similarly, the  incidence and  severity of  rutting
will be measured on typical sections and assessed on the rest
of the network.
(d) Road Data, Unpaved Roads. Road data for unpaved roads will be
limited to Roughness, CBR of the natural subgrade, thickness and
characteristic of the surfacing and surfacing and platform width.
It will be collected on a sample basis for typical sections and
assessed elsewhere. The sampling rate will depend on the economic
importance  of  the  road  considered.    The  consultant,  in  his



-60-
Annex 3.2
Page 6 of 8
proposal, will describe  how he will  address the problem  of brick
paved roads.
Inventories
13.       While the  consultant will  produce the  road data  described above
primarily for the network modelling, the format in which this information
will be gathered and presented will be developed jointly with the Planning
and Monitoring Cell (PMC) of the RHD to facilitate the production of final
inventory and its regular updating by the PMC. As part of this effort, the
consultant will prepare an inventory procedures manual for use by the PMC.
Traffic Studies and Forecasts
14.       Traffic  Studies.  In  liaison with  the PMC  the  consultant  will
review the existing traffic data and prepare and carry out a program of
additional data collection. The program will include but not be limited to
the following: (i) additional traffic surveys (volume, mix, axle loads); and
(ii) O&D surveys for passenger and goods traffic.
15.       Traffic Forecasts.  The consultant  will prepare traffic volume and
mix forecasts for all roads considered in the RMP and present them in a
format required for RHD modelling. The choice of appropriate forecasting
approach will be preceded and determined by an assessment of the rate and
nature of expected socio-economic change in Bangladesh. If predominantly
stable growth conditions and gradual change are expected to prevail, the
consultant will extrapolate from past trends making whatever adjustments may
be necessary to account for changes that are likely to modify these trends.
If, on the other hand, major and rapid changes in principal socio-economic
parameters are indicated, the consultant will prepare traffic forecasts in
three stages including: (i) estimating the volume and location of future
agricultural, industrial and mining output and consumption, including exports
and imports; analogous estimates of population and personal income growth and
of the income elasticity of demand for transport will be necessary,
(ii) translating the population and output/consumption forecasts into traf-
fic-both by volume and by origin and destination and, (iii) distributing the
traffic to the transport mode which can carry it most efficiently taking
account of both perceived  and total distribution costs.   The resulting road
transport growth rates will be applied to the base year traffic estimates to
produce road traffic forecasts.
16.       The consultant  shall prepare a  brief rationale for  his choice of
the traffic forecasting approach and present it as part of his proposal.



-61-
Annex 3.2
Page 7 of 8
Road Modelling
17.       Using sample  of pavements for  which technical data  on condition,
structure and traffic loading are available from the technical data collec-
tion, including reasonable information on historical trends, the consultant
will evaluate the need for calibration of the HDM 3 model for it to ade-
quately represent road deterioration trends for Bangladesh.
18.       The  consultant will  assess whether  segments  additional  to  the
existing grid of roads are necessary to meet future traffic demands. For all
basic segments, the consultant will define the investments and the cor-
responding maintenance needs that will be technically justified (construction
of new road sections and bridges on a new alignment, reconstruction on the
existing alignment to improved road standards, overlaying and/or widening the
existing road pavement  and shoulders, periodic  maintenance, etc.)  to match
the capacity of. the segment to future road transport demand. The consultant
will use the model EDM 3 to compare the options and select the economically
=optimal strategy for the full network.
Road Master Plan
19.       Several global strategies  for the development of  the road network
will be  compared in  order to  assess the  optimum balance  between  various
categories of investment and maintenance expenditures and meet the study
objectives as defined above, under financing constraints. The consultant
-ill review the availability of local and foreign financing for the road
subsector in Bangladesh, make reasonable assumptions of future levels consis-
tent with the lending programs of the major donors in the subsector (ADB,
IDA, Japan, UK, etc.) and match these against the optimized programs to
produce a Road Master Plan for the year 2010.
Road Investment Plans
20.       On the basis of the BMP, the consultant will prepare and detail the
maintenance and investments budgets for the next five years and inputs for
eventual amendment of the Third Five-Year Plan (FY86/90) and preparation of
the Fourth Five-Year Plan.
IV. Training
V. Reports and time schedules
A. Tasks
B. Reports



-62-
Annex 3.2
Page 8 of 8
VI.  Data, local services,  personnel and facilities to  be provided by the
Borrower
VII. Annex A. RED road network (see Annex 2.2 of SAR)
VIII. Annex B. Inventory of relevant studies
A. Smec:
(1) RRM Study; and
(2) Maintenance.
B. Kampsaz:
(1) Road Maintenance; and
(2)   Road  sector  taxes  and  expenditures  and  road  transport
industry.
C. Consulting Engineering Services Roughton and Partners and Develop-
Ment Design Consultants:
(1) National Traffic Data.Base Report (1987).
D. Oda bridges
S. Pacific Consultants, Intermodal Transport Study



-63-
Annex 3.3
Page 1 of 7
BANGLADESH
ROAD REMABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Agreed Road Maintenance Action Plan
1.        This document describes  the necessary actions  that the Government
of Bangladesh (GOB) will undertake to imptove road maintenance, its financing
and its effectiveness.
I. ROAD MAINTENANCE BUDGETS
2.        COB agrees  to increase the  budgets for road  maintenance to cover
the  needs  shown  in  columns  "Budget  requirements  of  *HD  for  5  years
(1987-1992)" of the  Table 1:   Road Maintenance  Budgets.  It  is understood
that GOB may require foreign financing to meet the specific targets for
periodic maintenance.
3.        All figures  are in  1986 constant  prices (Taka  million).  Actual
budgets will be increased to take into account the actual inflation rate
between 1986  and  the  year  considered.   Equipment  purchase  for  routine
maintenance is additional.
It. MAINTENANCE BY CONTRACT
4.         Contract  works,   with  the  contractor   fully  responsible  for
organizing the works and supplying the equipment and materials, will be
progressively introduced for most periodic road maintenance works and
possibly for some routine maintenance works. RED staff will be organized and
trained to plan, program and supervise the works. The training program will
be implemented by tha supervising consultant.
III. TRAINING
5.        A  training program  for RHD  staff on  planning,  preparation  and
supervision of maintenance carried out by contract has been prepared and will
be implemented by the supervising consultant, in the northwest on a pilot
basis.
6.        In addition, and in line with the consultant recomuendations in the
maintenance study, GOB will create and operate a training institute for road
maintenance crews  and workshop  personnel by  June 30, 1988.   The  training
program will include in particular:
(a) planning and programuing of routine maintenance by force account;



-64-
Annex 3.3
Page 2 of 7
(b) cost aecounting and control;
(c)  basic road maintenance activities;
(d)  use of aggregates, binders and other materials in road maintenance;
and
(e)  a program for workshop staff.
IV. MATERIALS AND STANDARDS STUDY
7.        Road standards currently in use by BuD are in some cases inadequate
and often lead to pavements too narrow and too thin for the traffic they
support, motorized  and non-motorized.   This  obviously  reduces  investment
costs but the saving is more than offset by increased vehicle operating costs
and maintenance expenses. Good materials are in short supply, for example,
there is little river gravel or stone outside the Sylhet region. However,
manufactured bricks and river sand could be found country-wide. Existing
pavement standards and techniques rely mainly on penetration macadam,
grout..ng or brick soling, which do not require much road-making equipment but
also do not use the scarce road materials to their full extent.
S.        Revision  of the  road standards  has  been  initiated  during  the
pre-appraisal mission by agreement with RHD and ADB on common improved
standards to be  used under the  projects being prepared.   Furthermore, this
action will be continued by using, to the extent possible, the engineering
studies being carried out and the corresponding project works to define,
compare and test improved materials and techniques.
9.        G08 will employ consultants to  carry out a Materials and Standards
Study with the following objectives (more detailed TORs are in Annex 3.4):
(a)  to inventory  materials which can  be economically  and efficiently
used  in  road   construction  and   maintenance,  and   study  the
feasibility of further site investigations or development of
artificial aggregates;
(b)  to develop  pavement construction and  maintenance techniques which
would make optimal use of local materials (river boulders, bricks
and sand) and minimize transport costs;
(c)  to develop a catalog of pavement structures for Bangladesh; and



-65-
Annex 3.3
Page 3 of 7
(d) to draft an unified set of road construction and maintenance
standards (geometric and other essential parameters) and technical
guidelines for RED staff.
V. PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
10.       To improve planning  and management of  maintenance operations, GOB
will establish by June 30, 1988, Maintenance Planning and Monitoring Cells
(MPMCs), each adequately managed and staffed, in the RED Chief Engineer's
(CE's) office and at each of the four zonal headquarters in Dhaka,
Chittagong, Khulna  and Rajshahi.   GOB will  also strengthen  the  Economics
Circle  and  Traffic   Engineering  Division  at   RED  headquarters  through
reallocation of existing staff and creation as necessary of additional
positions.
11.        The  MPMC  in   CE's  office  will  be   responsible  for  overall
maintenance, planning and programming, establishing a road maintenance and
information system, preparation of Five-Year and detailed annual maintenance
plans for .FY88/89 through FY92/93 (parts of which are being financed by IDA
and ADB), budget estimates and monitoring progress on all maintenance works.
MPNCs at  the zonal  headquarters will  be charged  with the  preparation  of
detailed annual maintenance programs based on traffic surveys and pavement
strength tests and comprehensive visual as well as instrumental inspections,
and the implementation of all maintenance works using cost effective
procedures and techniques.
12.       The detailed maintenance plans for each year prepared will identify
by km the extent and level of patch work and resealing on the basis of
detailed pavement strength  tests and  traffic studies.   Such plans  will be
reviewed by the Government with IDA not later than March 31 each year and
budgetary allocations for maintenance will be made on the basis of such
reviews.
13.       To advise  RED in  carrying out  the various  tasks above  and help
build up its capabilities and to also provide limited assistance in the
implementation  of   the ADS   Road  Improvement   Project,   experts   with
international experience, including a road maintenance engineer, a traffic
engineer and  two maintenAnce  supervisor experts,  will be  engaged.   Their
services will be financed by UNDP with ADB as executing agency.



-66-
Annex 3.3
Page 4 of 7
VI.  REORGANIZATION OF RHD IN THE NORTHWEST
14.       In order to separate the construction (development) and maintenance
set up of the Roads and Highways Department, some reorganization in the
existing set up with the available personnel,  will be implemented on a pilot
basis  at  Raj3hahi  Circle  under  Rajshahi  Zone  by  June 30,  1988.   The
reorganization will be as follows:
(a)   the   existing  Superintending   Engineer,  Executive   Engineers,
Sub-Divisional Engineers and other staff of the operation unit of
Rajshahi Circle will be assigned to look after the maintenance
works (routine and periodic) of all the roads under Rajshahi Road
Circle. In addition, they will also look after the works of
Upazila connecting roads until their completion.
(b) one of the two posts of Superintending Engineers of the Planning
Unit of Rajshahi Zone shall be renamed as Superintending Engineer
(Construction),  who   will  look   after  all   the  construction/
improvement/upgrading works under development budget within the
Jurisdiction   of   Rajshahi   Road   Circle,   except   the   Road
Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project financed by IDA under the
Project Civil Works Director (Additional Chief Engineer);
(c)  out  of the  five existing  posts of  Ezecutive  Engineers  in  the
Planning Unit of Rajshahi Zone, three Executive Engineers will be
re-designated as Executive Engineer, Construction-I/I/III and will
be posted under the above Superintending Engineer (Construction) to
look after the construction/improvement/ upgrading works, along
with his existing staff. For proper functioning of these divisions
as  drawing/disbursing  offices,   the  posts  of   one  Divisional
Accountant, one Senior Accounts Clerk and one Cashier shall have to
be created for each of these divisions. Where equivalent positions
exist elsewhere in the Rajshahi Road Circle, these positions will
be abolished in order to avoid any duplication or increase in staff
or in budget.
td) the headquarters of these three divisions will be selected as per
requirement of the works undertaken by these divisions and
(e) the other post of Superintending Engineer of the Planning Unit will
be re-designated as Superintending Engineer, Planning and Design,
under whom there will be two Executive Engineers:  (i) the existing
structural designer; and (ii) the other shall be redesignated as
Executive Engineer, Planning and Road Design.



-67-
Annex 3.3
Page 5 of 7
V
15.       Depending upon  the results  of this  pilot reorganization  and its
findings  as  agreed   between  IDA  and   GOB,  RHD  plans   to  extend  the
reorganization to all zones by June 30, 1989 in order, in particular, to run
construction and periodic maintenance activities on a project basis and to
revise the boundaries between divisions to balance the length of roads.
VII. REVISION OF THE ACCOUNTING SYSTEM
16.       The present accounting  system for maintenance  is inadequate.  COB
will review it thoroughly in order to allow a more detailed identification of
maintenance expenditures and prepare proposals for a new system by June 30,
1988. The new accounting system will be implemented by June 30, 1989.
VI'I. REORGANIZATION OF THE EQUIPMENT POOL
17.       GOB will reorganize by June 30,  1989, the RHD equipment pool so as
to ensure that these are maintained and operated efficiently. With this end
in view,  GOB  will  establish,  separately  for  road  equipment  and  ferry
services, revolving funds or any other appropriate mechanism satisfactory to
IDA for utilization exclusively on maintenance and replenishment of the
equipment pool. GOB will also consider introduction of a scheme for internal
leasing of RED equipment at economic rates; in addition, hire rates to
contractors will include a reasonable premium.
IX. PREPARATION OF A SYSTEM OF INCENTIVES
18.        In  an  effort  to  improve  the  efficiency  of  RED  maintenance
operations, COB will investigate various incentive schemes and reward
systems. Based upon their findings and if warranted, GOB will prepare by
June 30, 1988, an appropriate incentives package for RED road maintenance
personnel and implement it by June 30, 1989.
ASPTR
May 19, 1987



Table 1:  ROAD MAINTENANCE BU"GETS
(At 1986 constant prices - T ka Mllns)
Budget        Program
Budget     allocation    of RHD            Budget Requirement of RHO for S years (1987-1992)
demand of  for RH0        against                        (as per KAMPSAX Study)
RHD for    during         allocation
Item                      1986/817    19S68B         for 1688/87    1987/88    1988/89    1989/90    1990/91    1991/92
A. 168-RBP (e-Repair)                              410
1. Routine Maintenance
(a) paved roas (5064) km       500                          200           254         330        382         400        400
(b) other roads (1093) km
and offico buildings,
werkshops. 1aborntoric0.
residential accommodm-
tions. erboricultural
operations, etc.            20                           10            15*         20*        20*         20*         200
2. Periodic Maintenance of
s-ltcted paved roads
(1335 km)                      470                          100            94         142        189         19?         204
3. Eergency Maintenance              -                            -           32          38          38         38          38
4. Perry Operation and
Maintenance                     100                          100         -126         150         ISO        IO          150
Subtotal                      1.090         410             410           S20         G60        779         BO         812
B  168-aSf (C-Establishment)
Revenue Budget                  213.20          120             128           120        120         120         120        120
_-         _                 -             0s 1**                200*        2100      --n*
TOTAL                         1,303.20          530            538           6A0 81                  91          SO         92
*  Not included in KIapsax's estimate In the study report but the amount is essentially required.
00 Not Included in Keapsas estimate In the study report. although the report has recommended for setting up
seporate roed maintenance field offices nd strengthening of central planning oftice at the headquarters
for planning. programming, monitoring and evaluation of maintenance as well as Investment works under RH.
This amount is considered as the estimated requirement for lmplementation of Kapasax recommendation In this regards.
Notes Estimated budget requirement for 5 years from 198t/SS is considered at 1986 constant prices. Allocation
should be made at currant prices for each year in order to take care of price Inflation.  Equipment for routine                 to
maintenance not Included.
1
. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ 0



.49-
Anon 3,3
Page I of 7
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MINTENANCE PROJECT
Table 2a Organigram ot Pilot Schme of Rajehahi Road Circle
7*T11 1N11    BU in)
* [ IISIStllbll EIltII (0111F         UU   *T P OF 1.1.         *  33(5133
St r", NMI
ItIEUIW 86t1                  ?URITIU M        lilF .  IIIIII    UT W.
"awl STIB PNOSTSI
NiiWIVE 33l"  me
of teRad  eailtco a       nd Nainteanc   rjc,  h   iireott  h
Chief    Downe   (11111).a               Ot
*/  aInteanc  of  al  od  an  construto  of Upul cot.t.     ecting  ltZd
0"Ulb                               WC swum E. 1l1
3/ Im rovemntoa/sn on    oma                        Iu sc            (e W
-      - 1-. 1 7.....
"wl E tUTlSE    11mIIEE  lililli  _  lE ltAt    vi             I
0111m        I 1lltI  FUt9&lM 
_ _Iam                         L n
-j  1fte c  oflIEt, al  rod  an  coArcion f lpalila c             lecilli r llil" WI
exLudig  mp""cla ras
may 1. 198



-70-
Annex 3.4
Page 1 of 8
BANGLADESH
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Study of Road Materials and Standards
Draft Terms of Reference
I . INTRODUCTION
1.        Road standards currently in use by  RHD often lead to pavements too
narrow  and  too   thin  for   the  traffic   they  support,   motorized  and
non-motorized. This obviously reduces investment costs but the saving is
more than offset by increased vehicle operating costs and maintenance
expenses.
2.        Pavement construction techniques currently in use in Bangladesh are
vell adapted to labor-intensive construction methods but usually do not make
efficient use of scarce construction materials.
3.        The existing Bangladesh fleet of road transport vehicles includes a
majority of two-axle, gasoline-powered trucks which are known for not being
the most efficient vehicles.
4.        For these reasons, among others, the Government of Bangladesh (GOB)
has requested UNDP to finance a study of road materials and standards in
Bangladesh.
Ir. OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
5.        The objectives and description of the study are:
(a) to inventory materials which can be economically and efficiently
used in road construction and maintenance in Bangladesh, and study
the feasibility of further site investigations or development of
artificial aggregates;
(b) to develop pavement construction and maintenance techniques which
would make the most of local materials (river boulders, bricks,
sand, etc.) and minimize transport costs, and prepare appropriate
technical guidelines for RED staff;
(c) to develop a catalog of pavement structures for Bangladesh;



-71-
Annen 3.4
Page 2 of 8
(d) to draft an unified set of road constructions and maintenance
standards (geometric and other essential parameters) for highways
in Bangladesh and
(e) to study the optimum legal axle load and study other action which
would improve efficiency of the country's transport fleet.
6.        This part  of the study  has three objectives:   (i) to evaluate to
what extent, consistent with the capabilities of the road system, larger,
heavier,  more   fuel-efficient   vehicles   than   the   two-axle   vehicles
predominantly in use now should be permitted to use the inter-urban roads;
(ii) to determine the desirable legislative, fiscal and administrative
changes needed to promote their use; and (iii) to recoup from them the
economic cost which their use of the road network incurs.
III. SCOPE OF CONSULTANT SERVICES
Inventory of Materials
7.        The consultant will  inventory the types 1/  of road materials  and
binders currently available in the country or which can be economically
imported and which have potential for being effectively and economically used
in road construction and maintenance.
8.        For each  type of material,  the consultant  will list  existing or
known quarries, sites or points of production with their average quality and
annual production and their potential reserves, renewable and non-renewable.
if no reliable information exists on either the quality or the quantity
available, the  consultant will  collect  samples,  carry  out  drillings  or
seismic surveys, topographic surveys and laboratory tests required to
evaluate them at the level of precision required by the study. A line of
budget of US$150,000 is earmarked for that purpose.
9.        The inventory will be  carried out in two  phases.  The first phase
will list only the data already available and prepare the program of site
investigations and laboratory study which would make the best use of the
limited line of budget available. The second phase will incorporate the
results of additional data collection and surveys.
1/ A non-limitative list may bes river boulders, river sand, hard rock,
manufactured bricks, bitumen and cement.



-72-
Annex 3.4
Page 3 of a
Develoent of Pavement Techniques
10.       The consultant will list  the pavement construction and maintenance
techniques (improved subgrade, sub-base, base and surfacing layers) which are
already known  and used  in Bangladesh  or elsewhere  and  which  would  make
technical and economical sense to develop and adapt to Bangladesh conditions.
11.       For  each of  the techniques  listed, the  consultant will  make  a
preliminary estimate of their potential relative performance, unit cost,
advantages and disadvantages.   In particular,  the consultant  will estimate
whether  they  will   allow  the  use   of  labor-based   or  equipment-based
construction techniques, or a mixture of both. In all cases, the consultant
will estimate the minimum equipment by type which will be required.
12.       From the techniques  which show the most  potential, the consultant
will extract for further study at least two techniques for improved subgrade,
four techniques for sub-base or base, and three techniques for surfacing.
For each technique he will propose a study program of sample collection and
field and laboratory tests. A line of budget of US$250,000 is earmarked for
that purpose.
13.       The  consultant will  subcontract to  the Bangladesh  Road Resarch
Laboratory (BRlL), at their current approved rates, all work that can,be
carried out  at the  BaRL  with  their  existing  manpower  and  means.   The
consultant will list what assistance (manpower, training, equipment) he will
provide to  the BaRL  to allow  them  to  carry  out  additional  work.   The
remaining work will be carried out by the consultant's own forces, -or
subcontracted to other laboratories in Bangladesh or abroad.
14.       A non-limitative preliminary list of techniques with potentials for
use or improvement is the followings
Improved Subarades:
(a) Mixture with river sand, and
(b) Lime stabilized.



-73-
Annex 3.4
Page 4 of 8
Sub-base and Bases:
;(a) Macadams,
(b)  Concrete cement with brick aggregates,
(c) Element paving,
(d) Continuously graded, crushed gravel from boulders,
(e) Mixture river sand - crushed sand,
(f) Several cement treated mixtures, and
(g) Several bitumen treated mixtures.
Surfacing:
(a) B8ST,
(b)  DBST,
(c) Bituminous premix,
(d) Asphaltic concrete, and
(e) Sand asphalt.
15.       For  each  technique  selected  and  tested,  the  consultant  will
estimate the technical characteristics which can be obtained in real
construction and prepare technical guidelines for its use.
Catalog of Pavement Structures
16.       On the basis of the use  of the techniques selected, the consultant
will  develop  a  catalog  of   pavement  structures  adapted  to  Bangladesh
conditions.
17.       For this purpose, tha consultant will:
(a)  the consultant  will review  the technical  data available  in RBD,
BRRL or elsewhere in Bangladesh on the cMracteristics and their
variations of subgrade soilst road traffic, rainfall and of any
other parameter  relevant to  pavement  design.   If  the  data  is



-74-
Annex 3.4
Page S of 8
insufficient or incomplete the consultant will prepare a program of
additional data colloction; and
(b) the consultant will define about five categories of road traffic
volumes and of subgrade soils. For each couple traffic, soil he
will  design   several  pavement   structures,   using   the   best
combinations of the selected techniques.
Revision of Standards
18.       The consultant will review the classification of roads currently in
use in Bangladesh and, if necessary, propose modifications.
19.       For each  category of the  classification-of roads,  the consultant
will propose road construction and maintenance standards (geometric and other
essential parameters).
Efficiency of the Country's Road Transport Fleet
20.       With  the purpose  of determining  the  optimum  vehicle  size  and
configuration, which will aim at minimizing the present value of the total
road transport  cost 2/  in the  country, the  consultant shall   perform the
following tasks:
(a) review the existing situation of the vehicle fleet;
(b) review the current conditions of the highway system; and
(c) estimate road traffic demand by main comodities in volume as well
as in spatial distribution.
(d) propose alternative vehicle sizes and configurations, including
increased axle loads, to be evaluated;
(e) conduct the economic evaluation of different alternatives from the
standpoints of overall  economic cost optimization,  including user
costs, roadway construction and reconstruction costs and roadway
maintenance costs; and
2/ Total road transport cost includes vehicle operating cost, road construc-
tion and maintenance costs.



-75-
Annex 3.4
Page 6 of 8
(f) make recommendations on proposed vehicle sizes and configurations,
-a likely time frame for the introduction of fleet charges, as well
as the likely implementation program.
21.       Review  of the  Existing  Situation  of  the  Vehicle  Fleet.   The
consultant should survey a representative sample of goods, vehicles and buses
which use the main inter-urban highway system and obtain information on the
major dimensions and relevant characteristics of each vehicle, the commodity
carried, the empty and gross vehicle weights, and the distribution of these
loads on  each axle.   This survey  should  also  yield  information  on  the
proportion and number  of vehicles  exceeding the  legal axle  weight limits.
Other data should also be collected from different sources, such as:
(i) technical specification of  commercial vehicles and  buses from supplier;
(ii) general  characteristics  and  production/capacity  of  present  vehicle
assembly plants in Bangladesh; (iii) commercial vehicles and bus registration
and age distribution;  (iv) commercial vehicles and  bus annual kiiometrages;
(v) axle load surveys already conducted in the country; and (vi) the existing
system of vehicle maintenance. The consultant should also analyze in detail
the existing legislation governing vehicle weights and dimensions, at both
the national and state levels, and the degree of eniorcement of regulations
under such a system.
22.       Review  of the  Highway  System.   The  consultant  should  collect
information on the national and major state highway systems including, but
not restricted to: (i) current design standards for roads and bridges;.
(ii) inventory  by   homogeneous  sections   specifying   present   geometric
standards, serviceability indices, weight and size restrictions on bridges
and roads; (iii) research studies conducted in the country concerning road
behaviour under different conditions of terrain, axle loads, traffic,
climate, soils, etc.; and (iv) the Government's plans for road construction
and maintenance for the next 15 years.
23.       Road Traffic  Demands.  A projection  should be made  of the likely
development over the next 15 years of road traffic in Bangladesh, identifying
freight and passenger volumes, type of commodities transported, spatial
distribution of traffic, likely utilization of containers, etc. Projections
should be made on the basis of several plausible assumptions to be identified
by the study, and in consultation with the planning units in the Government
of Bangladesh.
24.        Alternative  Vehicle  Sizes  and   Configuration.   Based  on  the
*         information collected in the preceding sections, and on world experience, the
consultant should propose alternative vehicle sizes and configurations
including increases in the legal axle load. After these proposals have been



-7-
Annex 3.4
Page 7 of 8
discussed  and  agreed  with   G08  and  IDA,  each   alternative  should  be
economically evaluated.
25.       Economic  Evaluation of  Different  Alternatives.   The  consultant
should conduct an economic evaluation of each different vehicle configuration
with the aim of rationalizing the Bangladesh highway system, which will
probably mean permitting larger vehicles to operate with higher loadings in
Bangladesh. A vast body of experience collected worldwide, indicates that
the utilization of larger vehicles reduces considerably the cost per ton-km
of transporting goods and passengers, but this economic saving should be
weighed against the incremental capital and maintenance cost of the larger
vehicles and the improvements to roads, which their use could impose on the
economy as a whole. The suggested criterion to evaluate different proposals
is the minimization of the present value of the total transport cost, at an
opportunity cost of capital which, in Bangladesh, could be assumed at 10
percent. The consultant should also evaluate alternatives under a reasonable
number of  different  operating  conditions  (terrain,  geometric  standards,
congestion, traffic mix,  commodity transported, etc.),  which could  lead to
different recomAendations  applicable under  specific  operating  conditions.
All costs should be calculated. net of taxes, duties and subsidies, and a
shadow price analysis should be tested to see if this is relevant. If shadow
pricing of costs and benefits makes a significant difference in the
evaluation, it will be made for the analysis as a whole. The consultant will
also carry out a sensitivity test of the alternatives with respect to
variations in the main assumptions used in the economic evaluation (traffic
volume and growth, savings in vehicle operating costs, cost estimates, etc.).
26.       Final  Recommendations.   The  consultant  should  make  the  final
recoamendation  on  the  optimum  vehicle   fleet  mix,  based  on  economic,
engineering, marketing,  legal, administrative  and managerial  criteria.  It
should be recognized that both the incorporation of *a substantial number of
large vehicles in the fleet and the corresponding improvement in the highway
network will take a considerable amount of time to materialize, and both
should be done concurrently to permit full utilization of the advantages of
larger units.   The  consultant  should  prepare  a  detailed  implementation
program specifying phases and intermediate targets for its development. For
example, it seems advisable to limit the first phase of the implementation
program to a major corridor of the country where enough experience could be
collected to be  later applied to  the rest of  the country.   The consultant
should also recommend the necessary legislative, fiscal and administrative
changes required to implement the modernization of the fleet.



-77-
Annex 3.4
Page 8 of 8
IV.  TIMING AND REPORTS
27.       The consultants will submit reports as follows:  five copies to RED
and three copies to IDA.  The reports will be in the English language.
ASPTR
March 31, 1987



-78-                         Annex 3.5
Page I of 6
BANULADESH
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Domestic Construction Industry Study
Terms of Reference
I. OBJECTIVES
1.        During the current  Third Five-Year Plan, a  considerable number of
construction  projects   will  be   executed  through   foreign   assistance.
Implementation of these projects will largely depend on capabilities of the
construction firms engaged.
2.        With the general objective of  developing a more efficient domestic
construction/contracting  industry,  the   Government  of   Bangladesh  (GOB)
requested UNDP's financial assistance for undertaking a study on development
of the domestic construction industry.   The World Bank has  agreed to act as
Executing Agency for the study and intends to engage consultants to
investigate, examine and explain thoroughly the constraints the domestic
construction industry has been facing and to suggest measures for its
development,  by  bringing  to  Bangladesh  international  practices  in  the
industry.
3.        The short-term objectives  of the study focus  on the institutional
environment and includes
(a) establishment of a permanent information system for collecting
construction industry statistics on a routine basis, particularly
aimed  at   providing  data   for  indexing   private  and   public
construction contracts and relating them to construction costs
(inputs/outputs);
(1) establishment of a consolidated national registry for civil and
building contractors;
(e)   assisting  contractors  in  the   establishment  of  an  effective
Contractors' Association;
(d)    establishment   or   identification,    within   the   Government
organization,  of  an  office   responsible  for  representing  the
interests of GOB in all matters related to the construction
industry, and for communicating with and supporting the domestic
construction industry;



-79-
Annex 3.5
Page 2 of 6
(e) preparation of draft legislation which would recognize construction
as an industry, and to extend to it the coverage of the duty and
taxation regimes which apply to other industries; and
(f) preparation of draft legislation to introduce modern and equitable
procurement and contracting procedures.
4.        The  medium-term objectives  of the  study focus  on improving  the
performance of the individual construction enterprises and include:
(a) identification of the major constraints which adversely affect
efficient operation of construction enterprises; and
(b) development of specific action plans aimed at resolving the key
constraints identified in (a) above.
II. SCOPE OF CONSULTANTS' SERVICES
The consultants will carry out the following tasks:
5.        To  examine and  evaluate in  general terms  the existing  domestic
mechanical, civil and electrical engineering contractors in Bangladesh, their
capital investments, organizational set-up,  personnel, construction methods,
equipment, previous experience, quality as well as volume of their previous
construction work, and assess the business environment in which they work.
6.        To assess in general terms  the national demand in construction for
the next five years in particular, and for the period of prospective plan in
general, and highlight the requirement of a reasonable development of the
construction industry.
7.        To  identify the  GOB office  or committee  1/ to  coordinate   GOB
actions in all matters related to, and for the dialogue with the construction
industry, to  propose  a  definition  of  its  responsibilities  and  of  the
resources to discharge them, and to draft a plan for its implementation,
including any necessary enabling legislation.
1/ One option may be to set up a small cell supervised by an
Inter-ministerial Committee.



-80-
Annex 3.5
Page 3 of 6
8.        To  prepare a  framework for  a construction  industry  information
system and related data bases which would centralixe collection, analysis and
publication of construction statistics, particularly in res;ect of cost
indices to be used in price adjustment, and to propose an action plan for its
establishment.
9.        To recommend  suitable modalities  for establishing  a consolidated
national registry for civil, mechanical, electrical and building contractors.
10.        To  suggest  ways  and   means  for  constituting  a  contractor's
association as representative of bonafide contractors and draft a charter for
the Association, according to which membership should depend on experience,
reliability, permanent suitable qualified professional staff and financial
strength.
11.       To  analyze the  institutional difficulties  and constraints  which
affect the construction industry and inhibit it from developing.
12.       To suggest remedial measures and specify  the action to be taken by
the agencies, in particular: .
(a) to identify the minimum equipment needed by a contractor in a
specified activity, taking into consideration those operations
where labor-intensive methods are technically sound and cost
effective with the appropriate blend of equipment;
(b) to assess the financial needs of the construction companies such
&a:
(i) minimum working capital;
(ii)  advance payment;
(iii)  bonds and bank guarantees; and
(iv)  amount in foreign currency  to cover purchase of equipments
and spare parts;
(c) to analyze the existing facilities for hiring out equipment and in
particular the newly-established equipment leasing company.
13.       To prepare a draft legislation which will recognise construction as
an industry and extend to it the favorable coverage of duty and taxation
regimes which is applied to other manufacturing activities.



-81-
Annex 3.5
Page 4 of 6
14.       To suggest  improvement of procurement  and contracting procedures,
standard tender forms  and fair general  conditions of  contract in  order to
limit unnecessary risk-taking by the contractor, eliminate impediments to the
straightening  of  the  industry,  stimulate   its  growth  and  elevate  its
competence and professional standing.
15.       To propose a  detailed action plan for  improving the efficiency of
construction enterprises including technical assistance to be provided to
contractors, and to draft terms of reference for the consultants and for the
COB office who will supervise the implementations of the action plan.
III. TASK AND REPORT SCHEDULE
16.       The  consultants will  submit reports  according to  the  following
schedule. All these documents will be prepared in close consultation with
GOB off cers and representatives of the contracting industry, to obtain as
far as possible their commitment to the various measures and actions which
will result or highlight differences in approaches. The consultant will,
however, have full responsibility for.the reports and recommendations. All
action plans will consist of programs and schedules for the various steps of
their  implementation;  they   will  specify  the   persons  or  institutions
responsible, the  methods to  implement the  plans, the  estimated costs  and
likely sources of funding and the standards by which to appraise and monitor
the results of their implementation.
17.       Inception  Report.  It  will  be  issued  three  months  after  the
starting date. It will comprise in particular:
(a) brief assessment of the construction industry and its business
environment (background paper); 2/ and
(b) framework for a construction industry information system and data
base and an action plan for its establishment.
2/ It will be guided by the "Framework Terms of Reference for Studies of the
Construction Industry in Developing Countries", included as Annex 1 of
the Construction Industry: Issues and Strategies in Developing Countries
(World Bank publication, February 1984).



-82-
Annex 3.5
Page 5 of 6
18.       First  Progress Report.   It will  be issued  six months  after the
starting date. It will. comprise in particular:
(a) framework for a consolidated national registry for contractors and
an action plan for its establishment; and
(b)  draft charter for Contractors' Association.
19.       Monthly  Summary Report.   They will  be issued  monthly  and  will
sunmmrize tasks completed or being carried out, problems encountered and an
updated study schedule and list actions expected from GOB.
20.       Draft  Final Reporte   It will  be  issued  ten  months  after  the
starting date. It will comprise in particular:
(a)   identification  of  GOB  office  to  take  responsibility  of  the
construction industry, definition of responsibilities and the
resources necessary to discharge them and an action plan for its
implementation;
(b)  draft legislation for recognition of the construction industry;
(c)  draft legislation  for procurement and  contracting of construction
work; 3/
(d)  analysis of  major constraints affecting  construction enterprises,
and definition of a general strategy for supporting the domestic
construction industry;
(e) detailed action plans for improving the efficiency of construction
enterprises, both building and civil engineering, including in
particular the strengthening of the road building contractors,
finalising and defining the details of the support actions proposed
to be carried out in coordination of the financial inputs from IDA
and ADB for road rehabilitation and improvement, and rural road
construction (they include the mechanisms for leasing of equipment
3/ Same as footnote 2.



-83-
Annex 3.5
Page 6 of 6
and   for   providing   technical   assistance   from   experienced
contractors); 4/ and
(f) terms of reference for the consultants and COB office, who will
supervise the implementation of the action plans to be implemented
as an immediate follow-up of this project.
ASPTR
March 31, 1987
4/ The detailed action plans should be few, and referred to the top
priorities identified in the overall strategy to avoid diluting the
support effort.



-84-
Annex 3.6
Page 1 of 5
B~~~~~~~ANGLADUSH
ROAD RUIABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
1.        Project Costs and Financing Plan are summarized in the tables on
the following  pages.  They  are based  on consultants  and the  appraisal
mission estimates, updated to May 1987 prices,
2.        The table  and graph on  the last page  show project comitments
(Commit.) and disbursements (Disb.) for the IDA credit, compared to the
*nine-year disbursement profile  for transportation  projects in  the South
Asia Region. Project disbursements are expected to be slower than the
profile for the first four years, thereafter faster than the profile, but
for this second  period, differences with  the profile  are less  than 7X.
The project price contingencies have been computed on the basis of the
Commitment Schedule (schedule of physical  execution and financial commit-
ment of project resources). The project disbursemnt schedule is derived
from the commitment schedule by introduction  of a disbursemezt lag of one
semester on average (during this period the contractor will execute the
works and prepare his bill; the supervising consultant and the Project
Civil Works Director will check the bill and certify it; ROD headquarters
will process it and prepare the disbursemeat request to be paid out of the
Special Account and then a request to replenish it will be sent to IDA).
3.        The project may  be implemented more  efficiently.  A reasonable
target would be to reduce the comitment schedule by one year and the
disbursement lag by one quarter. This would reduce the project's price
contingencies and thus total project cost by about US$2 million, and would
have no effect on the economic evaluation.
ASPTR
Nay 23, 1987



gm is A
335W   -        10 Is  on% IS       1 i   @t no  (tI o S          611    111l Is   i            UIt l a   "I o n     I   aI1 s      1   W'I on   t             *1W 1i 1mu  Ism
X                         -   U    -            -       - -            -     i   "Si   SW   U          I'  -         -         -     --            a      "      us        inI          1~113113111   iRis     I
t                MIS"            IW     so51      0 n    MO u   in91     13K   an6 In i    S is II l.  lEt    - It  U      "   NI an    effn     "$%   ti   16a                             S IM1113  11-S
to             ---------- -----    --------------------------------- -------__-------    -------    -------   ------__ -----    -----    -----    -----    -----    ------     -  ----___ __ __-_-__-___-
:  MIS   -   -    -    as                A IsI oiSl t                                                                                                                                   dtsI  u  I c l   et  n   n    e   a   a  1sl  I
mlo         --  *i                                  It -a --             - It              -     -     -                   1 *           a p    -                 s1111  mu ua    u Sa li I
m  1111  -      00o   11111  11141`11  ng       MIN      t       "Oll nm      i ^^11 nzj         n     SI   zc   tu    "B    0            at   on             S    lliUlllilta          Ol1 "
MIS    -         t11    to      MIS   us's    MISll  SK          -       -          ast   -       t    0    a6    3    3    LW          -     -                  U UAGOM
SKiS   -        tK            llotat InIS    I*'01       SKt I    t1    '11    SI    -           a    go    W       3      H5    se      SIt   61I   L I wlE i
tl  1 I
"Msts... OU.S% sWauss sinuses *us.....*41 u.sa.. 5e5s 8XSuSuu ..su*.u in.1.." RSaS". s*uas Sees*,.S**Bs us............... O...suav gs. us..
*0" -A     - MSG  NV"    -$ Wu  w-- tiva   |  *sA-5 11"-  WuX$     MOX$   *-8/-                                           $11411 $" "t   -F   s*    $"**    w-o  $$B-
1,101  IS/    56/Ni tU   U/S WU                IS/U     56    OU/        I/I    161'S IS/UIS/   3/IS1 tU/I  0/           IS/fl  W/ll 56I U
ee~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o, illivI110
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~ L                               U SSWSI _    'Sf.1
*~~~~~~~~~ Ul                                                                                     -t3Ct61  ISI W.LK* 
us Mi   me  -   gi  ;t9us  rn  AO  Wiz   4WOM i                                                         dsaswo ,
"8111.1St    1*3    -     Ut    5*1   ES   KS   385   fil  tn    St                                      59 x12SW8  1
siu       sUe      -8 II    19                                          t 111 5583 WI1a    s IUIISSIS~
-------  ------ ------  ------ -------  ------ ------  ------ -------  ------ ------  ------ -------  ------  -;_--    -----
Itssl     KII   -         1    15    LU   t        WI    WI OK    Us lt El                            SIhS3 UUIItOMIS 
.*         II *     -  -         -     -     - *1 S *              n     -m           sUUd IL1I111 U   3
6146(      111      -     t8    WI   III   SN   II    t0                               I*    11t it  SWIM 151  iOo5
4 -le  t       I       -  a      u     II #1 $*  I t               m It on     lhISI*IlS
Wi  555  -  -  -  -  -   U      0*      33    -              fUSS IhUhS              iUiflO    1
0i.      #ii   -          i   WS    IC    Wi    ifi    aI          911    -                  311  1w31u519 151
41'M6101pe                   go          6106 a s I        n   st i gA3111
m  It    t                               *| I_9a a     0                                  111a        n     31
MIN  0113    -                                A*~~~~11B    6 C stvoAM1S1110tl
~ 50        m~        r"".^
131_ _9 tSIS1* 88*0 UII *t_
-.  *   '.  - -      .  ..



MOg  u.AEiIral  .    * TUI:.  PO. STe
fiwag Pion^ by Sw"ty  Accouhts
IMTEUATOIIAL                   OVEOSE
K1Et      t T                               OWJUHE61 of
ASSOCIATION   OPEC - fM   AUIIUIST I P71O      1t1 MN      BMLAKSII  _       atel                     Local
-- - - --- - - - - -------  - -------           (Eol.   Outlas S
Mount -   -        t I                *      _t   *         ount   S                    vo*. Exob 5axeal    T akt
1. ISUlSWTfT COSTS
________________
A. Ututlt=t C         TITIVE       6       88.59   65    6000   6           -     -         -   -    39.10   29   138.355  a8         40,124   G8 .968     213
t LOCAL CETITIVE 3100136                     4.63t IT         -                             -    -     1.933   2      8.584    4        1,98     3,263     1.313
&  Otl3                                     811060           -   -       473     3     5.342  3         toe    I   14 69t   9         3.084    S. 508       la
Total IWISTlIEt COSTS                         101.39?  t5    8.000   5       479     0     5.342    3    41.810   2?   IS1.629  tO0      51,196   77.738    281.64
Total  1i*utsenIOt 101.9?  65    8000   5                                     470     0     5.342    3    41.810   27   15.8629  tO0      Slt9.6   71,738    2 6"9
yr 2t, t1S7
0'
MAO^ IlEUlASIII7AII ll3U0 lUlttEl ISCE 99tt5
Fiewciag Plso By Disburws t Catotby
anIIM  001
llttftUrlatZ                  OWElSEFS
OEVEIOPNElT                 OEVEIOPHE3t                  6am       I OF
ASSOCIATION  OPEC - fIMO  AUINIStISRIIO  P0S310t3 SOIP a    3IEUK015       Total                     Loca
mout  5    Amout I S          ount   *      Mount  S    Mout   I          boiht  I    For. Exch  Tan")    TaxS
33333333 333   333332 333    332333   333    333333  *33   3332233  333  22323333 2333  3233333333  3333333  23333333
I. tRtE5061 1                                         32,09S  5T    .000  14           -     -         -    -    1.233   29    SL328  35          t7. 495   27.561    11.246
2. t73*301  2                                          St5800  71        -  -          -     -         -    -   23.53C   2S    60.037   Si        22.6SU   41.401   tt6007     
AblateS UEIII9ILITAU M_NKS                                88.53a   65    8.000   6        -          -         -   39.770   29   138,355   87        40,124   6L.168    21.273            0
8. UIUTE3I3CE _MS                                          4.631  71        -   -         -     -         -    -      1,933   29     t .54    4       1. 38    3.263     1.313
C. TECHICAL JSSIST41tCE . fEtLOWSNIPS M  TINUINGS          8.770  60                    479     3     5.342   36       108    t    14. 9N    9        9.064    s.5e8       tOo
total *wsinbriot                                           101.697  a5    8.000   S       473     0     5.342    2   41.010  21   157,S29  t1o         51.196   77.731    2L8.94              .h
:*y:::s-w rsc 1367est tas  *ss-Xs:- :582t            ==: a :tt# even ::XsC::  ===a  *=massava=  W::-:au   xz=au=Uv
tby 21. top8



-87-
Annex 3.6
Page 4 of 5
no UUWILIIT&tU US UIUTIU2 ""a
USISIUTAT I    T 1 1111 "
....................... 3__ ._ ........U............
....  sas...... ,t**.... .... ....... .......... .
1. I StrIowItil  COSTS
6. IUTSUIA1IAUM. CSPETITIVE 6        1             1.312        2.039 ItS                    -             -                    3.061    Ws       me
6  LwOA  Ca IITITIVI stool"6                                                                    .                                 tos    Ws.        Is
c  O1,11                                                            -                                   21-             tI       3a      Ws.        n
........... ................ . ............  .... .......  ........ ......... ..................  ......  ....... ..........
TeotA  IUVISTII    COSTS                              1.322         1. on       13t           lis           t16             In    S. 04   0t.0        3
tol 6 111   COSTS                                      1.312         1. on       In           Its            ITS              t#    3.611  0.0        NO
R4vt..l Contl    Mie                                 lot         124          Is            is            a.               Is     30O    O          9
Pries Ce.tI.p iem1                                    416          303        4a             3I            36              Is      en6    Li        of
Total m6ST COST5                                       2.-20         1.06       t1             203           214             1*t    4.11    Li         44
saesseaaess 9*2easaaes eaease8 * se  aeaeaaaasa        s  aea e     sesaoease    ease       a        asase**
Tames                                                 504          301 3J                    41             3                        ?    6.9       I1
Ugus1*tgs1ugo                                         1*1          4           3            62              6             I"    1. L      6.1       146
.............................................. _....................................... .  ..,. . .......
an6 IINILITATIS US MAINTIUI 1161
Fir4wirg Ple  by Uorp  _sobar9 / ts  J tamTo
int=Ttt_t                      nuntttlit                      tO
6611L613h1                  KWLUpEIw     P651IIVI gmIEII  SF
,,fuATIlU   on  . -FM  U SISTiO, _NP _ W,,,,                          Ta
.... . "....... ......... ........ . .. ......... s".... ...... ...... .e.*
Nomt    burt                   boot awwn               hm.t ~mwa
aas5flASa     33333*            sauses  easseusa       kUaa seaeaceS
F.    e43.m                                      3.314              31    S.6 -U SIt5.
11.  leg1 allsS. T*_e               1S " 64    11,14                                       13.II1   11. in
111. tame.                                -            -.. -                        -4                54..  6
Total Psoet                                                                                 WI.,61  6  4  5.4  41.6W   t1,
~~~~~~~."*.-s" aXe.*.......................................... .. .......... !... . ...... . .
.. _.__.....,, 
NolS  I1   IT8TIOIU  Me m13t16C  Po          t
S1iswsot By Uiremie, By Samteto
INTEUTIU*tIUI            o0
Lo Ptr         am  - EI   @J VPOSSIIIBLtY P  nswmu            Of
USOCITIS    FMl  AUIIISIUTIIU   OUN  6SU101                     Total
........ ...... ......... .,....... ............ ......
_winrnt _                 _t  _                    _   _
i-tel.
X    ~~821" sUO                            w         S           t'nt
I                     IIS     32                                        To t3
2                   S.1T1    u3               25        254          1.1fi     I. tt
3                   3.826    83               1         264 -.1u               6.
4                   4.618    306               el    1.205           1.064    L.111
5             ~~~~~6.238    667           II     1.2061         2.145   11.011
6            ~~~~~10.230    66                     13           4. 204   16.31
1                  11.86f   1,00J                       no0           4.66    to, 6
8                  K1.8S    61                          412          4.6W3   1.121
I                  11. 13    603                        412          4. 2     11.011
10                 t,10.143    41                          -          4.04    14.664
11 6t66L                        "S U                                  3.4311  15t 3
122                   . I'm      2la                                  S.66     14333
13                  5 to3      61,                                    2.- Stl   6m
14                  3.930      3                                      1 .233    4. t
15                  1,141                        .         -            m        .
to                     952.                                             445    1.211
IS              ~~~~      ~~14?                                     el S 
-n ....a.......~.~-----.----.......                                   .      .
*ll.  t651                  tH                                 L 34,         4,.
ft It. Om



-88-
Annex 3.6
Page 5 of S
Disbursemet Sohedule
(US 8 Hillion)
<--Coamitments--> <---------- Disbursements ---------->
Fiscal   Date                       <--- Project ---> <---- Profil* ---->
Year            Cumulative        Cusulative         Cumulative
Semster      (lad Of)          Per Semster        Per Semster       Per Smester
-----------------------------------------------------------------__----------__-
1    87/68   Dec-8T      3.8      3.8       0.2      0.2      0.0      0.0
2            Jun-se      7.6      3.8       2.9      2.7      3.1      3.1
3    88/89   Dec-88     12.6      5.0       6.7      3.8      9.2      6.1
4            JuA-89     17.7      6.0      11.3      4.6     16.3      7.1
5    89/90   Dec-89     29.4     11.7      17.5      8.2     25.5      9.2
6            Jun-90     41.2     11.7      27.8    10.3    34.7        9.2
7    90/91   Dec-90     62.9     11.8      39.7     11.9    44.9      10.2
8            Jun-91     64.7     11.8      51.6     11.9    54.1       9.2
9    91/92   Doe-91     73.8      9.2      63.4    11.8      63.2      9.2
10            Jun-92     83.0      9.2      73.5    10.1      71.4      8.2
11    92/93   Dec-92     89.8      6.8      82.4      8.9     78.5      7.1
12            Jun-93     96.5      6.8      89.7      7.3     84.7      6.1
13    93/94   Dec-93     98.6      2.0      95.6      6.0     89.8      5.1
14            Jun-94    100.6      2.0      98.6      2.9     93.8      4.1
15    94/95   Dec-94    101.3      0.7    100.3       1.7     97.9      4.1
16            Jun-95    102.0      0.7    101.3       1.0   .101.0      3.1
17    96/96   Dec-95    102.0      0.0    101.9       0.6    101.0      0.0
18            Jun-96    102.0      0.0    102.0       0.1    102.0      1.0
110-
100 
U~~~~~~~~~~~
*go  .- -                            +     
so                          o   +
70-
so -
40-
20 
20             4
10      *
02
Wo57    W                 /a    I   ,       9/U  9    4 
a M  YP
U  Om*           4  01   -         AuU



Project Inpl*entattion Schedule
23-Nav-1987
987       ~1988            2989             1M019119                                         1993
3an Apr Jul Oct jan Apr Jul Oct Jan Apr Jul Oct Jan Apr Jul Oct Jan Apr Jul Oct Jan 2Ar Jul Oct Jan Apr Jul Oct
" SEN t1CON                       
5Stninu 
AC        OF EFFECTIVENSS
SOL-Von on   Con   act
O7SVFo ,o,al. 
Approved
Suemvnu
Contract Started
6 Conteract Sinowd
)tCk.i 1oiR
works 13
AW.2 it of N15
N54Ik  of N5
EtD TI
C) GW.PRl1CLR.NDTICE (Undt)
ssssssssw=n=.                .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   . , . . .                .   .     ,.  .   .   .   .P
0*
Road Rehabilitation And Naintenance Project



Project Inple ontation Schedule
23-NaY-1987
1987            1998             1989            19O              1991            1992             199
Jan Apr Jul Oct Jan Apr Jul Oct Jan Apr Jul Oct Jan APr Jul Oct Jan Apr Jul Oct Jan APr Jul Oct Jan Apr Jul Oct
TICHE 2 WORIS
Pro  al-
-i7ication Docu nts
(rw%uslification)
Diddin i
Uocuoents
St &nift
T2Contracts Sinned
"oWi2kat o* N5
"MO4 kn f NS5
MO  7s Ko   O                                 
31 2 kn of N46
8, kz5 of N74
END T2
JP. D MINT, ORS
Engineering
Works VIto
Works VY
Mo,*s   Y2                                                                    *_ __ __ __ _     n_
Morks Y3
END DK,
.
Road Rehabilitation And haintenance, Project
a



Project InPlementati*n Schedule
23-Nay- 1987
1987            1988             1969199                           1991            tIff             1993
Jan Apr Jul Oct Jan Apr Jul Oct Jn Apr Jul Oct Jan Apr Jul Oct Jan Apr Jul Oct J4a APr Jul Oct Jan Apr Jul Oct
F)xINWITUTIONAL DEU. PROG.
MtP                                  4 10
Rosd Master Plan
Prodoc 
Signed
Sine:d                                        * 0.
(Cntvact)
aorried Out
End RMP
Rd anten. Action Plan
Construction Ind. Study
Strried Out
Actjon                                                 4
2DP Ph I                                                                4 0
CO8f iMbursem,nt Of T2
IDP Ph 2                                                                                                     -
END tDP                                                                                                   4
........
C YMIS 31-DEC-95
DTEIS 30-JUN-96
0I.
Road Rehabilitation And Maintenance Project



-92-
Annex 4.1
BANCLADESH
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Sumoary Project Benefits
(Million Taka)
Highway     Hig hway     Highway       Road         Total
Banef Its               No. 5       No. 6        No. 74    Maintenance    Project
M.inten.nce Cost Savings         188.4      545.6        113.8        78.5        1,526.3
Vesiele Operating
Cost Savings                20,655.1  10,022.8      1,502.7      4,389.9       36,570.5
Pessenger Time Savings         2,332.6   1,476.0         195.9       793.2        4,797.7
Totq                          23t796.1  12,044.4       1,812.4     5,261.6       420894.5



-93-
Annex 4.2
BANGLADESH
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Sensitivity Test Results
Rehabilitation              Maintenance
ERR        NPV *          ERR         NV *
Variables                         X       Million Taka       Z      Million Taka
Base Project                     38.1        4,714         119.0        1,752
Cost 20Z Higher                  27.6        2,923          85.8        1,627
No Passenger Time Savings        29.3        2,802          86.7        1,383
Cost 20X Higher and No
Passenger Time Savings         25.3        2,336          73.5       1,320
* 15% discount rate.
ASPTR
May 22, 1987
r



98 890
BANGLADESH
NEPAL                  ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
NEPAL /                                                                                    _
/ SangIabandy5\                 P~ROPFED PROJECT                                                           EXISTING:
/wfm'        Road Rehabilitation             -        National Highways
i,mMM  Deferred MoIntenonce Program                   Regional Highway
V  >    L%~                        e ec5. **   **.  *  Feasibility Study Completed  -- -  Other Roads
-/  - -t  ^  <>4eegrrc.----  To be Studied  j  || Railroods
tl~V4    >.i-/ -,--   To be Studied                                           Rivers
.  ;E bZb   .   )\95  Q\TUS\E<\l           #              6t      Distrid Headquwrtors
District Boundaries
&FuiporaX  Ruhi             \      |-4p_or   DaZ    \                                           ---    International Boundories
26*                  Ba rdhia                                                                                                                  26
Hanipur"  r.&   .                                                                                     a00' nd tS excAw*V qft tO, 
J  J vX / 5 \ W             oojjj                                                                    .tJltWomt >ae otThre Si_tOvtwto   , Fe s * w 
0 1              *110~~A tMe ktteMehnh FMnC
R                     CA.ooat- al jgs@  g   0tFtus" t  me boud6 tse 
~~NGPUR  K ~~~~~o                        10e0W10~~~o rh 0w8* OO,100 S*ot
dtont '00   MA(
o*f VfltOty of anly
ea nw it or *cceOn  Oe o
INDIA                                                                                                                Lch Ooutda,tea
< t-0-                      s                                '%, '9 l INDIA
(8/' f ~~~~~~tri t  ,
BANJ4
2501                                                                                     s      ,      1      '  I                        25z
4 N:
EC/
_ ~~~~INDIA                                                                                                a  ; 
ARiA
*  2M    198A
INDIA
PHAKA
MAY 1987



