Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16809
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1827-BD)
June 26, 1997
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      =      Bangladesh Taka (Tk.)
May 1986    US$ 1.0       =     Tk.   30.90
May 1986    SDR 1.0       =     US$   1.306
June 1996    SDR 1.0      =     US$   1.447
August 1996  US$ 1.0      =     Tk.   42.01
April 1997   US$ 1.0      =     Tk.   43.65
WEIGHTS AND MEASIURES
Metric                          US System
1 meter (m)               =     3.2808 feet (ft)
1 square meter (m2)       =     10.764 square feet (sq.ft.)
1 cubic meter (m3)        =     35.315 cubic feet (cu.ft.)
1 kilometer (kIn)         =     0.6214 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)    =   0.3861 square mile (sq.mi)
1 metric ton              =     2,204.6 pounds (lbs)
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ACRONYMS AND ABBREYIATIONS
ADB          =     Asian Development Bank
DCA          =     Development Credit Agreement
ERR          =     Economic Rate of Return
GOB          =     Government of Bangladesh
IBRD         =     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB          =     International Competitive Bidding
ICR          =     Implementation Completion Report
IDA          =     International Development Association
LCB          =     Local Competitive Bidding
MOC                Ministry of Communication
MVOC         =     Motor Vehicle Operating Cost
NPV          =     Net Present Value
ODA          =     Overseas Development Administration
OPEC-Fund  =       OPEC Fund for International Development
PCWD         =     Project Civil Works Director
RHD          =     Roads and Highways Department
RMP                Road Master Plan
RMSS         =     Road Materials and Standards Study
SAR          =     Staff Appraisal Report
TOR          =     Terms of Reference
UNDP         =     United Nations Development Program
Vice President     Mieko Nishimizu
Acting Director    Fakhruddin Ahmed
Division Chief     Marie Robinson
Staff Member(s)    Mohiuzzaman Quazi/Stein Lundebye



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1827-BD)
PREFACE            IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
EVALUATION SUMMARY                                                     ii
PART I:      PROJECT IMLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.    Statement/Evaluation of Project Objectives                1
B.    Achievement of Project Objectives                         3
C.    Major Factors Affecting the Project                       6
D.   Project Sustainability                                     7
E.    Bank Performance                                          8
F.    Borrower Performance                                      9
G.    Assessment of Outcome                                     9
H.   Future Operations                                          10
I.    Key Lessons Learned                                       11
PART II: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1:    Summary of Assessments                              14
Table 2:    Related Bank Loans/Credits                          15
Table 3:    Project Time Table                                  16
Table 4:    Loan/Credit Disbursements                           16
Table 5:    Key Indicators for Project Implementation           17
Table 6:    Studies Included in Project                         18
Table 7:    Project Costs                                       18
Table 8:    Project Financing                                   19
Table 9:    Economic Costs and Benefits                         19
Table 10:    Status of Legal Covenants                          20
Table 11:    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements      22
Table 12:    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs                       22
Table 13:    Bank Resources: Missions                           23
APPENDIXES
A:   Borrower Contribution to the ICR
B:    Economic Re-evaluation
C:    ICR Mission's Aide-Memoire
D:   Map: IBRD No. 20236R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1827-BD)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Road Rehabilitation and
Maintenance Project in Bangladesh, for which Credit 1827-BD in the amount of SDR 78.10
million (US$102 million equivalent) was approved on September 2, 1987 and made effective on
February 25, 1988.
The loan was closed on December 31, 1996, compared with the original closing date of
June 30, 1996. Final disbursement took place on May 7, 1997, at which time a balance of SDR
7.01 million (US$9.7 million equivalent) was canceled. Co-financing for the project was
provided by OPEC-Fund (US$8.0 million), ODA (US$0.5 million) and UNDP (US$5.30
million).
The ICR was prepared by Mohiuzzaman Quazi, Transport Engineer/Task Manager
(SAIBG), and Subhash Seth, Consultant Highway Engineer (TWUTD), and reviewed by Arun
Banerjee, Manager (Energy and Infrastructure Unit - SAIBG), Stein Lundebye, (Senior
Transport Engineer - SAlIN), Jaswant Channe (Consultant, SAIIN), Mrs. Marie Robinson,
(Chief- SA1IN) and Fakhruddin Ahmed, (Acting Director - SA1). The borrower's comments
are included as appendix to the ICR.
Preparation of the ICR began during the Bank's Supervision Mission carried out in
October 1996. It is based on material in the project files. The borrower contributed to
preparation of the ICR by preparing their own evaluation of the project's execution, and
commenting on the draft ICR.






ii
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    Bangladesh is one of the poorest countries in the world with a per capita income of
about US$240. Its economy is affected by major transportation constraints caused by a
combination of geography, nature and climate. Most of the land area is flat, low-lying and
criss-crossed by rivers which are major obstacles for on land transport in the country. In
addition, Bangladesh is prone to natural disasters including abnormal flooding and cyclones.
Transport demand in the country has grown at a much faster rate than GDP since the mid
1970s - more than 8% per annum for passengers and 6% per annum for freight traffic,
compared to a GDP growth rate of about 4% per annum during the same period. The Road
Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project (RRMP-I), successfully completed on December 31,
1996, emphasized an integrated program for the modernization, rehabilitation and maintenance
of roads to support the Government's efforts to restore its road network to a maintainable
level. Because of the extent of the needs and GOB's limited absorptive capacity at the start of
project in 1987, the RRMP focused on the major trunk roads and bridges in the northwestern
part of Bangladesh, which is a food surplus area.
Project Objectives and Description
2.    The objectives of the project were to: (a) reduce transport costs of passengers and
goods, in particular for food products, by restoring the most important major trunk roads in
northwestern parts of Bangladesh to maintainable condition; (b) introduce institutional and
technical improvements in the programming of works, the administration and maintenance of
the road system and in technical standards and materials; and (c) upgrade the capabilities of the
local contracting industry to undertake larger road works as an alternative to inefficient and very
small size contracts.
3.    The project had the following components: (a) the civil works program included 305 km of
road rehabilitation and 335 km of deferred maintenance on important main and trunk roads and (b)
an institutional development program which included: (i) preparation of a Road Master Plan
(RMP) for identifying road projects and ranking them in terms of priority; (ii) implementation of a
Road Maintenance Action Plan (RMAP) for improved road maintenance; (iii) carrying out a Road
Materials and Standard Study (RMSS) to establish technical standards; and (iv) preparation and
implementation of an action plan to strengthen the domestic construction industry.
4.    All the objectives were in line with GOB policies and IDA's strategy for sector
development, which aimed at lowering overall transport costs and increasing efficiency of the
transport sector. The project civil works components and institutional development program
were well linked to the project objectives. The first objective rightly emphasized lowering of
transport costs on major trunk roads which is essential for the development of a competitive
economy. The second objective, to introduce institutional and technical improvements was very
important for Roads and Highway Department (RHD) because its organizational capacity to plan
and prepare maintenance program was very weak at the start of the project and the Government
was embarking on a major effort to upgrade the country's road network. Similarly the third
objective of upgrading capabilities of the domestic construction industry was absolutely necessary



iii
to implement road works through large contracts as an alternative to very small contracts, which
RHD had previously used.
Inplementation Experience and Results
5.    The project was successful in achieving its principal objectives.  The objective of
lowering transport costs was substantially achieved by completing all the agreed road
rehabilitation works in quantity and quality by their scheduled target dates. The objective of
strengthening institutional and technical capacity was only partially achieved due to a lack of full
commitment and leadership on the part of RHD. The objective of upgrading domestic
construction industry was substantially achieved. In general, the physical and private sector
development objectives were substantially achieved; institutional objectives were partially
achieved, and environmental and sector policy oriented objectives were achieved to a
considerable extent even though these objectives were not applicable as part of the project. The
improved roads significantly reduced the vehicle operating cost, maintenance cost and passenger
travel time, thus providing substantial benefit to the users and providers of road transport.
6.    The physical work under the project was divided into two tranches. Under Tranche I
contracts, 136 km of road rehabilitation work was completed, although abnormal (100 year
return) floods in 1987 and 1988 led to some cost overruns and implementation delays. Under
Tranche II contracts, 149 km of road rehabilitation was completed, compared with 169 km
agreed at appraisal. Rehabilitation of the remaining 20 km was not found justifiable due to the
uncertainty in fixing the alignment of the road which was to link the proposed bridge over river
Padma, for which the site had still not been finalized. Tranche H contracts were completed on
time and showed financial savings because most of the contractors were mobilized early. Only
53 km of deferred maintenance works were completed, compared with 335 km agreed at
appraisal. The scope of works for the remaining 282 km of roads was substantially changed
since the 1987 and 1988 floods caused so much damage that these roads could not be repaired
through maintenance and had to be rehabilitated. As a result of the floods, an IDA-financed
Flood Rehabilitation Project (Cr.2048-BD) was approved and implemented, which included the
necessary road rehabilitation works. The two-tranche approach for rehabilitation works was
considered necessary because: (a) RHD had limited managerial and financial capacity; and (b)
the availability of construction materials and skilled manpower was also very limited.
7.    The institutional development component included the following: (a) to improve road
investment planning, the preparation of Road Master Plan (RMP) was carried out under UNDP
financing. The RMP has proved very instrumental in identification of prioritized and
economically viable projects. The main objective of RMP was to assess the optimal investment
balance between construction and maintenance of national and regional roads. The RMP is
regularly updated; (b) to strengthen maintenance management of RHD, pilot testing was carried
out in the northwest project area for implementing the recommendation of UNDP financed
maintenance study executed by ADB. The results were not very encouraging because the
methodology adopted for maintenance management was outdated compared with modem
methods which are more efficient and cost effective. However, with the support of ODA
financing, under a follow-on IDA project (Second Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project -
RRMP-II), a modem maintenance management system based on Highway Design and
Maintenance Model (HDM) analysis is presently being implemented with the support of foreign
consultants; (c) to develop geometric and structural standards for road pavement, a Road



iv
Maintenance Standards Study (RMSS) was carried out under EEC financing. The consultants
have produced an excellent report and its recommendations are being reviewed for
implementation under RRMP-II, (d) to develop the construction industry, a study was carried
out and based on its recommendation it has been possible to reduce the import duty on road
construction equipment significantly. Formation of joint ventures between foreign and local
contractors; provision of domestic preference to local contractors and reduction of import duty
on equipment helped the local contractors tremendously. The capacity of local contractors has
enhanced to such an extent that several local contractors will now be able to compete with the
international contractors both in Bangladesh and in other neighboring countries.
8.    The project benefits in travel time reduction, lowering of transportation costs, enhanced
road safety facilities derived from the completion of road rehabilitation works are substantial.
However, the long-term sustainability of physical works will only be possible if GOB continues
to show a strong commitment in the planning and implementation of road maintenance programs.
The goal of the Institutional Development Component (IDC) under the RRMP-II is to provide a
safe, cost effective and well maintained road network. Given RHD, with support of IDC under
RRMP-II, has adequate technical, financial and institutional capacity, the sustainability of the
road network in future is no longer a concern. The Bank performance was satisfactory in the
identification and preparation phase. During project implementation, the Bank-Borrower
relationship was beneficial and productive. The Bank performance in supervision was highly
satisfactory in both quality and quantity. The borrower performance has been rated as highly
satisfactory for the implementation of civil works component and satisfactory for implementation
of the institutional development program. The project outcome is satisfactory. Based on final
construction costs (increased due to the change in scope of work of the 1987-88 flood, see para.
12), the sub-projects produces an EIRR of 17%, compared with 38% at appraisal.
Key Lessons Learned
9.    The key lessons learned from the project are as follows:
X An efficient and effective maintenance management system needs to be in place to ensure
sustainability of road improvements. This requires substantial changes in the procedures
for maintenance planning, funds allocation, implementation modalities, accountability of
expenditures incurred, and monitoring of results achieved.  New  procedures and
capabilities are being developed under the on-going follow up Credit, but their success will
largely depend on strong leadership, organizational changes, and commitment of both GOB
and RHD staff to maintenance of national and regional road network. In this regard, the
institutional development component of the on-going RRMP-II is focusing on institutional
changes in RHD towards strengthening their maintenance capabilities.
* To ensure the integrity of road networks, the issue of vehicle overloading and axle load
control is an issue of major concern. This needs coordinated efforts from all concerned
agencies in both the public and private sectors. The GOB needs to review its legislation
and take appropriate measures in providing adequate institutional, financial and commercial
arrangements to ensure effective enforcement of axle loads.
* With roads improved under the project, the speed of the vehicles has increased and so
correspondingly has the number and severity of road accidents and fatalities on some inter



v
urban sections of the project roads due to lack of enforcement. To improve road safety the
following actions must be undertaken: (a) carry out road safety audits at the planning and
design stage of road rehabilitation works; (b) develop a comprehensive road safety action
program with participatory approach of all governmental agencies and NGOs, and (c) GOB
to start implementing remedial measures at accident black-spots on major roads on priority
basis.
*  There is also a need to streamline the procurement processing of GOB for the award of both
consultancy and construction contracts, which on many occasions has caused long delays in
awarding of the contracts.
* Supply of bitumen from the Government refineries was often inadequate. The GOB should
explore the possible options of increasing the production in order to meet the growing
demand for bitumen; meanwhile the importation procedures must be simplified to allow
augmentation of bitumen supplies produced in the country. The possibility of the use of
alternate "bitumen emulsion" materials on road works needs to be thoroughly investigated.
*  The cumbersome bureaucratic procedures for custom clearance to import materials and
construction equipment into the country cause tremendous delays and heavy losses for both
the local and foreign construction companies based in Bangladesh. There is a definite need
to continue to improve, facilitate and expedite custom clearance procedures for contractors
attempting to import materials and construction equipment from foreign countries.
-  To ensure full benefits of the training sub-component under the institutional development
components, it is important to develop a comprehensive training program in close
consultation with the borrowers.



I
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
Background
1     The maintenance and modernization of the country's road network remains a critical factor in the
economic development of Bangladesh. It is one of the poorest countries in the world with a per capita
income of about US$240. Its economy is affected by major transportation constraints caused by a
combination of geography, nature and climate. Most of the land area is a low-lying, nearly flat, fertile,
alluvial flood plain, and criss-crossed by rivers which are major obstacles for land transport. In addition,
Bangladesh is prone to natural disasters including abnormal flooding and cyclones. These constraints lead
to lower efficiency, higher transport costs and unreliability, with major adverse consequences for the
economy such as increased marketing risks, quality deterioration, lower prices for farm products, and
failure of delivery schedules in exports. IDA's report on Agriculture Diversification (May 1995) clearly
identifies inadequacy of transport infrastructure as a major constraint for economic growth.
2.    Transport demand in Bangladesh has grown at a much faster rate than GDP since the mid 1970s -
more than 8% per annum for passengers and 6% per annum for freight traffic, compared to a GDP
growth rate of about 4% per annum during the same period. The Government has followed a consistent
strategy in recent years to improve the highway network in order to meet the transport demands, which
have been growing faster as the country continued to move from a subsistence economy to a more market-
based economy, and with more industrial and export related activities. The Road Rehabilitation and
Maintenance Project (RRMP), successfully completed on December 31, 1996, emphasized an integrated
program for modernization, rehabilitation and maintenance of roads to support the Government's efforts
to restore its road network to a level at which it can be maintained by normal procedures. Because of the
extent of the needs and GOB's limited absorptive capacity at project start in 1987, the project focused on
the major trunk roads and bridges in the northwestern part of Bangladesh, which is an area of surplus
food production. The current transport demands, however, would require much greater effort than in the
past in dealing with the country's major transport bottlenecks and in removing the existing physical and
organizational constraints. The opening of the Jamuna Bridge expected in June 1998, will generate
substantial traffic on the project roads.
Statement of Objectives
3.    The objectives of the RRMP, as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) were to:
(i)   reduce transport costs of passengers and goods, in particular agricultural products, by
restoring the major trunk roads in northwest Bangladesh to maintainable conditions;
(ii)  introduce institutional and technical improvements in the programming of works,
administration and maintenance of the road system and in technical standards and
materials; and,
(iii)  upgrade the capabilities of the local contracting industry to undertake major road contracts
as an alternative to small and inefficient size road contracts.



2
4.    To achieve these objectives, the project had the following components:
(a)   The civil works program included: (i) carrying out a two-phased program of rehabilitation/
reconstruction of about 305 km of roads and bridges in northwestern Bangladesh; (ii)
carrying out a program of deferred maintenance works on about 335 km of other major
roads in northwestern Bangladesh; and (iii) preparation of detailed engineering studies and
supervision of the project civil works;
(b)   The institutional development program included: (i) preparation of a Road Master Plan
(RMP) for identifying future projects for road construction, rehabilitation and maintenance
and ranking them in terms of economic priority; (ii) implementation of a Road
Maintenance Action Plan (RMAP) for improved road maintenance which included the
provision of funds for road maintenance activities, maintenance by contract and related
training of Roads and Highway Department (RHD) staff, carrying out a Road Materials
and Standards Study (RMSS) and the establishment of a Planning and Monitoring Cell;
and (iii) carrying out a Construction Industry Study (CIS) and, based on its findings,
preparation and implementation of an action plan to strengthen the domestic construction
industry.
5.    The project component relating to carrying out of 335 km of deferred periodic maintenance was
significantly modified due to the occurrence of severe floods in the years 1987 and 1988. As a result of
floods, most of the project roads included in the periodic maintenance program were damaged to a large
extent, which necessitated the formulation and implementation of a separate IDA-financed Third Flood
Rehabilitation Project (FRP). The FRP approved on June 1989 and implemented during the years 1989-94,
focused on, inter alia, rehabilitation of the affected roads. Out of the 335 km of periodic maintenance
originally planned under RRMP, 282 km were seriously damaged by floods and these were rehabilitated
under FRP. Therefore the periodic maintenance works on the remaining 53 km not affected by the floods
were carried out under RRMP. Due to floods, the scope of work on other project roads selected for road
rehabilitation was also increased.
Evaluation of Objectives
6.    All the objectives were in line with the Government's policy and IDA's strategy for sector
development including lowering of overall transport costs and increasing efficiency of the transport sector.
The project civil works and institutional development components were well linked to the project
objectives and mainly focused on: (a) restoring, through rehabilitation and maintenance, priority road
network in the northwestern region to a maintainable condition; (b) strengthening the institutions
concerned with road transport infrastructure; (c) establishing an effective roadway maintenance program
in the region; and (d) training RHD staff in planning, design and supervision of road works. The project
objectives were clear, realistic and achievable within the limited  management capacity of the
implementing agencies.
7.    The three project objectives were stated in order of priority.  The first objective rightly
emphasized lowering of transport costs because road transport consistently increased its share of both the
passengers and freight traffic. From about 35% of the total ton-km in 1974/75, the road transport share
rose to about 61% in 1992/93. The passenger traffic share also rose from 54% to 75% during the same
period. The objective of reducing transport costs on most important major trunk roads: 267 km long



3
Highway N-5 between Nagarbari and Saidpur, 197 km long Highway N-6 between Kashinathpur and
Nawabganj, and 37 km long Highway N-74 between Khushtia and Dashuria, was most demanding and
very timely for RHD. Project preparation work confirmed that the existing pavement showed high
deflections and rehabilitation works, if carried out, would bring the following benefits: (a) vehicle
operating costs savings, about 85% of the project benefits; (b) road maintenance cost savings, about 4%
of the project benefits; and (c) passenger time savings, about 11% of the project benefits. The inclusion
of deferred periodic maintenance program for priority national and regional roads was also very
appropriate to achieve the objective of lowering transport costs because it can slow pavement deterioration
and allows rehabilitation to be postponed for a few years.
8.    The second objective, to introduce institutional and technical improvements, was very important
for RHD because its organizational capacity to plan, program, budget and financial management was very
weak, and the GOB was unable to properly identify and implement projects to be financed in the road
sub-sector. At the time of the project start, routine and periodic maintenance was generally inadequate
and more than one third of the roads and bridges were in poor condition and needed urgent repairs.
Therefore the institutional objectives of RRMP-I were to prepare RMP and RMAP, to carry out a Road
Materials and Standards Study, to improve planning, management and training with the support of
appropriate technical assistance programs were very crucial for the enhancement of managerial and
technical capabilities of RHD.
9.    Similarly the third objective of upgrading capabilities of the domestic construction industry was
absolutely necessary to: (a) undertake road works through large contracts as an alternative to small and
inefficient contracts; (b) identify changes needed to develop a more efficient industry; (c) increase the
benefits to Bangladesh generated by construction projects, through local contractors for which the
contracts were generally implemented by foreign contractors. Given the government's bureaucratic
procedures and limited institutional capacity of RHD, project objectives at (i) and (ii) (para 3) were
ambitious. Project design was appropriate in terms of formulating project components and the number of
agencies responsible for implementation. Co-financiers (OPEC Fund and UNDP) participated in project
execution. A good analysis of all the possible risks was carried out at the appraisal stage and actions
taken to mitigate all the probable risks. Agreements to all actions critical to project success were reached
with the GOB at the time of negotiations and credit effectiveness.
B.   ACEIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
10.   The project was successful in achieving its principal objectives. The objectives of lowering
transport costs for passengers and goods were substantially achieved by completing most of the
rehabilitation works on the major trunk roads. The objective of strengthening institutional and technical
capacity in planning and programming of roadwork, maintenance management of the road network, and
improvement of technical standards was partially achieved. The objective of upgrading the capabilities of
domestic contracting industry in implementing road works was substantially achieved, although the
objective of gradual phasing out of the inefficient force account works was only partially achieved. A
detailed overview of the achievement of objectives is provided below under the following headings: (i)
physical objectives; (ii) institutional objectives; (iii) sector policies; (iv) private sector development; and
(v) environmental objectives.



4
Physical Objectives
11.   Rehabilitation Works: These works were carried out in two tranches because: (a) RHD had
limited managerial and financial capacity to implement the project in parallel with other projects in the
sector; (b) the availability of skilled manpower and construction materials was limited; and (c) tranching
permitted maximum involvement by the local construction industry. Under Tranche I all 136 kIn of road
rehabilitation works were completed by the target date. Under Tranche II, 149 km were completed
compared to 169 km planned. The completion of the remaining 20 km was not found justifiable because
this particular section of the road was supposed to connect to a bridge over the river "Padma" (Ganges)
for which the exact site could not be finalized during the project implementation period. The 305 km of
completed work included: (a) 224 km of National Highway No-5, section from Nagarbari to Pirganj; (b)
68 km of National Highway N-6 - section from Kashinathpur to Pabna, which includes the 5 km long
Pabna Bypass; and (c) 13 km of National Highway N-74 - Paksey Ferry Road. The road rehabilitation
works comprised reconstruction to meet adequate technical standards, widening of embankments and
pavement, laying of bituminous overlays and widening or reconstruction of bridges. The quality of the
completed works was acceptable and helped improve road safety, ease traffic congestion, and provided
good riding quality.
12.   During 1987 and 1988 heavy rains and flooding occurred in the project area. Several portions
of the existing highway (Highway N5) submerged and many drainage structures washed out. The
flooding over the road also caused considerable scour of the road embankments. Some unavoidable
delays were experienced in the construction of Tranche-I contracts which required re-design and
revised drainage implementation process. The cost for six contracts (due to increased scope of work
and delay in the start of work) under Tranche-I increased between 8% to 50% and the earthwork
quantity increased between 18% to 92% compared to the bid estimate. These substantial cost increases
reduced the IRR of the project (see para. 8). Due to favorable weather condition all the Tranche-II
contracts were completed within the time schedule and within the bid amounts.
13.   Deferred Maintenance Works: Only 53 km of deferred periodic maintenance works were
completed, compared with the 335 km agreed at appraisal (see para 5 for details). National and regional
roads were selected based on economic priority whose maintenance were long neglected on account of
financial constraints and had created a backlog of periodic maintenance. The implementation of the
deferred maintenance works was considered a necessary compliment to the program of rehabilitation
works, and it helped slow pavement deterioration and prolonged the serviceability of the roads.
14.   Additional Works: Due to the reduction in the scope of deferred maintenance work, there was
some savings in the credit. Some part of the savings were utilized to construct 89 No. parking areas
for bus stops along with project roads at a cost of Tk.48 million (US$1.1 million equivalent). These
parking areas are expected to improve the road safety situation within the project area.
Institutional Objectives
15.   Road Maintenance Action Plan: To strengthen the maintenance management function within
RHD, the project carried out a road maintenance action plan (RMAP) as recommended by a UNDP
financed Maintenance Study, executed by ADB. As part of RMAP, a pilot study related to road
maintenance was tested in Rajshahi District of the project area to separate maintenance from construction
activities. The results of the study were not very encouraging since the pilot project had been formulated
on the basis of the study, and was not based on the most modern techniques of managing road



5
maintenance, which are more efficient and cost-effective. This situation is in the process of being
corrected by RHD who have now started implementing a modem maintenance management system, based
on annual road condition and traffic surveys and allocation of maintenance funding on the basis of a
Highway Design Model (HDM). This work is in progress under the follow-up RRMP-II.
16.   Road Materials and Standards Study: Road standards being used by RHD at the project
appraisal stage were not found appropriate in terms of both geometric and structural parameters of the
pavements for various types of roads classified as national, regional, secondary and feeder roads. As a
result a study on road material and technical standards was carried out during project implementation with
the following key objectives: (a) develop pavement construction and maintenance techniques and to
prepare appropriate technical guidelines for RHD staff; (b) develop a catalogue of pavement structures
for Bangladesh; and (c) draft an uniform set of road construction and maintenance standards (geometric
and other essential parameters).  The consultants produced an excellent report which is very
comprehensive. Unfortunately, RHD did not make much use of the study recommendations due to lack
of commitment on part of RHD management. Under the follow-up RRMP-II, RHD is making efforts to
review and implement the recommendations with the support of foreign and local consultants. A revised
and condensed manual has been produced and RHD has agreed to implement its recommendations to the
extent that RHD's managerial and technical capacity permits.
17.   Training:  RHD staff were trained by the supervision consultants in planning, design and
supervision during implementation of both the rehabilitation and the deferred maintenance works. The
training program included on the job training as well as class room courses. Some local contractors were
also trained.
Sector Policies
18.   Road Master Plan:  In the past, road expenditures on both new capital investments and
maintenance had been inadequate and there were no well defined priorities or criteria for the allocation of
funding for investment and maintenance works. In recognition, a study was carried out under the project
with the support of UNDP financing. A five year road development plan was prepared which has proved
very instrumental in identifying and prioritizing road projects, which are economically viable for
implementation. The main objectives of the RMP were: (a) to find the optimal investment balance
between rehabilitation of national and regional roads; (b) to find the optimal balance between investments
and maintenance; (c) to define the basic grid on which the highway network should develop and for each
segment of the grid, the optimal phasing of investments and maintenance over time; and (d) to provide
data to the Planning and Monitoring Cell (PMC) for preparing and updating an inventory of RHD roads.
An HDM unit has consequently been established in RHD and one of its main functions is to update the
RMP at regular intervals.
Private Sector Development
19.   With the general objective of developing a more efficient domestic contracting industry a study
was carried out with the following key objectives: (a) to prepare draft legislation which would recognize
construction as an industry and to extend to it the coverage of duty and taxation regimes which apply to
other industries; (b) to prepare draft legislation to introduce modem contracting procedures; (c) to
establish a consolidated national registry for civil and building contractors; (d) to assist contractors in the
establishment of an effective contractor's association; and (e) to identify the major constraints which
adversely affect efficient operation of local construction enterprises. The objectives were substantially



6
achieved. Import duties on road construction equipment were reduced significantly which contributed to
lower the overall road construction costs. Furthermore, the capacity of a number of local contractors was
enhanced to such an extent that some local contracting companies are now able to compete with the
international contractors.  The objective of promoting the private sector in carrying out periodic
maintenance works financed under GOB's recurrent budget and supervised by RHD, was only partially
achieved because RHD has not been able to maintain the quality of work to acceptable technical
standards. This objective is being pursued under the follow-up of RRMP-II.
Environmental and Social Objectives
20.   Given that all the road rehabilitation and maintenance works were carried out within the existing
road reserve, no specific environmental objectives were required to be achieved under the project.
However, the project contributed to the general enhancement of the environment in the project area by the
provision of the following measures: (a) construction of new and improved culverts to improve the
drainage system; (b) comprehensive tree planting along the road embankments; and (c) improving road
safety by constructing a number (32) of new bus lay-byes in the urban areas along the project roads.
Compliance of Covenants
21.   There were 17 covenants under the project, of which 12 were complied with, 5 were not fully
complied with.  Of these 5 covenants, 3 of them related to the type of sectoral/cross-sectoral
policy/regulatory/institutional action; the other 2 related to management aspects of the project and
accounts/audits and flow utilization of project funds. Steps are being taken under RRMP-11 to improve on
these short comings of RHD.
C.   MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
22.   Factors not Generally Subject to Government Control:  The devastating floods of 1987-88
seriously delayed the start of the Tranche I rehabilitation works and greatly increased the scope of both
the rehabilitation and deferred maintenance works.
23.   Factors Generally Subject to Government Control: There were some delays in: (a) customs
clearance of construction equipment and spares, (b) relocation of public utilities and (c) decision-making
in processing of contract awards. This delayed completion of Tranche I rehabilitation contracts by about
18 months.
24.   Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control:  An additional four periodic
maintenance contracts were tendered in 1995. However, due to delay by GOB in decision on awarding
the contracts, only one contract could be awarded.
25.   Cost Changes: The contract amount for the Tranche I rehabilitation works was TK 1,594 million
and the amount of the final payment was TK 1,982 million, an increase of 24.3%. The large majority of
this increase was on account of additional scope of work (mainly additional bridges) needed for the
existing roads as a result of the damages due to the severe floods in 1987-88. The contract amount for the
Tranche II rehabilitation works was TK 3,247 million and the final payment is expected to be TK 2,948
million, a decrease of 9.2%. This savings is mainly due to reductions in the General and Miscellaneous
Items in most of the contracts. Despite changes in costs in some project components, there was no overall



7
cost overrun because savings under some components were reallocated to other components.  The
increased cost in the civil works due to flood damage had an impact on lowering of the EIRR.
26.  Implementation Delays: The credit was signed on September 2, 1987, and was declared effective
on February 25, 1988, about three months behind schedule. The civil works for Tranche I rehabilitation
were given notice to proceed (NTP) on March 1, 1988. However, due to the floods in 1987 and 1988,
the contractor's mobilization was slow and additional time was required for the redesign of the drainage
structures proposed to be constructed under the project. Time extensions ranging from 6 to 18.5 months
to be accorded. This in turn delayed the implementation of the Tranche II rehabilitation works. Tranche
II rehabilitation contracts were signed on January 31, 1993 and the contractors were given notice to
proceed in March 1993. These contracts were completed well within the contract periods, with the
exception of one bridge which experienced delays due to high water levels maintained by a newly
constructed irrigation embankment by Bangladesh Water Development Board (unforeseen at the time of
tendering). The Borrower requested an extension of the scheduled credit closing date to December 31,
1996 to cover completion of this bridge and replacement of two washed out culverts (completed under
Tranche I) with two bridges. These culverts were washed out during severe localized floods in 1995 due
to diversion of water flow created by the construction of new flood protection embankment by Water
Development Board.
D.   PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
27.   The benefits in travel time reduction, lowering of transportation cost and enhanced road safety
derived from the completion of road rehabilitation and periodic maintenance contracts are substantial.
However, the long term sustainability of physical works are likely only if the GOB continues to show a
strong commitment in the planning and implementation of the road maintenance program. At credit
closing, RHD does not have a separate road maintenance division, and it is not clear if the completed
roads have been included in the RHD maintenance program, which is yet to be established. However, the
GOB recognizes the need for improved maintenance and has substantially increased the maintenance
budget in recent years, although the budget allocations are not based on a prioritized road maintenance
program. Under the follow-up IDA project RRMP-II, the GOB has introduced, with ODA-financing, an
IDC whose basic goal is to strengthen the institutional capacity of RHD to ensure a safe and maintained
road network. Under the IDC there are nine sub-components, including a separate component exclusively
aimed at improving RHD maintenance management. Under the maintenance sub-component RHD, with
support of the foreign consultants, has placed special emphasis on the following: (a) to carry out road
condition survey and traffic count surveys every year; (b) to organize training program for improved
road maintenance in every zone; and (c) to prepare a prioritized maintenance program at the HDM circle
at headquarters based on economic analysis. It is believed, therefore, that RHD is in a position to
establish a maintenance management system and the sustainability of the project roads can, therefore, be
achieved.
28.   The overloading of pavements beyond the legal axle load limits on certain completed roads
section is a critical issue in as far as the sustainability of the project roads is concerned. On IDA's
recommendations, and continuous follow-up during project implementation, RHD will purchase mobile
weigh bridge equipment and try to enforce axle load limits on project roads more vigorously.



E. BANK PERFORMANCE
29.   Identification and Preparation: The project was identified in discussions between GOB and the
IDA. The project design was consistent with the Government's development priorities and IDA's
assistance strategy for the country. The project also met the increased demand for the road transport
sector because it focused on the country's need for an integrated program for road construction,
modernization, rehabilitation and maintenance. The selection of the project area in the northwest region
of Bangladesh was most plausible and appropriate, given the fact that a parallel Asian Development Bank
(ADB) project covering the most important sections of the major trunk roads in the south and east. An
agreement was reached with GOB and ADB on a division of the roads to be selected for carrying out
feasibility studies and financed on a common approach for maintenance standards, institutional matters
and cost recovery issues. The feasibility study and detailed engineering design, including preparation of
bidding documents for Tranches I and II, and deferred maintenance works were carried out with the
support of consultants engaged under UNDP financing, with IDA as executing agency. Bank's
performance in dealing with the GOB, UNDP, ADB and the consultants during project identification and
preparation was highly satisfactory.
30.   Appraisal:  The Bank reviewed the project reports prepared by the consultants during the
appraisal stage thoroughly and correctly selected the most economically viable sub-projects for
rehabilitation and deferred maintenance works. The need for splitting the works in two tranches was very
thoughtful and appropriate, given the GOB's limited implementation capacity and to permit the maximum
involvement of local construction industry. In designing the IDC, the Bank correctly addressed the key
issues of: (a) improved plaming and programming of road works; (b) preparation of long-term road
master plan; (c) implementation of a road maintenance action plan; and (d) to carry out Materials and
Standards Study. The IDC did not place sufficient emphasis on the design and implementation of a
training program. The project included training of RHD staff with the support of supervision consultants
only but did not clearly define the level of staff to be trained and the areas of training. Although the SAR
did not specifically mention the training of contractors, a few contractors were also trained. The Bank did
not pay adequate attention to road safety issues and poverty reduction issues were also not dealt with
explicitly, as these issues were not fully emphasized at the time of project preparation.  The
implementation strategy for the pilot test scheduled to be carried out under the proposed RMAP was
neither adequately focused nor clearly defined. As a result, no conclusions could be drawn from the pilot
project component. Overall, the Bank's performance in this aspect was mixed, very satisfactory in the
appraisal of civil works component and marginally satisfactory for the other components.
31.    Supervision: The quality of Bank supervision was very professional, objectively oriented, and
based on a solid understanding of the Borrowers institutional capabilities and the Bank's policies and
procedures.  During project implementation, the Bank-Borrower relationship was beneficial and
productive. Project implementation progress was reported adequately. Implementation problems were
correctly identified, adequately assessed and provided appropriate performance ratings in the supervision
Form 590. Credit covenants were enforced and remedies exercised. Sufficient advice was given to the
implementing agencies and the follow up actions were more than adequate. The timing of supervision
missions were appropriate and the time spent in the field was sufficient. On the whole the Bank's
performance in supervision was highly satisfactory both in quality and quantity .



9
F.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE
32.   Project Preparation:  The project was prepared with the support of consultants and the
borrower's performance in reviewing the project proposal with respect to technical, economical and
implementation arrangements was satisfactory. The rehabilitation and the deferred maintenance works on
national and regional highways were selected based on economic evaluation, which was found justifiable
and acceptable. The selected project roads were of high priority and had deteriorated to the extent that
the major repairs needed were beyond the institutional, financial and technical capacity of the RHD. The
borrower's performance in the preparation of the institutional development program, particularly the
preparation of RMP, carrying out of Road Material and Standards Study, and in implementing the road
maintenance action plan on a pilot basis, was consistent with RHD needs. Even with capacity constraints,
the borrower's role in monitoring the preparation of detailed designs and contract documents was
significant.
33.   hnplementation Performance: The civil works component was implemented by the Additional
Chief Engineer (RHD) who established his office in the Northwest region (project area) and reported
directly to the Chief Engineer (RHD). The institutional development component of the project was
implemented by the Additional Chief Engineer (Special Projects), with the exception of the RMSS study
which was implemented by the Additional Chief Engineer (Planning and Development).  The
Construction Industry Study was supervised by the Ministry of Planning. Although this arrangement for
project implementation was found satisfactory, lack of ownership and proper coordination among the
various agencies involved hampered the progress of the institutional development components of the
project. RHD's performance in managing the civil works component of the project was highly
satisfactory. Most of the civil works were completed within the target dates and the quality of the
completed civil works was found acceptable. Some delays were experienced in the award of Tranche II
contracts due to dealing with contractor's complaints, challenging GOB's decision to award only one
contract to each contractor. However, this was a learning experience for RHD and it has since adopted
corrective measures by awarding more than one contract to the successful bidders. The performance of
consultants and contractors engaged in implementation of project activities was found satisfactory by
RHD. However, the consultants training program was not very effective due to lack of interest of RHD
staff outside the project area.  The availability of GOB counterpart funding was timely and the
implementing agencies showed adequate commitment in compliance of the major credit covenants. At the
beginning of the project, GOB's counterpart funding was supplemented by USAID support through the
PL-480 program. Recent axle load surveys have shown excessive overloading that may significantly
reduce the design life of the road improvements. However, RHD is planning to use mobile weigh bridges
to control everloading and to strengthen enforcement of axle-load limits on its road network. The
Borrower complied with IDA guidelines on procurement and disbursement, although there were some
extended delays that occurred in submittals of audit reports. Overall, the borrower's performance during
implementation was satisfactory.
G.   ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
34.   The project achieved most of its major objectives, substantially or partially, despite the difficulties
that occurred due to the major floods of 1987 and 1988. Besides significantly reducing the transportation
costs on National Highways N-5 and 6, the rehabilitation works implemented under the project also
contributed in reducing traffic congestion and provided good riding quality. The construction of bus lay-
byes adjoining the road pavement greatly contributed in improved road safety. Provision of additional
drainage structures and tree plantation along the sides of the roads helped in improving the environment.



10
The institutional development program helped in the preparation of long-term RMP and establishment of
technical standards. In implementing the RMAP the outcome was less satisfactory because its results
could not be replicated to improve maintenance management. The outcome of RMP proved very
beneficial in identification of road investment and updating of road inventories. The results of Road
Material and Standard Study was very satisfactory, though it could not be implemented due to inadequate
organizational capacity of RHD. The construction industry received a powerful impetus as a result of the
project. The customs duty on road construction equipment was significantly reduced; the cumbersome
bureaucratic procedures for custom clearance were simplified and delays in the processing time were also
reduced. Several local construction companies prequalified for international bidding and a number of new
contractors have emerged. The training of contractors was successful, though the quality of maintenance
works through contracts still remains a major issue. Given the substantial outcome in the case of civil
works component and marginal outcome of the institutional development program, the overall assessment
of the project outcome can be rated as satisfactory.
35.   Economic Re-evaluation: Table 8 summarizes the economic re-evaluation of all sub-projects,
except deferred maintenance works. Due to the 1987-88 floods, the scope of deferred maintenance works
was substantially reduced and therefore it was not considered appropriate to carry out the economic
reevaluation for these sub-projects. Based on final construction costs and most probable estimates of
maintenance costs, investments made on road rehabilitation projects for National Highways N-5, N-6, and
N-74 produced EIRR of 17, 14 and 13% respectively, compared with 34%, 30% and 28% respectively.
Based on final construction costs, the project produced an overall EIRR of 17%, compared with 38% at
appraisal. The reason for lower EIRR than the appraisal is the cost overrun, because the scope of works was
increased due to severe floods of the year 1987-88 (see para 12 for further details). The computed ElRRs
also underestimate the full benefits of the project as they do not include benefits due to increased traffic
safety, quality of service and convenience to road users on the improved facilities, which are a substantial
outcome of the road project improved under the rehabilitation program. The existing traffic levels were
obtained through traffic count surveys and the growth rate of 10% annually have been assumed for the
computation of benefits. Overall, the final EIRR on project completion is satisfactory as even with the
higher construction costs positive rates of return were generated. The ultimate beneficiaries of the completed
projects will be the road users who, due to diversity of the traffic using the road network, come from a wide
range of sectors and income groups.
H.   FUTURE OPERATIONS
36.   Since most of the civil works include rehabilitation and deferred maintenance on existing national
and regional highways, no formal plan of operation was established. However, to ensure routine and
periodic maintenance of the improved roads, RHD has initiated under the follow-on IDA-financed
RRMP-II, a comprehensive IDC with ODA financing. The IDC is aimed at, inter alia, strengthening the
institutional and technical capability of RHD, and to introduce maintenance management with the support
of foreign and local consultants. Since the start of RRMP-II in 1994, RHD and IDC have succeeded in
training staff in the field divisions to carry out road condition surveys every year and prepare maintenance
programs at headquarters, based on the HDM. In addition, IDC has also introduced a bridge management
system and has trained RHD staff in the preparation and implementation of a bridge maintenance
program. The HDM circle with the support of IDC consultants, have introduced a Geographical
Information System (GIS), which should help in the planning and preparation of future road investment
and maintenance programs. The IDC is a large project component comprising 9 sub-components, and its
implementation is in progress to achieve the common goal of ensuring a well maintained and safe road
network. Therefore, RHD has made all necessary arrangements, including technical planning, collection



11
of field data, budgetary provisions, and trained staff to carry out the road maintenance of completed
roads.
37.   Basic performance indicators needed for the operational phase of the project including
international roughness index (IRI), classified traffic counts, road condition surveys, axle-load surveys,
road accidents based on computerized analysis, would be monitored by RHD for the following purposes:
(a) preparation of maintenance program; (b) improvement of road safety; and (c) lowering vehicle
operating costs. Given that RHD, with support of IDC under RRMP-II, has adequate technical, financial,
and institutional arrangements in place, an efficient and effective operation of future projects is no longer
a concern. At the same time since institutional improvements are a long-term and continuous process,
follow-up projects must always place great emphasis on RHD's institutional development programs.
I.    KEY LESSONS LEARNED
38.    The key lessons learned from the project are as follows:
*  To avoid long delays in relocation of public utilities interfering with the project civil works, GOB
should ensure that all public utilities are relocated prior to the award of the contracts.
*   RHD requires an efficient and effective maintenance management system to be developed and
maintained to ensure sustainability of road improvements. This will require substantial changes in
procedures for maintenance planning, funds allocation, implementation modalities, accountability of
expenditures incurred, and monitoring of results achieved. New procedures and capabilities are being
developed under the on-going follow up Credit, but their success will largely depend on strong
leadership, organizational changes, and real commitment of both GOB and RHD staff to road
maintenance activities.
*   To ensure the integrity of road networks, the issue of vehicle overloading and axle load control is
an issue of major concern. This needs coordinated efforts from all concerned agencies in both public
and private sector. GOB needs to review the appropriate legislation and take necessary measures by
providing adequate institutional, financial and commercial arrangements to ensure enforcement of axle
load control.
*   Due to the new road improvements, the speed of vehicles has increased, which has resulted in
increasing the number of fatalities and serious personal injuries and road accidents. To improve road
safety, the following actions must be undertaken: (a) carry out road safety audits at the planning and
design stage of road rehabilitation works; (b) implement a comprehensive road safety action program
with participatory approach of all governmental agencies and NGOs; and (c) strict enforcement of speed
limits.
*   Supply of bitumen from the Government refineries was often inadequate. GOB should explore the
possible options of increasing the production in order to meet the growing demand of bitumen; meanwhile
the importation procedures must be simplified to allow augmentation of bitumen supplies produced in the
country. The possibility of the use of alternate "bitumen emulsions" on road works needs to be
thoroughly investigated.
*   The cumbersome bureaucratic procedures for custom clearance to import materials and construction
equipment into the country cause tremendous delays and heavy losses for both the local and foreign



12
construction companies based in Bangladesh. There is a definite need to continue to improve, facilitate
and expedite customs clearance procedures for contractors attempting to import materials and construction
equipment from foreign countries, and streamline the procurement processing for award of contracts.
* To ensure full benefits of the training sub-component under the institutional development
components, it is important to develop a comprehensive training program in close consultation with the
borrower. The training program must include major activities, qualification of the participants, and
clearly defined implementation procedures.
* The staging of the project civil works in two tranches was very effective since it benefited both RHD
in building their institutional capacity and the local construction industry in their gradual development.



13
PART II
STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1:     Summary of Assessments
Table 2:     Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:     Project Time Table
Table 4:     LoanlCredit Disbursements
Table 5:     Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:     Studies Included in Project
Table 7:     Project Costs
Table 8:     Project Financing
Table 9:     Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:    Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:    Bank Resources: Missions



14
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. AchievemenLQf              Substantial      Partial       Negligible    Not applicabk
objectives
Macroeconomic policies            0              O               O              0
Sector policies                   0                                             [ H
Financial objectives              0              O               0l             0
Institutional development         0              0               0              0
Physical objectives               00                     0                      0
Poverty reduction                 0              0               E              E
Gender concerns                   0              O               O              0x
Other social objectives           0              0               0              0
Environmental objectives          0              O               0              03
Public sector management          0              0               0              0
Private sector development        E              0               O              O
B. Project sustainability         Likely              Unlikely            Uncertain
0                   0                    a
C. Bank Performance          Highly satisfactory     Satisfactory         Deficient
Identification                      0                     l                   0
Preparation assistance              E                    0                    El
Appraisal                           O                    0                    O
Supervision                         0                    o                    o
D. Borrower performance      Highly satisfactory     Satisfactory          Deficient
Preparation                         0                    0                    0
Implementation                                           E 0                  0
Covenant compliance                                      [R0                  E
E. Assessment of outcome        Highly       Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory   Highly
satisfactory                                 unsatisfactory
0              0              0               0



15
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK L,OANS/CRDIF)TS
Loam/Credit               Purps                 Year of Approval             Status
Preceding
Operations
1. Credit 408-BD    Construction of Feni Bypass            1973          Completed in 1979
First Highway
Project
2. Credit 964-BD    Construction of Chandi Bypass          1979           Completed in 1987
Second Highway      & Comilla Bypass                                  after a difficult
Project                                                               implementation period.
3. Credit 1301-BD   Strengthening of Feni Bypas            1982           Completed in 1986.
Supplemental
Following
operations
1. Credit 2569-BD   Construction of Jamuna Bridge          1994          Ongoing
Jamuna Bridge
Project
2. Credit 2638-BD   Initiate physical Road Master          1994           Ongoing
Second Road      Plan
Rehabilitation   (a) 168 km of rehabilitation
and Maintenance  (b) 100 km of widening
Project          (c) 1,800 km of periodic
maintenance
(d) technical assistance
________________ ==(e) institutional development    _                     ..



16
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in project cycle             Date Planned                    Date Actual
Identification
(Executive Project Summary)           October 1981                   June 23, 1983
Preparation                          February 1982            January 22 - February 5, 1985
Appraisal                            October 2, 1986              January 7 - 23, 1987
Negotiations                          May 11, 1987                 May 13 -19, 1987
Board Presentation                   April 14, 1987                  June 23, 1987
Signing                                June 1987                   September 2, 1987
Effectiveness                        October 1, 1987               February 25, 1988
First tranche release                October 1, 1987              September 20, 1987
Second tranche release               October 1, 1989                January 31, 1993
Project Completion                 December 31, 1995              September 30, 1996
Loan Closing                          June 30, 1996                December 31, 1996
TABLE 4: LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS:
CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
(US$ MILLIONS)
FY88  FY89  FY902 FY9   FY92  FY93  FY94E FY95  FY96  FY97
Appraisal Estimate     2.90   11.3  27.80  51.60  73.50   89.7  98.60  101.3  102.0  102.00
Actual                 4.85   7.03  16.82  25.12  33.18   46.0  62.79  79.47  94.47   96.50
Actual as % of estimate    167    64    61   49    45    51        64    78      93   95.00
Date of final
disbursement
Source of actual disbursement: Roads & Highways Department



17
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT EIPLEMENTATION
(SEE FOOTNOTE "A" BELOVV
Civil Works (by December 31, 1995)
1. Road Rehabilitation: 136km (Tranche 1)             1. Completed May 1993.
2. Road Rehabilitation: 169km (Tranche 2)             2. Reduced to 149km. Completed June 1996,
except one bridge (completed September 1996).
3. Deferred Maintenance Works: 335km                  3. 53km Completed September 1993. This work
(see foot note 'B" below)                             was reduced due to the 1987 & 1988 floods.
4. Additional Deferred Maintenance                    4. Additional maintenance utilizing savings
Works: 20km (by April 30, 1996)                       from loan. Completed May 1996.
5. 1995 Flood Repairs (of Tranche 1)                  5. Construction of two additional bridges under
Two Bridges (by June 15, 1996)                        Tranche 2. Completed August 1996.
Institutional Development Program
1. Road Master Plan (based on HDM)                    1. Completed 1992.
2. Road Maintenance Action Plan                       2. Agreed with RHD.
3. Road Materials and Standards Study                 3. Completed 1992.
4. Improve Planning and Management                    4. Cells Established.
5. Reorganization of RHD                              5. Completed October 1992.
6. Construction Industry Study (See foot note "C"     6. Revised January 1993.
below)                                                7. Completed November 1993.
7. Road users Charges Action Plan                     8. Several on-the -job and overseas training was
8. Training for RHD staff                             organized
9. Training for Contractors                           9. Contract management courses were organized
(A)  Key performance monitoring indicators were not specified during appraisal, however to evaluate project performance the above
indicators have been selected.
(B)  The scope of work for carrying out deferred maintenance was reduced because most of roads were seriously damaged due to
severe floods of the year 1987-88 and were in need for immediate rehabilitation. The rehabilitation works on such roads were carried out
under a separate IDA-financed project "Flood Damage Restoration Project".
(C)  Construction industry study completed and its recommendations are being implemented. Based on the recommendations the import
duty on road construction equipment has been significantly reduced, which road construction industry has benefited from and this has
also contributed to a reduction in the overall cost of road works in Bangladesh.



18
TABLE 6: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Study           Purpose s defnned at           Status                 Impat of'study
appraisallredefined
1. Road Materials  To develop geometric and       Completed    Its recommendations are being reviewed
and Standards     structural design standards for               by RHD with the support of foreign
Study             road pavement                                 consultants under the on-going project
RRMP-II.
2. Construction    Identification of the constraints    Completed    The skill and capacity of domestic
Industry Study    which adversely affect                        contractors have increased substantially.
operation of construction
enterprises
3 Road Master     To improve investment           Completed    The findings of the study proved very
Plan Study        planning for identification of                instrumental in the preparation of lending
economically viable road                      programs by the donor community
projects
TABLE 7: PROJECT COSTS
Appaisal Esimate (USSM)                 Actual (US$M)
Item          Local     Foreign     Total      Local    Foreign        Total
Costs      Costs                 Costs      Costs
1. Civil Works        71.2        40.6      111.7      84.35      50.24         134.59
2. Institutional       1.4         3.6        4.9        1.4        3.6           5.00
Development
Program
3. Physical            7.3         4.4       11.7       5.97          -           5.97
Contingencies
4. Price              26.7         2.7       29.3      11.04       5.13          16.17
Contingencies
TOTAL                 106.4       51.2       157.6    102.76      58.97         161.73
Source of actual figures: Roads & Highways Department



19
TABLE 8: PROJECT FINANCING
Appraisl Esti-teaSM                          Actual (USM
Source          Local       Foreign       Total       Local      Foreign        Total
Costs       Costs                    Costs       Costs
IDA                      58.2         43.8        102.0       46.43       55.57          102.00
OPEC                      4.6          3.4          8.0         4.6         3.4            8.00
ODA                       0.1          0.4          0.5         0.1         0.4            0.50
UNDP                      1.7          3.6          5.3         1.7         3.6            5.30
GOB                      41.8            -         41.8       51.73           -           51.73
TOTAL                   106.4         51.2        157.6      102.76       58.97          161.73
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
Appraisal                            Re-evauation
Rehabilitation     Length    AADT 1996        EIRR        AADT 1996              EIRR
Km
N5             219       2550-3250       34%          1812-2855              17%
N6              61        975-1725       30%            1543                 14%
N74             5.2          1725         28%            1543                 13%
Total Project      285.2                     38%                                  17%
Note: The deferred maintenance component of the project was not implemented fully.



20
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Agreement            7            70tV ;   f 0i000  0  00ltigilCovenantt Presedi0esent   Oi   Revisd  Description of Covenant
Sec i        Tytion] pe  Status    Frlfillm ent   Fulfillment                               Comments
____________        ________              Da~~~~ ~~~~~te  Date                                _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
DCA             3.01(a)                         C        Dec. 31,                 Rehabilitation and        285 km completed
Schedule 2 Part     10                    1995                   reconstruction on about 305   Oct. 1996
A.1                                                              km of roads and bridges in
NW Bangladesh
3.01(a)             10        CP         Jan. 31,                Deferred maintenance       53 km completed
Schedule 2 Part                           1992                   works on about 335 km of    Sept. 1993 after
A.2                                                              roads in NW Bangladesh     scope revised due
to 1988 flood
3.01(a)              5          C       Conditions               Supervision of the project    Complied with
6.01(d)                                    of                    civil works and detailed
Schedule 2 Part                        Effectivenes              engineering studies
A.3                                         s                                              _
3.01(b)              5         CP       Conditions               Appoint and retain a       Initially appointed
6.01(b)                                    of                    Project Coordinator        but not retained
Schedule 4 Item                        Effectivenes
I(a)                                        s
3.01(b)              5          C       Conditions               Appoint and retain a       Complied with
6.01(b)                                    of                    Project Civil Works
Schedule 4 Item                        Effectivenes              Director
I(b)                                        s
3.01(b)             12          C       March 31,                Commence Road Master       Road Master Plan
Schedule 4 Item                           1988                   Plan Finalize and ensure   completed in 1992.
2                                                                that all investments        RMP is being
substantially follow the  followed
Road Master Plan
3.01(b)             12          C         N/A                    Commence implementation   Complied with
Schedule 4 Item                                                  of the agreed Road
3                                                                Maintenance. Acting Plan
and ensure budgets will be
used exclusively for
_______    _________                 maintenance
3.01(b)             12         CP         N/A         Dec. 31,    Agreement on action plan    Revised study
6.01(e)                                                 1992     and initiation of its      completed Jan.
Schedule 2 Part                                                  implementation for         1993.
B.3                                                              construction industry      Implementation
Schedule 4 Item                                                  development                slow.
4
3.01(b)              5         C          N/A                    If land acquisition process    Complied with
Schedule 4 Item                                                  not completed, the
5                                                                alternative design on
existing acquired land will
be adopted.
3.01(b)             12         CP       June 30,    Dec. 31,     Prepare (by June 30, 1989)   Study completed
Schedule 4 Item                           1989.     1992         and updated (by Dec. 31,    Nov. 1993.
6                                                                 1992) of road user charges   Implementation
study, agreement on a     slow
revised schedule of charges
and its implementation
3.01(B)             12         C          N/A                    Commence Road Materials   Complied RMSS in
Schedule 4 Item                                                  and Standards Study &      1992.
7                                                                carry out such findings    Implementation
slow
3.01(b)              5          C         N/A                    Ensure that all contracts for  Complied with
Schedule 4 Item                                                  maintenance, the bidding
8                                                                documents and evaluation
methodology used will
follow the model prepared
by the supervisory
consultant
3.02                 3          C         N/A                    Procurement of goods,      Complied with
Schedule 3                                                       works and consultant
services to be governed by
l_______  ________   Schedule 3 of the DCA



21
Agreement                         Covenant  Present                   Revised      Description of Covenant
Section      Type        Status      ulfillr nt   Fulfillment                                Comments
.____________ ,__     .__:_             Date          Date
4.01               1 & 3       CD         Audited                 Maintain project records   Reply to IDA
within nine               and accounts and submit    queries often
months of                audited account with       delayed
fiscal year              opinion of auditor to IDA
end.
6.01(a)              4          C       Conditions                All conditions precedent to   Complied with
of                   the effectiveness of the
Effectivenes              OPEC Fund loan
s                    Agreement have been
fulfilled
6.01(c)              10         C       Conditions                Entered into contracts for    Complied with
of                    carrying out Phase I of the
Effectivenes              rehabilitation works
s
6.01(f)              5          C       Conditions                Project Proforma for       Complied with
of                    Project approved by
Effectivenes              Borrower
s
Covenant types:
I   =   Accounts/audits                                     7   =   Involuntary resettlement
2   =   Financial performance/revenue generation             8   =   Indigenous people
from beneficiaries                                 9   =   Monitoring, review and reporting
3   =   Flow and utilization of project funds                10  =   Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
4    =   Counterpart funding                                 11  =   Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
5   =   Management aspects of the project or executing agency    12  =   Sectoral or cross-sectoral policylregulatory/institutional action
6    =   Environmental covenants                             13  =   Other
Present Status:
C    =   Covenant complied with
CD  =   Complied with after delay
CP  =   Complied with partially
NC  =   Not complied with



22
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
No significance lack of compliance with any applicable Bank Operational Manual!
Statement (OD or OP/BP) was noticed
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Stage of project cycle       Planned                 Revised                    Atual
Weeks        US$       Weeks        US$          Weeks          US$
Through appraisal                                                            106.80        261.30
Appraisal-Board                                                               39.60         70.70
Board-effectiveness }
Supervision      }                                                           173.40        283.60
Completion                                                                      6.2           7.4
TOTAL                                                                         333.2        623.00



23
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSION
____________    Performance Rating
Stage of        Month/    Number of       Days In Field   Specialized    Implementation   Development  Types of
project cycle    Year      Persons                        staff skills   Status            Objectives     Problems
represented
Through         04/1986    2               15             TE, HE
Appraisal
09/1986    3               16             TE, HE, LEG
Appraisal       01/1987    2               16             TE, HE, LEG   -
through Board
Approval
Board           10/1987    1              22              HE
Approval to
Effectiveness
Supervision     04/1988    2               15             HE             i                 1              F
06/1989    2               13             HE             I                 1              -
03/1990    4               14             TE, HE,HE      1                 1
08/1991    2               12             TE             2                 1              M
0811992    3               16             TE,THE         2                 1              M
12/1992    5              22              TE,TE,HE       2                1              C
08/1994    3               12             HE,HE          HS                S              C
12/1994    2              12             HE,HE           HS               S              C
05/1995    3              20              HE,HE,HE       HS               S               C
11/1995    3              20             HE,HE,HE        HS               S              C
05/1996    3              22              HE,HE,HE       HS                S              C
Completion      10/1996    4              25              HE,HE,HE       HS               HS
Notes:
Ratings:     Minor Problem: I                   Highly Satisfactory: HS
Moderate Problem: 2               Satisfactory: S
Major Problem: 3                  Unsatisfactory: U
Highly Unsatisfactory: HU
Specialization: Transport Economist: TE
Highway Specialist: HE
Legal Expert: LEG
Problems:    Financial Problem: F; Management Problem: M; Covenant Problem: C



ANNEX A
BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR



Annex-A
THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
ROAD REHABILITATION & MAINTENANCE PROJECT
CREDIT NO.1827-BD
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
MINISTRY OF COMMUNICATION
ROADS & RAILWAY DIVISION



I
INTRODUCTION
1.     The people's Republic of Bangladesh has a Population in excess of about 120 million people and has an economy
which is largely dependent on agriculture. Bangladesh's surface transport system severely constrained by geography and
climate, and air transport has so far had limited impact. The country consists mainly of a flat alluvial Plain land. North-West
Bangladesh, bounded by the Padma/Ganges River on the south, the Jamuna/ Brahmaputra River on the East and the border
with India on the North and west is an important food surplus area of the country and depends on road and river transport to
move product to the other areas.
2.     IDA has supported this sector with three previous projects. The First one Credit 408-BD had included Construction of
the Feni Bypass satisfactorily completed but it had a premature pavement failure under unexpected axle loadings soon after
completion, in part due to poor design and workmanship. Credit No. 964-BD provided for construction of Chandina Bypass
and Comilla Bypass completed in 1987 after a difficult implementation period. Credit No.1301 -BD provided for strengthening
of Feni Bypass in Year 1982 and completed in 1986. The ongoing Second Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project,
Credit 2638-BD (SDR 103.90 million) which becomes effective in September 1994, is dealing with the rehabilitation and
maintenance of important road link and substantial institutional development.
3.     The parameters which the report includes are (A) An assessment of the project objectives, design implementation and
operation experience; (B) Benefits derived from the project; (C) Major factors affecting the project (D) Bank's performance;
and (E) Borrower's Performance The last part of the report will deal with conclusions and recommendation if any form the
lessons learned from the project.
A.    An assessment of the Project Concept
4.     The Country's inadequate road network was in dire need of an integrated program for construction, modernization,
rehabilitation and maintenance , to meet the burgeoning demand for road transport. Because of the extent of the needs and
GOB's limited absorptive capacity, the project focused on the major trunk roads and bridges in the Northwest Bangladesh,
which is an area of food surplus production.
The main objectives of the Project
5.     The main objectives of this project are as follows:
(a)    To reduce transport cost of passengers and goods, in particular food-related products, by restoring the most important
major trunk roads in the northwest of Bangladesh, the main food surplus region, to maintainable condition;
(b)    To introduce institutional and technical improvements in the programming of works, the administration and
maintenance of the road system and in technical standards and materials; and
(c)    To upgrade the capabilities of the local contracting industry to undertake road works as an alternative to inefficient
force account works.
Initial Operation
6.     The initial operation under the credit started in early January 1988, as the credit was only effective in December,
1987. Prequalification of contractors to under take the Civil works was completed by January 1987 followed by invitation to
bid. After receiving tenders were submitted to the Govt. of Bangladesh in April 1987. The contracts were awarded to the low
bidders in August 1987, with Notice to proceed issued on March 1, 1988.
Rehabilitation or reconstruction of about 305 Km. roads and bridges in North-West of Bangladesh.
7.     Rehabilitation or reconstruction of the major trunk roads in the North-west of Bangladesh was required to bring the
roads to maintainable condition to reduce transport cost of passengers and goods. The rehabilitation or reconstruction works
were carried out in two phases (trenches) and was scheduled to be awarded two years apart. This approach was primarily
adopted as:



2
(a)    GOB had limited absorptive and financial capacity to implement the project in parallel with other projects in the
sector.
(b)    Skilled manpower and construction material are limited.
(c)    Phasing will pernit the maximum involvement by the local construction industry
(d)    The average price per kilometer of work may be minimized.
8.     The Phase-I Contracts for 136.4 Km were awarded in August, 1987 and the Notice to proceed was issued on March 1,
1988. The major flood of 1987 and 1988 damaged most of the existing drainage structures, as a result the Consultant had to
reasses the requirement of additional drainage structures. Best on the assessment additional drainage structure were included in
the civil works contracts which resulted in the completion of the Phase-I works by about one year. Subsequently award of
Phase-II works were delayed by one year. Contracts totaling 149 Km were awarded in March 1993 and most of the work was
completed ahead of scheduled completion date.
9.     The Scope of works for Phase-I was as follows
Phase -I Detailed Description
Project #   Project Name       HWY #         From (Km)         To (Km)       Length (Km)
1/1     Hatikamrul           N5             48+500          78+000           29.5
1/2     Sherpur              N5             78+000         110+800           32.8
1/3    Bogra Bypass          N5            110+800         120+000            9.2
1/4    Mohastan              N5            120+000         128+260            8.3
1/5     Gabindaganj          N5            128+260         156+460           28.2
1/6    Pirgonj               N5            156+460         184+900           28.4
Total      136.4
10.    The Scope of Works for Phase-l1 was as follows:
Phase -II Detailed Description
Project         Project        HWY           From (Km)       To (Km)       Lengh (Km)
Name/Section l_l
2/lA      Bera                 N5            0+000          25+000
Ataikula            N6            0+000           1+000          26.000
2/lB      Bera                 N5           25+000          49+311         24.311
2/2       Rangpur             N5           148+900         217+207         32.307
2/3A      Ataikula             N6            1+000          20+000          19.000
2/3C      Ataikula             N6           20+000          35+000          15.000
2/3B      Pabna-Bypass         N6           35+000          46+600          11.600
2/4       Dasuria           N6 & 74         7+400          12+600          20.745
Dasuria             N6            0+000          15+545
Total     148.963
Deferred Maintenance work.
11.    The project included financing for a program of about 335 km of deferred maintenance of national and regional roads
of economic priority of Northwest.
12.    The principle objectives were the systematic and effective maintenance of some sections of roads (selected) to be
rehabilitated after about 3 to 5 years when time and money become available.



3
13.    Unfortunately, the serious monsoon floods of 1987 and 1988 greatly complicated the Periodic Maintenance Program
(PMP) works by causing a lot of PMP related road damaged, and changing the priorities of the works that was proposed by
the consultants earlier.
14.    A flood rehabilitation project (FRP) under IDA Credit No. 1876-BD took over most of the roads schedule for PMP
works and the PMP component was not required any more. Only two section of the roads i.e Bogra -Natore and Bogra-
Santhahar roads were eventually included for PMP since this section of roads were not covered under FRP.
Supervision of the work and detailed Engineering studies.
15.    An agreement was reached by GOB with the Annual Development Program (ADP) on a division of the roads to be
studied and financed and on a common approach to the standards of maintenance , institutional matters and cost recovery
issues on July 5,1985, a contract was signed with consultants Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation (SMEC), Australia,
for feasibility and Engineering studies for this project with UNDP financing (BDG/84/047, amount US$ 650000) and the Bank
as executing agency, Thereafter, the UNDP financing was increased to US$ 1,480,000 and the SMEC Contract amended to
cover a second phase, which extended the study to include detailed Engineering for road rehabilitation work, bidding
document and procurement assistant to GOB as well as a study of requirement on roads scheduled for deferred Maintenance
works.
16.    On 20th February 1988, a contract was signed with consultant Louis Berger International Inc, (LBII) USA, & SARM
Associates, Bangladesh for supervising the project work and to review and if necessary ,update bidding documents for phase
(trances)-II. The consultant was also involved to carry out the detailed Engineering and supervise the deferred maintenance
work and implement the training program of RHD staffs for planning, organizing and supervising of maintenance work
carried out by the Contractor.
17.    This Consultant was also responsible to carry out a revision of the detailed engineering and bidding documents for
reconstruction works of N6 Pabna-Rajshahi (130 Km) and N74 Pabna-Kushtia (37Km) in order to incorporate any lessons
learned from the basically similar works of the project and form the trial Section which had been included:
Design Consideration:
(a)    Roadway:
18.    Based on roughness and deflection surveys conducted during the detailed design process followed by additional
investigations on the existing condition of the roadway carried out by the Consultants Louis Berger International, Inc. (LBII),
it was confirmed that most of the roadway of Phase-I requires rehabilitation (reconstruction) and only 5 to 7 Km. of the
existed roadway was considered suitable for overlay. The initial design parameters were confirmed as adequate. Vertical
alignment profile was increased where required based on 1988 flood levels.
19.    pavement design for all of the Phase-II contracts adopted the full depth & full width reconstruction. The
reconstruction cross section format for Phase-I & Phase-II contracts are similar except for individual layer thickness. Both
design's are adequate in terms of Road Note's Chart 3 for T4 Traffic and S2 subgrade with Total thickness that are not
significantly different, but the refinement of the layering in Phase-II is expected to optimize strength progression in Phase-IT
to optimize strength progression from bottom to top giving better economics.
20.   It was the declared intention of the design Consultant (SMEC) and the IDA to prepare recommendations for pavement
revision based on the results of Phase-I, Pavement Trial for incorporation in to the Phase-II, design. It was, perhaps, optimistic
to the Phase-LI, design. It was, perhaps, optimistic to expect results from the Trial in a such a short space of time. However, the
only change in pavement materials for Phase-II constituted the adoption of lime stabilized subbase for two contracts eventually
reduced to one (contract 2/1B) because of the reluctance at that time of the contractor for 2/1A to undertake the stabilization.
(b)    Drainage:
21.    The drainage design for the projects included Phase-I (SMEC) were performed with the understanding that major
influence on the future drainage of these roadways would be affected by existing and proposed flood control Facilities. These
facilities were in the form of dikes, polders constructed, and to be constructed, as part of two major irrigation and drainage



4
schemes being planned and carried irrigation and Rural Development Board (Pabna Irrigation and Rural Development project
(PIRDP) and Sirajgonj Integrated Rural Development Project (SIRDP). The construction of these flood control projects was
believed to allow Phase-I design to be conservative in their concern for the threat of further flooding within the project limits.
22.    As a result of the 1988 floods significant damaged to number of drainage structures and bridges was experienced and
more seriously, a number of water control structures that were expected to adequately restrict future floods flows either failed
or were seriously damaged. A drainage re-design was carried out by LBII and a report was issued in February 1989, in order
to mitigate the problems.
Implementation:
(a)    Design:
23.    The full depth reconstruction procedures adopted for Phase-II appear quite satisfactory as opposed to a proportion of
the Phase-I contract works where the base of the original pavement was incorporated and the roadway rehabilitated with
additional aggregate base, any necessary widening and new full width surfacing. Although it might not appear convincing that,
after many years of natural consolidation and traffic compaction , the intensive survey of subgrade CBR on which the
pavement design has been carried out , the layering changes existed and the non-uniformity of the pavement layers, the
implementation of reconstruction appear to have merit.
(b)    The length and duration of Contracts:
24.    The average length of the Phase-II, contracts is about 21 Km. and with the exception of one small contract, contract
periods were either 2.5 or 3 years. Such arrangements proved quite gainful in completing the different contracts well ahead of
the scheduled completion dates.
25.    An examination of asphalt plant operation demonstrates the point that contracts of longer lengths and shorter
completion dates could be feasible. There were six plants in use in Phase-II of the project. Most were batch-mix plants, and
had outputs in the range of 80-120 T/hr. The total premix demand for Phase-II was around 200,000 tons spread over the full 3
years period. This figure equates roughly to one year's full output capacity of one plant and this can be regarded as running at
only 10-15% of capacity.
Road Master plan
26.    Road master plan (based on HDM) was completed in 1992. HDM has in the initial stage to identify future road
investment and ranking them interns of economic priority.
Road Maintenance Action plan
27.    Road Maintenance action plan has been prepared and IDA has agreed with RHD. Most of the elements of this action
plan are in the mid stage for implementing satisfactorily.
Action plan to strengthen the construction industry.
28.    A through investigation about the constraints, the industry is facing was done and an action plan of measures for its
development was prepared by bringing to Bangladesh international practices in the industry . The action plan was reviewed
with IDA and revised in January 1993. The agreed action plan is now in the stage of implementation.
B.    Benefits Derived from the project
29.    There are a number of benefits which emanated from the projects. The first and foremost is the rehabilitated road
sections thus reducing tremendously the vehicle operating costs and increasing the user benefit. Journey times have been
reduced to a great extent and Products movement have been eased.
30.    The objectives of the road rehabilitation and maintenance project have been fulfilled to the greatest possible extent.
Traffic conditions of HWY N-N5, N6 (Part) & N74 (Part) have greatly improved with the replacement of all narrow culverts



5
and most of the narrow bridges . The training in respect of programming of works, the administration and maintenance of the
road system improved the technical capability of RHD personnel and offered the knowledge in emerging trend in technology
in Highway sector.
31.    The basis of the Second Road Rehabilitation & Maintenance Project was conceived before the starting of this project.
The study (Feasibility and detail engineering) of N6 Pabna-Rajshahi and N74 Paban-Khustia was performed before the
starting of the project. But revision of detail engineering of the said roads was carried out during the implementation of this
project and the outcome of these studies are clearly visible benefit to the borrower.
32.    The assistance to the Local Contracting Industry enabled the borrower to improve the local construction industry. The
objectives of this component were to improve the road maintenance works executing system by introducing 'contracting'
rather than 'force account' and this can only be done by increasing the capabilities of the local contracting industry.
C.   MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT.
33.    The factors which were mainly affecting the project were as follows:
(a)    Devastating flood in 1987 and 1988.
(b)    Delay in removal of trees, delay in Custom clearance, delay in shifting of under ground telephone cables in Phase-I
(c)    The Contractor's own inability to organize and manage the project efficiently in Phase-I.
D.   BANK'S PERFORMANCE
34.    During the implementation of the project the Bank staffs and management as a whole were very cooperative. The
project was supervised by two task managers during its lifetime. Organizational changes in the Bank did not affect the
performance of the Bank on the project. The Bank's performance in identifying the project was excellent. The Bank's
concurrence in investing in drainage re-design in flood affected road and bridges was appreciable. The Bank's performance in
coordinating the various donor agencies was quite good. The resident office based in Dhaka through its official has been
providing Co-operation, assistance and necessary information form time to time for the successful completion of the project
The Bank's mission visit for monitoring the project has been quite good in providing suggestion and advice for the successful
completion.
E.  BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
35.    Borrower's Performance are as follows:
(a)    Co-ordination and accountability should be improved in order to avoid the delay among the various offices of the
Ministries of Bangladesh.
(b)    The IDA'S guidelines on the procurement of civil works and Consulting services have been fully followed by the
borrower.
(c)    The project Civil Works Director always provided latest status of the project pertaining to its physical and financial
progress.
Key Lessons learned that may be relevant In the future.
36.    Over all, the Borrower learned a number of lessons relevant for the future during the implementation of this project.
Key lessons learned are as follows.
(a)    Co-ordination among the concerned Ministries should be improved.
(b)    The acquisition of land, including relocation of utilities, should be completed before the start of the Construction
works.



6
(c)    MOC/MOF (NBR) should closely coordinate to ensure timely clearance of imported equipment and materials
required under the contracts.
(d)    The Engineer and the contractor are required to submit the lists of the construction equipment required for the
project well before the start of the project so that approval for the customs clearance could be obtained in time.
(e)    The Engineer should submit the detail property acquisition and removal of forest cover during and after survey and
process for the acquisition should start before the start of the project.
(f)    Specifications of the works should be suited to the local conditions.
(g)    Measures should be taken to minimize the accidents in highways.
(h)    Local contractors can perform fairly good at low cost as seen in the case of IDA financed HWY N-N6 Ataikula
Section.
(i)    Maintenance of project Road after its completion should be considered as top most priority to get full benefit of
completed road.
(j)    RHD's Supervision strength & their remuneration should be in conformity with that of consultant's
supervision strength & remuneration.
Key Lessons learned in respect of Design
a)     Pavement Design
37.    Payment Designs using Estimated standard Axle Load as verified during design periods., with traffic forecast and
estimated traffic growth on an average annual basis over 10 to 20 year periods are proving to be ineffective due to
unpredictable increase in single axle loads.
38.    Stricter legislation and implementations are indispensable failing which the roads tend to fail prematurely and results
in higher maintenance or reconstruction costs. Slow moving Cycle Rickshaws, Rickshaw Vans and bullock carts invariably use
the asphalt concrete surface course, thus forcing the heavier commercial Vehicles to the mid portion of the carriageway. As a
result, traffic tends to straddle the center line, so localizing the structural stresses. It is important that consideration is vital for
separate paved lanes for slow moving traffic near villages where ribbon developments exist.
b)     Drainage and waterway Criteria:
39.    The Criteria followed to design bridges and drainage facilities need a vigorous analysis and systematic coordination
with the BWBD, and BADC, in order to determine the possibility or the extent of flooding in a given project area. Many
failures or overtum of drainage structures have been the result of inaccurate assumptions or unusual circumstances.
C)     Periodic Maintenance:
40.    The systematic and gainful use of construction materials, the use of modem and intemationally accepted techniques
for the maintenance works, the detailed analysis, Data base, maintenance management skills, contractor development,
equipment and most importantly the quality control and close supervision were found to be positive manifestation which could
be readily applied in Bangladesh.



ANNEX B
ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION



Annex-B
ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION OF RRMP
RRMP-I was broken down into two components known as Phase-I and Phase-2 which were scheduled to
be started in mid 1987 and mid 1989 respectively and last for three years in each case. As it turned out
Phase-I contracts were all delayed whilst Phase-2 did not start until 1993 and has only just finished. All
Phase-I contracts were on the N5 whilst Phase-2 consisted of contracts on both roads.
The re-evaluation was conducted for each individual contract and the results aggregated to give project
wide comparisons with the SAR. Two contracts were not included: 2/lA as it is still not finished and 1/3
(Bogra bypass) as it was not a rehabilitation project and should have not been included in the appraisal
study as such.
The analysis was conducted using the HDM model and considering each contract as one link.
Construction costs were obtained from the completion report for Phase-I and from the Office of the
Project Civil Works Director (PCWD) for Phase-2. Maintenance costs are RHD standard rates.
Traffic data was obtained from the 1995/1996 RHD National Traffic Census conducted under the ODA's
IDC project and validated with three additional counts conducted specially in November 1996 by the
PCWD.
Road geometry data was obtained from as built drawings. Condition data was assimilated from the Road
Master Plan and 1995/1996 Road Condition Survey (IDC).
The analysis was conducted over a twenty year design life and all costs were expressed in 1996 prices
discounted at 12 per cent. In the first case the HDM model was run using the best estimates of values in
the SAR to validate the methodology. The results of this run were in line with the SAR findings and all
schemes were feasible. Traffic and construction values were then changed according to the post
construction data collected and HDM was re-run. Two runs were conducted to reflect current uncertainty
regarding traffic growth rates. The first used a rate of 8 per cent per annum and the second a higher rate of
10 per cent. The results are presented in Table 1.
Table 1 Results of Economic Re-Evaluation
Appraisal                                 Re-evaluation
Rehabilitation   Length Km  AADT 1996    EIRR           AADT 1996     EIRR
N5            219          2550-3250     34%            1812-2855     17%
N6            61           975-1725      30%            1543          14%
N74           5.2           1725         28%            11543         13%
ria--:i    a<.1  .-. .<.'.   -    -..    .  !   -.-
Note: The maintenance element of the project was not implemented.
The results show that the rehabilitation program as a whole was economically viable, with an EIRR
between 14 and 17 per cent. Schemes on the N5 generated higher returns than the N6, principally because
the traffic volumes are higher on the N5.



2
There are two principle reasons for the poor performance of the contracts compared with the appraisal
forecasts; increase in construction costs and variations in traffic volumes.
Phase 1 contracts started on time but were delayed by the very severe 1988 floods (a hundred year flood)
which resulted in severe embankment erosion and damage to pavements. This obviously delayed
completion and entailed cost over n s due to re-instatement works. Despite this all Phase 1 contracts
were still economically viable. Actual traffic flows on the N5 were about 19 per cent lower than those
forecasted which also accounted for the lower returns. As traffic growth rates were accurately forecasted
(between 5 and 10 per cent per annum) this is probably due to incorrect counts during the feasibility
study. These problems are common to all projects in Bangladesh where unreliable counts, coupled with a
poor understanding of temporal variations in traffic flow, often lead to erroneous traffic forecasting.
These problems are being addressed in the Institutional Development Component of RRMP-II which has
started a national traffic census and is introducing automatic traffic counters for important routes.
The Phase 2 contracts generated less economic returns than Phase 1 and two were marginal. As traffic
forecasts were more accurate than for the Phase 1 roads this was mainly due to much higher construction
costs than those predicted in the appraisal. In fact contract bid prices were almost double (in real terms)
those on Phase 1, probably due to new specifications following the 1988 flooding.
Overall, the project was well conceived and robust as it still generated a viable rate of return despite
severe damage from some of the worst floods in recent times.



ANNEX C
ICR MISSION'S AIDE-MEMOIRE



September 22, 1996
BANGLADESH
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1827-BD)
WORLD BANK SUPERVISION MISSION - SEPTEMBER 08-OCTOBER 03, 1996
AIDE-MEMOIRE
I. INTRODUCTION
1.       This aide-memoire records the findings of a World Bank Mission comprising of
Messrs. M. Quazi, Task Manager (SA1BG), S. Lundebye, Transport Engineer (SA1IN), J.
Channe (Highway Engineer/Consultant), SA1IN and S. Seth (Consultant) (TWUTD). The
mission was assisted by Mr. A. Banerjee, Unit Chief, Infrastructure and Energy, from the World
Bank's Resident Mission in Bangladesh. A wrap-up meeting was held at Ministry of
Communications (MOC) on October 03, 1996, chaired by Mr. Waliul Islam, Secretary, Roads and
Railways Division (RRD) and attended by representatives from Ministry of Communications,
Ministry of Finance, Planning Communication, World Bank and other agencies.
2.       The mission wishes to express its appreciation for the cooperation and hospitality
extended to it by the Roads and Highways Department (RHD) and the Roads and Railways
Division RRD) of the Ministry of Communications, and their Supervision Consultants (Louis
Berger International Inc/Sarm Associates) (see Annex-I for list of officials met).
3.       The mission's findings are based on discussions with the Government officials and a
field visit to the project sites. The conclusions, recommendations and next steps are summarized
below. This aide-memoire reflects the mission's views and is subject to review and confirmation
by IDA's Management.
II. FINDINGS
4.       General Progress
The mission is pleased to note that despite disruptions to work progress due to
political turmoil during the beginning of the year, all project works are now almost complete well
ahead of the extended credit closing date of December 31, 1996. Construction of Bera Bridge
under Contract 2/1A will be completed by the end of September 1996. Additional works for the
construction of two bridges replacing the flood damaged box culverts is now completed.



A. PHASE H: REHABILITATION WORKS
5. Contracts No. 2/lB. 2/2. 2/3A! 2/3B, 2/3C and 2/4:
All above contracts have been completed to the satisfaction of the Engineer and are
being maintained by the contractors under the 'Defect Liability Period'.
6. Contract 2/1A:
Works for Bera Bridge is expected to be completed by September 30, 1996. Works
on the bridge approaches for Nagarbari bridge and Kashinathpur bridge were completed in end
May 1996 and all works including pavement, has been completed.
7. Additional Works - Road Side Improvement
With the savings under the credit, 30 parking areas along the built up areas of Phase-I
and Phase-II roads of RRMP-I have been completed. The mission, during their field trip,
observed that some of these parking areas are used for drying paddy and are not being fully
utilized for the purpose they are constructed. The mission recommends that RHD/MOC should
coordinate with BRTA and Police Department, Bus Owner Association and the local leaders to
resolve this problem as soon as possible to improve the situation.
8. Contract No. 4 - Periodic Maintenance -
RHD had tendered four periodic maintenance contracts to be constructed from the
credit savings, but due to delays in the evaluation of bids, only Contract No. 4 was awarded. The
proposed slurry seal for the pavement due to overloading was found to be adequate.
Subsequently, the consultants carried out a detailed field investigation and recommended: (i) an
A. C. Overlay of 25mm for sections of road with major cracking; (ii) a seal coat and an A. C.
Overlay of 20mm for sections with minor cracking, and (iii) an A. C. overlay of 20mm for
sections of road with fine cracking. The work has been completed satisfactorily by the end of
May 1996.
9. Restoration of Flood Damaged Culverts
Due to floods in September/October 1995, two box culverts were washed out between
Rangpur and Bogra section for the road between Sta. 156+00 and Sta. 157+00. At these
locations two 40 meters long bridges were proposed. The contractor worked in double shifts, the
mission is pleased to note that the bridges were completed much ahead of the extended credit
closing date.



10. Variation Orders (V.O.)
0
The mission has requested PCWD and the Supervision Consultants to finalize all
Variation Orders and final bills for the completed works before the end of credit closing date.
Finalization of V.0. for the speed boat purchased under the project is still awaited from GOB
although approval was given by World Bank and the Chief Engineer of RHD in 1994.
C. ROAD MAINTENANCE
11.      The mission, in their previous supervision missions, expressed their concem regarding
the lack of routine maintenance of hard shoulders on part of Bogra-Natore road. The mission is
pleased to note that GOB has carried out some preventive measures (periodic and routine
maintenance) for Bogra-Natore road before a comprehensive periodic maintenance is carried out
under 3rd year program of RRMP-II or the proposed RRMP-HI. The mission recommends that
RHD should immediately prepare a maintenance action plan for RRMP-I with the help of the
HDM unit to avoid deterioration of costly pavements.
D. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
12.      It is expected that an amount of US$7.8 million will be savings from the credit. The
financial status of the project is given in Annex-H. Annex-HA gives summary of costs for
different contracts under Phase-I, Phase-II and periodic maintenance works. Annex-HIB gives
categorywise disbursement required till the end of the project and possible savings under the
credit.
E. AUDIT
13.      There are many outstanding audit queries over the last few years; the mission has
requested PCWD to discuss with the audit department and resolve the outstanding issues as soon
as possible. During the field visit to the project sites of RRMP-I, a sample check was carried out
for the withdrawal requests and statement of expenditures sent to IDA for disbursement under the
Credit 1827-BD. It was found that the disbursements for civil works contracts costing more than
US$50,000 have been made through proper withdrawal requests and the supporting documents
are maintained in accordance with the financial covenants of the Credit Agreement.
F. IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
14.      The mission has reviewed draft evaluation report received from the
RHD, which is about 10 pages. The mission requests RHD to prepare its evaluation summay not
more than 3 pages, which would be attached unedited to the final ICR. The Consultants have still
not completed their part and RHD is requested to follow up with the consultant and send the
comlete draft report by October 31, 1996. RHD is also requested to review the economic re-
evaluation for completed road works prepared by the consultants and send to IDA with their
comments by November 30, 1996.



G. PAYMENT TO CONTRACTOR
15.      The mission is concerned to note that although the credit closing date has been
extended to December 31, 1996, at the request of GOB, no provision has been made in FY97
ADP for the project. As such contractors payment can not be effected due to lack of GOB
counterpart funds. The mission strongly recommends to resolve this issue immediately to avoid
further delays in payment to the contractors.
16. Consultancy Services: The Team Leader of the consultant should settle issues related to
variation orders, as built drawings and final bills with GOB and IDA before demobilization of the
consultant.
III. NEXT STEPS
17.      RHD should submit quarterly status reports on maintenance activities undertaken on
routine maintenance (crack sealing surface repair works, shoulder and side slope maintenance) of
RRMP-I, Phase I roads.
18.      RHD to submit a report on outstanding audit queries to IDA before December 31,
1996.
19.      RHD/Consultant to finalize all outstanding variation orders before the end of the
Credit Closing Date.
20.      RHD should process all the outstanding bills before the end of the Credit Closing date.
21.      RHD/Consultant should complete all "as built drawings" as soon as possible.
22.      RHD to finalize Implementation Completion Report including economic re-evaluation
for completed road works before November 30, 1996.



Annex-I
Page 1 of 1
ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
CREDIT 1827-BD
LIST OF OFFICIALS MET
Ministry of Communications
Roads & Railways Division
Mr. Waliul Islam                      Secretary
Mr. M. Abul Kasem                     Joint Secretary
Roads & Railways Division
Mr. Tuhur Ahmed                       Chief Engineer
Mr. Mahtabuddin Ahmed                 Project Civil Works Director
Mr. Anwarul Islam                     Superintending Engineer
Ministry of Finance
Mr. Mahbub Kabir                      Additional Secretary, ERD
Louis Berger International Inc. (LBII)
Mr. Vincent Templeman                 Team Leader



Annex-HA
Project Cost for RRMP Phase-I
Rehabilitation (13 .4 kn)
Contract         Contractor         Contract Amount       Revised Amount               Remarks
(Tk)                (Actual)
1/1      F. F. Cruz & Co/         394,925,785.00     592,335,161.00       Main cost increase due to floods
M.A. Hossain JV                                                  of 1987 and 1988
1/2      F. F. Cruz & Co/         328,689,805.00     398,816,947.00       Main cost increase due to floods
M.A. Hossain JV                                                  of 1987 and 1988
1/3      National Civil           144,243,381.00     186,257,394.00       Main cost increase due to
Engineers Ltd/ M.A.                                              roadway centerline shift
Jabbar
1/4      Saiwhan Corp.            100,113,912.00     107,659,836.00       Main cost increase due to floods
of 1987 and 1988
1/5      Sanwhan Corp             318,476,109.00     351,595,007.00       Main cost increase due to floods
___________                of 1987 and 1988
1/6      Samwhan Corp             307,512,420.00     345,816,148.00       Main cost increase due to floods
of 1987 and 1988
Sub-Total                           1,593,961,412.00    1,982,480,493.00      Over.388,519,081.00
Periodic Maintenance (52.4 km)
|RMIP-1/1    M/s Khan Brothers            9,649,649.00         10,612,260.81  VO issued for 10% of contract
amount to increase scope of work
RMP-1/2    M/s Khan Brothers              8,768,029.00          9,644,013.43  VO issued for 10% of contract
=_____________ _ I   _amount to increase scope of work
RMP-2/1    Haque & Chowdhury             12,511,014.63         15,013,080.36  VO issued for 20% of contract
________ lConst. Company Ltd.  l          _I                                   amount to increase scope of work
RMP-2/2    Haque & Chowdhury              8,831,633.22         10,597,874.36  VO issued for 20o of contract
___===___  Const Company Ltd   _                                               amount to increase scope of work
Sub-Total                                39,760,32515          45,867,228.96  Over: 6,106,903.11
Total    l      _l                   1,633,721,737,85     2,028,347,721.96  Over.394,625,984.11
Source: LBII/SARM RRMP Phase I Final Report (April 1994)
Project Cost for RRMP Phase-lI
Rehabilitation (148.9 kIn)
Contract        Contractor       Contract Amount (Tk)     Revised Amount               Remarks
(Estimated)
2/lA      Nirmal-CRBEC                628,892,502.40        596,300,000.00  1
2/lB      Samwhan/MA                  707,929,339.60        631,200,000.00  1
2/2       BDC-NCE-PEB                 613,301,223.29       599,900,000.00  1 Two additional bridges
2/3A      Abdul Monem Ltd             330,767,432.49        292,000,000.00  1
2/3B      Ansal-Pubali                250,491,700.11        232,100,000.00  1
2/3C      IRCON                       316,921,420.24        256,300,000.00  1
2/4      China Harbour                398,745,236.59       339,900,000.00  1
Sub-Total  ___3,247,048,854.72                              2,947,700,000.00 _f
Note 1: Additional Work - Bus/Truck Laybyes & Market Widening
Periodic Maintenance (20.0 kIn)
AWPMP 4   Samwhan/MA                     44,475,600.00         38,827,259.29  Funded from savings
Total                               3,247,048,854,72      2,986,527 259.29  Savings: 260,500, 000.00



Annex-IIB
Page 1 of 1
Disbsursements for Credit 1827-BD
Category              DCA Amount              Estimated Total
(SDR)                 to Complete
(1) Rehabilitation
Works:
(a) Phase I                    22,100,000.00            26,736,313.76
(b) Phase II                   39,000,000.00            36,832,436.00
(2) Deferred main-                  3,200,000.00             1,079,741,00
tenance works:
(3) Technical Assistance            6,100,000.00             7,849,877.00
fellowships and
training
SA Special Account                         0.00                     0.00
(4) Unallocated                     7,700,000.00
Total                           78,100,000.00           72,498,367.76



ANNEX D
MIAP






IBRD 20236R
88t   \                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~89                                  90
880                                      890                       BANGLADESH
NEPAL                                       ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
f a         b. dhpQ                                                PROPOSED PROJECT                            EXISTING:
/         Tetulio7                                                    Road Rehabilitation                         National Highways
Tet_. ~a                         ,/                   - -   Deferred Maintenance Program               Regional Highways
. . . . . . .  Feasibility Study Completed  - - -  Other Roads
f  .,  PANCHAGAR  L\ 4tgr                ~~~~ To be Studied               ---    *   Railroads
(. SR5POi         ,                      G        Contract Numbers                            Rivers
_ A/warioda         ''s                                                                 @1 (?TuhCl; ;< \\ s  l   i  District Headquarters
g /'llporo  .L>" Ra       (isl                        (        >        \t ahurungomor           -   -         District Boundaries
rolpara 3 ue                                _       ,hhodr     
WoliadrngD igafli)Oo omor Da                      a-                                                           International Boundaries
-26.                  Ransaskoil        URGAON            >Jaidkokso.   \igi     *                     Ngeswet  r                                  26
2  oo  \   -*,rA        | \   <~~~~~~~~~INLPHAMARI         AdlAd tm.r;    -Phulb.r, > m    
Horipur    .                      \                   \ 9 gonha LAL RHAT     
The  boudaries, coors
r  RANG                       A              ~~~~~~~~~~~other info-tio- shown
a  /              Raisrhot                        on ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~this  -s   do  n_t
i ply, on  the  port of
The Nord BoIk Group.
rgo~~~~~~~j                           ,,~~~~ny l,udgment -n tlhe legal
Sttu  of any  trrtory.
bran,'  ( ~ ~ ~ ~  ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     o     y-d -n
INDIA
.A    * *            mpur    _ o\_,*   \ XA 0 XHoim_u
[5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I           )    ~~~~~~~~PonchbbO  z            lsbri    17&                 f s
:y.____pho   .                       ,2          x        -      s1              \s             \/                    -____
-25r. > 1 chhv9A .    I> ? / 25
'9f   R   jrngiW  ()   ~Mohodebpu            I9
{< +a~~~~~~~p,r         Mondopt NAOGAOR ,                                                                  t/ 3 
i <stAsA\' i U'    ,"1                                                                                                                X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T.3C                                Omhr  i .3 
i   > PRO;ECT  '    '&   LX         Brto'geS {Ot kBNA              SonthiZ              i~~~~~~~T  K
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ f                               .I.   |       .l.  r                        TANGA ILOERS  \
!     5     o~~~f Stna!      t )                                        PO9RKX\
Hodi~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~MY19









IMAGING
Report No.:          16809
Type:     ICR



