Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1827 BD
(Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated September 2, 1987
CREDIT NUMBER 1827 BD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 2, 1987, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF  BANGLADESH 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has  requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower intends to contract from the OPEC Fund for International 
Development (the OPEC Fund) a loan (the OPEC Fund Loan) in an amount of eight  million 
dollars equivalent to assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and 
conditions set forth in an agreement (the OPEC Fund Loan Agreement) to be entered into 
between the Borrower and the OPEC Fund; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence  of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"RHD" means the Roads and Highways Department of the Roads and Road 
Transport Division, Ministry of Communication, of the Borrower;
(b)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(c)
"Bangladesh Bank" means the Central Bank of Bangladesh established under 
Bangladesh Bank Order, 1972 (P.O. Order No. 127 of 1972); and
(d)
"Taka" means the currency of the Borrower.
 
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an  amount  
in various currencies equivalent to seventy-eight million one hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 78,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the  Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this  Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be  made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special account in Bangladesh Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of,  the Special Account shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount 
of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time. The commitment  charge shall accrue 
from a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agreement to the 
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit 
Account or shall be cancelled.
(b)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency  specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in 
semiannual installments payable on each June 15 and December 15 commencing December 
15, 1997, and ending June 15, 2037. Each installment to and including the installment 
payable on June 15, 2007, shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be one and one-half percent 
Page  3
(1-1/2%) of such principal amount. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.O2 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in  Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end,  shall carry 
out the Project through RHD with due diligence and efficiency and  in conformity with 
appropriate engineering, administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.O2. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the  provisions of Schedule 3 
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting  practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project  of the departments 
or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part 
thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than nine months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the completion of the audit 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
Page  4
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. (a) Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that subject to paragraph (b) of this 
Section:
(i)
The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any grant or 
loan made to the Borrower for the financing of the Project shall 
have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing therefor; or
(ii)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof.
(b)
Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the Borrower establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(i)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not 
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and
(ii)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from 
other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph 
(a) (ii) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to  the proviso of 
paragraph (b) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of  Section  
12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the OPEC Fund Loan 
Agreement (other than, if applicable, the effectiveness of this Agreement) have been 
fulfilled;
(b)
the Borrower has appointed the Project Civil Works Director and  Project 
Coordinator pursuant to paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(c)
the Borrower has entered into all the necessary contracts for the  
carrying out of Phase I of the rehabilitation works under Part A.1 of the Project;
(d)
the Borrower has entered into a contract with a consulting firm for the 
carrying out of supervision services under Part A.3 of the Project;
(e)
the Construction Industry Study under Part B.3 of the Project has been 
started; and
(f)
the Project Proforma for the carrying out of the Project have been 
approved by the Borrower.
Section 6.02. The date 90 days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary or any Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Deputy 
Page  5
Secretary or Assistant Secretary of the External Resources Division of  the Ministry 
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
External Resources Division
Ministry of Finance
Government of the People's
   Republic of Bangladesh
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Cable address:
Telex:
 
BAHIRSAMPAD
642226 SETU BJ
Dhaka
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 2O433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
44OO98 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of  the day and year first 
above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By /s/ A. Z. M. Obaidullah Khan
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Russell J. Cheetham
Acting Regional Vice President
Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to  each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
Page  6
(1)  Rehabilitation                              70%
     works:
     (a)  Phase I               22,100,000
     (b)  Phase II              39,000,000
(2)  Deferred main-              3,200,000       70%
     tenance works
(3)  Technical assis-            6,100,000       100%
     tance, fellowships
     and training
(4)  Unallocated                 7,700,000
         TOTAL                  78,100,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of  this 
Agreement; and (b) expenditures to be financed under Category (1) (b) until the 
Association shall have notified the Borrower that the requirements of paragraphs 2 (b) 
(i), 3 (a), 4 (c), 6 (b) and 7 (a) of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement have been complied with.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to reduce road transport cost of passengers 
and goods by (i) restoring, through rehabilitation and maintenance, the priority road 
network in the northwest of Bangladesh and (ii) strengthening  the institutions 
concerned with road transport infrastructure.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Civil Works
 
1.
The carrying out of a two-phased program of rehabilitation and reconstruction of 
about 305 km of roads and bridges in the northwest of Bangladesh.
2.
The carrying out of a program of deferred maintenance works on about 335 km of 
roads in the northwest of Bangladesh.
3.
Supervision of the project civil works and detailed engineering studies.
 
Part B:
Institutional Development
 
1.
Preparation and use of a Road Master Plan for identifying future  expenditures 
for road construction, rehabilitation and maintenance, and ranking them in terms of 
economic priority.
2.
Implementation of a Road Maintenance Action Plan for improved road maintenance 
which includes, in particular, provision of funds for road  maintenance activities, 
maintenance by contract and related training of RHD  staff, carrying out of a Road 
Materials and Standards Study, and establishment of a Planning and Monitoring Cell.
3.
Carrying out of a Construction Industry Study and, based on the findings 
thereof, preparation and implementation of an action plan to strengthen the domestic 
construction industry.
*     *     *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1995.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Page  7
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, works shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and  IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.
Bidders for the works included in Part A.1 of the Project shall be prequalified 
as described in paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Contractors
 
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference to domestic contractors in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs  2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
Deferred maintenance works under Part  A.2 of the Project may be carried out 
under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally in 
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of prequalification:
 
With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in Part A.2 hereof, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for civil works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4  of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract  are to be 
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall  be modified to ensure that the 
two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association 
pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the 
making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of  the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be  furnished to the Association as 
part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts on account of which the Association has authorized  withdrawals from the 
Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure.  Such contracts shall be 
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of  this Agreement.
3.
The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower 
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such  consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association 
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" 
published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
Page  8
1.
The Borrower shall, on a timely basis, appoint, and thereafter at all times 
retain: (a) a Project Coordinator, and (b) a Project Civil Works  Director, both with 
qualifications, powers and functions satisfactory to the Association. The Coordinator 
and the Director shall have all the necessary logistical and staff support.
2.
The Borrower shall: (a) by March 31, 1988, commence the study for the 
preparation of the Road  Master Plan specified in Part B.1 of the Project, with  the 
assistance of qualified consultants and under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association; and (b) after affording the Association a  reasonable opportunity to 
comment on the recommendations and findings of such study, (i) finalize the Road 
Master Plan, taking into account the Association's comments thereon, and (ii) ensure 
that all investments in the road sub-sector  thereafter substantially follow the Road 
Master Plan and economic criteria and  take into account the road maintenance 
capacity.
3.
The Borrower shall: (a) for purposes of Part B.2 of the Project, commence 
implementation of the agreed Road Maintenance Action Plan in a manner satisfactory to 
the Association; and (b) ensure that the budgets for road maintenance specified 
therein will be satisfactory to the Association and will be used exclusively for road 
maintenance and not for up-grading works.
4.
The Borrower shall: (a) carry out the Construction Industry Study specified in 
Part B.3 of the Project, with the assistance of qualified consultants and under terms 
of reference satisfactory to the Association; (b) furnish to the Association, for its 
comments, the recommendations and findings  of such study; and (c) commence 
implementation of the action plan resulting from the findings of said study, in a 
manner satisfactory to the Association and taking into account the Association's 
comments thereon.
5.
The Borrower shall ensure that, at the time of contractor mobilization, if the 
land acquisition process has not been completed for any section of civil  works, the 
corresponding alternative design on the existing acquired land will be adopted.
6.
The Borrower shall: (a) prepare and furnish to the Association for its  
comments, by June 30, 1989, a Road User Charges Action Plan; and (b) after  taking 
into account the Association's comments thereon, and if action is needed, commence 
implementation of such Plan in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
7.
The Borrower shall: (a) commence the Road Materials and Standards Study under 
Part B.2 of the Project with the assistance of qualified consultants and under terms 
of reference satisfactory to the Association; (b) promptly after completion of such 
study, furnish the findings and recommendations thereof to the Association, for its 
comments; and (c) carry out such findings of said study as the Borrower and the 
Association shall agree.
8.
The Borrower shall ensure that, for all contracts for maintenance, the bidding 
documents and the evaluation methodology used will follow the model prepared by the 
supervisory consultant under Part A.3 of the Project and agreed with the Association.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, provided, however, 
that Category 1 (b) will not become an eligible Category until the  provisions of 
paragraph 2 (b) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement have been complied with;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of  the 
reasonable cost of services required for the Project and to be financed  out of the 
proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to SDR 
5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special  
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special 
Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the 
provisions of this Schedule.
Page  9
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit  Account and 
deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for replenishment 
of the Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. On the 
basis of such requests, the Association shall withdraw from  the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the 
Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such 
deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for such deposit furnished 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for which the 
Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this  Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to or at the  time of such request, 
such documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request, showing 
that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Association when  either 
of the following situations first arises:
(i)
the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the 
eligible Categories, minus the amount of any outstanding special 
commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall 
be equal to the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall  follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount  not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this  Schedule, or (ii) was not  justified by the evidence 
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Association deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association for crediting to the Special Account) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. No further  deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be 
made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further  payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the Credit Account.
Page  10
