Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15606
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
NARAYANI III IRRIGATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1715-NEP)
MAY 1,1996
Agriculture and Water Operations Division
South Asia Country Department II
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit =   Nepalese Rupee
US$1.0() 0         NRs. 20.5 (at appraisal June 1986)
US$1.00       =   NRs. 49.4 (1994/95 rate used in ICR)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I meter (m)      =      3.28 feet
I kilometer (km)  =    0.62 miles
I hectare (ha)   =      2.47 acres
1.50 bighas
I million cubic meters (Mm3)          810 acre-feet or 35.3 million cubic feet
I cubic meter per second (m3/s)   =   35.31 cubic foot per second (cfs)
I cubic foot per second (cfs)   =     0.028 cubic meters per second (m3/sec)
I metric ton (t)    =   2.205 pounds
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
Julv 16 - Jtlv 15
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB           Asian Development Bank
DBC           Don Branch Canal
DOI           Department of Irrigation
ERR           Economic Rate of Return
IMGN          His Majesty's Government of Nepal
ICR           Implenmentation Completion Report
IDA           International Development Association
LCF           Labor Conversion Factor
MWJV          Manufacturers Unit Value
NEC           Nepal Eastern Canal
NPV           Net Present Value
NZIDB         Narayani Zone Irrigation Development Board
NZIDP         Narayani Zone Irrigation Development Project
O&M           Operation and Maintenance
PCR           Project Completioni Report
PPAR          Project Performance Audit Report
POP           Project Operation Plan
RWS           Rotational Water Supply
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
SDC           Swiss Development Cooperation
SCF           Standard Conversion Factor
TII          tertiary irrigation unit
WUC           Water Users' Committee
WUCCs         Water Users' Coordinating Committees
WUGs          Water Users' Groups
kiharij       Wet Season (June to October)
rabi          Drv Season (November to February)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NEPAL
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NARAYANI III IRRIGATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1715-NEP)
CONTENTS
PREFACE  ..........
EVALUATION   SUMMARY  ..................................................                                                           ii
PART I PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .......................................1
A.   Statement and Evaluation of Objectives ................................................1
B.  Achievement of  Objectives ...............................................4
C.  Major Factors Affecting the Project ..............................................6
D.  Project Sustainability ...............................................7
E. IDA Performance ...............................................8
F.  Borrower Performance ...............................................9
G.  Assessment of  Outcome ........9......................................9
H. Future Operation ...............................................9
I.   Key Lessons Learned .............................................. 11
PART  II  STATISTICAL  TABLES  ................................................. 12
1    Summary of Assessments .............................................. 14
2    Related Bank Loans/Credits .......... ......... ..                                   ......................... 14
3    Project Timetable .............................................. 14
4    Loan/Credit Disbursements - Cumulative Estimated and Actual .......................... 15
5    Key Performance Indicators .............................................. 17
6    Key Indicators for Project Operations ..................                              ............................ 17
7    Studies Included in the Project .............................................. 18
8A  Project Costs ............................................... 18
8B  Project Financing ............................................... 19
9    Economic Costs and Benefits ..............................................                                             19
10  Status of Legal Covenants ...............................................                                              20
11  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .............................................. 21
12  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .............................................. 21
13  Bank Resources: Missions ...............................................                                               21
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornmance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wivhout World Bank authorization.



APPENDICES
A  Aide-Memoire of Supervision/Implementation Completion Reporting Mission ... 23
B    Financial and Economic Re-Evaluation ............................................................  32
Table 1: Crop Pattern and Yields of Stage I &  Stage II at Appraisal &  ICR ....... 37
Table 2: Estimated Farm  Budgets and Project Rent at Full Development ........... 38
Table 3: Estimated Project Rent and Cost Recovery (Rs/ha) .............................. 39
Table 4: Prices used for the Financial and Economic Analyses ........................... 40
Table 5: Derivation of Economic Prices for Internationally Tradable
Commodities  ............................................................                      41
Table 6: Exchange Rate, Price Indices and Derived Inflators ............................. 42
Table 7: Economic Rate of Return Calculation for Stage I and Stage II ............. 43
Table 8: Flood Damage from  Bagmati and Lal Bakeya Rivers ........................... 44
Table 9: Flood Damage in Block  15 of NZIDP .................................................. 45
Table 10:Annual Flood Protection Benefit .......................................................... 46
Table 11 :Economic Rate of Return Calculation (Flood & River Protection) ... 47
Project Data Sheet - Histogram  of Don Branch Canal Supply to NEC ................ 48
C    Borrower's Evaluation of the Project .........................................................               49
D    CoFinancier - Swiss Development Cooperation's Evaluation Report .................. 58
Map: IBRD 19950  Narayani III Irrigation Project Location .64



i
NEPAL
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NARAYANI HI IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Credit 1715-NEP)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Narayani III Irrigation
Project in Nepal, for which Credit 1715-NEP, in the arnount of SDR 21.6 million (US$24.5 million
equivalent), was approved on June 19, 1986 and made effective on March 20, 1987. The project was
cofinanced by a Swiss Franc (SwF) 15.0 million (US$7.5 million equivalent) grant (Swiss Grant
N.umber 01680) from the Government of the Swiss Confederation, administered by the Swiss
Development Cooperation (SDC). The Credit was closed on June 30, 1995, one year later than the
originally planned closing date of June 30, 1994.
On May 31, 1994, SDR 7.3 rnillion of the IDA Credit and SwF5.0 million were canceled
due to restructuring of the project. An unused amount of SwFO.5 million was canceled in June 1995.
Final disbursement of the IDA Credit took place on February 1, 1996, at which time the undisbursed
balance of SDR 1.802 million was canceled. Approximately US$17.1 million of the IDA Credit and
approximately SwF9.5 million (US$6.3 million approximately) of the Swiss grant were disbursed.
A draft ICR was prepared by a Food and Agriculture Organization/World Bank
Cooperative Program (FAO/CP) rnission which visited Nepal in February/March 1995. SDC
representatives also participated in the field visit of FAO/CP ICR mission. Preparation of the final ICR
was initiated during IDA's final supervision-cum-ICR rmission in March/April 1995. The draft ICR was
based on materials in the project files and discussions with project staff and beneficiary farmers. The
ICR was finalized by the Task Manager, Ohn Myint, Agriculture and Water Operations Division,
South Asta Country Department II, and reviewed by Mr. Shawki Barghouti, Chief, Agriculture and
Water Cperations Division, and Ms. Kazuko Uchimura, Project Advisor.
The Borrower and the cofinancier provided comments that are included as Appendices C
and r to the ICR. The Bt rrower also contributed to the preparation of the ICR by providing a
detailed Project Completik.n Report and a draft Project Operation Plan, which are available in the Asia
Information Center.



f



ii
INPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
NARAYANI m IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Credit 1715-NEP)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.          The project was designed as a third time-slice of IDA support for modification and
rehabilitation of the N4arayani Zone Irrigation System. The system was designed to enable Nepal to
use 24.1 m3/sec of Gandak river water for irrigating a total area of 37,400 ha, in accordance with its
1959 agreement with India (see Figure 1). The system receives water supply from the Don Branch
Canal (DBC) from Gandak Barrage in India. IDA's involvement was in a phased manner.
2.           The first stage of IDA's support for the Narayani Zone Irrigation System was under
the Birganj Irrigation Project (Credit 373-NEP, US$6.0 million equivalent, 1973). Its objective
included completing and upgrading the irrigation and drainage system on 28,700 ha of the 37,400 ha
commanded by the Nepal Eastern Canal (NEC). Because of implementation delays and thus
considerable cost overruns, the project area was later reduced to 16,300 ha, designated as Stage I.
The reduced project was completed in 1981 and was followed by the Narayani Zone Irrigation
Development Stage II Project (Credit 856-NEP, US$14.0 million equivalent, 1978), which was
designed to develop the 12,400 ha deferred from the Stage I project and to provide intensified
agricultural support services. Although progress in the achievement of physical targets was satisfactory,
operation and maintenance (O&M) and the full involvement of farmers in water distribution at the farm
level needed to be improved. The Stage II Credit closed on December 31, 1986. The Stage m Project
under review was to complete the modification and rehabilitation of the remaining command area of
8,700 ha of the system and to cure the deficiencies of the Stage I and II areas.
Project Objectives
3.           The objectives of the project were to: (i) increase dry season agricultural production
by introducing an equitable, predictable, and reliable irrigation system in the project area; and (ii) to
reduce the risks to monsoon crop production by making protective irrigation available when requested.
Flood protection and drainage improvemrents would reduce the risks to crops and the physical



iii
infrastructure. Management objectives were to develop fu11 fanner participation and cooperation in the
O&M of the tertiary water distribution system.
4.         The project included: (a) improvements to NEC, including lining of selected canal
reaches, construction of control and access structures, and repairs to the Tilawe weir; (b) irrigation and
drainage down to the farm level in Stage IIn area (8,700 ha) and providing about 40 shallow tubewells,
(c) improvement and repairs of irrigation and drainage systems in Stages I and II areas (28,700 ha)
down to the farm level; (d) flood protection and river training works on the Lal Bakeya and Bagmati
rivers (Stage III area) and flood protection on .eight rivers crossing the Stages I and II areas; (e)
technical support including consultancies for: (i) design and supervision of construction; (ii) project
monitoring and evaluation; (iii) studies; and (f) support of project establishment and O&M costs.
5.         Project Reformulation. The objectives were clear but the unpredictability of the water
supply from the DBC in India made it unrealistic to expect predictable and reliable irrigation on the full
project area of 37,400 ha. The DBC supply was erratic and always lower than the treaty amount.
Taking account of actual flows received from India, the project was reformulated after a mid-term
review in 1993 so that: (a) the area to be filly developed would be reduced to 24,500 ha comprising
mainly of Stage I and some Stage II areas; (b) rehabilitation works already started for main and
secondary canals for the rest of the Stages I and II areas would be completed; (c) Stage HI irrigation
development of 8,700 ha would be excluded but increased iiver training and flood protection works on
the Lal Bakeya and Bagmati rivers would be completed; (d) river training and flood protection works
on rivers crossing the NEC, the extent of which has already been increased to safeguard the NEC from
further flood damage, would be completed; and (e) all further construction of tertiary canals would be
by farmers in accordance with HMGN's new Irrigation Policy, 1992.
Implementation Experience and Results
6.         Construction of the reformulated project has been substantially completed (over 80
percent) except for tertiary canals (about 33 percent), which are to be constructed by farmers.
Development of furll fanner participation and cooperation in the distribution of water have been
partially achieved. These were delayed by there being almost no water to distribute from 1986 to June
1991 at the time of the Stage II project due to the failure of the DBC in India in late August 1986.
Water supply from India's DBC was restored in mid-June 1991, although full supply with the agreed
amount of 24.1 m3/sec was not received. The supply hardly reached 60 percent of the agreed full
supply amount (see data sheet on page 48). Many farmers need convincing that the redesigned project
works will supply the irrigation water they require and that the structures provided at secondary and
tertiary levels are appropriate for their needs.
7.         The Bank and the Borrower relied on the 1959 treaty with India on the amount of water
supply. However, this was never realised in the supply history of the DBC. The failure to take account
of the fact that the supply from the DBC was substantially less than the treaty amount was a serious
deficiency in project preparation and design. The commitment of the Government and the
implementing agency to the project was not in doubt, but there is no evidence that beneficiaries were



iv
given an opportunity to influence the design of the project, which included the fornation of water
users groups. The area irrigated was not monitored carefully which made evaluation of project results
difficult. IDA's relations with the co-financier were satisfactory.
8.         It is expected that at full development in the year 2000/01, the targets for incremental
production of vegetables, sugarcane and pulses will be exceeded despite reduced areas, and that there
will be incremental production of maize which was not included in the cropping pattem at appraisal.
The incremental production of paddy is expected to be less than estimated for the whole project at
appraisal, but about the same as was estimated for the Stage I and II areas. Incremental production of
wheat and oilseeds is much less than estimated at appraisal due to smaller incremental areas for both
crops and lower incremental crop yields for wheat. The risks of flood damage to crops in the Stage m
area, human life and physical infrastructure (for a district town - Gaur) have been reduced by river
flood protection and drainage works.
9.         The project management made considerable efforts to implement the project with due
diligence and efficiency but, for most of the implementation stage, the project suffered severe shortage
of funds and was not provided with adequate budget for efficient implementation. Although the
procedure for collectng water service charges has been reviewed, the levels of charges, which would
not be enough to cover the cost of O&M of the system, have not been reviewed. No water service
charges have yet been collected because of the unreliable supply. Because of the shortfalls in budget,
slow procurement for the main ICB contract, and above-mentioned deficiencies, the project was rated
as a "problem project" for the last three years of implementation.
10.        The re-estimated economic rate of return (ERR) is 16 percent for the restructured project
as a whole, including flood and river protection benefits. For the irrigation-only scenario of the
improved Stages I and II under the restructured project, the re-estimated ERR is 19 percent. No re-
estimation of ERR was made for the original scope of project as it was not implemented. Both re-
estimated ERRs are less than estimated at appraisal.
Summary of Findings and Future Operations
11.        The implementation of the project was delayed by: (a) floods in 1986, 1987, and 1993
that caused heavy damage to both the NEC and the DBC in India, which supplies Gandak water to the
NEC'; and (b) IDA's insistence that the Borrower change the system of water distribution. The trade
and transit disagreement between India and Nepal from about March 1989 to mid-1990 resulted in a
severe shortage of diesel fuel which compounded the delay, as did inadequate budget provisions by
HMGN and uncertainty in reassessing the reformulation of the project.
12.        Slow procurement for the main ICB contract caused by serious underestimation of the
contract cost by consultants, acting for the implementing agency, also delayed the project by almost
one year. The total cost of the project is estimated to be about US$25.5 million (NRs. 953.4 million).
' Repair of NEC was completed by early 1989, but repair of the DBC was very slow. No water was received from the
DBC betwee August 1986 and June 1991, i.e., five consecutive project years.



v
This is about 72 percent of the SAR estimate in US Dollar but, due to devaluation of the Nepalese
Rupees in relation to US Dollar in the rate of exchange, it is about 132 percent of the SAR estimate in
Nepalese Rupees. Approximately SDR 12.50 million (US$17.1 million equivalent) of the IDA Credit
and approximately SwF9.5 million (US$6.3 million approximately) of the SDC grant have been
disbursed. Final adjustment from the IDA Credit was made in February 1996. SDR 9.1 million and
SwF5.5 million were cancelled from the Credit and grant respectively. The main construction works
outstanding are tertiary canals and field channels to be built by farmers.
13.        The success of the project depends on: (i) availability of water from the DBC; (ii)
adequate budget for O&M; (iii) completion of construction of tertiary canals; (iv) applying generally
simple rules for operation of the irrigation system; and (v) water users understanding the importance of
maintaining essential features of the system. Three important elements need strengthening: (a) the
development and application of operating rules which cope with the erratic water supply from DBC;
(b) maintenance of the main and secondary canals and structures; and (c) training water users in the
O&M of the system.
14.        Based on the assumptions described in Appendix B, the Net Present Value (NPV) of the
irrigation componet of the restructured project when cash flows are discounted at 10 percent is
positive. However, the assumptions are based on sustainable benefits following completion of
construction of tertiary canals. The outcome cannot be rated as "satisfactory" since the project was
reformulated without inclusion of the Stage HII area and at the same time the completion of the tertiary
canal system was also partial at the Credit closing. Thus only some of the original objectives were met
and the works included in the reformulated project were partly completed. The ERR can be affected if
the benefits are not sustainable. Due to the uncertainty of these tertiary canals being completed by
farmers and the unreliability of assured supply of water from DBC, the project sustainability is rated
"uncertain".
Key Lessons Learned
15.        The key lessons learned are:
(a)    A water right based on an international treaty may be insufficient guarantee of
reliable physical delivery. A critical evaluation of the situation should be done
prior to the project investment.
(b)    Before embarking on a new stage of a project such as Narayani, the availability
of water should be reassessed. Unreliable water.supply for any reason destroys
farmer confidence in the ability of the irrigation authorities and can lead to a lack
of cooperation.
(c)    Participation of beneficiaries in the design, construction and implementation, and
O&M is very important in a large public irrigation system where available water
resources have to be shared among many beneficiaries in an organized and



vi
timely manner. Training farmers to understand the design of the water system
and its performance is necessary for large public irrigation systems where water
have to be shared according to agreed time and quantity.
(d)    The design of a large public irrigation systems must be flexible, simple and
socially acceptable to small farmers and their communities. Social acceptability
should be tested before committing heavy investment. Water User Groups can
function effectively only when reliable irrigation supply can be assured.
(e)    Service charges to cover full O&M costs of public utilities after improvement
must be imposed and this should be considered a country-wide issue in any
investment project.
(f)    Regular evaluation of project impact on beneficiaries is more likely to be
successful where the work is carried out by independent consultants rather than
by project staff
(g)    Public and government awareness of proper utilization of natural resources must
be developed through various means of investment lending.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
NARAYANI III PROJECT
(Credit 1715-NEP)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
Statement of Objectives
1.         The objectives of the project were to increase dry-season agricultural production by
introducing an equitable, predictable, and reliable irrigation system in the project area, and to reduce
the risks to monsoon crop production by making protective irrigation available when requested. Flood
protection and drainage improvements would reduce the risks to crops and the physical infrastructure.
Management objectives were to develop full farmer participation and cooperation in the water
distribution and management of the system.
2.         Background. The appraised project was the third phase of IDA funding for
development of a scheme in central Terai for modification and rehabilitation of Narayani Zone
Irrigation System, which was designed to enable Nepal to use 24.1 m3/sec of Gandak river water, in
accordance with its 1959 Indo-Nepal Agreement. Narayani Irrigation System receives water supply
from Don Branch Canal (DBC) of the Gandak Barrage in India. Before the Bank's involvement, the
original system consisted of regulation structures built only on secondary canals and the distribution
network was terminated at turnouts serving an area of more than 100 ha. HMGN requested IDA
assistance to overcome the shortcomings of the original project.
3.         IDA's involvement in the project has been divided into stages. The objective of the
Stage I project (Birganj Irrigation Project - Credit 373-NEP, US$6.0 million in 1973) was to complete
and upgrade the irrigation and drainage on 28,700 ha, out of the total 37,400 ha, and to provide
groundwater irrigation to 2,700 ha outside the command area of Narayani Irrigation System. The
surface irrigation area development was reduced to 16,300 ha because of implementation delays and
cost overruns. There was also less success in groundwater development. The project was completed
in 1981. According to the Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR No. 4267 of December 30,
1982), the failure of the groundwater development was mainly due to inadequate attention to O&M,
weak well design, and the then unreliable power supply. The report's re-estimated economic rate of
return (ERR) of the project was 21.0 percent.
4.         The Stage I project was followed by a Stage II project (Narayani Zone Irrigation
Development Stage II - Credit 856-NEP, US$14.0 million in 1978) which was designed to complete
the 12,700 ha deferred from Stage I, and to develop five community-managed tubewells and fifty



2
shallow tubewells on another 800 ha. The Credit was closed on December 31, 1986 after three
extensions. The Project Completion Report (PCR) of June 1990 stated that the irrigation and drainage
system was substantially completed by 1985, but initial operations in early 1986 experienced
management difficulty in the minor distribution system. No further trial could be made in Stage I and II
areas as the parent supply canal, the DBC, was breached by a major flood in late 1986. Since then and
up to June 1991, the system's water supply was interrupted for five years. Funding for community
tubewells was eliminated in 1982 due to non-cooperation of farmers. Twenty-five shallow tubewells
were drilled, but the wells were never developed as a result of farmers' refusal to take over the
tubewells because the Agricultural Development BaDk's (Nepal) financing was apparently unattractive
to the farmers. The ERR of the Stage II project as recalculated for the PCR was 16 percent, which
assumed that the Don Canal water supply would be restored by mid-1990. The actual water supply
was restored in mid-1991.
5.         With the intention to consolidate the projects' achievements and to incorporate lessons
learned from the earlier stages, the Stage III project was approved in mid-1986. The project was to be
implemented over a seven-year period, incorporating the following main components:
(a)  Improvements to Nepal Eastern Canal (NEC) and repairs to the Tilawe weir.
Works on NEC would include lining of selected canal reaches, canal slope
protection, strengthening of canal embankments and construction of control and
access structures. The Tilawe weir, severely damaged during the 1985 monsoon,
would be extensively repaired.
(b)  Stage III area (8,700 ha). Irrigation and drainage works down to the farm level
(approximately 4 ha sub-chak) would be built on the remaining area of 8,700 ha of
the system, together with about 40 shallow tubewells.
(c) Stages I and II areas (28,700 ha). Improvement and repairs would be made to
irrigation and drainage systems down to the farm level constructed under earlier
projects (Credits 373- and 856-NEP).
(d)  Floodprotection and river trainingworks. Embankments on the Lal Bakeya and
Bagmati rivers (Stage III area) and flood protection on eight rivers crossing the
Stages I and II areas would be provided.
(e)  Improvements to village and service roads.
(f)  Vehicles and equipment for O&M of the completed system.
(g)  Construction and equipping of a regional workshop.



3
(h) Technical support, including consultancies for: (i) design and supervision of
construction; (ii) project monitoring and evaluation; and (iii) studies.
(i) Support of project establishment and O&M costs.
Evaluation of Objectives
6.          Realism. The project was neither complex nor unusually demanding for the Borrower
and the implementing agency. The objectives were clear but the unpredictability of the water supply
from India's DBC, which was known at appraisal, made it unrealistic to expect predictable and reliable
irrigation on the full project area of 37,400 ha. Taking account of actual flows which never exceeded
60-70 percent1 of the agreed amount according to the past records before and after the 1986 breach,
the project was reformulated in 1993 as follows:
(a) the area to be fully developed down to tertiary irrigation unit (TIU) level would be
reduced to 24,500 ha (Blocks 1 to 10)2;
(b)  the rehabilitation works already started for the main and secondary canals in Blocks
11 and 12 (Stage II) would be completed;
(c)  Stage I1I irrigation development would not be included, but increased river training
and flood protection works on the Lal Bakeya and Bagmati rivers would be
completed;
(d) river training and flood protection works on rivers crossing the NEC, the extent of
which had already been increased to safeguard the NEC from further flood
damage, would be completed;
(d)  all further construction of tertiary canals would be by farmers in accordance with
HMGN's new 1992 Irrigation Policy; and
(e) shallow tubewells were earlier excluded from the project on the grounds that they
could be installed without the assistance of HMGN.
7.         Innovation. The originally designed specific discharge of 0.66 I/sec/ha was low for
the paddy-based irrigation system. With the original specific discharge there were competing
demands at the time of peak requirements. This specific discharge has been doubled in the design
' The flow records of the Don Branch Canal showed erratic and uncertain supply even when it was normally in
service. Prior to the 1986 breach, nominal deliveries amounted to 56 percent ot the scheduled volume and the
number of closures averaged 191 days per year as against 45 days of scheduled closures. The flow in individual
weeks sometimes fluctuated 50-100 percent. The pattern and character of supply did not change even after the
Don Branch Canal resumed supply in mid-1991.
2 Assumed to be achieved before 1999.



4
of rotational supply in the tertiary system of Stage I and Stage II to closely satisfy peak demands.
The standard practice of introducing gated 8 ha sub-chaks in Stages I and II has been changed to
ungated 4 ha sub-chaks in the project, after experiencing the difficult management in operation of
Stages I and II. The minor canal networks are to be transfered to farmers after the project. The
project was innovative in that it was built around eventual beneficiary farmers' ownership and
management of the tertiary distribution system after the project.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
8.         Construction of the reformulated project has been substantially completed i.e. over 80
percent (Table 5) in the main and secondary canal system as well as in flood protection works, except
for tertiary canals to be constructed by farmers. Only 33 percent of the tertiary canal modification was
completed at the Credit closure. The Credit had been extended for one year solely for the purpose of
ICB's retention money, which must be reimbursed only after the one-year warranty on the completed
infrastructure.
9.           Although increased dry season agricultural production was the main objective of the
project, with wet season production being safeguarded, the appraisal also forecast almost as great an
increase in wet season production of rice. The increases in production in tons/year at full development3
estimated by the ICR mission, as compared with appraisal estimates, are shown below.
Paddy  Wheat Oilseeds Pulses  Vegetabl Sugarcane Maize
e
Appraisal Stages I, II  30,910  34,267    5,825   2,352   4,045 X 16,815         0
&ll
Appraisal Stages I &    22,088  24,384   4,573   1,760    1,435     13,683       0
Stage II
ICR Stages I & I     22,735   10,567    2,296   2,411     2,870    24,395   3,087
ICR as %.of Appraisal
Stages I & II           103       43       50    137       200        .178
ICR as % of Appraisal
Stages I, III fI         74       3 1      39     103        71       145.
_~-                =     !   -    =7 ,  
It is expected that at full development the targets for incremental production of vegetables,
sugarcane and pulses will be exceeded despite reduced areas, and that there will be incremental
production of maize which was not included in the cropping pattem at appraisal. The incremental
production of paddy is expected to be less than was estimated for the whole project at appraisal, but
about the same as was estimated for Stages I and II areas. Incremental production of wheat and
3Assumed to be achieved in 2000/2001.



5
oilseeds is much less than was estimated at appraisal due to smaller incremental areas for both crops
and lower incremental crop yields for wheat.
10.        The risks of flood damage to crops and physical infrastructure have been reduced by
flood protection and drainage works along the major rivers passing the irrigation system. There are
some intangible benefits obtained by having Bagmati River flood protection works which protect the
cultivable land in the Stage m area, as well as a district town named Gaur. In addition, the flood
damages of Tilawe Barrage, which is supplementing the irrigation water supply to the system, have
been repaired by the project.
11.        Development of farmer participation and cooperation in the distribution of water has
been only partially achieved. No tertiary system has yet been fully completed and turned over to water
user groups. This was delayed by the lack of water for distribution from 1986 to June 19914 , and the
switch over from the existing gated system of water distribution to a new system involving non-gated
structured irrigation distribution network and rotational water supply (see para. 25).
12.        In Blocks I to 5 (14,644 ha), 472 out of 548 WUGs have been formed and 162 have
been maintaining tertiary canals, but none have yet collected water charges from members. Three
Water Users' Coordinating Committees (WUCCs) have been formed. It is proposed that one WUCC
with its Water Users' Committee (WUC) and 6 WUGs should very soon take over a secondary canal in
Block 1-Branch Canal 7 serving an area of 156 ha. Many farmers need convincing, through training on
the newly introduced rotational water supply, that the redesigned project works will supply the
irrigation water they require and that the structures provided at secondary and tertiary levels are
appropriate for their needs. The future success of the project requires: (a) the provision of a well-
planned, realistic and sustained program for the further development of water users' associations
(WUGs, WUCs and WUCCs) and the taking over of responsibilities by them; (b) the completion of
tertiary canals; (c) the building of confidence between the project O&M staff and water users'
associations; (d) a high level of O&M of the project's main infrastructure by the Department of
Irrigation (DOI); and (e) accountability of DOI for poor O&M and service delivery to the users.
13.        Economic Rate of Return. No re-estimation of the ERR was done for the original
scope of the project since it was never implemented. The ERR has been re-estimated for the re-scoped
project at 16 percent and 19 percent, respectively, with and without flood control benefits, as
compared with 22 percent estimated at appraisal, based on the projected costs and benefits of the
project. The re-estimated ERR, which includes benefits from a separate flood and river protection
works of the project, estimated over a 25 year period, is 13 percent. Assumptions used in the
calculation of cost and benefit streams are described in Appendix B. However, the assumptions used
are based on sustainable benefits following completion of construction of tertiary canals even for the re-
scoped project.
4 Due to failure of the Don Branch Canal in India in late August 1986. Water supply from India was restored in
mid-June 1991.



6
14.        The average net income of a farm family from crops is estimated to increase due to the
project by about 35 percent from about NRs. 21,100/year to about NRs. 28,600/year in 1994/95 prices
(see Appendix B, Table 2).
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
15.        Factors Not Generally Subject to Government Control. The major factor affecting
the project is the unreliability of water supply from the DBC in India, which brought into question the
scope of the project resulting in its eventual reformulation (para 6), causing uncertainty and delay. The
implementation of the project was delayed by: (a) floods in 1986 and 1987 that caused heavy damage
to both the NEC and the DBC which supplies Gandak water to the NEC5, and (b) IDA's insistence that
the Borrower change the minor system of water distribution.
16.        The ERR has been only slightly affected by changes in economic prices of commodities
as shown below in 1994/95 NRs./ton.
SARI'                   ICR
Paddy                         10,547                 10,716
Sugarcane                       762                   1,705
Wheat                         12,100                 11,913
Oilseeds                      16,846                 17,670
Urea                          18,104                 13,100
"' Source: SAR, Annex 1, Table 12 converted to US$ at the 1986 exchange rate,
inflated by the MNIV index and converted to NRs. at the 1994/95 exchange rate.
17.        The trade and transit disagreement between India and Nepal from about March 1989 to
mid- 1990 resulted in a severe shortage of diesel fuel which contributed to a delay in implementation of
the project.
18.        Factors Generally Subject to Government Control. Implementation of the project
was delayed by inadequate budget provisions by HMGN and uncertainty in reassessing the re-
formulation of the project.
19.        Factors Generally Subject to Implementation Agency Control. Implementation of
the project was delayed by slow procurement for the main ICB contract caused by serious under-
estimation of the contract cost by the consultants acting for Narayani Zone Irrigation Development
5 Repair of NEC was completed by early 1989 but repair of the DBC was very slow and no water was received from
the DBC between August 1986 and June 1991.



7
Project (NZIDP). In order to reduce the cost of the project the ICB contract was re-tendered with
reduced quantities of road metalling and drainage.
20.        Costs of flood control and river training increased by about US$3.8 million and costs of
the Stage III irrigation works decreased by about US$5.8 million. The total cost of the project is
estimated to be about US$25.5 million (NRs. 953.4 million)6 This is about 72 percent of the SAR
estimate in US Dollar but, due to the devaluation of the Nepalese Rupee in relation to the US Dollar, is
about 132 percent of the appraisal estimate in Nepalese Rupees. Approximately US$17.1 million of the
IDA credit and approximately SwF9.5 million (US$6.3 million approximately) have been disbursed.
After project restructuring in May 1994, SDR 7.3 million and SwF5.5 million were cancelled from the
Credit and grant respectively. Final adjustment on the credit was made on February 1, 1996 and the
unused SDR 1.802 million was also cancelled. The main construction works outstanding are tertiary
canals and field channels to be built by farmers. Additional drainage works not detailed at appraisal are
required at a cost of NRs. 5.0 million (US$100,000), as estimated by NZIDP, and are still to be
completed.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
21.        Water Availability. In view of the major siltation problems at India's Gandak
headworks and the head reaches of DBC, as well as the vulnerability of DBC to floods at its cross
drainage, sustained water supplies at the agreed levels are unlikely to be provided. This was recognised
during project reformulation when the area to receive reliable irrigation was reduced from 37,400 ha to
24,500 ha. There is, nevertheless, a risk that reliable water would not be provided even for this
reduced area. Furthermore, the system's conveyance design was based on the preventive irrigation
principle so that even when a fully supply discharge of 24.1 m3/sec is provided by DBC, the resulting
specific discharge for the Stage I and Stage II areas (28,700 ha) will be less than 0.75 I/sec/ha, which is
considered low for paddy peak demands in Nepal. It is also necessary to agree with the Bihar
authorities on a schedule of closures for maintenance of DBC at times suitable to agricultural demands.
The Ghora Sahan Branch Canal, which takes off from DBC in India immediately upstream of the head
of NEC, has a major breach which, when repaired, will divert more water into the Ghora Sahan Branch
Canal thereby decreasing the flow of water to NEC. Thus water availability for the system is very
uncertain even for the re-scoped area.
22.        Budget for O&M. The Project Operation Plan (POP) prepared by NZIDP assumes an
annual maintenance budget of NRs. 20.35 million in 1994/95 (NRs. 831/ha for 24,500 ha) diminishing
steadily to NRs. 11.5 million in 1999/2000, when it is assumed that all canals serving areas less than
1000 ha would have been handed over to water users' committees who would pay for O&M.
However, the agreed budget for O&M construction in 1994/95 is only NRs. 14.01 million, which
includes preparation of irrigation boundary maps (NRs. 1.2 million) and organisation of WUGs (NRs.
1.5 million), leaving only NRs. 11.31 million for maintenance. This corresponds to NRs. 462/ha for
24,500 ha and also has to cover the reach of NEC serving Blocks 11 and 12 and the secondary canals
6 The US$ amounts in the ICB contract have been converted to NRs at current exchange rates.



8
in these blocks, which are likely to receive some irrigation, flood protection and road works. It is quite
clear that the amounts allocated for O&M is insufficient.
23.        The success of the project is also dependent upon: (a) completion of construction of
tertiary canals by farmers; (b) applying generally simple rules for operation of the irrigation system; and
(c) water users' understanding the importance of maintaining essential features of the system. The
Government's continued support to the above principles, coupled with motivation of O&M staff, are
important for the successful implementation of the project after the Credit closure. Three important
elements need strengthening: (i) the development and application of operating rules which would
mitigate the erratic water supply from DBC; (ii) maintenance of the main and secondary canals and
structures in accordance with the project design which would ensure full supply level in the delivery
canal; and (iii) training water users in the operation and maintenance of the system. Based on these
issues and concerns, the sustainabiity of the project is rated as "uncertain".
E. IDA PERFORMANCE
24.        Before and during appraisal, IDA failed to take account of the fact that the supply from
the DBC was substantially less than the treaty amount agreed with India. This was a serious deficiency
in project design and should have been a major deciding factor for investment. The commitment of
-HMGN and NZIDB to the project was not in doubt, but there was no evidence that beneficiaries were
given an opportunity to influence the design of the project which included the formation of WUGs.
There should have been more incentives for beneficiary participation to sustain the project. The
financial package was generally appropriate but not adequate due to underestimation of civil work
costs by consultants employed by the implementing agency. The appraisal mission based quantities and
costs on estimates supplied by the Borrower's consultants, which were later found to be inaccurate.
The consultants' estimates should have been more thoroughly checked by the appraisal mission. The
appraisal report has some minor inconsistencies in Annex 10 that shows detailed design drawings and
modifications to consultants' drawings of hydraulic structures for tertiary canals in a pilot area. The
implementation plan and performance indicators were adequate.
25.        Based on past experiences in Stages I and II, IDA convinced the Borrower and its
consultants to change its minor network water distribution from the existing gated system of 8 to 10
ha sub-chak where many WVUGs had already been formed, to a new system involving structured
irrigation networks and rotational water supply with 4 ha sub-chak. This required different chak sizes
and, therefore, different WUGs, remodelling of secondary canals and structures, additional structures
and rearrangement of the tertiary canal layout. The concept was not thoroughly discussed with farmers
resulting in delays, additional expenses, confusion and loss of confidence in NZIDP. There is a risk
that the expected benefits from this change would not be realised until NZIDP staff and water users
understand and accept the concepts involved under the rotational supply system.
26.        IDA provided frequent and generally good and helpful supervision and adopted a flexible
approach to the implementation of the project. However, the area irrigated was not monitored by the
project using their irrigation boundary maps. That made evaluation of project results difficult. IDA's
relations with the co-financier were satisfactory.



9
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
27.        Only at the later period of the project after DBC was repaired, the Borrower made
considerable efforts to implement the project with due diligence and efficiency. For most of the
implementation stage, the project suffered severe shortage of funds and was not provided with
adequate budget for efficient implementation. Audit reports were often late. The Borrower was tardy
in appointing agricultural staff to the project. The Borrower's consultant seriously underestimated the
cost of the main ICB civil works contract, resulting in a delay of about one year due to the need to re-
tender. There are large variations between the quantities of works estimated and actual quantities (see
Table 5). A detailed Project Completion Report7 and a draft POP were prepared. The POP was
ilevised after the ICR mission, taking into account comments made by IDA's and FAO's ICR missions.
The procedure for collecting water service charges has been reviewed and found acceptable.
However, the current level of charges, which is inadequate to cover the cost of operation and
maintenance of the system, has not been reviewed. DOI is now responsible for collection of water
charges through the WUC. No water service charges have yet been collected.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
28.        Based on the assumptions described in Appendix B, the NPV of the irrigation component
of the project when flows are discounted at 10 percent is positive. However, the assumptions are
based on sustainable benefits following completion of tertiary canals (paras. 21 to 23). Because of the
erratic supply system, there is hardly any evidence in the project to organize farmers to enlist their
cooperation in the construction of tertiary canal systems. The project was reformulated without
inclusion of the Stage III area and therefore the ERR of the original project could not be assessed.
Thus only some of the original objectives were met within the reformulated project, and the works
included were only partially completed. The uncertainty of tertiary canals being completed on time and
the reliability of the supply of water from DBC in the future make the assessment of outcome to be
rated "unsatisfactory".
H. FUTURE OPERATION
29.   NZIDP has prepared a POP8 which describes the present and proposed future organisation and
management of the project with detailed job descriptions. The POP assumes that minor canals with
command areas of less than 1,000 ha would be operated and managed by water users' associations, and
that these works would be handed over byNZIDP to the associations by 1999/2000. The POP states
that a field outlet would generally receive water one day per week when the secondary canal is running
- generally one in two weeks during kharif and one in three weeks during rabi. The POP describes the
proposed formation of WUGs. The POP needs to be supplemented further with details: (a) describing
working procedures for assessment and collection of irrigation service charges; (b) on estimated
Dated January 1995 containing 35 pages of text and many tables. No summary has been prepared.
8 Dated January 1995 and revised again in March 1995.



10
demand and timing of water from DBC and schedule canal closures; and (c) describing the monitoring
of water levels and flows in the irrigation system.
30.        Future performance of the project can be evaluated by monitoring:
(a)  area irrigated in each season by the project using the established irrigation
boundary maps;
(b)  area and amount assessed for water service charges,
(c)  amount of water service charges paid; and
(d)  agricultural production.
31.        For the lower three blocks (Blocks 13 to 15) that have been eliminated from the Narayani
Irrigation System, the Government should promote the development of private shallow tubewells. The
experience with private shallow tubewells in the neighboring Simra area is quite positive and can be
replicated in the project.
32.        Monitoring and Evaluation. Systems and computerized data bases have been
established at the NZIDP offices for agricultural monitoring, covering both socio-economic and routine
crop production surveys. Socio-economic surveys are required at intervals of three or more years and
are best assigned to experienced consultants. Despite the absence of a responsible officer specifically
appointed for the task, project staff have successfully undertaken regular crop cutting surveys but have
difficulty in presenting the results in a coherent report. Assistance from an experienced consultant from
time-to-time would overcome this difficulty. Constraints on the sustainability of the monitoring are
budget commitment and computer literacy of project staff
33.        Water management monitoring at present consists only of measuring the flow entering
the NEC from DBC. This monitoring is now well established and there is no reason to think that it will
not continue. More extensive water-management monitoring of flows in NEC and secondary canals is
reconmmended both as a record of water delivered to water users and to assess whether improved
operations could be evolved. Records should be kept of the supply to the main, secondary and other
important canals, indicating whether full supply water level has been maintained and, where practicable,
the flow entering the canal. Measurement of the flow in the NEC passing from the reformulated
project area at Block 10 into Blocks 11 and 12, as well as the water supplied to the project area from
the Tilawe weir and other cross-drains, would provide valuable information for the future development
of the project.
34.        The results of all monitoring should be reported to the General Manager for analysis and
action. The General Manager should draw the attention of DOI, Department of Agriculture, and other
agencies to areas where action is needed and act as a catalyst to ensure necessary action is taken.



11
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
35.         The main lessons learned are:
(a) a water right based on an international treaty may be an insufficient guarantee of
reliable physical delivery. A critical evaluation of the situation should be done prior
to project investment;
(b)  before embarking on a new stage of a project such as Narayani, the availability of
water should be reassessed. Unreliable water supply for any reason destroys
farmer confidence in the ability of the irrigation authorities and can lead to a lack of
cooperation;
(c)  participation of beneficiaries in the design, construction and implementation, and
O&M is very important in a large public irrigation system where available water
resources have to be shared among many beneficiaries in an organized and timely
manner. Training farmers to understand the design of the water system and its
performance is necessary for large public irrigation systems where water has to be
shared according to agreed time and quantity;
(d)  the design of a large public irrigation system must be flexible, simple and socially
acceptable to small farmers and their communities. Social acceptability should be
tested before committing heavy investment. Water User Groups can function
effectively only when reliable irrigation supply can be assured;
(e) service charges to cover full O&M costs of public utilities after improvement must
be ir-iosed and should be considered a country-wide issue in any investment
projea;
(f)  regular evaluation of project impact on beneficiaries is more likely to be successful
where the work is carried out by independent consultants rather than by project
staff, and
(g) public and government awareness of proper utilization of natural resources must be
developed through various means of investment lending.



12
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of obiectives          Substantial     Partial    Negligible  Not Applicable
Macro policies                        L             L             L             L
Sector policies                                     7                          7E1
Financial objectives                              FE7
Institutional development                          El  
Physical objectives                                El                          F
Poverty reduction                                 El
Gender issues                         K]           K             K             E:
Other social objectives              | ]           El            K 
Environmental objectives                ]          El            K] 
Public sector management                ]             ]          K              [
Private sector development              ]         El             K] 
Other (natural resources manage)      K]E                        K]            K
B. Project sustainability             Likely        Unlikely    Uncertain
The sustainability of the project is uncertain because of the unreliability of the main supply from Don Branch Canal, and the
uncertainity of sufficient O&M support by the Government, and farmers' cooperation in completion of tertiary canals and in
water managemnent.



13
Highli
C. Bank performance               satisfactory   Satisfacton   Deficient
Identification                   L          F2            E
Preparation assistance                                   [  ] E
Appraisal                       E7 ] [
Supervision                     [I           E 
The project identification, preparation, and appraisal are rated deficient due to inadequate evaluation on reliability
of water supply for the project. The project was processed at the time of interruption of the water supply.
Hfighly
D. Borrower performance             satisfactory   Satisfactorv   Deficient
Preparation                    [1  ]i        L[3
Implementation                   7 1                     F31
Covenant compliance             lD I         E           13
Operation (if applicable)       E            z            E
Main deficiency in the preparation was failure to assess the reliability of the main water supply. Water charges
issue was addressed under the project because of the long disruption of water supply. Project implementation
improved only after the restoration of water supply from DBC.
Highty                                    H
E. Assessment of outcome         satisfacton   Satisfacton   Unsatisfactorv  unsatisfacton
The original project scope was revised. Moreover, uncertainty of tertiary canals being completed timely by farmers and
reliable supply of water from the parent supply canal, DBC of India, in future make the assessment of outcome to be
rated "Unsatisfactory".



14
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                 Purpose           Yr. of Approv.     Status
Precediing operations
1. Birganj Irrigation Project          Complete & upgrade            1973      Complete PPAR
(Naravani Zone)                     irrigation & drainage for                1982
Cr. 373-NEP                          28,700 ha
2. Narayani Zone Irrigation            Develop 12,700 ha deferred     1978     Complete PCR,
Development Stage II                 from Stage I                            May 91
Cr.856-NEP
Following operations
1. Possible Irrigation Subsector Project  To finance private farmer            Under preparation
managed irrigation schemes.            for FY98 lending
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project process              Date planned             Date actual!
latest estimate
Preparation                                                                    June 1984
Appraisal                                           November 1985       November-December 1985
Negotiations                                        17 March 1986           16-22 April 1986
Board presentation                                   20 May 1986              19 June 1986
Signing                                                                    14 November 1986
Effectiveness                                                                20 March 1987
Mid-term review (if applicable)
Reformulation Report                                                           June 1992
Project completion                                                             June 1994
Loan closing                                         30 June 1994            30 June 1995
Closing date was extended by one year to permit disbursement of retention money due to ICB contractor,
12 months after substantial completion of the contract.
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY87   FY88    FY89    FY90    FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95
Appraisal estimate  800    3,100    6,500   11,500   18,000  21,700  24,000  24,500  24,500
Actual               0       464    1,340    2,787    5,299   8,274   10,830  15,310  17,193"
Actual as % of      0         15       21       24        29      38       45       62      70"/
estimate
Date of final
disbursement''
I/ Final cancellation of unused amount was made on February 1, 1996.



15
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Description                             unit    Estimated in SAR      Actual         Actual as %of SAR
-1 NEC IMPROVEMENT                                                                                                    0
Ia) Canal lining                                                 km              3.6
b) Canal Slope Prot. & Shaping                                   km_2_ _                            _
c) Bank Strengtlhening                                           km              7.0              9.8                13
d) Service Road                                                  krn             18.5                                            ll
e) Additional Structures:
(1) Check                                                      No.                                                  167
(2) Cross drain                                                No.                                                  33         ll
(3) Car bridge                                                 No.              7                 I                 1_4_
(4) Foot bridge                                                No.              3                0                   0_||
(5) Observ. bridge                                             No.              O                 I                 o|
(6) Observ. wellst 
(7) Downstreamn protection                                     No.             300               2                  1
A-2 REHABILITATION OFl
TILAWE BARRAGEl
(a) Rehabilitation Works
(I) Civil works                                         _      No.               1                1                 100
(2) Metal works                                                No.               II100l
(b) D/S Protection Works                                         No.              0                 1
B. IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE
WORKS IN STAGE III AREA
(a) MSC, BSC & SSC Construction                                                              .    _l
(I) Earthwork                                                  km             150.5               5                  3
(2) Structures  0   X                                          No.             513               0                   0
(b) TC and OFD.l
(I) Earthwork                                                  km               93               0                   0
(2) Structures                                                 No.             1,125              0                  0
(3) OFD                                                         ha            8,700               0                  0
[c) Drainage System                                                       __.
(I) Major ad minor drainage canal                              km              168.4             0                   0
(2) Structures                                                 No.             467               0                   0
[d) Canal Service Road                                           km              61.4              0                  0
(e) Drainage Service Road                                        km              63.4              0                  0
(f) Shallow Tubewells                                           wells             40               0                  0
C-1 UPGRADING OF STAGE I
AREA
(a) MSC, BSC & SSC Upgrading                                                                .
(1) Earthwork                                                  km               28              226                 807
(2) Canal lining                                               km               0               0.75
(3) Structures
-New                                                         No.             190              370                 195
- Remodel                                                    No.              0               854
(b) TC and OFD
(1) Now TC construction                                        km            (385.8)            181.6               47
(2) Structures:
-New                                                         No.           (4209)             696                 17
- Remodel                                                    No.           (1547)             188                 12
c) Canal Service Road                                            km              72                0                  0



16
|  Description                        Unit    Estimated in SAR      Actual        Actual as %ofSAR
|C-2 UPGRADING OF STAGE II
|AREA
(a) MSC, BSC & SSC Upgrading
(1) Earthwork                                                km              15.6            143                917
(2) Structures:                                                                         _________
- New                                                      No.             26              203                781
- Remodel                                                  No.            (491)            497                101
(b) TC and OFD
(I) New TC construction                                      krn           (292.2)           30.1      _       _
(2) Structures:
- New                                                      No.           (3058)             4                 0.1
| - Remnodel                                                 No.             770              101
t(c) Drange Syster
(1) Major & niinor drainage canal                            km             80.8              0                  0
(2) Structures                                               No.             104              0                  0
d) Canal Service Road                                          km              72               0                 0
p-1 Flood Protection Works
a) Lal Bakeya River
- Right Bank                                                 km               4               0                  0
- Left Bank                                                  km               8               8.8               110
(b) Bagmati River
(1) Flood dyke                                               km               7               4.3               61
(2) Guide Bund                                               kmn            (0.3)             0.3               100
(3) Spur                                                     No.                              6
D.2 River Training
(a) Tilawe                                                   km               3               1.3               43
(b) Bangari                                                  km               2               0                  0
(c) Pasaha                                                   km              2.5              0.3                12
(d) Ganjol                                                   km               0               5.5                c
E. Upgrade Roads
(a) Upgrade village link roads                                km              91               0                 0
(b) Gravel MSC2 BSC roads                                     km             152             18.55               12
Source: PCR, July 1994.
Note: Figures in the brackets stand for quantities as per final design



17
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
I. Key operating indicators in SAR      Estimated in SAR          ICR Estimate at Full Development
1. Area irrigated                  37,400 ha                    24,500 ha1'
2. Increased food grain production  68,490 t/yr (65,178) {65,825} )   36,389 t/yr
3. Increased oilseed               6,760 t/yr (5,825) {6,757})    2,296 t
Increased sugarcane             16,815 t/yr                   24,365 t
5. Directly benefitting farm families   31,500                  23,900 (at 1:2 ha/farm)
6. Generated farm employment       9,300 man-years/year 4'      6,300 person-years/yr (at 250 days/yr)
7. Value added to local economy    NRs206 million/vear          NRs252 million/yr
[II. Additional indicators for future      Revised targets
operation (if applicable)
1 Area assessed for water service  24,500 ha
charges
2. Amount of water service charges    Full cost of O&M
assessed
3. Amount of water service charges    100%
collected
I' Estimated benefits are based on 24,500 ha, some irrigation water may be supplied to an additional 4,200 ha.
2' According to SAR, para 8.01. Annex 1, Table 2 figures in (brackets). Annex 1, Table 11 in {brackets}.
2' 38,685 t/yr including pulses.
-' SAR, para 8.02 says 10,700 man-years/year.
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Study                 at appraisal                  Status               Impact of study
1. Baseline agro-economic    To provide benchmark Data collected but no analysis    Nil
survey                     against which
development can be
measured
2. O&M Study                 To establish physical   Report on water management 3/93   O&M plan will
and budgetary        O&M plan 10/94                    provide basis of
requirements                                          future O&M
3. Cost recovery study for all   To improve cost  Study financed by ADB completed.  No action.
major projects            recovery.
Remote sensing study 3/93 for    No direct impact.
4. Planning & design of                           Narayani
suitable irrigation projects
in Terai



18
Table 8A: Proiect Costs
Appraisal estimate                    Actual/latest estimate
(USSM)                                 (USSM)
Item                         Local        Foreign        Total           Local        Foreign    Total
costs         costs                        costs          costs
1. NECumprovementandrepairs                        1.2           1.0            2.2            0.9           3.2        4.1
to the Tilawe Barrage
2. Irrigation and drainage (Stage                  1.5           3.0            4.5            0.2           0.2        0.4
Ill Area)
3. Irrigationanddrainage(StageI                    1.2            2.2           3.4            0.8           4.6        5.4
and II Areas)
4. Floodcontrolandrivertraining                    0.5            1.1           1.6            1.4           4.6        6.0
5. Upgrading ofroadnetwork                         0.5            1.1           1.6            0.1           0.4        0.5
6. Equipmentandradio-                              0.1            1.3           1.4            0.1           0.6        0.7
communication system
7. Regional workshop                               0.1           0.9            1.0            0.2            0         0.2
8. Technical support                               1.6           2.5            4.1            1.1           3.4        4.5
9. Establishmernt and O&M                          3.6            1.8           5.4            3.4                      3.4
10. Land acquisition and crop                      0.6            -             0.6            0.3                      0.3
compalstion
Total Baline Costs                                 10.9          14.9          25.8            8.5           17.0       25.5
Physical Contingencies                            1.1            1.8           2.9
Price Contingencies                               3.0           3.8            6.8
Total Project Coats                                15.0          20.5          35.5            8.5           17.0       255
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisai tsdrmate                         Actual/latest estimate
(US$Nf)                                      (US$M)
Local        Foreign         Total            Local           Foreign        Total
costs         costs                           costs             costs
Source
IDA                                         9.9           14.6          24.5                  3.5          13.6         17.1
Cofmiancing institution                     1.6           5.92'           7.5                 2.9            3.4         6.3
Domestic contribution                       3.5              0            3.5                 2.1             0          2.1
TOTAL                                     15.0          20.5           35.5                 8.5           17.0       25.51'
" Foreign component of Technical Support, Establishment and O&M from SAR, para 4.01, +37.6% for
contingencies.



19
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Appraisal Estimate                       ICR Estimate
Net Present Value at 10% Stages I & H (MNRs)                                                      450                                  599
Net Present Value at I0% Whole Project (MNRs)                                                     610
Economic RateofRetumnStages I&I (%)                                                                22                                   19
Economic Rate of Retum Whole Project (%)                                                           21                                    18
Underlying Assumptions:
- Project Life                                                                                 25 years                            25 years
- Standard Conversion Factor                                                                      0.90                                0.90
- Unskdlled Labour Value at                                                                       0.90                             0.7 x 0.9
- Financial Wage Rate (NRs/day)                                                                   867                                   40
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
NEPAL
Narayani M  Irrigation Project
Origsal       Revised fulfillment
Covennt type          Present        fulfillment            date              Descnption of
A    ,-n-t       Section                               status           date                                     covenant                Comments
DCA               3.01 (a)    Project implementation       CP                                                Due diligence            Budget sometimes
aeznents                                                                      and efficiency.          insuificient.
3.03        Procurument                  C                                                Procurement to           Complied
be as Schedule 3.
3.04        Eviromentl                   C                                                Take meuures             Complied.
to minimize malrna4 etc.
4.01        Accounts/audits             CD        9 months           12 months            Fumish audit repats.     Sometimes late.
after FY          after FY                                      Deadline postponed
1993.
4.02 (a)    Studies/technical           CD        31 Dec86           22Mar88              Study O&M needs.         Complied lte. Revised
aince                                                                                                  1993.
(b)      Studies/technical            CD        30 June 87                             Furnish study            Cornplied late. Revised
assistance                                                                   to IDA and implement    1993.
4.03        Financial                    C        31MarS7etxeq                            Fumish                   Complied
atimates for
next fiscal yew.
4.04 (a)    Coat recovezy/               C        31 Dec86           15May87              Set water chage          Cornplied.
priciug                                                                       at NRs 200/ha
(b)      Coet ecovey/                 C         16 July 87        15 May 87            Assign Revenue Dept      Complied but 1989 Law
pricing                                                                       with collection.         easigned collection to
DOI.



20
Original      Revised fulfillment
Covenant type         Present        fulfillment            date              Description of
Agement          Section                               status           date                                     covenant                Comments
(c)      Cost recovery/               CP       31 Aug 88 and                           Review charges.          Procedure reviewed but
pricisg                               eveTy 2 yrs                                                      not level of charges.
NC       FY 93                                   Charges to cover full    Rates fixed are less than
cost of O&M.             O&M cost. No charges
yet collected.
405         Studies/technical           CD        1 April 89                              Study of cost recovery   Study by ADB-assisted
assistance                                                                    for all major irrigation.    TA.
Schedule 3                    Studies/technical             C                                               Employ consultants.       Complied.
assistance
Schedule 4        (a)         Insttutional                 CD        I July 87         May 88               Issue permits for radio   Complied late.
system
(b)         Project implementation       C                                                GM satisfactory to IDA.   Complied.
arrangements
(c)         Project implementation      CD        31 Dec 87 and                           Revise GMs limit of      General order issued
arrangements                          every 2 yrs                             contractual commitment.  1993.
(d)         Project implementaton       CD         I Jan 87 et seq                        Fumish training          Complied, sometimes
arrangements                                                                  programme.               late.
C        I April 87 et seq                      Implement training        Some training dore.
programme.
(e)         Monitoring/                  'D       30 June 87 and                          Conduct agro-economic   Survey completed but
reviews                               every 2 yrs                             survey.                  results not processed.
Schedule 4        (f)         Project implementation       CD        30 June 87                             Appoint AADO & SMS   Complied but late.
arrangements                                                                 to each district.
l   (g)     Institutional               NC        30 June 87                              Maintain farm research    Cancelled because
programme.               similar exists at
Parwanipur
(h)         Project implementation      CP        31Dec86                                 Establish WtUGs.         But suspended in 1988.
arrangements
(i)         Institutional               CD        30 Sep 87          April 89             Constitute WUGs as       Late.
statutory bodies.
(j)         Facilities maintenance       C         I July 91         Jan 89               Fumish proposal for      Complied.
organization for O&M.
(k)         Monitoring/                  C'                                               Fumish semi-annual       Complied.
reviews                                                                       reports.
(I)         Project implementation       C        31 Jan 87                               Implement water          Complied.
arrangements                                                                  management plan.
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title                                        Describe and comment on lack of compliance
:OP 4.07 Water Resources Management                                   No comprehensive framework for water resources developmerat.
Pricing policy does not achieve cost recovery.
BP 13.55                                                              POP was not able to provide to ICR mission aide-memoire due
to some revision



21
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                          Revised                       Actual
Stage of
project cycle
Weeks             US$            Weeks            US$           Weeks           US$
Preparation to                      n.k.             n.k.                                       105.9               n.a.
appraisal
Appraisal                           n.k.             n.k.                                        10.9               n.a.
egotiations through               n.k.             n.k.                                       )
oard approval                                                                                 )
)95.3               n.a.
)
Supervision                         n.k.             n.k.
Completion                          n.k.             n.k.                                       5.0                 n.a.
TOTAL                       I                            .   I                I               I             I               I
/ According to World Bank records on 4 January 1995.
n.k. = not known; n.a. = not available.
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Number                    Specialized 1/    lmplemen-       Develop-
Stage of           Month/         of         Days in        staff skills      tation          ment        Types of
project cycle         year        persons       field        represented        status        objectives    problenm2/
Through appraisal                                                                      _              _
Appraisal through
Board approval
Supervision
1.                     Sep 86         1           23 3/        I                       nr             nr            nr
2.                     Nov S6                                   P                      T              nr            P
3.                     Feb S7 4/
4.                     May 87        2            3             A, W                   2              2             M
5.                     Oct 87        2            3            A,                      2              2             M
6.                     May 88         1           4             E                      2              2            F, M
7.                     Nov 88         1           4            E                       2              2             F
8.                     April 89      2            4            A, I                    2              2             F
9.                     Nov-Dec 89    3            7             1, C, A                2              3             F
July 90       I                         E                       3              3             F
10.                   Nov 90         1            8            1                       3              3           F, P, T



22
11.                    Mar91          2             13           1                        3              3            F, P, T
12.                    Sep 91         2            7             1                        3              3            F,P,T
13.                    April 92        1           5             I                        3              3            F, P, T
14.                    June 92         1                         I                        nr             nr             nr
15.                    Nov 92          1                         I                        3              3          F, C, P, T
16.                    April 93       4            5             1, A, P                  3              3          F, C, P, T
17.                    Oct 93         4                          1, A, P, F               3              3             F, P
18.                    Mar94           5                         I,A,P,F                  3              3             F,P
19.                    April 95 4/    2            2             I
Conipletion             Feb 95         2            12            I,E
1/ I = Irrigadion Engineer, P = Procurement; A = Agriculturalist; E = Economist; C = Construction; F = Farmers Organization;
P = Associate Programme Officer; W = Water Management Expert.
2/ P = Procuremet; F = Available Funds; M = Project Management; C = Compliance with Legal Covenants; T = Traininig.
3/ Includes other projects.
41 No report on file for this mission.
r = not reported.



23
Nepal
Narayani III Irrigation Project (Credit-1715-NEP)
Implementation Completion Report Mission
April 1995
Aide Memoire
Introduction
1.    An IDA mission comprising Messrs:  0. Myint  (SA2AW)  and   C.P.  Rauniyar
(SA2NE), supervised the Narayani III Irrigation Project (NIP) on April 25-26 as
a follow-up mission to the FAO/WB CP Implementation Completion Reporting  (ICR)
mission, who visited Nepal from February 19 to March 3, 1995.
2.    This  aide memoire  is based on the detailed findings  of the  FAO/WB-CP
mission which was available to the mission in the form of draft aide memoire of
March 2, 1995, and further discussions with Government, IDA staff, staff of the
Narayani Zone Irrigation Development Project (NZIDP) . The Project Completion
Report dated July 1994 prepared by the Project Consultant, Nippon Koei, and
NZIDP, the Project Operation Plan   (POP) dated December 1994 and the ICR dated
January 1995 prepared by NZIDP have been major sources of information used in
this follow-up.   The mission endorsed the findings and recommendations of the
FAO/WB-CP ICR mission of February-March 1995. The aide memoire of the FAO/WB CP
mission is attached herewith for easy reference.
3.    The draft aide memoire of the present mission was distributed to the
Ministry of Finance  (MOF), Ministry of Water Resources  (MOWR),  Department of
Irrigation (DOI), and the concerned project manager, and discussed at a wrap-up
meeting at Department of Irrigation (DOI) on April 28, 1995. Amendments agreed at
the meeting have been duly incorporated.  The findings of the mission is subject
to the approval  of the Bank management.    The mission wishes  to thank  the
Director-General of the Department of Irrigation (DOI), and the General Manager
(GM) of NZIDP for their cooperation, assistance and hospitality.
The Project
4.    The appraised project was the third phase of command area development (CAD)
NZIP system designed to enable Nepal to use 24.1 cubic metres per second (cumecs)
of Gandak river water, in accordance with its agreement with India. It was to be
implemented over a seven year period, incorporating the following main
components, the details of which are mentioned in the aide-memoire of FAO/WB CP
mission :
a)    Improvements to Nepal Eastern Canal (NEC) and repairs to the Tilawe
weir.
b)    Stage III area CAD (8,700 ha).
c)    Stage I and II areas (28,700 ha).
d)    Flood protection and river training works.
e)    Improvements to village and service roads.
f)    Vehicles and equipment for operation and maintenance  (O&M) of the
completed system.
g)    Construction and equipping of a regional workshop.
h)    Technical  support  including  consultancies  for  (i)  design  and
supervision of construction, (ii) project monitoring and evaluation
and (iii) studies.



24
i)    Support of project establishment and O&M costs.
5.    The total project cost of US$35.5 million was to be financed with the help
of an IDA credit of SDR21.6 million (US$24.5 million) and a grant from the Swiss
Development Co-operation of 15 million Swiss francs (US$7.5 million). The project
was to increase the irrigated area from about 22,900 ha to 37,400 ha. Incremental
agricultural production was estimated to be 30,900t of paddy, 34,900t of wheat,
6,700t of oilseeds, 4,000t of vegetables and sugarcane which would produce 1500t
of sugar. The economic rate of return was estimated at 21%.
Misuion's Findingu
6.    Project Iriplementation.  The implementation of the project was started in
April 1989 with some delays due to : a) Floods in 1986 and 1987, which caused
heavy damage to both the Nepal Eastern Canal (NEC) and the Don Branch Canal (DBC)
in India, which supplies water to the NEC from Gandak Barrage. Repair of NEC was
completed by early 1989 but repair of the DBC was completed only in June 1991. b)
Slow procurement for the main ICB contract caused by underestimation of the
contract cost by consultants acting for NZIDP. c) Inadequate budget provisions by
HMGN throughout the project period.   d) A severe shortage of Diesel fuel during
the trade and transit disagreement between India and Nepal. In order to reduce
the cost of the project the ICB contract was retendered with reduced quantities
of road metalling and drainage.
7.    Refonmulation. The project water supply was disrupted after 1986 flood in
DBC and it was restored only in June 1991. The project was continued without
water supply for about five years. After restoration of the water supply, the
repaired DBC supplied reduced and erractic amount which is far less the Indo-
Nepal agreed amount of 24.1 cumec (the designed capacity of the NZIP system).
This caused the scope of the project to be questioned (and eventually to be
reformulated), which caused uncertainty and delay. Narayani Zone Irrigation
Development Board  (NZIDB),  with the recommendation of IDA,   reformulated the
project scope in April 1993 as follows:
a)    The CAD to be fully developed down to tertiary irrigation unit (TIU)
level would be reduced to 24,500 ha (Blocks 1 to 10);
b)    The  rehabilitation  works  already started  for main  and secondary
canals in Blocks 11 and 12 would be completed.
c)    Stage  III  irrigation development  would be  omitted but  increased
river training and flood protection works on the Lal Bakeya and
Bagmati rivers would be completed.
d)    River training and flood protection works on rivers crossing the
NEC, the extent of which had already been increased to safeguard the
NEC from further flood damage, would be completed.
e)    All further construction of tertiary canals would be by farmers in
accordance with HMGN's new Irrigation Policy, 1992.
f)    Shallow  tubewells  were  earlier  omitted  from the project  on the
grounds that they could be installed without the assistance of HMGN.
8.    Completion.  The project as reformulated has generally been satisfactorily
constructed  down  to the  turnouts  to  tertiary  systems.    The  ICB contractor
generally performed satisfactorily and most of the problems experienced with
local contractors in Stages I and II were not repeated. The regional workshop has



25
been built and partly equipped. The main changes were in the amounts spent on
flood control and river training (increased by about US$5 million) and on the
Stage III irrigation works (decreased by about US$4 million) . The total cost of
the project at the time of the Credit closure is estimated to be about US$26.1
million (NRs 752.7 million) . This is about 74% of the SAR estimate in US$ but,
due to alterations in the rate of exchange between the Nepalese rupee and the US
dollar,  the expenditure for the project in real term is about NRs 952 million or
131% of the SAR estimate in Nepalese rupees. To date, approximately US$17.13
million  of the  IDA credit and approximately  SwF9.4  million  (US$6.7 million
approximately) have been disbursed. SDR7.3 million and SwF5 million were
cancelled from the credit and grant in June 1994. That is about 87% of the IDA
revised credit and 94% of the Swiss Grant had been disbursed.   The Credit is
opened up to end June 1995 only for the disbursement of ICB-contract's retention
money, the payment of which will be due by end May 1995.   The retention money
amount  is  about  SDR 0.103 million.    Accounting  that  amount  which  will  be
disbursed by middle of June 1995, the total disbursement from IDA Credit will be
about SDR 12.564 million. About SDR 1.736 (12% of the revised credit) will remain
unused and has  to be  canceled.    Vehicles  and equipment  for O&M have been
provided. The main construction works outstanding are tertiary canals and field
channels to be built by farmers and drainage works not detailed in SAR.
Benefits
9.    Project benefits  derive  from the provision of supplementary irrigation
during the kharif season and irrigation during the rabi season.  'However, due to
the absence of water supply for five out of seven project years, there was no
proper record on the yearly irrigated area by the system. Only the indicative
crop areas are available for the estimate of benefits.
10.   However, the incremental benefits of the project will clearly depend on
reliability of water supply from NEC and the speed with which the reformulated
project area can be effectively irrigated. This requires development of tertiary
canals or other means of ensuring that the full command area is brought under
irrigation. Due to the somewhat higher without-project situation and the slower
build-up of benefits relative to costs it can be expected that the ERR will be
below the 21% calculated for the Stage I and II areas at appraisal. Benefits
could also be claimed for the flood protection and river training works as well
as for the improvement of roads.
Performance of the Borrower
11.   The Borrower made considerable efforts to implement the project with due
diligence and efficiency but for most of the implementation stage the project
suffered severe shortage of funds and was not provided with adequate budget for
efficient implementation. Audit reports were often late. The Borrower was very
tardy in appointing agricultural staff to the project. The Borrower's consultant
seriously underestimated the cost of the main ICB civil work contract, which
caused delay due to the need to retender. A detailed PCR, an ICR and a revised
POP were prepared. The mission endorsed the comments of the FAO/WB-CP mission on
the POP, which needs further elaboration on the following points which are to be
approved by DOI and the Ministry of Water Resources.   The mission provisionally
accepted the submitted POP contigent upon availability of the following details
by end June 1995. An explanation was given to GM for the analysis.



26
(a)   Detailed procedures for assessment and collection of water charges from the
rescoped project areas (Block 1 to 10), which are receiving water from DBC.
(b)   Based on the past performance of  DBC, estimate the timing of water supply
from DBC and find out the extent of area that can be irrigated with different
reliabilities (70% to 90%) in Kharif and in Rabi seasons.
(c)    Procedure for monitoring of the full supply level in the irrigation system
at different canal levels during O&M.
Performance of IDA
12.   At and before appraisal IDA took account of strength of the Indo-Nepal
treaty without considering the fact that the historical supply from the DBC was
always substantially less than the treaty amount since inception of NZIP. IDA
also failed to consider seriously about the continuation of the project after
DBC's stoppage of water supply for five continuous years during implementation.
However, after the restoration of DBC supply in June 1991, IDA provided frequent
good and helpful supervisions and adopted a flexible approach to the
implementation of the project.
Project Sustainability
13.   Water availability.  The mission has the same view as FAO/WB CP mission
that, in view of the major siltation problems at the Gandak Barrage and DBC as
well, the vulnerability of DBC to floods in its cross drainage, sustainable water
supply even in the reduced amount in long run is very uncertain. This was
recognised when the project was reformulated and the area to receive reliable
irrigation reduced to 24,500 ha. There is nevertheless a risk that reliable water
would not be provided even for this reduced area.  The mission suggests that
taking account of the presently proposed cropping pattern, the General Manager
should prepare revised estimates of crop water requirements and the dates and
quantities of water required from the DBC. Based on this formation regular
discussions with India should be held to find a way to avoid further reduction of
DBC supply and of channelling funds from Government of India to be used
specifically for maintenance and repair of DBC.
14.   Budget for OWM. The Project Operation Plan (POP) of February 1995 assumes
an annual repair and maintenance budget requirement of NRs54.5 million in 1994/5
(NRs2200/ha for 24500 ha including costs of tertiary structures and secondary
canal gravelling) reducing steadily to NRs 18.7 million (NRs 760/ha) in 1999/2000
by when it is assumed that all canals serving areas less than 1000 ha would have
been handed over to water users committees, who would pay for O&M of these
smaller canals. However the alloted budget for O&M   in 1994/5 is only NRs22.2
million, with no budget for tertiary canal structures, NEC repairs and road
maintenance.  With this  kind of budget  reduction,  optimum performance of the
rescoped project becomes doubtful. The mission suggests that the following year
budget should reflect to the requirement mentioned in the agreed POP.  However,
there is a risk that the amounts allocated may be insufficient.
15.   Formation of Water Users Groups and Turnover program. Up to March 1995 in
blocks 1 to 5 (14,644 ha) 524 out of 552 Water Users Groups (WUG) have been



27
formed and 176 have been maintaining tertiary canals. Out of that, Blocks 1 and 3
WUCCs have been registered, and the Blocks 2 and 5 are being planned to register
soon. General Manager assured to the mission that arrangement are being made to
turnover (TO) Block 1 and Block 3 to the respective WUCCs in this fiscal year.
The water charges collection can be realized only after the TO.   The mission
shares the views of FAO/CP mission on the requirements mentioned in their aide
memoire for the future success of the project.  However, the mission has a view
that the main thrust of sustainability of the WUGs formed under the project
depends upon how reliably system can supply irrigation water to the users.
16.   Tertiary Irrigation Units.   Unless a close supervision and organization
activities are pursued it is very unlikely to complete the remaining 466 km of
tertiary canals which are to be constructed by beneficiary farmers as per HMGN's
irrigation policy. There is no proven success of this kind of attempt so far in
the country. Consequently progress has become very slow and achieving the full
benefits from the tertiary development is likely to be delayed.
17.   Water Management. The project is now designed on the rotational principle
that NEC would be running continuously during the irrigation seasons, supplying
water to a cluster of secondary canals at a time. Secondary canals on turn
serving less than about 1000 ha would run either at full capacity (on) or be
closed (off). When they are running at full capacity, water would automatically
be distributed into the non-gated tertiary irrigation units (TIU) proportionately
to the area served. Water delivered to a TIU (which serves about 28-30 ha) would
be distributed in rotation to field outlets serving about 4 ha each. The design
requires that, when secondary and tertiary canals are running, they run at full
supply discharge and levels. It is sensitive to the fluctuation of water levels
supplied in canals. For water users to be able to see that the full supply is
being delivered, the mission recommends that, if the system is to operate
satisfactorily as designed, FSL should be marked on each dividing structure.
However under the erractic water supply pattern of DBC, the water level in
secondary canals on turn would be difficult to maintain at constant full supply
level unless a careful and perpetual attention are given to the operation.   The
mission fully agrees with the FAO/CP mission's findings that the suc:ess of the
rotational water supply depends upon   Ci) the reliability of the water supply,
(ii) applying generally simple operating rules, (iii) maintenance of canal system
infrastructure and (iv) water users understanding the importance of maintaining
essential  features  of  the  system.  Three  important  elements  need  further
strengthening: (a) the development and application of operating rules which cope
with the erratic water supply from DBC; (b) maintenance of the main and secondary
canals and structures; and (c) training water users in the operation and
maintenance of the system. The mission has found success of similar rotational
water supply system in other projects (Sunsari Morang, Mahakali).
18.   Monitoring and Evaluation.  The missions recommends the project management
that the systems and computerised data bases established at the NZIDP for
agricultural monitoring, covering both socio-economic and routine crop production
surveys be maintained and keep functional. Water measuring and monitoring is now
well established and there is no reason to think that it will not continue. More
extensive water management monitoring of flows in NEC and secondary canals is
recommended both as a record of water delivered to water users and to assess'
whether improved operations could be evolved. Records should be kept of the
supply to main secondary and other important canals, with a record of whether FSL



28
has been maintained and, where practicable, the flow entering the canal.
Measurement of the flow passing from the reformulated project area at Blocks 1 to
10 as well as the water supplied to the project area from the Tilawe weir and
other cross-drains would provide valuable information for the future development
of the project. The analysis on the measured data should be regularly done and
the results be properly compiled and reported to GM.
Issues at OEM Stage
19.   Next  Steps.  It is very important  to pay proper  attention to  (a)  the
continued development of water users' associations which can undertake the
construction of tertiary canals and field channels and the operation and
maintenance of the parts of the system which have been taken over by them; (b)
the establishment of the DOI organisation for the O&M of part of the system that
has not been handed over to water users' associations; and (c) the provision of
adequate annual budget for full O&M of the part of the system for which DOI is
responsible. No decision has yet been made on the future organization for O&M of
the system although the staff requirements are mentioned in the POP. The mission
urges that HMGN ensure to achieve the above points.
20.   Staff for OUM of Narayani Project. Now that the construction of major works
by DOI is substantially complete, DOI has appointed a task force to consider the
future staffing and how best to keep the staff necessary for O&M and withdraw the
surplus staff. It is likely that the Narayani Zone Irrigation Development Board
(NZIDB), which employs many of the present staff, will after two or three years,
be replaced with a board containing representatives of the WUCCs. As many as 260
staff out of the currently employed 372 staff will be required for the continued
O&M of the project. A decision will be made in this fiscal year.
21.   Irrigation Service Charges. The level of charges for surface water in the
Narayani project area has been set at NRs200/ha/year. No charges have been
demanded or paid since the supply was disrupted in 1986. The POP needs to provide
clear description of the procedure for assessment and collection (see para 11).
The mission endorses the FAO/CP recommendations that (i) for each season a record
is kept of the areas irrigated of all users or groups to whom water is supplied
using the irrigation boundary maps now established in the system, (ii) an
assessment is issued before the end of the main irrigation season to each user or
group, (iii) the charge is collected preferably through WUGs and (iv) sanctions
for non-payment are instigated and enforced. The POP should be revised to take
account of this. The level of charges proposed, NRs200/ha/year, is insufficient
to cover the estimated cost of O&M of the system and should be revised so that it
covers at least the whole cost of O&M.
Lessons Learned
22.   A  water  right  based  on  an  international  treaty  may  be  insufficient
guarantee of reliable physical delivery.
23.   Participation of beneficiary farmers in any development works  from the
beginning is very important, especially in large public irrigation system, where
the available water resources has to be shared among many beneficiaries.



29
24.   Unreliable water supply for any reason destroys farmer confidence in the
ability of the irrigation authorities and can lead to a lack of cooperation.
25.   The design adopted for a large public irrigation system must be simple and
socially acceptable for small farmer community.   Social acceptability should be
tested before comrmitting heavy investment.
26.   Regular evaluation of project impact on beneficiaries is more likely to be
successful where the work is carried out through a contract with an outside
agency rather than remaining the responsibility of project staff who have other
conflicting duties.
Suimy of Reconmmndations
27.   The  following reconmendations of the ICR/Supervision mission have been
agreed by HMGN, DOI, and the project management:
(a)   that the project management will submit IDA by June 1995 : (i) detailed
procedures for assessment and collection of water charges from the rescoped
project areas (Block 1 to 10), which are receiving water from DBC, (ii) based on
the past performance of DBC, estimate the timing of water supply from DBC and
find out the extent of area that can be irrigated with different reliabilities
(70% to 90%) in Kharif and in Rabi seasons, and (iii) procedure for monitoring of
the full supply level in the irrigation system at different canal levels during
O&M (para 11);
(b)   that based on the water requirement data and supply of DBC information
regular discussions with India be held to find a way to avoid further reduction
of DBC supply and of channelling funds from Government of India to be used
specifically for maintenance and repair of DBC (para 13);
(c)   that the following year budget should reflect to the requirement mentioned
in the agreed POP (para 14);
(d)          that, if the system is to operate satisfactorily as designed,  FSL
should be marked on each dividing structure (para 16);
(e)     that the systems and computerised data bases established at the NZIDP for
agricultural monitoring, covering both socio-economic and routine crop production
surveys be maintained and keep functional (para 18);
(f)       that (i) for each season a record is kept of the areas irrigated of all
users or groups to whom water is supplied using the irrigation boundary maps now
established in the system, (ii) an assessment is *issued before the end of the
main irrigation season to each user or group, (iii) the charge is collected
preferably through WUGs and (iv) sanctions for non-payment are instigated and
enforced (para2l).



30
NMAY.I III IRRIGATION PRWECr (Cr. 1715-NEP)
SUPERVISION/ICR MISSION - APRIL 1995
CONPLIaCE WITH PREVIOUS MISSION S RECCSIDATIONS
Mimsion's Recommendation                            | Compliance with  recommendation                                 |
Com   t th   empining.items unde  IC: condrat (gate           The  aontrct  period was. xtende               1994 to
Mg fenin,e ean  r?isinp, etc.  6Y tne erl  o  the                The        h   ema1ning 1       u            works and  993
con  ajtp    peri3d  end eer y 19: iT not                        tlood damage repairs.
co e , agree   to exten    e contractual period as
rea3 lrel
Priori tize and complete the repair wobks for 1993               The.flood repair works were.comgleted and an
flood damages by.revising the Annual Veve oppent                 additional budget was sanctionea.
bryogram ano acuiring the require  additionae gudget
Detore June lY
ovid  the, required logi stis in training of WUGs of           Budget reqyirement.in FY 1994/95 for WUG formation was
ock   and    ck I(e.g. white boar   f ip ch art and            provi ed.  he requirements  or the fo Iow1ag years are
our  ilcyc es  or  O0s and Supervisors) by hot later            requested in the project operation p an  rur)
in rst wee  of March  I994, and agreed to request
ananual  udget repu rement Tor continuing WU s
a14 .UCs torma ion after the credit closing In June
solid atn th  alrtdy formef WUGs and WUfs of Block               The project tried,to cons?lidgte the forine  WUG byut
y steyaping  owp ne   p aceo   moramtiQn  T new                not su cessf   y u7plem n e   ue t  erfac ic supp y of
gro         ta   by deg oying the AP  in  rther                  water Mrom tne source-  on granch  anal.
rai ing O   armer, leaders and in re abili ation ano
constrVcti  of  llJs betore the onset of monsoon    ror
rmation of WUGs  n the remaining blocks incuding
t  IC?1, balance the availabe   s between these
P    fenarearevised iplrementatGon lrogram and training          The proRram 1     submitted and reviewed and remarked by
plah for conso idatinT  the  SW    a ready forme  an                  in  ay 1
en  d  comD ete with a detailed syllabus. program
for indoor and on-the-jo4 training, program for study
tours  ased on the experience gained to date in farmer
organi ation.  nd time rSuireo fo  the ohased
Droqram. to sumit for I review    ADri  1. 1994
UpkeeR the orinci ole of electing WUG  member by Tass             Followed the suggestions.
meeti aas of concerned   U  athou    he nLh er ob
com,itte  may vary accordIng to the  armer prceived
neers1tw1ethmHne pregenCeVQT,resou ce ersons tor
ex ension suppo ty in it tion Dasis
Retain the Orgnizait  Supervisors and the AOs who                 TYo groups of AOs led by one supervisor are retained
are exerience  wi   te ohP-oinR organization                     tit   now.
actiySt'les of e   projec  throu? out.its. le up till
COStmtDi$cn fra' 1rgan'czationaT activities
Stfe  up the preparation of irrigable area boundary map          The rep ration  oirrlation boundary maps was
o   hodevel        ares  and to  hadu          an  te            comp ete  up to    c
over  ro respe  iv          eore the closing o   re it
Instalj the tele hone line as well  s  he VHF posts at            Under installation.
mo haria and       w          tn e  sel    the next
monsoon torovi e a In  witg Me project
neadquarters at iBrganji
Revise and send IDA for review by Apri] 15, 1994 a               A consolidated plan comorisi q all the suggested
detailed u&M program prepared previously, including              prnpts are m etloned under the project ope rat on plan
mechanism for collecting water charges. a  ater                  OTregruary TMb.
measurement and water management Ian staff and
dnnval udget re uirements, tor tne wfore Narayani
grrigation Syster bytaking into considera ion a
Phased out turn over program of TUs to WUGs.
SWmiat Id5Da fn4ize           i  r7quIWent program for rylliegycr  Tahprnel' fin3 t un eauir nent was submitted to IDA. IDA
and   C portion  cy en:  prl    sapprove  in  une                     a



31
Attachment
Guidance on Government's Contribution to the ICR.
Government's own final evaluation of the project implementation is an
important part of an ICR. It is attached, unedited, to the ICR sent to the WB
Board. It can be selective in its coverage and should address issues and lessons
learned in project implementation, from the borrower's perspective. Topics
covered can be the same as in the ICR, namely, project design, appraisal,
implementation and project results. At each stage of the project the contribution
should comment on both IDA and the implementing agencies' performances, with the
observations, where possible, supported by evidence or reasoned argument.
For project design the contribution could address such questions as
the appropriateness of the project's objectives, the size of the project and
scope of the investments proposed, aspects of design leading to easy (or
difficult) implementation and the effect on government institutions.
For project appraisal comments should concentrate on any significant
changes in the objectives, size and scope of the project and whether these were
appropriate.
Project implementation experience should be divided into an assessment of
IDA performance in supporting and supervising the project and the performance of
the implementing agencies.
Project results include an assessment of the direct physical benefits
leading to financial and economic benefits.  Since financial and economic re-
analysis of the project will be undertaken as part of the ICR, it is suggested,
if HMGN so wishes, that the contribution could most usefully comment on the
effect of the project from the Government's perspective. Such an analysis would
be a most useful contribution to the ICR.
Based on the foregoing sections the contribution should list the main
lessons learned from the implementation experience and arising from the above
analysis.
WB suggest that if the contribution is more than ten pages it should
include  a  summary.  The  latter  is  recommended  for  all  but  the  shortest
contributions.
The mission will be happy to provide any further elaboration or
clarification required to assist in preparation of the contribution.






32
NEPAL: Narayani III Irrigation Project
hnplementation Completion Report
Appendix B: Financial and Economic Analysis
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
NARAYANI m IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Cr.1715-NEP)
Appendix B
Financial and Economic Analysis
Background
1.         Agriculture has considerably developed in the Narayani scheme area since the project
was appraised. This has been the result, not only of the project investments in irrigation, but also
improvement in road communications, both by the project and other programmes, introduction of new
technology and as a result of investment by farmers in pumps and engines for shallow tubewells and
low lift irrigation. Farmers are increasingly changing from a main or monsoon paddy crop followed by
wheat to an early paddy crop, followed by a faster maturing main season paddy crop, followed by
wheat pulses or other crops. Improved access to both water and markets has also resulted in increased
production of vegetables. Whereas the SAR cropping pattern projections anticipated the main increase
in cropping to be in wheat, oilseeds and pulses, the predominant change appears to have been increase
in paddy, pulses, maize and vegetables, which generally provide better returns than growing wheat.
2.         As a result, the cropping intensities reported by the project staff are already around
200%, which may be compared with 175% at full development in the SAR Although at the present
time this may be an overestimate, it appears quite reasonable to expect that when the tertiaries are
completed this average level of intensity could reasonably be achieved.
3.         However, a significant part of these benefits, perhaps around 40%, is attributable to
farmers' own investments in pumps and motors. Accordingly, for both the financial and economic
analyses, reasonably conservative estimates have been made of expected benefits in increased cropping
and higher yields as a result of the project investments. As set out in Table 1, it is projected that in
Stage I areas the cropping intensity would increase from around 150% in the without project situation
to 184% and in the Stage II area from 145% to 171%. In both Stage I and Stage II, the area under



33
NEPAL: Narayani IH Irrigation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix B: Financial and Economic Analysis
vegetables is assumed to be constant in both the without and with project situations. Yield increases
for both paddy and wheat are projected at less than those used in the SAR as shown in Table 1.
Financial Analysis
4.          Re-estimation of financial returns to farmers has been based on information included in
the government Implementation Completion Report, supplemented by data collected by the project
stafg reports and studies on similar nearby areas, Department of Agricultural Development production
cost data and interviews with farmers. Output and input items have been valued at late 1994/early
1995 prices. As in the SAR, it has been assumed that about 300/o of total labour requirements are
hired. Estimated farm budgets in Stage I and Stage II areas, set out in a comparable manner to those
presented in the SAR, are given in Table 2. These show that net retums to the 1 ha farm would
increase by 38% in the Stage I area and by about 34% in the Stage II area. This compares with a 56%
increase projected for both areas combined in the SAR Gross return from arable crops, cost of inputs
(including hired labour) and net return per family labour day in the two areas are estimated as follows:
I [,'',~~~~~~~~~~~~. ' ,'''"'''''"'''"'''""'"'"   " "'"';i' ........................   .............-...
. .E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..   I ... ::  .. . .'' .....  ...
10~~~~~~~~~~~~
5.          The above production costs exclude water charges, which have been waived since
1991/92, but are due to be reintroduced at Rs200 per ha. As shown in Table 3, this level of water
charges would only recover about 7% of capital and operating costs of the scheme over a 30-year
period, or about 21% of operation and maintenance costs to be paid by government. This is
considerably less than the projections made in the SAR of 14% and 102% respectively.



NEPAL: Narayani iMrrigation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix B: Financial and Economic Analysis
Economic Analsis
6.         The economic analysis refers to the project as reformulated, namely the Stage I and Stage
II areas. Capital and operating costs therefore exclude costs associated with development of Stage III
and flood and river protection works. Land acquisition costs have also been excluded and a proportion
taken of common or overhead costs such as the workshop (600/6), technical support (80%/6) and
establishment operation and maintenance (80%). As a result of all the above adjustments, investment
costs included in the analysis over the implementation period are about 68% of total project
expenditures.
7.         Unsldlled labour in construction, assumed to make up about 30% of the costs of works
on the Nepal Eastern Canal (NEC), Stages I and II irrigation works, road construction and
establishment operation and maintenance as well as all agricultural labour has been adjusted by a labour
conversion factor (LCF) of 0.7. All local costs (including labour) and the value of local traded
commodities have been adjusted by a standard conversion factor (SCF) of 0.9. Production value of the
main crops and cost of fertilizers at the farm gate have been calculated based on World Bank price
forecasts for the year 2000 in constant 1994/95 US$ terms. The prices used for the financial and
economic analysis are set out in Table 4 and the derivation of economic prices of internationally traded
commodities in Table 5.
8.         Project expenditures since 1986 have been converted to 1994/95 prices by applying an
inflator based on the Nepal Consumer Price Index for local costs and an inflator based on the MUV
Index for foreign exchange costs (Table 6). Foreign expenditures under the ICB contract were
converted from US$ at current exchange rates.
9.         Since the Don Canal in India supplying water to the NEC was out of commission from
1986 up to mid-1991, it is assumed that incremental benefits only started from the 1991/92 year. The
project was intended to construct irrigation infrastructure down to, and including, the tertiaries.
However, few have so far been built and government has decreed that tertiary construction should be
undertaken by the farmers themselves. In line with the Project Operating Plan, it has been assumed
that farmers would complete tertiary construction over the period up to 1998/99 and it has therefore
been assumed that full development of project benefits would only be achieved from 2000/01, i.e.
building up over a 10 year period.
10.        On the basis of the above assumptions and adjustments, the economic rate of return for
the Stage I and II areas over 25 years is recalculated at 19%, slightly less than projected at appraisal.
The result is clearly dependent on the rate of build up of incremental benefits, relative to capital and
other costs. This will be largely determined by how quickly farmers complete tertiary development.
Ihe effect of slower or faster build up in benefits are summarised in Table 7 and range from a low of



35
NEPAL: Narayari III Irrigation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix B: Financial and Economic Analysis
16% where increase in incremental benefits are phased over a 14 year period starting from 1991/92 to
a high of 21% where benefits are fully developed over only 8 years.
11.         In view of the difficulty referred to in para. 3 above in apportioning these incremental
benefits due to the project investments and those due to farmers purchases of pumped irrigation
equipment, a second method of analysis has also been adopted. This assumes a further increase in
cropping intensity beyond those projected above. Cropping intensity in the Stage I area is projected to
increase to 200% at fuill development, and that in Stage II to 183%. Increases in intensity are largely
due to increased paddy growing (both early and main or monsoon crop) and increased area of other
crops, including vegetables - the latter increasing in the Stage I area from 2% without project to 8%
with project and from 2% to 4% in the Stage II area. Cost of pumped irrigation to farmers has been
assumed at Rs5O per hour - the rate quoted by farmers in the area. Farmers also reported that about 1
in 4 had pumpsets. It has therefore been assumed that probably on average about a third of the area
receives some form of pumped irrigation at full development, amounting to about 257 hrs/ha/year
(around 11,500 m3/ha). It has been further assumed that these pumped irrigation costs paid by farmers
build up over a 10 year period in the same fashion as agricultural net benefits.
12.         The economic rate of return based on the above method of evaluation is calculated at
about 25%. Since greater reliance on pumping could be argued to make the project less dependent on
completion of tertiary development, it could also be argued that benefits would build up more rapidly
than the 10 year period assumed in the base case. The economic rate of return, assuming a faster build
up in benefits, as well as cost of pumping, would be as follows:-
......  ....                                4 4
.- *. .0" ''S "     ;t" "t' .'' . .0N, .   .' .lz  Se .. .....2Se
13.         A separate analysis has been made of project expenditure for flood and river protection
works. Adjustments to the capital costs have been made in a manner similar to that used for the
irrigation works in Stages I and II and costs include 10% of project expenditures for the workshop,
technical support and establishment operation and maintenance. Maintenance cost of the works
constructed is estimated at 0.4% of the total cost starting in 199 1/92 increasing to 2% of the total cost
from 1995/96 onwards.



NEPAL: Narayani Ilrrigation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Apperndix B: Financial and Economic Analysis
14.        Estimated benefits detailed in the Study on Reformulation of the Project (Nippon Koei,
June 1992), and presented in the government's Implementation Completion Report, have been adopted
for the analysis. These are based on flood events and subsequent damage caused by the Bagmati and
Lal Bakeya rivers in 1988 and 1990 and are detailed in Tables 8, 9 and 10. The annual flood control
benefit estimated in the government's ICR of Rs26.76 million annually has been adjusted to 1994/95
prices by multiplication by the local price inflator for 1991/92 of 1.315. It has been assumed that these
benefits would be achieved from 1994/95 onwards and would build up at a flat rate starting from
1989/90.
15.        On the basis of these assumptions and adjustments, the economic rate of return of the
flood protection works over a 25 year period is estimated at 13% (Table 11).
The economic rate of return for Stage I and II development and the flood and river
protection works together is calculated at 16%.



37
Nepal Table 1                          TablA 1-Cropping PattArns and YiAlds.
Original on r03/04/96
NEPEC2.WK3
Range M233..V261
STAGE      ONE
Cropping Intensity:                       Crop Yields:
S A  R               I C R                S A  R               I C R
W'out Proj. With Proj.  W'out Proj. With Proj.  W'out Proj. With Proj.  W'out Proj. With Proj.
..................... .percentage as decimal  ............... tons per hectare.
Early paddy                                       0.2       0.2 1                           3.2          4
Main paddy            I      0.9      0.94       0.75        0.8 )      3.        4.2        3.4         4
Wheat                       0.35       0.5       0.35      0.43        2.2        3.2        2.4       2.9
Pulses                      0.04      0.11       0.06      0.15        0.6        0.8        0.6       0.8
Oilseeds                    0.03      0.16       0.04       0.1          1        1.2         1        1.2
Vegetables                  0.01      0.01       0.02      0.02         35        40         25         30
Sugarcane                   0.03      0.03       0.03      0.04         25        40         25         40
Maize                                 -          0.05        0.1     -          -            2.2       2.8
Total Intensity             1.42      1.75        1.5       1.84
STAGE      TWO
Cropping Intensity:                       Crop Yields:
S A  R               I C R                S A  R               I C R
W'out Proj. With Proj.  W'out Proj. With Proj.  W'out Proj. With Proj.  W'out Proj. With Proj.
..................... .percentage as decimal  ............... tons per hectare.
Early paddy           I                          0.15      0.15 )                           3.2          4
Main paddy            )      0.9      0.94       0.75        0.8 )       3.       4.2        3.4         4
Wheat                       0.33       0.5       0.35        0.4       2.2        3.2        2.4       2.9
Pulses                      0.05      0.11       0.06      0.15        0.6        0.8       0.6        0.8
Oilseeds                    0.04      0.16       0.04       0.1        0.9        1.2         1        1.2
Vegetables                  0.01      0.01       0.02      0.02         35        40         25         30
Sugarcane                   0.03      0.03       0.03      0.04         23        40         25         40
Maize                                 -          0.05      0.05      -          -           2.2        2.8
Total Intensity             1.42      1.75       1.45       1.71



Table 2                                      38
Original on
NEPFIN2.WK3    Table 2-Estimated Farm Budaets and Promect Rent at Full Develooment.1/
Range
A349..H391
04/23/95             Staff Appraisal Report.          Implementation Completion Report
Irrigated Farms2/          Stage I               Stage II
W'out Proj. With Proj. W'out Proj. With Proj. W'out Proj. With Proj.
.....................................  per ha....................Rs.
Farm Budget
Gross Value of Production     15020      21690      30171      41959      29115       39320
Less:
Input Cost                     5180       6790       5894       8373        5727       7805
Depreciation Allowance3/        320         500        713       1114        713       1114
Cost for Hired Labour            520        700      2055       2770        1981       2577
Land Tax & Water Charges4/       150        200          0        200          0        200
Total Costs                     6170      8190       8661       12456       8421      11696
Net Farm Family Income5/       8850      13500      21510      29502      20694       27624
Reward to Family Labour        1220        1630      4794        6464      4623        6013
NetReturntoFarm                7630      11870      16716      23039       16070      21611
Proiect Rent
Net Return to Farm             7630      11870      16716      23039       16070      21611
Taxes & Water Charges6/          150        200          0        200          0        200
NetReturnbeforetax             7780      12070      16716      23239       16070      21811
Less:
Managementfee(10%)7/             780       1210       1672       2324       1607       2181
Risk Equivalent8/                750        540       1509       1049       1456        983
Implicit Land Rent             6250      10320      13536      19866       13007      18647
Project Rent9/                            4070                   6330                  5640
1/ In current Rs, i.e. SAR in 1 986 terms and ICR in mid 1994/95 prices.
2/ Headreach farms near NEC in Stage I and Stage II areas.
3/ Cost in ICR based on SAR estimate adjusted by the local inflator(1 986 price x 2.227).
4/ ICR estimate as reported by farmers.
5/ Net Farm Family Income solely from arable cropping (excluding tree crops and livestock).
6/ Since project rent should show the incremental land rent before water charges are paid, water charges
are added before calculating project rent.
7/ Premium for management and entrepreneurial skills, assumed as 10% of net return to the farms.
8/ Risk equivalent for uncertain availability of water assumed as 5% of gross value under without project
unreliable irrigation, and as 2.5% under irrigated conditions with project.
9/ Project rent is the incremental land rent due to the project.



39
Table 3-Estimated Proiect Rent and Cost Recoveryl/
(Rs/ha)
Project Rent                             SAR                    ICR
Gross value of production                 27010                227175
Less Production Cost                       7210                 47150
Less Labour Cost                           2410                 45239
Net Income                                17390                134786
Less Management Fee                        1740                 13479
Less Risk Equivalent                        870                 11359
Project Rent                              14780                109949
Proj Rent as% Net Income                    85%                   82%
Cost Recovery
Water charges                              2900                  3600
Cost Recovery as % of Project Rent          20%                   3.3%
Proiect Cost
Capital Cost
Irrigation infrastructure2/             12120                 12120
Remodelling Works                        5960                 25753
Sub-total                               18080                 37873
O&M Costs                                  2830                 16949
Total Cost                                20910                 54822
Cost Recovery as % Project Cost             14%                   6.6%
Cost Recovery as % O&M Costs               102%                  21.2%
1/ SAR expressed in incremental present values discounted over 30 years at 10% in constant
1986 prices. For ICR incremental present value in financial terms, discounted over 30 years
at 10% in constant 1994/95 prices.
2/ In the SAR the capital cost of works completed by the Stage I and 11 projects were adjusted
to 1 986 price levels, excluding interest. For the ICR the SAR valuation has been adopted,
on the assumption that re-valuation at 1994/95 prices would be completely offset by the
depreciation of the asset over the period.
Table 3
NEPFIN2.WK3      04/23/95
Range A:A430..H464



40
Table 4-Prices Used for the Financial and Economic Analyses
Financial             Economic
Output prices.          ............................ Rs per ton.
Paddy                                     6600                 10715.6
Wheat                                     5500                 11913.5
Oilseeds                                12000                  17669.8
Pulses                                  12000                  10800.0
Sugarcane                                  900                  1704.9
Vegetables                                4500                  4050.0
Maize                                     6000                 10032.6
Input prices.                       ............................ Rs per kg.
Paddy seed                                   8                     13.0
Wheat seed                                    7                    15.2
Oilseed                                     13                     19.1
Pulses seed                                 13                     11.7
Sugarcane sets                            1.06                      2.0
Vegetable seed                             188                   169.2
Maize seed                                   7                     11.7
Urea                                         6                     13.1
DAP                                       12.6                     14.2
Muriate of Potash                          8.5                     11.1
Crop chem.                                 500                   500.0
............................. Rs per day.
Labour                                      40                    25.2
Draft animal(per pair)                      37                    33.3
Table 4      04/23/95
NEPEC2.WK3 range A:Hl1..M29



41
Table 6-Derivation of Economic Prices of Internationally Traded Commocitles.
A. AT IMPORT PARITY. Rice/Paddy    Wheat         Maize   Soyabeans   Sugarcane       Urea        DAP         MP
.......................................................   per ton. ............................   U$ 
Worldpriceforecast1/          291        174         106         250        260         152         174        112
Quality adjustm t factor      0.9         0.9        0.9           1           1          1           1           1
Adjusted fob value          261.9       156.6       95.4         250        260         152         174         112
Freight and insurance          40         73          69          69         73          69          69          69
cif value at Calcutta       301.9      229.6       164.4        319         333         221         243        181
Port dues and handling         15          15         15          15         15          15          15          15
Transport to border            25          25         25          25         25          25          25          25
cif value Nepal border      341.9      269.6       204.4         359        373         261         283        221
.......................................................  per ton.............................
cif value Nepal border  16889.86  13318.24  10097.36    17734.6   18426.2   12893.4   13980.2   10917.4
Handling/trans./storage        81         81          81          81         81          81          81         81
Value ex-store/market    16970.86  13399.24  10178.36    17815.6   18507.2    12974.4   14061.2    10998.4
Processing cost                 0           0          0           0           0          0           0           0
Processing ratio             0.64         0.9          1       --            0.1      --          -           -
Transport/handling          145.8       145.8      145.8       145.8      145.8       145.8       145.8       145.8
Farmgateprice           10715.55   11913.52  10032.56    17669.8   1704.92    13120.2            14207    11144.2
1/ World Bank Commodity Price Projections, February 1995. Projection for 2000 in constant 1994 US$ terms.
Table 5
Originally from
NEPEC2.WK3
Range A:Q1..AB23
I



NEPAL: Narayani 111 Irrigation Project
hnplementation Completion Report
Appendix B: Financial and Economic Analysis
42
Table 6. Exchange Rate Price Indices and Derived Inflators
NEPAL CONSUMER PRICES                               MUV INDEX
Rate       Calendar Year      FY Year      Derived       Calendar Year      FY Year    Derived
Rs/US$       (1990 = 100)                    Inflator      (1990 = 100)                   Inflator
1986/87 = FY 1987       21.596      86      70.3     74.1             2.227       86    80.898       84.878    1.274
1988        22.055     87      77.9      81.4            2.027        87    88.857      92.092    1.175
1989       25.323      88      84.9     88.7             1.860        88    95.327      95.173    1.137
1990       28.509      89      92.4     96.2             1.715        89    95.018      97.509    1.109
1991       31.188      90     100.0    107.8             1.531        90    100.00    101.115    1.070
1992       42.341      91     115.6    125.5             1.315        91    102.23    104.435    1.036
1993       45.355      92     135.4    140.5             1.174        92    106.64    105.430    1.026
1994       49.251      93     145.5    151.8             1.087        93    104.22    105.785    1.023
1995       49.655   94 (e)    158.0    165.0               1.0        94    107.35    108.170      1.0
95 (f)    172.0                               95 ()    108.99
For FE cost in each year adjusted as follows:
Amount in Rs in Year X x Inflator in x Exchange Rate
Exchange Rate in Year X   Year X         in FY'95
(e)       Estimated.
(f)       Forecast



43
NEPAL: Narayani III Irrigation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix B: Financial and Economic Analysis
Table 7. Economic Rate of Return Calculation
Stages I and II Irrigation Development
(NRs million)
Capital         Operating       Incremental        Balance
Costs             Costs        Agricultural
Benefits
1986/87            17.462              -                -             -17.462
1987/88            46.422              -                -             -46.422
1988/89           103.573              -                              -103.573
1989/90           112.698              -                              -112.698
1990/91           130.718              -                              -130.718
1991/92            87.366              -              38.852          -48.515
1992/93           270.173              -              77.703          -192.470
1993/94            132.790             -             116.555          -16.235
1994/95            17.968            54.845          155.406           82.593
1995/96              -               45.788          194.258          148.470
1996/97              -               42.746          233.109          190.363
1997/98              -               40.967          271.961          230.994
1998/99              -               34.328          310.812          276.484
1999/00              -               23.583          349.664          326.080
2000/01               -              23.419          388.515          365.096
2001/02              -               23.419          388.515          365.096
2002/03              -               23.419          388.515          365.096
2003/04              -               23.419          388.515          365.096
2004/05               -              23.419          388.515          365.096
2005/06              -               23.419          388.515          365.096
2006/07              -               23.419          388.515          365.096
2007/08              -               23.419          388.515          365.096
2008/09               -              23.419          388.515          365.096
2009/10              -               23.419          388.515          365.096
2010/11              -               23.419          388.515          365.096
Economic Rate of Return:
Base case                           19.11%
Full net benefits lag 2 years       17.19%
Full net benefits lag 3 years       16.34%
Full net benefits lag 4 years       15.55%
Full net benefits I year earlier    20.21%
Full net benefis 2 year earlier     21.43%



NEPAL Narayani III Irrigation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix B: Financial and Economic Analysis
Table 8. FLood Damage from Bagmati and Lal Bakeya Rivers
Flood Damage in 19)0 1/                                        Flood damage in 1988 2/
Village   Damaged Devastated Sand deposited      Crop damage due to     Damaged Devastated Sand deposited       Crop damage due to
houses    land          area      Devastation  Submergence   houses       land         area      Devastation   Submergence                 Z
(nos)     (ha)         (ha)         (ton)         (ton)       (nos)      (ha)         (h)          (ton)         (ton)
Brambapuri         6        -               -          -             -            3          2             -           -             -
Rajdevi           41        -               -          -             -            0         48
Kataharban        -         -               -          _             _           _          _              _
Patahi           439         50             60         102           43
Barharwa               -            -
Bellbichawsa
Lakshmipur
Sirsiya
Hajiminiya
Basatpur         128        40              33          82           24         304        99      -
Badharwa         316        40              30          82           22          24        33      -
Total           9to       130            123         266            89         331       182              0           0              0
Data source I1  DOI Distari Office Rautahat
'Comprehensive Protection of NZIDP Command Area' April 1991,
N1ulti Disciplinary Consultants (P) Ltd.
: ' Flood Damage Assessment of Bagmati River' March 1989
Multi Disciplinary Consultants (P) Ltd.



45
NEPAL Narayani 1II Irrigation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix B: Financial and Economic Analysis
TabLe 9: FLood Damage in BLock 15 of NZIDP
(I) Flood Damage Estimate in 1990 (Flood discliarae: 6.196 ctm/sec : 10 vea;s reltirn nerio
Description        Quantity      Unit     Unil         Amotiint
valiue        (NRs)
(l)          Cultivated land            130   ha        150,000         19,500,S00
which was washed away
(2)          Sand deposited are         123   ha         75,000          9,225,000
in agricultural land
(3)          Damaged houses             930   nos         2.000          1,860,000
(4)          Devastated crops           266   ton         3,300            877,800
(5)          Crop yield damage           89   ton         3,500            311,500
(6)          Suspension of wor      300,000  person          21         6300,000
opportunity      (20,000 x 15)    -day
Total                                                    38,074,300
(2) Flood Damage Estimate in 1988 (Flood Discliarne : 2.699 ctin/sec 2 Years reuiin neriod)
Description     Quantity      Unit      Unit      Amount
valuo      (NRs)
(I)          Cultivated land            182   ha        J50,000         27,300,000
which was washed away
(2)          Sand deposited are           0   ha         75,000                 0
in agricultural land
(3)          Damaged houses             331   nos         2,000            662,000
(4)          Devastated crops             0   ton         3,300                 0
(5)          Crop yield damage            0   ton         3,500                 0
(6)          Suspension of wor      140,000  person          21          2,940,000
opportunity      (20,000 x 7)     -day
Total                                                    30,902,00
Estimates  made  by  the  District  Development  Committee  of
Rautahat.



46
NEPAL Narayani III Irription Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix B: Financial and Economic Analysis
Table 10: Annual FLood Protection Benefit
Discharge Return period            Flood daniagc
(cum/sec      (year)              (1,000 NRis)
1,300            1                    0
2,710            2                30,902
6,690           10                38,074
Annual flood damage                     26,763
(Annual flood control benefit)
Equiv.USS        625 x l,O(O)
Avertme annual flood damaec
d - jD(Q) P(Q) dQ
Where,          Average annual flood damage
Q   Flood discharge
D(Q: Damage caused by flood discharge, Q
P(Q  Probability of occurrence of nood dischnrgc Q
Q. Design flood discharge
Q   Innocuous discharge



47
NEPAL: Narayani Ill Irrigation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix B: Financial and Economic Analysis
Table 11. Economic Rate of Return Calculation
Flood and River Protection Works
Capital        Maintenance     Flood Protection          Balance
Costs            Costs             Benefits
86/87      1.693               -                                    -1.693
87/88      9.006               -                                    -9.006
88/89     14.518               -                  -                -14.518
89/90     26.847               -                  5.866             -20.982
90/91     74.030              -                  11.731             -62.299
91/92     38.786              0.882              17.597             -22.071
92/93     27.443              1.763              23.462              -5.744
93/94     22.906              2.645              29.328              3.776
94/95      5.206              3.527              35.193             26.461
95/96          -              4.409              35.193             30.785
96/97          -              4.409              35.193             30.785
97/98          -              4.409              35.193             30.785
98/99          -              4.409              35.193             30.785
99/00          -              4.409              35.193             30.785
00/01          -              4.409              35.193             30.785
01/02          -              4.409              35.193             30.785
02/03          -              4.409              35.193             30.785
03/04           -             4.409              35.193             30.785
04/05           -             4.409              35.193             30.786
05/06          -              4.409              35.193             30.785
06/07          -              4.409              35.193             30.785
07/08          -              4.409              35.193             30.785
08/09          -              4.409              35.193             30.785
09/10          -              4.409              35.193             30.785
10/11          -              4.409             35.193              30.785
Economic Rate of Return:
Base case             12.94%



Project Data Sheet
Implementation Completion Report
NBPAL- Narayani III Irrigation Project
Historgram of Don Branch Canal's SuIDDl to Narayani System
(m3/sec)
Yr/Month    Jan    Feb    Mar    Apr    May    Jun    Jul    Aug  I Sep    Oct    Nov    Dec   Yr.Aver.
1980.00   6.83   6.57   6.81   0.00    7.28  11.12  10.87  14.85  13.95  17.17   0.00   4.03                 8.29
1981.00   5.82   6.46   4.16   7.32   7.83  10.48  11.70   9.25   0.00  11.53    0.00   5.30                 6.65
1982.00   7.89   6.79   0.00   0.00    8.46    5.57  15.37  15.67   7.55  10.01   0.00   6.90                7.02
1983.00  11.33   7.25   7.81   0.00  10.94  12.55  14.59  15.52  17.67  15.52    0.00  10.00    10.27
1984.00  11.07  10.62   0.00   0.00  10.17  11.87  12.79  14.99   9.08  14.72    0.00    0.00                7.94
1985.00   9.18  10.78  10.24   0.00  18.28  19.00  17.62  13.77   8.29  15.52    0.00    9.90    11.05
1986.00   5.08   3.64  10.06   0.00  10.11  16.53  15.22  12.67   0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00                6.11
1987.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   8.16    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00              0.68
1988.00   3.95   4.16   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.50   1.10   0.85   0.00   0.00    0.00                0.88
1989.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00               0.00
1990.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00             0.00
1991.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   6.19  10.48  13.84  13.07  11.94    0.00   6.65                 5.18
1992.00   5.49  10.64   7.77   0.00   0.00   3.47  10.08  14.06    7.79   8.38    0.00                       5.64
Average       5.13   5.15   3.60   0.56    5.62    8.07    9.17    9.67   6.02   8.06   0.00   3.29             5.36
Averaqe2      7.40   7.43   7.81   7.32  10.44  10.49  11.92  12.57   9.79  13.10   0.00   7.13                 8.78
Prob.80%      5.49   6.46   6.81   0.00   7.83    6.19  10.48  12.67   8.29  11.53   0.00   5.30                6.75
AvwrtI&II    6.83   5.52   3.42   0.00   2.18  11.18   7.83   6.06   4.91   3.21   0.00   5.23                  4.70






49
APPENDIX C
NEPAL: Narayani III Irrigation Project
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Narayani Zone Irrigation Development Project
(Credit No. 1715 NEP)
BORROWERS REPORT
I   Introduction:
The project was the third phase of command area
development of Narayani Zone Irrigation development project.
This project was appraised in 1986 after the completion of
IDA financed Narayani I Irrigation Project t Cr 373-NEP ) and
Narayani II Irrigation Project ( Cr 856-NEP ). In accordance
with the agreement between His Majesty's Government of Nepal
(HMG/N) and government of India (GOI) it is enable to use
24.1 cumec of Gandak river water.
2. Proiect Objectives
The objectives of the project were to increase dry season
agricultural production by introducing equitable, predictable
and reliable irrigation system in the project area and to
reduce the risk to monsoon crop production by making
protective irrigation when required. Flood protection and
drainage canal construction were to be provided to reduce the
risks to crops and physical infrastructure. Management
objectives were to develop full farmers participation and co-
operation in both water distribution and operation and
maintenance.
To achieve the objectives the following main components
were to be implemented in Narayani III project :-
a) Improvement to Nepal Eastern Canal (NEC) and repair
to the Tilawe barrage.
b) Construction of Stage III area (8,700 ha)
c) Upgrading Stage I and Stage II area (28,700 ha)
d) Flood protection and river training works
a) imDrovement to villaae and service roads



50
f) Vehicles and equipments
g) Regional workshop
h) Technical Support &
i) Support of project establishment and O&M.
3.  Proiect  Finance
The total project cost of US $ 35.5 Million was to be
financed with an IDA credit of SDR 21.6 Million (US$ 24.5
Million) and a grant from the Swiss Development Corporation
of 15 Million Swiss francs (US$ 7.5 Million).
4. Proiect Desian :
The basic design concept applied in the upgrading works
of Stage I and Stage II areas and construction of Stage III
area were:
(a)     Canal  systems were designed  to run at  full
supply level and rotational supply system is
applied. The blocks are organized into 'ON' and
'OFF' groups.
(b)     Intake gates are provided only at the head of
main secondary canals offtaking from NEC. Inside
the blocks, Irrigation water is supplied to each
canal without gate control.
(c)     One tertiary canal is provided to command 20-30
ha and it has 7 field outlets (F.O.) and each
F.O. receives full flow during 'ON' period.
5. Frliect Reformulation
The Don Branch Canal of India, from which the project
should receive water was damaged by the flood of 1986, before
the credit agreement of Stage III project. The supply was



51
stopped for about 5 years. Even though the supply was resumed
in June 1991, the flow received was less and erratic as
usual. The Bank Mission of April 1992 suggested to review and
examine the area that can be irrigated from the historical
discharge that is being received from-Don Branch canal. The
study report prepared by the project recommended to scale
down the irrigable area of the project. After the discussion
with the Bank Mission, the NZIDB decided to reformulate the
project in April 1993 and eliminate the following works from
the original scope of the project.
(a) Construction of Stage III area
(b) NEC improvement below Block 10
(c) Construction of tertiary canals in Block 11 and 12.
6.  Proiect  ImDlementation
The project construction works were started in 1987 by
employing local contractors. Tender notice for main Civil
works (ICB) was first published in January 1988 and because
of high tender prices than the engineer's estimate retender
was announced in september 1988. The main civil works under
ICB contract was started in March 1989.
The implementation of the project was delayed by
(a) floods in 1986, which caused heavy damage to NEC
(b) slow procurement of main civil works caused by
underestimation of the contract cost by the project
consultant.
(c) shortage of fuels and construction materials during
the trade and transit disagreement between Nepal and
India.
(d) additional new tertiary canal construction works



52
scattered all along the command area was difficult
for   foreign   contractor  due  to  farmers  non
cooperation.
Due to reasons cited above, ICB contract period was
extended twice and finally the main civil works contract
was completed in May 1994 including the flood damage
repair works of 1993 flood.
The reformulated project has been completed before the
credit closing date (June 30, 1994). The main outstanding
works   are   graveling   in  secondary   canal   roads,
construction  of  drainage  works,   tertiary  canals
construction which was included in the ICB contract in
the beginning & is now to be built by farmers. The key
indicators for project implementation are shown in
table 1.
7.  Consequences of Design
According to new design concept NEC will operate
continuously throughout a cropping season with full or less
than full discharge depending on crop water requirements,
rainfall pattern or availability of water from Indian Don
Branch Canal. Secondary canals (MSC/BSC) offtaking from NEC
will be operated in rotation either with full discharge or
kept completely closed (ON/OFF). Regulation of flow in
secondary canals offtaking from NEC will be through gated
intake structures. Check structures provided in NEC will be
used to maintain full supply level in it during low supplies
in order to feed MSC/BSC to their design discharge.Water flow
inside the block will be distributed through ungated
proportional    structures    and    semi-module    turnouts
automatically without manual interference and thus each land
holder will receive full flow of TC water for a period in
proportion to the area of his holding. With the above
operational concept, number of staff required for operation
shall be reduced and illegal operation of gates by head reach
farmers  shall  be  avoided  and  thus  equitable  water
distribution is achieved up to the tail end. Also by



53
providing one tertiary canal for 25-30 ha, the length of a
tertiary canal and field channels shall be decreased.
Discharge flowing into a tertiary canals shall be less and
easily controllable and thus operation & maintenance shall be
easier.
But the development of full farmers participation and
cooperation in water distribution has not been fully achieved
and water supplies from Don Branch Canal are unpredictable
and  variable,   the  project  is  facing  the  following
difficulties in operation.
For the canal to run always at full supply level, canal
sections should always be maintained at design standard. In
O&M Stage, it will be difficult to maintain the canal
sections if the budget allocation be inadequate. Supply of
water to NEC is fluctuating so it is difficult to provide
full supply discharge to all the blocks of 'ON' period. If
few blocks are only operated, there will be objections from
the farmers. Regulating structures are constructed in the
canals inside the block without gates. So supply less than
the full supply can not be diverted to offtaking canals which
was possible if the gates were provided. Thus the farmers
have a tendency of breaking the crest of regulating
structures. Also Farmers are reluctant to the construction of
additional new tertiary canals as the tertiary canals for 50
ha area were already constructed during Stage I and Stage II
project. So many additional new tertiary canals are yet to be
constructed.
8.  Prolect  Cost
The credit agreement was made in November 1986 and the
closing date of credit (except for the release of retention
money) was June 30, 1994. The cost cumulated up to FY 1993/94
is NRS 737.00 Million or equivalent to US$25.5 Million
including IDA credit, SDC grant and HMG/N source. In addition
NRS 15.7 million or equivalent to   US$ 0.60 Million was



54
required for the release of retention money of ICB contractor in
1994/95.   Thus the total cost of the project is assessed to be
NRS 742.7 Million or equivalent to US$ 26.10 Million. A detailed
breakdown o the actual project expenditures is presented in table
2.
9.   Credit Disbursement
By the end of credit closing date, the project had settled all
expenditure except the release of retention money.   The total
disbursement to date as recorded in the project is SDR 12.4
Million and SFR 9.5 Million. The remaining retention money to be
paid to the contractor to date is NRS 3.3 Million or equivalent
to US$ 0.12 Million.  The undisbursed surplus amount of SDR 7.3
Million and SFR 5.0 Million were canceled from the credit and
grant in June 1994.
10. Bank Performance:
The bank supervision mission visited the project 17 times from
1986 to 1994.   The mission consisted of Bank personnel,  SDC
personnel and staff consultant of the Bank.
NEC started receiving water from DON Branch canal in 1980 after
the completion of Stage I command area development works. After
it received water for six years (1980-1986, during this period
Stage II project was constructed), Narayani Stage III project was
appraised. Even though the historical supply from the DON Branch
canal was always substantially less than the treaty amount, the
Bank took account of strength of the Indo-Nepal treaty and
suggested to extend the command area development work in 8,700 ha
of Block 13 to 15 in addition to 28,700 ha area already developed
under Stage  I and Stage  II projects.   This  resulted  in the
reformulation of the project and omission of already contracted
civil works of Stage III area contracted with the ICB contractor.
The quantities and cost shown in the appraisal were not



55
very accurate. It is felt that consultant estimates should
have been more thoroughly checked by the appraisal mission.
The variations between the estimated quantities and actual
work done quantities can be seen in Table 1.
The already developed 28,700 ha in Stage I and Stage II
with a tertiary canal construction for 50 ha chak was
encouraged to change to 25 ha chak by providing additional
tertiary canal. Likewise the gated system of operation was
proposed to change into ungated system by removing the
already constructed gates and replacing them by regulating
structures. The result is that :
a)  the farmers  are hesitating to provide  land for new
tertiary canals and so full development of the system has
been delayed.
b)  farmers are attempting to break the crest of regulating
structures & canal banks to divert low flow.
The Bank also suggested the borrower to employ ICB
contractor for the construction of Civil works and hence
an ICB contractor was hired even for doing small natured
works like T.C. construction. Because of this, T.C.
construction works could not be progressed in the
beginning due to farmers objections and contractors
inability to convince the farmer due to language problem.
Many of these problems would have been solved if these
works were to be done by the contractor who could also
dialogue in local language.
The Bank's supervision Mission task officers of various
periods were found to be more concerntrated in the field of
their own professional experties, while advising the
project during their Mission.   However the Bank Mission's
frequent helpful supervision and flexible approach ease the
implementation of the project.



56
11. Borrower Performance :
The borrower made considerable efforts to implement the
project with due diligence. During implementation, the
project suffered mostly from shortage of O&M funds and funds
for  equipment  and  tools.  The  budget  for  other  civil
construction works was made available even with additional
budget being provided when requested by the project. The
audit reports were often sent within the period fixed by IDA
except for one year. The borrower's consultant under-
estimated the cost of the main civil works contract, which
caused delay by one year due to the need to retender. The
estimate of quantities prepared by the consultant during
appraisal Mission also shows large variations between the
quantities of works estimated and actual quantities (see
table 1). The borrower's consultant made error in the design
of Tilawe Barrage because of which the downstream protection
works was to be carried out afterwards and thus causing
additional financial burden to the project. Even though the
borrower had employed the same consultant for Stage I, Stage
II and Stage III works and was very much familiar with the
project,    could not give proper suggestions to the borrower
regarding the changes in design of already constructed gated
system into ungated system and the borrower too could not
visualize the consequences of the changes.
Also the borrower couldn't visualize to separate the
small natured works like Tertiary canal construction from the
big works and implement those separately through LCB and ICB
bidding.
A detailed Project Completion report, an implementation
completion report and Project Operation Plan (POP) has been
prepared and the comments made by IDA and the ICR Mission in
POP has been incorporated.
12. Economic Evaluation :
The economic rate of return (ERR) has been estimated at
20.66% slightly less than 21% estimated at appraisal, based



57
on the cost of and benefit from Stages I and II area and flood
protection works in Bagmati and Lalbakeya rivers. The benefit of
flood protection works has been  assessed as an amount of flood
damage which will be incurred if there is no flood protection
works. The details are shown in ICR, Jan 1995, table 9-1 to 9-10)
13. Future Operation
The project has prepared a POP, which describes the present and
proposed future organization and management of the project with
detailed job descriptions.   The POP also describes a detailed
plan of WUG formation, TIU Construction and rehabilitation. The
yearwise performance indicators for project operation and annual
operation and maintenance work plan are also shown in POP.   As
envisaged by the irrigation policy 2049, the POP assumes that the
management of canal systems having command area less than 1000
ha, would be done by the water users associations. By the year
1999/2000, this project will fully run in joint participatory
management (JPM).
14. Main Lessons Learned:
a)   Extension of command area development of a project such
as Narayani should be thought of only after proper analysis
of the availability of water.
b)   The design adopted for a large irrigation system must
be simple  and socially acceptable.    Social  acceptability
should be tested before committing heavy investment.
c)   A water right based on an international treaty may by
insufficient guarantee of reliable physical delivery.
d)   Unreliable water supply for any reason destroys farmers
confidence in the ability of the irrigation authorities and
can lead to a lack of co-operation.
e)   Effective  operation and maintenance  in large public
irrigation system, where available irrigation water has to
be shared among many beneficiaries, is not possible without
the participation of beneficiary farmers.






58
APPENDIX D
NEPAL: Narayani ItI Irrigation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix ..: Report oi the Co-Financier
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
NARAYANI III IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Cr.1 715-NEP)
APPENDIX..
REPORT OF THE CO-FINANCIER
A. INTRODUCTION
1.          Agreements. On 14 November 1986, the Government of the Swiss
Confederation under an agreement with the Kingdom of Nepal (HMG/N) made a grant of
sFr. 15.0 million to assist in financing the Narayani Ill Irrigation Project. This sum, known as
the 'Swiss Contribution, together with a Credit of US$ 24.5 million from the International
Development Association (IDA), provided the foreign financial component of the project
(Development Credit Agreement, 1715-NEP). The Swiss Grant was allocated as follows:
Technical services/consultancies:
(Category 3a):                                          sFr. 7.0 million
Project establishment, O&M costs
(Category 4):                                           sFr. 4.8 million
Salaries and allowances of project
staff (Category 5):                                     sFr. 3.2 million
Whereas category 3a costs have been fully financed through the Swiss Grant, category 4
and 5 have been subject to the following cost sharing arrangement:
1987  88    89    90    91    92    93    94
Switzerland (%):         90    90    90    70    70    50    25    70
HMG/N (%):               10    10    10    30    30    50    75    30
Financing of 1994 costs have been based on a special arrangement which has taken into
account delays during project implementation.
2.          Joint financing  arrangement. The  Swiss  Contribution  has  been
administered by IDA under a joint financing arrangement. In this arrangement, the Swiss
Government authorized IDA to carry out procurement decisions on behalf of Switzerland
and to enter into special commitments with third parties; and IDA agreed to supervise the
execution of the project in accordance with its normal practices and procedures.



59
NEPAL: Narayani III Irrigation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix .: Report of the Co-Financier
B. VISION, REALITY AND CRITICAL ASSUMPTIONS
3.                 Targets and achievements. Narayani zone irrigation development
has started in 1973. It has been marked by optimistic planning followed by sobering
adjustments. First phase planning has foreseen the development of 28,700 ha of irrigated
land. However, two project phases were required until 28,700 ha were declared to be under
irrigation. Third phase planning has foreseen to increase the irrigated area to 37,400 ha.
Today, the primary and secondary canal system development has been completed for an
area of 24,500 ha and the tertiary distribution system is still under construction.
4.           Objectives and planned activities of Narayani 1II. The objectives of the
Narayani IlIl irrigation project, as stated in the staff appraisal report, were:
i) Increase dry-season agricultural production by introducing an equitable, predictable, and
reliable irrigation system in the project area and to reduce the risks to monsoon crop
production by making protective irrigation available when requested; and ii) Develop full
farmer participation and cooperation in the water distribution system.
Planned works included: i) Upgrading of the irrigation, drainage, flood control and road
infrastructure for the entire Nepal East Canal (NEC) command (37,400 ha); ii) Completing
the irrigation and related civil works infrastructure for an area of 8,700 ha; iii) Introducing an
efficient water management system; and iv) Providing a farm road network, and improve the
canal service roads.
5.           Changing the already existing irrigation system. A significant feature of
the project should be the replacement of the already existing system through a new "supply
controlled" system of rotational water delivery to farmers. The old system has been
characterised as an "on-demand" supply in the head reaches with deteriorating service
levels in the tail reaches.
The new system utilises the original main and secondary canal network, but modifications
have been introduced by: i) Remodelling and introducing mostly ungated control structures
on the canals; ii) Providing modular outlets to tertiary units of about 30 ha; and iii) Providing
simple pipe outlets to field plots of 4 ha.
6.           Critical assumptions. The success of remodelling the water distribution
system relies on a number of critical assumptions including: i) Steady, reliable water supply
of 24.1 m3/sec to the NEC according to the international treaty between India and Nepal; ii)
Well organized main system operation; iii) A functioning drainage system; iv) Adoption of
similar cropping pattern by the farmers; v) Water Users Groups organizing operation and
maintenance on tertiary level; vi) Routine maintenance of canals and structures on main and
secondary level.



60
NEPAL Narayani 11 IrrIoation Project
Implementation Completion Reporl
Appendix . Report oi the Co-Financier
C. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
7.            Implementation planning. Well conceived project planning within the frame
of a consistent implementation concept is a prerequisite for successful project
implementation. Certainly, the long interruption of water supplies to the NEC (1986 to June
1991) has negatively influenced project implementation; but, so has also the lack of
consistent planning. Until project reformulation in 1993, continuous ad hoc shifts in project
implementation have taken place, e.g.: i) Elimination of flood protection works, drainage
measures and access roads in order to meet the limits of the civil works tender; ii)
Reintroduction of Lal Bakeya flood protection works; iii) Inclusion of major flood protection
works for Bagmati river training: iv.) Proposals to include Jhanj irrigation rehabilitation and
additional water resources development form the Jamuni river.
8.            Progress  monitoring. Progress  monitoring  does  rely  on: i) A  well
established monitoring system; ii) Readily available and reliable data; iii) Continuity with
regard to the monitoring personnel; and iv) A clear understanding of the role of a monitor. In
Narayani Ill, a frequent change of monitoring personnel has taken place. Supervision
mission members spent considerable time in attempting to clarify data. The interpretation of
the role of a monitor has been quite variable, giving preference from time to time to the role
of a "super consultant focusing on technical details".
9.            Technical assistance for project implementation. In September 1987, the
NZIDP signed the fourth amendment to the consultancy contract with Nippon & Koei Co.
covering the time period of April 1987 to September 1992. The consultancy comprised 167
person-months of expatriate consultants' staff and 740 person-months of local consultants'
staff. The fifth amendment was signed in mid-1993 and provided for 8 person-months of
expatriate and 95 person-months of local staff. The following table provides a comparison
between planned and effectively implemented technical assistance.
Discipline           Appraisal      Amendment    Amendment    Actually
No. 4         No. 5         Provided
Foreign Local  Foreign Local  Foreign
Design engin..'TL    45             58     506    0      0      72
Construction eng.    43             72     234    6      9      77
O&Mengineer          58             8      0      0      6      2
Water management     74             12     0      0      0      1 2
WUG organization     0              0      0      0      80     0
Others               61             17     0      2      0      12
Total                281            167    740    8      95     175



61
NEPAL: Narayani III Irrigalion Project
Implemenlation Completion Report
Appendix ..: Report oi the Co-Financier
A change in focus can be observed, clearly emphasizing the discipline of design and
construction.
10.          Performance of the project consultants. In general terms, the consultants
can be said to have met the requirements under the terms of reference in often difficult
conditions, e.g.: i) The difficulty in meeting targets where consultants have an advising and
assisting role; ii) The difficulty of implementing a remodelled irrigation system where farmers
lack confidence in the concept and in the ability of Department of Irrigation (Dol) to provide a
reliable water supply; iii) The inadequate budget provisions made by HMG/N during the
contract; and iv) The lack of supply of water from the Don Branch Canal (DBC) between
1986 to 1991 which made operation of the system, as designed, impossible.
However, criticism could be made of the consultants not attempting to impose themselves
more forcefully on the project, through suitable contingency planning under these conditions,
rather than wait for successive supervision missions to recommend appropriate actions.
Furthermore, there is a clear indication that greater emphasis should have been laid on
water management, operation and maintenance and formation of water users associations,
and that this should have been started earlier in the programme than it was.
11.          Technical assistance for monitoring and evaluation. A contract was
signed in June 1992 between Binnie & Partner, GEOCE and the NZIDP to provide services
to strengthen NZIDP in: i) Project planning and programming; ii) Agricultural monitoring; and
iii) Computing and data handling. The consultancy included 9 person-months foreign and 20
person-months local support. In general, the consultants have met the terms of reference,
although the continued commitment of NZIDP staff to the established monitoring procedure
may be questioned.
D. SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES
There are six main issues to be addressed:
12.          Water supply from Don Branch Canal. Water supplies from the Don Branch
Canal are erratic and far from the nominal value of 24.1 m3/sec. The following table provides
monthly average supply values to the NEC.
Jan    Feb    Mar   Apr   May   Jun   Jul    Aug   Sep   Oct   Nov   Dec
1991                                     6.19   10.48  13.48  13.07  11.94  6.65
1992  5.49   10.64  7.77                 3.47   10.08  12.89  10.48  10.42
1993  5.96   15.64  17.04                10.86  9.58   10.49  14.06  16.03      17.66
1994   15.83  9.43         9.75   11.20  15.45  16.77  15.25  11.68        4.08  9.20



62
NEPAL: Narayani III Irrigation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix ..: Report of the Co-Financier
During project reformulation in 1993, it was concluded that it is unlikely that there is sufficient
water to irrigate more than Blocks 1 to 10 reliably. Furthermore, the Ghora Sahan Canal
taking off at the head the NEC and commanding a gross area of 52'000 ha has so far been
out of service. Continued pressure on the Indian Authorities may be required in order to
secure at least the present average supply levels.
13.         Construction and maintenance of tertiary units by farmers. Only about
one-third of the tertiary canals planned in the Stage I and Stage II areas have been
constructed. Construction and maintenance of them is now the responsibility of farmers.
Without assistance it is unlikely that these canals will be constructed in the way envisaged
by the designers of the project and the operation of the project will be badly affected.
Technical assistance to farmer groups must be maintained, if the project is to develop
satisfactorily.
The sustainability of the tertiary irrigation units depends on the formation of well led,
cohesive WUGs who can take on the responsibilities of operation and maintaining the units
and who can take part in the joint participatory management process proposed by the Dol.
This is as yet unproved at Narayani.
14.         Water Users Associations and Joint Participatory Management (JPM).
The future success of the project relies on the long term commitment to: (i) The provision of
a well planned, realistic and sustained programme for the development of water users
associations and the satisfactory handing over of responsibilities to them; (ii) The building of
confidence between the Narayani 0 & M staff and water users associations; and (iii) A high
level of maintenance and operation of the project's main infrastructure by the Department of
Irrigation. Plans exist to meet these objectives, but these are difficult tasks requiring a high
degree of commitment and adequate funding. The introduction of JPM, which has not yet
been accomplished in any project in Nepal, has many implications. It has still to be thought
out in detail before implementation.
15.         O&M  budget and effective maintenance. The project will fail unless
sufficient maintenance budget is committed to the project and maintenance procedures are
foilowed rigorously. The 1994-95 budget did not meet the requirements.
16.         Operation and water management practices. The development of relatively
simple operating rules, but which cope with the erratic water supply from the Don Branch
Canal, is required, together with the education and training of water users in the use of the
rotational system that is being introduced. The sustainability of the system relies on the
understanding of the farmers and their cooperation in maintaining key structures.
17.         Adequate drainage. The issue of drainage infrastructure has not been
adequately addressed neither at the tertiary unit level nor at the tail end of secondary canals.
The extent of drainage measures required (and these may not be extensive) needs
evaluation so that any potential problems arising from inadequate drainage can be
eliminated and farmers groups can be reassured that the irrigation supply system is not
inducing drainage and waterlogging problems.



63
NEPAL: Narayani III Irrigation Project
Implementation Completion Reporl
Appendix ..: Report o1 the Co-Financier
E. ASSESSMENT OF RESULTS
18.          Overall result. There are some mitigating factors, but, unless considerable
support is provided to the project by Dol and other agencies in the future, one must regard
the sustainability of the project as "unlikely" or "uncertain", and assess the outcome as
"unsatisfactory".
F. LESSONS LEARNED BY THE CO-FINANCIER
19.          Support structure and sector know how. Projects implemented under joint
financing arrangements do require considerable care, attention and support by the co-
financier. Local support structures (Swiss coordination office) combined with sector know
how may need to be considered a prerequisite when entering in a joint financing
arrangement with an external support agency.
20.          Careful planning. Project planning at appraisal stage may thoroughly be
checked and discussed with the different parties involved. Concepts need to be spelt out
clearly. A general implementation plan needs to be established during project inception.
Modification of this plan shall only be made after careful analysis. A midterm review shall be
foreseen as a planning tool and shall allow for planning adjustments.
21.          Progress monitoring. A relevant monitoring system needs to be developed
at the beginning of the project implementation. Monitoring indicators shall not only focus on
physical progress, but shall adequately reflect progress in "soft" issues such as e.g. winning
farmer support for the new system or understanding of new water management concepts by
system operators.
22.          Supervision missions.  The co-financier needs to be represented in
supervision missions. Roles of supervision mission members need to be discussed in the
mission team. Mission members shall abstain from providing advise on an ad-hoc bases
and/or shall abstain from accepting the role of a "super-consultant".
23.           Capacity of the borrower. Institutional and financial capacities of the
borrower as well as the availability of human resources need to be assessed carefully. The
project size needs to match with available resources and capacities.
24.                Selection of project consultants. Although being only in advisory
position, project consultants play a crucial role. Only experienced consultants may be
selected. The cofinancier needs to clearly spell out and insist on enforcement of selection
criteria.



_ r  _O ,4OC                                                                                                                    34 .3                                                           453                                                   IBRD 19550
er 0                                                            WOO                                                            4J                                                               53_
Pro.ne. areas                                                                                                                                                                                                                          C  H          A N  A
Groundwater development area                                                                                                       N  E  P A  L
-   Barrage                                                                                                   NNARAYAN I m  I R R I GATION PROJECT                                                                            I  .  D
-4---  lrrsgatinn canal                                                                                                                                                                                                          'x     z    s o4
-      Coerrl gates                                                                                                                 Project Location
S        Power station                                                                                                                                                                                                                  A1-
"3r               Roads                                                                                                                                                                                                          277-30 -
Parroads d                                                                                                                                                                                                              I H 0 I A
~:  .tbn                       J                                                                                                                                                                                 n N    PAL 
Commerfnd Area           '[                                                                                                                                                                                                                       a    : j5O r  - i E)     rr
%,40,0COh(Gro. ss             a                                                                                                                                                                                                                       \
N                0
,[ *>JB \\ \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D                                                                                ,I\r. KA-HANDU 
0                     CaeesraCo rd AreaA 
Al\S; / 1      \              235S20Ho(Grcss) H  aG/J
Mi..rmond                                    Conersoed Area         r  | >-  \      oo            \         f                                                  v Co.d-1
9^30,000 Ho {G-oss}                                               \      !            X             X     \       7                     \                         ,/ j   5oirorzogw- \o_._:::/~~~~~~52,00   Ho  Goss
M,l . CornrrroCod Areo9.
in      t ,ro  15  70680,000 h. (Gross)
A3V3G                                                          84-00                                                          r43d                                                            SYOR                                                               n
FEBtRtuA- t9o6









--  srj                  F-
(G                    0K
Q Z
. .tioF
r
-I9
C7s
-.............



