Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
I?R    / //L7 gfi 
Report No. 6067-NEP
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
NEPAL
NARAYANI III IRRIGATION PROJECT
June 2, 1986
South Asia Projects Department
Irrigation II Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00 = NRs 20.5
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (METRIC SYSTEM)
1 meter (m)                          =  3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)                     =  0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)                       =  2.47 acres
1.50 bighas
1 milliost cubic meters (Mm3)        =  810 acre-feet or 35.3 Mft3
1 cubic meter per second (m3/s)    =  35.31 cubic fooL per second (cfs)
1 cubic foot per second (cfs)           0.028 cubic meters per second (m3/sec)
1 metric ton                         =  2,205 pounds
FISCAL YEAR
July 16 - July 15



FOR OMCuL USE ONLY
NEPAL
NARAYANI III IRRICATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                   Kingdom of Nepal
Amount:                     SDR 21.6 million (US$24.5 million equivalent)l'
Terms:                      Standard
Project Objectives          The main objectives of the project are to increase
and Description:            dry-season agricultural production and reduce the
risks to monsoon crop production by introducing an
equitable, predictable and reliable irrigation system
in the Narayani irrigation scheme. The proposed
project is the third phase of an IDA-supported
program and would complete the development of
irrigation and drainage infrastructure over about
37,400 ha served by the Nepal Eastern Canal in the
Narayani Zone of the Central Region of Nepal. The
project would also provide for: flood protection and
river training works; improvements to village roads
and canal service roads; support to agricultural
extension and research; a regional workshop; training
of project staff; consulting services; funding for
project establisment and O&M; a small component for
groundwater development; and monitoring and
evaluation. In view of the experience with the
implementation of the first and second projects, no
major risks are anticipated regarding the physical
implementation of the project. Possible risks that
could affect project objectives include: HMG's
failure to make adequate provisions for O&M financing
after contributions from the credit phase out at the
end of implementation; a major flood damage to the
main canal and other essential irrigation infrastruc-
ture; and inadequate water management. With respect
to these risks, the cost of project establishment and
O&M would be financed under the redit on a declining
basis; under the project, special training would be
provided to project staff in water management and
water users' groups would be strengthened; and
project planning and design would enable the
introduction of a water management system that would
enable the irrigation service to be timely, reliable
and equitable.
1/ The project is also supported by a grant from the Swiss Development Cooperation
(SDC) of SF 15.0 million (US$7.5 million equivalent).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS
AADO             -  Assistant Agricultural Development Officer
ADBN             -  Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal
ADO              -  Agricultural Development Officer
AC               -  Auditor General
AIC              -  Agricultural Input Corporation
BRVPD            -  Bihar River '.'alley Project Department
BSC              -  Branch Secondary Canal
CCA              -  Cultivated Commanded Area
DE               -  Divisional Engineer
DC               -  Director General (DIHM and DOA)
DIHM             -  Department of Irrigation, Hydrology, and Meteorology
DOA              -  Department of Agriculture
EE               -  Executive Engineer
ERR              -  Economic Lite of Return
FAO              -  Food and Agriculture Organization (UN)
GM               -  General Manager
GOI              -  Government of India
HMGN             -  His Majesty's Government of Nepal
HYV              -  High-Yielding Variety
_CB              -  International Competitive Bidding
IDA              -  International Development Association
IEC              -  Indian Eastern Canal System
JT               -  Junior Technician
JTA              -  Junior Technical Assistant
LCB              -  Local Competitive Bidding
M&E              -  Monitoring and Evaluation
MOA              -  Ministry of Agriculture
MSC              -  Main Secondary Canal
MWR              -  Ministry of Water Resources
NEC              -  Nepal Eastern Canal
NFC              -  Nepal Food Corporation
NZIDB            -  Narayani Zone Irrigation Development Board
NZIDP            -  Narayani Zone Irrigation Development Project
(Stages I, II and III Areas)
OCC              -  Opportunity Cost of Capital
O&M              -  Operation and Maintenance
PLAA             -  Panchayat-Level Agricultural Assistant
PPAR             -  Project Performance Audit Report
RD               -  Revenue Department
REC              -  Rice Export Corporation
SA               -  Special Account
SCF              -  Standard Conversion Factor
SDC              -  Swiss Development Cooperation
SF               -  Swiss Francs
SMS              -  Subject Matter Specialist
Stage I Area    -  Narayani Zone - Blocks I-VI (15,900 ha)
Stage II Area   -  Narayani Zone - Blocks VII-XII (12,800 ha)
Stage III Area  -  Narayani Zone - Blocks XIII-XV (8,700 .ia)
TC               -  Tertiary Canal
T&V              -  Training and Visit System (of Agricultural Extension)
USAID            -  United States Agency for International Development
WUG              -  Water Users' Group



GLOSSARY
Block                             -  An operational unit of 2,000-3,000 ha, into
which the NEC command is divided.
Main Secondary Canal (MSC)         -  Principal branch canal from the NEC
serving a block of 2,000-3,000 ha.
Branch Secondary Canal (BSC)    -  Smaller branch canal from the NEC or from
MSC, serving about 200-600 ha.
Check                             -  Cross-regulating structure.
Turnout                           -  An ungated structure on a TC, commanding
about 30 ha.
Tertiary Canal (TC)               -  A canal conveying water from the 30-ha
turnouts to 4-ha command areas.
Outlet (Division Box)             -  A structure diverting (or closing) the
whole flow to a field channel within the
4-ha area.
Field Channel                     -  Canal within the 4-ha command area (below
the division box).
Paddy                             -  Unhulled rice
Panchayat                         -  Village-level administrative unit
Ward                               -  Subdivision of a panchayat
Nalla                              -  Natural drain
Sajha                             -  Cooperatives



NEPAL
NARAYANI III IRRICATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  BACKGROUND                  ....................                  1
Introduction                                                     I 1
The Agricultural Sector ......... . . .. . . . . .  ..............  2
The Irrigation Subsector .. .............. ......... . . . . .   4
IDA Involvement in Irrigation Development ................       6
Rationale for IDA Involvement .................. ........        8
II.  THE PROJECT AREA ..............          ................    10
Location       ................................................    10
Natural Resources ......... .. .... ... ...*.  .............. ..    10
Development of the NEC Command Area       ......     .....      12
Land Use, Cropping Patterns, and Crop Yields .......-...    14
Agr cultural Support Services t............                     14
Other Public Services . ...           .. .   . ......            15
III.  THE PROJECT ........................................             L-)
A.  Project Formulation and Objectives           ......................    15
roect Concept ..............................................    16
Project Objectives ........... .. . .. . .. . .. . .. . .. .. . .. . .. .  .    16
Summary of Project Components          ...........................    17
B. Detailed                              Faue .............................. 17
Improvements to NEC and Repairs to the Tilawe Barrage ...    17
Stage III Area Works ......... .............*..*..........    18
Stage I and II Area Works          ...............................    19
Flood Protection and River Training Works        ...............    19
Improvement to Village and Service Roads         ................    20
Vehicles and Equipment .........  ............    ............    20
Regional Workshop          ......................................    21
Technical Support ................................              21
Support of Project Establishment and O&M Costs ..........    22
C.  Design and Implementation Aspects          .......................    23
Status of Preparation ........*......*.. ...............    23
Implementation Schedule ....  ... . .... ......... . . . . . .  * ... *. .  23
This report is based on the findings of a Bank mission which visited Nepal
in November/December 1985, and comprised of Messrs. E. Cazit and M. Herman
(Bank), B. Fawcett (CIDA), M. Barber, D. Campbell, A. Seager and L. Shanan
(Consultants). Mrs. C. Leithmann-Frueh has assisted with the economic
analysis. Word processing was done by Ms. Z. Kalinger, with the assistance
of Mmes. C. Clay and K. Landerer.



Page No.
IV.  COST ESTIMATES, FINANCING, AND DISBURSEMENTS ............    24
Project Cost Estimates           .................................    24
Financing .............................                              24
Procurement            ................444....*.....                 25
Disbursements ....        ...........................*....  *4    27
Accounts and Audits          .....................................   28
V.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ............................             28
General ......*..........*****....                                   28
Narayani Zone Irrigation Development Project -
Present Organizaticn                                              29...*  ........................... .  29
Proposed Project Organization         ..........................     30
Quality Control 4444444             ....................             32
Monitoring and Evaluation            ..............................  32
Agricultural Support Services ......         ....................    33
Regional and District Coordinating Committees 4444444444             34
Post Project Organization ......................            ..       34
VI.  WATER MANAGEMENT ................                                    35
Introduction ...........................                            35
Water Supply and Demand   ...............................            35
Water Management   .... ***oe  *  ...                               ................. 36
Management Organization .................................            38
Water Users' Groups  tWUGs)..............................            38
VII.  AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION, FARM INCOME, AND COST RECOVERY             39
Agricultural Production ...................................          39
Farm Incomes        ........................................ .      42
Impact on Poverty ....        ..................... .............   43
Capital and O&M Costs  *         .................................  43
Cost Recovery  ....a ....................................           44
VIII.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ................ .............            47
Project Impact    ................                                  47
Economic Analysis  ........*  .......................               47
Sensitivity Analysis  *..................................           48
Project Risk ....................................................   49
Environmental Effects              ....................... ........  50
IX.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ..................            51



ANNEX 1 - Main Supporting Tables
Tables
1   -   Salient Climatic Data
2   -   Present and Future Cropping Patterns and Yields
3   -   Existing and Future Staff Requirements - Agricultural Extension
4   -   Vehicles and Construction Equipment
5   -   Office, Su:rvey, Design and Supervision Equipment
6   -   Estimated Schedule of Expenditures
7   -   Disbursemient Schedule
8   -   Credit/Grant Allocation
9   -   Existing and Future NZIDP Staff Requirements
10   -   Project Irrigation Requirements and Flow Rates
11   -   Agricultural Production and Input Requirements
12   -   Summary of Financial and Economic Prices
13.1 -   Estimated Farm Budgets and Project Rent
13.2 -   Estimated Project Rent and Cost Recovery
14.1 -   Stage I - Costs and Benefits for Economic Analysis
14.2 -   Stage II - Costs and Benefits for Economic Analysis
14.3 -   Stage III - Costs and Benefits for Economic Analysis
14.4 -   Total Project - Costs and Benefits for Economic Analysis
ANNEXES (cont.)
2 - Detailed Cost Estimates
3 - Assumptions for Financial and Economic Analyses
4 - Selected Documents and Data Available with Project File
CHARTS
1 - Implementation Schedule
2 - Organization Chart of the Department of Irrigation, Hydrology
and Meteorology (DIHM)
3 - Organization of the Project (Construction Stage)
4 - Organization of the Agricultural Extension Service
5 - Historical Water Delivery at the Head of the NEC
MAPS
IBRD 19551 - Nepal - Irrigation Development
IBRD 19552 - Nepal - Major Drainage Basins
IBRD 19550 - Project Location in Relationship to the Indian Eastern Canal System
IBRD 19549 - General Plan of the Narayani Zone Irrigation Project
Volume II: Supplementary Data Volume
ANNEXES
5 - The Regional Workshop
6 - Water Distribution System within 30-ha Tertiary Service
Area and Associated Structures
7 - Terms of Reference for AADO
8  -  Project Consultants
9 - Establishment and Operation and Maintenance



NEPAL
NARAYANI III IRRIGATION PROJECT
Staff Appraisal Report
I. BACKGROUND
Introduction
1.01    General.  Landlocked between China and India, Nepal covers an area of
141,000 km4 that divj des into three broad ecologicaL zones: the Himalayan
Mountains (21,000 km ); the Siwalik Hills (96,000 km2); and the Terai plain
on the northern fringe of the Gangetic plain (24,000 km2). The mountain and
h-ill zones have steep slopes, and only a limited area is suitable for any
form of agriculture, even with extensive terracing. Most of the lands
suitable for cultivation and irrigation are in the Terai, where the monsoon
rains can by and large support rainfed agriculture, although dry spells often
affect yields, as do storms, which are also common. The climate in most of
the hills and in all of the mountain areas precludes the growing of winter
crops.
1.02    Between 1971 and 1984, Nepal's population grew a; an annual rate of
2.7 percent and by the end of that period had reached an estimated 16.3 M,
of which 94 percent were in rural areas. Because population density on
arable land is now very high (356 per km2), cultivation has been extended
onto marginal lands and has encroached on the forests. As a result, most
of the Terai, which was covered by forest half a century ago, has been offi-
cially cleared for agriculture, and the remainder has been thinned by illegal
felling and unofficial settlements. Hill forests have been denuded to meet
the growing demand for fuelwood (which accounts for 90 percent of Nepal's
energy consumption) and this, together with overgrazing, has helped to
accelerate soil erosion and the associated silting of the rivers. Flooding
on the Terai has also become more frequent.
1.03    The General Economy.  Agriculture, whi_  is largely rainfed,
dominates the economy: it accounts for nearly 60 percent of Nepal's GDP and
55-60 percent of its merchandise exports, and provides the livelihood for
over 90 percent of the population. Crop production accounts for about 60
percent of agricultural output, livestock for 30 percent, and forestry for 10
percent. Foodgrains, of which rice is the most important, are planted on
some 90 percent of the cropped area; cash crops occupy the balance.
1.04    Nepal's industrial sector is small.  Output consists of consumer
goods (footwear, textiles, and processed foods), construction materials
(bricks and tiles), and simple assembly items. Larger-scale manufacturing is
undertaken by public enterprises in and around the Kathmandu Valley. Private
investment is concentrated in small and cottage industries, which account for
about 30 percent of the industrial value added. Since 1982, these industries
have experienced impressive growth, which has even surpassed the annual rate
of 11 percent achieved by the industrial sector as a whole during this
period. Furthermore, cottage industry provides part-time employment for more
than one million people.
1.05    The improved performance of the industrial sector was assisted by
improvements in the power sector. During 1982-85, the total installed gener-
ating capacity increased from 138 MW to 172 MW, or about 6 percent per annum,



-2-
and consumption grew at 12 percent per annum. In addition, reliability has
improved since the commissioning of the 60-MW Kulekhani hydel station in
December 1982. Further development of Nepal's vast hydropower resources will
require financial exploitation and export agreements with neighboring
countries.
1.06    Although the road network is also being expanded, particularly in the
Terai, a large part of the Hills is still inaccessible by road. Maintenance
also remains a problem. The national airline at present serves 38 localities
within Nepal and connects to nine Asian countries. Crowth in tourism has
been dynamic and, although it accounts for only 1 percent of GDP, it provides
about 20 percent of foreign exchange earnings.
1.07    Three decades of development efforts, supported by growing foreign
assistance, have brought few improvements to the lives of the people. Rapid
population increases since 1970 have virtually offset real GDP growth. By
most indicators, Nepal is still one of the poorest and least developed
countries in the world. Average per capita income is about US$170 per annum,
life expectancy about 46 years, and infant mortality about 125 per 1,000
births. Adult literacy is only 19 percent.
1.08    National Development Objectives.  The Sixth Plan (FY81-85) accorded
high priority to developing agriculture, small-scale industries, and the
country's abundant water resources. It also stressed soil conservation,
population control, and measures that would promote full utilization of
existing infrastructure, alleviate absorptive capacity constraints, and
develop human resources. In addition, it called for increased involvement of
the private sector in agricultural support services, manufacturing, trade,
tourism, construction, and transport operations. These objectives have been
carried over into the Seventh Plan (FY86-90), which also recognizes that
successful and efficient implementation of development programs cannot be
achieved without a strong and competent administration. It therefore
includes details for enhancing the capability of ministries charged with
formulating economic and development policies and implementing development
programs.
1.09    Investment expenditures, supported by growing foreign assistance,
increased rapidly during the Fifth and Sixth Plan periods, from US$146 M (9
percent of GDP) in FY75 to US$481 M (19 percent of GDP) in FY84. Moreover,
there were substantial shifts in the focus of development spending from
transport to agriculture, power, and social services.
The Agricultural Sector
1.10    Agricultural Performance.  Nepal's economy depends greatly on
developments in, and the overall performance of, the agricuLtural sector,
whose growth has been somewhat slow. During the 1970s, for example, the
growth rate of all agricultural production was only 1.1 percent. Significant
growth was achieved only in the case of wheat, which increased from a low
base at an average rate of 9.6 percent per annum, largely because of
increased acreage. Meanwhile, the average yields of other crops declined at
a rate of 0.8-0.9 percent per annum.



-3-
1.11    Inadequate input supplies (especially fertilizers), poor price incen-
tives, and poor extension services contributed to the slow growth in agricul-
tural production; but even more important were the poor monsoons, since the
country relies predominantly on rainfed agriculture. As a result of severe
drought in 1982/83, agricultural output dropped by 2.5 percent, nonagricul-
tural activities virtually stagnated and GDP declined by 1.4 percent. The
economy rebounded in 1983/84 in response to a good monsoon, but a poor mon-
soon in 1984/85 slowed the growth of both agricultural output and GDP. The
average annual CDP growth for the period 1982-85 is summarized below:
1982/83  1983/84  1984/85  1982/83-1984/85  1970/71-1984/85
Sector
Agriculture       -2.5      8.7       1.7           2.5              1.5
Non-agriculture   0.4       5.5       4.5           3.4              4.9
CDP               -1.4      7.4       2.8           2.9              2.8
1.12    Agricultural Institutions.  Responsibility for Nepal's agricultural
policy and development rests with four ministries: the Ministry of Agricul-
ture (MOA), the Ministry of Forests and Soil Conservation, the Ministry of
Water Resources (MWR), and the Ministry of Land Reform. The MOA includes the
Department of Agriculture (DOA), which is responsible for agricultural
research, training, and extension and also oversees the Agricultural Develop-
ment Bank of Nepal (ADBN) and the Agricu lkural Inputs Corporation (AIC). A
Director-General of Agriculture heads DOA, assisted by four Deputy-Directors
General who are in charge of Crop Development, Extension and Services, Hor-
ticulture and Fisheries, and Planning and Coordination.
1.13    Agricultural Research.  The research service operates 52 centers.
These consist of (i) research stations for cereal crops; (ii) research cen-
ters for cash crops; and (iii) research farms, most of which are engaged in
the production of foundation and stock seed, the latter to be passed on to
AIC's contract growers (para 1.17). AIC is charged to develop suitable
agricultural technologies for all the regions and climatic zones. The
benefits of a coordinated approach to rice, wheat, and maize research and
production can be seen in the Integrated Cereals Project (ICP), assisted by
USAID. The Cropping Systems Program (an integral part of the ICP) has
developed improved cropping sequences and technologies under irrigated and
rainfed conditions, but most of its work pertains to conditions in the Hills.
1.14    Agricultural research activities in the Terai are being strengthened
through the provision of staff, equipment, and buildings under the Agricul-
tural Extension and Research Project (Cr. 1100-NEP, US$17.5 M, 1981) and the
Cash Crop Development Project (Cr. 1339-NEP, US$6.0 M, 1983). At the same
time, an effort is being made to decentralize the research organization, and
thus four of the existing research stations have been designated as Regional
Research Stations. One of these is Parwanipur, which serves the proposed
project area (para 2.23). In addition, research substations are being
developed for oilseeds, sugarcane, tobacco, horticulture, and cereals. A
flow of relevant technology has already started. Furthermore, the extension
service in 10 districts in the Terai is being strengthened through the
Agricultural Extension Project (Cr. 1570-NEP, US$7.2 M, 1985). Six of these
districts have major irrigation projects.
1.15    Agricultural Credit.  The major source of institutional credit is the
ADBN, established in 1968. Its function is to provide the overall credit



-4-
requirements of agriculture and agro-based industries, and to mobilize rural
savings. More recently, commercial banks have begun to provide agricultural
credit, but their volume of lending is still small. The standard terms of
lending by ADBN are 18 months at 15 percent annual interest for short-term
loans, 7 years at 12 percent interest for medium-term loans, and 20 years at
8 percent interest for long-term loans. ADBN has offices throughout the
country.  Lending from private sources is also widespread, although the
interest rates are much higher than those offered by institutional sources.
1.16    Cooperatives.  The Sajha development program was introduced in early
1976 to revitalize the cooperative movement, mobilize local savings, provide
short-term production credit to farmers using ADBN funds for on-lending, and
to link economic development with political decentralization at the local
level. Other objectives of the Sajhas are to provide agricultural inputs and
marketing facilities, and to sell salt, kerosene, diesel oil, coarse cloth,
rice, and sugar in the villages. At present, one Sajha serves three to four
panchayats. At the village panchayat level, they act as the local agent of
the AIC to sell fertilizers and pesticides. Most of the Sajhas suffer from
poor management and a lack of resources.
1.17    Agricultural Inputs.  The AIC, established in 1975, is the government
agency responsible for supplying inputs. Its functions are to: (i) import
and distribute chemical fertilizers and to maintain a buffer stock sufficient
for at least one cropping season; (ii) contract, collect, process, store, and
distribute improved seed; (iii) procure and distribute agricultural chemicals
used in protecting plants and storing grain; and (iv) distribute locally
manufactured agricultural tools and implements and import and distribute
agricultural machinery. However, the AIC lacks the funds needed to import
fertilizer on time and in adequate quantities. Thus, in recent years, about
40 percent of fertilizer imports have been in the form of external commodity
aid. Chemical fertilizers are uniformly priced throughout the country; the
rate takes into account import and re-ail prices in the adjoining areas of
India. About 90 percent of the fertilizers are consumed in the Terai and the
Kathmandu Valley.
1.18    Agricultural Prices.  HMGN's policy is to subsidize inputs and to
determine minimum support prices (usually fixed below the expected market
prices) for major foodgrains and cash crops, with the objective of containing
prices paid by the consumers, many of whom spend 70-80 percent of their
income on food. The Nepal Food Corporation (NFC) procures foodgrains in the
Terai for distribution to the deficit Hill areas and subsidizes transporta-
tion costs to the Hills at rates that increase in direct relation to the
remoteness of the deficit areas. However, public procurement of foodgrains
amounts to less than 15 percent of the total marketed output, and therefore
grain marketing is primarily a private sector operation.
The Irrigation Subsector
1.19    Water Resources Utilization.  Nepal has abundant surface water
resources (seQ Map IBRD 19552). On the average, its rivers discharge about
150 billion m  a year, which would be enough to irrigate 8 to 10 M ha.
However, only about 1.3 M ha are suitably located for gravity irrigation.
Furthermore, both the major and minor rivers can serve only a relatively
small command area in Nepal, since they are costly to develop owing to the
large diversion structures needed to spill the huge monsoon floods.



-5-
Moreover, large quantities of sediment should be desilted out of the system
every year. The development of these rivers is further constrained by the
need for agreements with India. Although groundwater resources are abundant
in the Terai, development is constrained by the lack of infrastructure to
keep scattered pumps and engines operating reliably. Electric power needed
to energize tubewelLs is severely restricted in extent and amount, par-
ticularly in the more remote parts, but the situation is improving.
1.20    Irrigation Development.  At present, only about 540,000 ha have some
form of irrigation (see Map IBRD 19551). About 140,000 ha are under public
schemes and the rest are mostly under private sector schemes. The inventory
of irrigation facilities (1985) by ecological zones and development regions
is as follows:
Region           Mountain       Hill       Terai       Total      Percent
…(h-------------------'a)…-------------------
Eastern           4,365        25,676    148,912    178,953        33.2
Central           4,028        34,618    129,900    168,546        31.3
Western              29        38,254      60,990      99,273      18.4
Midwestern        2,254        12,313      32,674      47,241       8.8
Farwestern        3,641         8,476      32,438     44,555        8.3
Nepal            14,317       119,337    404,914    538,568
Percent           2.7           22.1        75.2       100.0      100.0
The private sector (mostly farmers' groups) developed surface irrigation
initially in the Hills. The schemes were simple river and stream diversions,
many of which used temporary weirs to head up the river flows into ungated
intakes. During the first half of the 1900s, private sector irrigation began
to expand into the Terai with the conStruction of diversion schemes by large
landowners and farmer groups. Some of these schemes have since been improved
by construction of permanent weirs through government funding.
1.21    The first two government operated schemes--at Mahakali (4,700 ha)
and Chandra (11,000 ha)--were constructed On the Terai during the 1920s and
were implemented with the assistance of the Indian government as recompense
to Nepal for water rights for much larger irrigation schemes in India. These
were based on river diversion and design parameters were similar to those of
the Indian systems of the period: the idea was to spread water relatively
thinly over the largest possible area so as to provide drought insurance to
kharif crops. The distribution system was developed only to the 700-1,000 ha
block level; farmers were expected to build the system beyond this level.
Consequently, much of the potential command could not be serviced. After
India gained its independence, it continued to help Nepal construct irriga-
tion schemes based on traditional design concepts, but again the results were
unsatisfactory.
1.22    In the late 1970s, XMGN's planning objectives were gradually changed
to (i) extend the distribution system to the 50-ha level; (ii) organize Water
Users' Groups (WUGs); and (iii) provide Agricultural support services to the
farmers. This policy change was a corollary to increasing support of the
irrigation sector by the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank. Because
of the substantial benefits still to be gained through consolidation and



-6-
better utilization of existing schemes, a more recent trend in public irriga-
tion policy has been to extend the irrigation infrastructure to areas of
5-7.5 ha. In addition, the agricultural extension services have been
improved and better input services provided to the irrigated areas.
IDA Involvement in Irrigation Development
1.23    The first project undertaken with IDA assistance was the Birganj
Irrigation Project (Narayani Zone) (Cr. 373-NEP, US$6.0, 1973). Its objec-
tive was to complete and upgrade the irrigation and drainage system on 28,700
ha of the 37,400 ha commanded by the Nepal Eastern Canal (NEC) (para 2.01),
and to provide groundwater irrigation to 2,700 ha north of the NEC command
area through public tubewell development (the Birganj Groundwater Scheme).
Because of implementation delays and thus considerable cost overruns, the
surface component was reduced to 16,300 ha, which was designated Stage I.
The reduced project was completed in 1981. The Project Performance Audit
Report (PPAR No. 4267 of December 30, 1982) concluded that the groundwater
component has been less than successful, mainly because of inadequate atten-
tion to operation and maintenance (0&M), some well failures, and the
then-unreliable power supply (para 1.05).
1.24    At present, IDA is involved in five irrigation projects, three rural
development projects with irrigation components, and three irrigation
programs related to future development. The Birganj Irrigation Project was
followed by the Narayani Zone Irrigation Development Stage II Project (Cr.
856-NEP, US$14.0 M, 1978), which was designed to develop the 12,700 ha
deferred from the Stage I project (para 1.23) and to provide intensified
agricultural support services. It also extended the groundwater scheme to
another 800 ha through comunity-managed tubewells. Although progress in the
achievement of physical targets has been satisfactory, operation and main-
tenance and the full involvement of farmers in water distribution at the farm
level need to be improved (paras 2.13-2.19). Completion is scheduled for the
end of 1986.
1.25    The Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater Project (Cr. 654-NEP, US$9.0 M,
1976) represented the first stage of a public sector groundwater irrigation
development program in Western Terai. The project provided for the construc-
tion of 64 deep tubewell systems serving about 7,600 ha, together with
agricultural supporting services. Implementation of project works was
delayed by two years, and the result was a 20 percent cost overrun. The
credit was fully disbursed in March 1983, by which time the project was 80
percent complete (PPAR No. 5261 of September 24, 1984). A follow-up project,
Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater Project, Stage II (Cr. 1316-NEP, US$16.0 M,
1982), provides financing for the completion of Stage I works, O&M of the
completed wells during the 5-year implementation period, and introduction of
improved design and construction of new tubewell irrigation systems. The
project also supported the completion and rehabilitation of the public
tubewells and the O&M costs of completed wells located north of the Narayani
Irrigation Project (para 1.23). The performance of completed tubewell sys-
tems has suffered because of an unreliable power supply and a shortage of
spare parts needed for maintenance. The power supply is expected to improve
now that the national power grid is nearing completion (para 1.05). The lack
of effective agricultural support and poor organization of the farmers into
WUGs have been additional obstacles to successful operation; this situation
is now gradually improving.



-7-
1.26    The Sunsari-Morang irrigation and Development Project (Cr.  812-NEP,
T_  .                                                        the
US$30.0 M, 1978 was designed to restore and improve an existing system, the
Chatra Canal command, serving 69,000 ha, but it also included drainage, river
training, and sediment control works. The concept and scope of the project
were revised in mid-1983, however, because (i) much more detailed approach to
water dirtribution was needed than originally envisaged; and (ii) the
implementation and financial capacity of HMCN was too limited to develop the
entire 69,000 ha at one time. Consequently, the project was divided into
three stages, and the area of the ongoing project (Stage I) was reduced to
12,000 ha; the cost of the revised project was estimated at US$41.9 M. After
a slow start, progress is now satisfactory on the main irrigation works and
the associated infrastructure in the command area. The first stage is
expected to be completed by the end of 1986. The second stage, covering an
additional 23,000 ha, is now under preparation.
1.27    The Mahakali Irrigation Project (Stage I) (Cr. 1055-NEP, US$16.0 M,
1981) was designed to rehabilitate and upgrade an existing irrigation system
of 3,400 ha on the left bank of the Mahakali (Sarda) River in the Far Western
Region and to extend it to 6,600 ha. Implementation is more than a year
behind schedule, mainly because of delays in engaging local and foreign
consultants and in procuring equipment and materials, not to mention the
difficulty of maintaining communications with the rest of the country.
Although most of the problems have now been resolved, the project area has
been reduced to 4,700 ha owing to (i) HMCN's decision not to release some of
the forest lands for agriculture and (ii) mapping errors at the time of
preparation. The reduced project continues to be viable. The government has
strengthened the Mahakali Irrigation Development Board and implementation is
now satisfactory. Completion is scheduled for 1987.
1.28    The Babai Irrigation Engineering Project (Cr. 1093-NEP, US$3.5 M,
1981) was to finance the preparation of detailed designs and tender documents
for the first stage of the proposed Babai Irrigation Project on 13,500 ha,
and for 46 km of the East-West highway. A consulting firm was engaged in
1981 and work has progressed as scheduled. Final detailed designs and tender
documents were submitted in October 1983 and have since been updated.
1.29    A component of the First Rural Development Project (Cr. 617-NEP,
US$8.0 M, 1976), completed in December 1983, provided for improvements of
small-scale irrigation schemes in the Hills and development of a high-lift
scheme on approximately 1,900 ha on the Batar plateau in Nuwakot District.
1he small-scale irrigation schemes have made a substantial impact on produc-
tion, whereas the more complex lift scheme has not been up to expectation. A
follow-up, the Third Rural Development Project (US$18 M) is expected to be
presented to the Board during calendar year 1986. The Second Rural Develop-
ment Project (Cr. 939-NEP, US$11.0 M, 1979) includes a component for the
improvement of small-scale Hill Irrigation schemes in the Mahakali Zone.
Implementation is progressing slowly.
1.30    Three Bank-suppo:ted activities aimed at improving future irrigation
development are either under way or due to start shortly. They are:



-8-
(a)  A survey to define strategies for future development of groundwater
resources in the Terai (with a potential of more than 400,000 ha),
which is being financed under the Bhairawa-Lumbini II Project (Cr.
1316-NEP);
(b)  Preparation of a package of hill medium irrigation projects in
central Nepal, including the rehabilitation of existing projects and
introduction of water management components to improve the utiLiza-
tion of water resources; this project is being financed by UNDP
(UNDP/NEP/80/033) with the Bank as the Executing Agency.
(c)  A program for strengthening the irrigation department so that it will
be better able to guide irrigation development in Nepal. The program
would be financed under a UNDP project (expected to start shortly)
for which the Bank will be the Executing Agency,l/ and it would be
conducted in close collaboration with USAID's complementary pro.ram.
The two interrelated programs will include the following components:
(i) preparation of long- and medium-term master plans for the future
development of irrigation in Nepal;
(ii) establishment of countrywide planning and design criteria for
irrigation systems;
(iii)  establishment of O&M and M&E working principles and operation
manuals based on experience to be gained through countrywide
pilot projects; and
(iv) a two-tier training program: in the principles of plarning,
design, and operation of irrigation projects for the high
echelon of the irrigation department, and in water management
principles for various levels of staff involved in irrigation,
down to the farmers' leaders. A water management center is to
be established in the Terai in the near future to serve a sub-
stantial part of this training program.
(d) Ways to improve organization and manpower planning of the irrigation
department would be studied under a manpower planning study, which is
considered for inclusion under the ongoing Second Technical Assis-
tance Project (Cr. 1379-NEP).
Rationale for IDA Involvement
1.31    The Bank's continued support of the development of Nepal's irrigation
sector as a whole, and of the Narayani scheme, in particular, is strongly
justified for the following reasons:
1.32    Support to the Irrigation Sector.  As one of the world's poorest
countries with a high population growth rate, Nepal must continue to give
high priority to increasing employment and agricultural production. The
1/  Final approval by HMNG is still awaited; following approval, the project
document needs to be signed by UNDP, HMGN and IDA.



-9-
development of water resources would be an important means of doing so.l/
This does not imply that only new areas should be developed. In view of the
conditions in Nepal, investment that would help to improve the operation of
existing projects would probably be more beneficial in the short run. With
the Bank's assistance, HMGN has been able to utilize more fully and rapidly
the irrigation infrastructure already built and thereby made it possible for
past investments to realize their expected returns sooner. At the same time,
there is a need to plan the Lo --term development of water resources and to
better coordinate the activities of the various donors. The government
should therefore give careful attention to setting up clear irrigation
development objectives and determining priorities among likely options. The
Bank is well placed to faciLitate coordination among the various donors who
support irrigation development in Nepal, and to assist HMCN with the intro-
duction of new concepts and principles of planning, design, and operation of
irrigation schemes, as well as their management, with full farmer participa-
tion. This, however, requires continuous Bank involvement in irrigation
development.
1.33    The Narayani Project is among the most important rehabilitation
projects in Nepal. It is expected to serve as a model for the rehabilitation
of the existing irrigation infrastructure as well as for newly developed
projects. The Bank's continued participation in the project would help
ensure that the planned works in the command area are completed and that an
effective system is put into operation on a sustainable, continuous basis.
JMGN would need the Bank's assistance in:
(a)  speeding up project implementation by helping to strengthen manage-
rnent skills, and to develop monitoring facilities to follow the
progress of works and agricultural development;
(b)  building a system that would operate with minimum intervention and
provide farmers with a predictable, dependable irrigation service;
(c)  strengthening WUCs, by giving them legal standing and appropriate
training, so that they can effectively undertake their respon-
sibilities;
(d)  introducing a sound cost-recovery mechanism, aimed at recovering at
least operation and maintenance costs; and instituting a periodic
review of the level of water charges, and assessment and collection
procedures; and
(e) allocating adequate operation and maintenance funds to ensure a
continued efficient irrigation service to farmers.
l/  In India, where conditions are similar to those in Nepal's main produc-
tion area (the Terai), analyses ot recent trends indicate that irrigation
accounted for one-half to two-thirds of the total increase in foodgrain
production over the past three decades; and much of the remaining
increase was due to the carry-over effect of irrigation promoting the use
of high-yielding varieties and fertilizers.



-10-
II. THE PROJECT AREA
Location
2.01    The project area, which covers about 37,400 ha,l/ is the command of
the Nepal Eastern Canal (NEC), and is located in the administrative districts
of Parsa, Bara, and Rauthat, in the Narayani Zone of the Central Region. The
command area extends from the Indian border near Pipra, where the NEC takes
off from the Don Branch Canal of India's Eastern Canal System, to the Bagmati
River in the east, over a distance of about 75 km, and from the NEC in the
north to the Indian border in the south, over a distance of 4-6 km. The
command area is divided into 15 blocks, the boundaries of which are defined
largely by rivers which flow in a north-south direction.
Natural Resources
2.02    Climate.  The project area has two seasons--a wet monsoon, from May
to October, and a dry season, from November to April. The mean annual rain-
fall is more than 1,400 mm, with about 90 percent falling during the monsoon.
It is difficult to predict when the monsoon season will begin and end, and
periods of drought may occur during the monsoon itself. Although the
dry-season rains form a small proportion of the total rainfall, they con-
tribute to crop water requirements. However, uncertainty regarding the
amount and distribution of rainfall make irrigation a prerequisite for suc-
cessful crop production, even in the monsoon season. Diurnal temperature
variations in the rabi cause heavy morning dew, which also contributes water
to the crops.
2.03    Temperatures range from a mean daily minimum of about 80 C in January
(with extremes below 60 C) to a mean daily maximum of about 370 C in May
(with extremes in excess of 400 C). Annual evaporation averages about 1,600
mm; mean daily evaporation ranges from 2.1 mm/day in December to 7.1 mm/day
in April and May. Sunshine hours per day range from a mean of 5.9 in August
and September to 9.7 in May. (Climatic data for the project area are sum-
marized in Annex 1, Table 1.)
2.04    Topography and Drainage.  The area lies on an alluvial plain that
slopes from north to south. The gradient is between 1:750 and 1:1,000, with
the more gentle slopes in the south. The area is crossed by 17 streams and
rivers, which tend to be closer together in the eastern part of the area and
thus account for the more dissected topography and the higher proportion of
river levee soils there. Most of the natural drains are poorly developed and
distinctly meandering, and regularly overtop their banks during the monsoon.
Therefore, some of the rivers require embankments to prevent flood damage
to crops and the canal system.
2.05    Soils.  The soils are medium to moderately fine textured alluvial
silt to clay loams. Sandy soils occur near the streams and rivers. There
are no salinity and alkalinity problems: pH values are between 6.0 and 8.4.
Internal drainage is generally good. Although the water table approaches the
1/ Not including the adjacent groundwater development (3,600 ha) described
in paras 1.23 and 1.24.



-11-
land surface by the end of the monsoon, it does not adversely affect rice,
the predominant monsoon crop, but it does affect sugarcane, except at
slightly higher elevations. After the rains, groundwater Levels fall rapidly
to depths that do not normally affect the yield of rabi crops. During the
dry season only a few pockets have water table depths of less than 1.0 m and
may thus be regarded as waterlogged. According to U.S. Bureau of Reclama-
tions standards, about 90 percent of the command area is Class II or III land
with respect to irrigation suitability. With proper surface drainage, almost
the entire area would be suitable for irrigated paddy, wheat, maize, rape,
mustard, pulses, and sugarcane.
2.06    Surface Water Resources.  The principal source of water to the NEC
is the Indian Eastern Canal system, which originates by a barrage on the
Gandak River. At that point, the river has a catchment area of 35,000 km2,
which is located entirely in Nepal (Map IBRD 19550). The river is perennial;
flows are generated by runoff from the monsoon rains, snowmelt in the
Himalayas, and effluent flows from the groundwater systems in the catchment.
Mean monthly discharge rates range from about 300 m /sec (10,600 cusecs) in
March to about 4,570 m3/sec (161,000 cusecs) in August. The design capacity
of the headworks of the Indian Eastern Canal system is about 425 mi/sec
(15,000 cusecs). In March, water allocation to the Indian Western Canal
system is about 105 m3/sec (3,690 cusecs).
2.07    An agreement between HMGN and GOI, dated December 4, 1959, further
amplified by an exchange of correspondence on the same day, amended on
April 30, 1964, and clarified by the Agreed Minutes of Discussions between
the tw3 parties dated October 27, 1971, permits Nepal to draw up to
24.1 m /sec (850 cusecs) from the Don Branch (part of the Indian Eastern
Canal system) at all times except when the branch is closed for repairs and
maintenance. This allocation represents about 8 percent of the mean river
discharge in the low-flow month of March, about 14 percent of the Eastern
Canal system's scheduled delivery in that month, and about 34 percent of the
design head capacity of the Don Branch.
2.08    In addition to supplies from India, minor barrages on the Tilawe,
Sirsia, and Jhanj rivers (Map IBRD 19549), which cross the NEC command,
provide some supplemental water to the project area from the onset of the
rains and for some period into the dry season.
2.09    Groundwater Resources.  The NEC command area is an alluvial deposit
more than 300 m deep. The upper 60 to 100 m consists of clay and silt,
intercalated with sand beds. This sequence is underlain by more than 200 m
of clean, fine to coarse sand of high permeability containing thin, discon-
tinious clay beds. The entire sequence forms a single aquifer complex. The
water table is shallow (generally less than 3 m below land surface) and of
good quality. The deep aquifer below the clayey sequence will support
high-yielding wells (> 80 1/sec). Public tubewell irrigation systems based
on such wells were constructed north of the NEC command under Stages I and II
of the project.
2.10    Private shallow tubewells, about 30 m deep, are constructed by hand
drilling. Their discharge averages about 10 1/sec. They use surface-mounted
centrifugal pumps. A portable diesel pump unit often serves several wells.
This practice is most common in the eastern part of the NEC command (Stage
III area), where private wells are used mainly for vegetable cultivation.



-12-
2.11    Population.  About 260,000 people live in the project area.  The
total number of households is about 37,000; the average family size consists
of about seven persons. The farm population accounts for some 85 percent of
the total population; another 10 percent is landless. In addition, about
60,000 people live in Birganj, the largest urban settlement within the com-
mand.
2.12    Farm Size and Land Tenure.  The average size of a farm is 1.2 ha with
farm holdings typically fragmented into 2-5 parcels. Distribution by holding
size is as follows:
Farm Holdings                Cultivated Area
Farm Size               Incremental  Cumulative        Incremental   Cumulative
(ha)-                           ---…
Less than 0.15                8             8                1              1
0.15 - 0.5                   31            39               10            11
0.5  - 1.0                   25            64               17            28
1.0  - 3.0                   30            94               48            76
Over 3.0                      6           100               24           100
Holdings of 1.0 ha or less represent 64 percent of the total and account for
28 percent of the cultivated land. About 41 percent of operational holdings
are fully owned, 32 percent are partly owned and partly rented, and 27 per-
cent are wholly rented. Rents are commonly paid in the form of produce; they
amount to about 20-30 percent of gross production value, thereby providing
the tenant with a good incentive to increase his productivity. All inputs
are paid for by the tenant. Water charges for all crops other than maincrop
paddy are also paid for by the tenant; however, the landowner pays the water
charges for maincrop paddy.
Development of the NEC Command Area
2.13    Background.  Under the Agreement with Nepal of December 4, 1959 (para
2.07) as amended, India was to finance the construction of the N C and
associated distribution system down to about the 20 cusec (0.6 m /sec). The
system was constructed by the Bihar River Valley Projects Department (BRVPD).
The BRVPD Landed over the system to HMGN in stages; the last was transferred
in June 1976. Design and implementation standards were low, and since no
minor canals and structures were constructed, the system could not deliver a
reliable supply of water to most of the fields. Farmers were therefore
unable to realize significant irrigation benefits. In addition, no provision
was made for drains or a farm road network. The cut-off of the distribution
system at the 20-cusec level meant that farmers within 900 ha command areas
had to organize further distribution among themselves; since the average farm
is about 1 ha, this implied an administratively impossible farmer grouping of
900 units. The IDA-assisted Narayani Zone Stage I and Stage II Irrigation
Projects (Cr. 373-NEP and Cr. 856-NEP) were conceived to rectify unsuitable
design details and to extend the irrigation system closer to the farmgate.
The proposed project would complete that process.
2.14    Stage I Area consists of Blocks I to VI and has a CCA of l5,900 ha.
In addition, about 2,700 ha were developed under the groundwater scheme where
surface irrigation is not feasible. Improvements to the irrigation and



-13-
drainage system in the area were initiated in 1975 under the first
IDA-assisted project (Cr. 373-NEP) and were continued under the Stage II
project (Cr. 856-NEP). Completed works included construction of secondary
and tertiary canals and structures, improvements to canal flood embankments,
and canal service roads. By 1980, all of the Stage I area had an irrigation
service. However, since systematic canal operation has not been practiced,
water is poorly and unevenly distributed: large abstractions in the head
reaches cause water deficits at the tail ends. Since night irrigation has
not been practiced on a large scale, operational losses have been excessive.
In addition, maintenance has been unsatisfactory and many of the tertiary
canals (TCs) are now inoperative.
2.15    Stage II Area consists of about 12,800 ha in Blocks VII to XII, of
which about 2,000 ha receives some water supply from the Sirsia River irriga-
tion system (para 2.08), built in 1958 with USAID assistance. In addition,
about 900 ha were added to the groundwater scheme started at Stage I. The
Stage II project included improvements to the main canal system, along with
the construction of secondary canal systems, drains, and canal service roads.
The majority of these works have now been completed, and irrigation is now
being provided for most of the commandable area along the completed canals.
However, operating procedures and the service are still unreliable, espe-
cially at the tail end of the distributaries.
2.16    Stage III Area commands about 8,700 ha within Blocks XIII-XV, of
which about 2,900 ha receive a wet-season irrigation supply, including
1,200 ha within Block XV from the Jhanj irrigation system (para 2.08), built
with Indian assistance in 1961. No improvements have been made to the system
since it was handed over by India in 1976. It consists of 19 km of the tail
section of NEC and 12 km of the upper reaches of three secondary canals
completed to the 0.6 m /sec level.
2.17    A significant activity in Stage III area (which has also extended
into the eastern part of Stage II area) has been the development of
groundwater by private shallow tubewells (para 2.10). At present, these
wells serve about 260 ha, mainly to irrigate vegetables.
2.18    Lessons Learned under Narayani I and II.  The PPAR of the Narayani
Stage I Project (Report No. 4267, 1982) concluded that the project has
improved productivity and agricultural production in the zone; its economic
rate of return was reestimated at 21 percent. As the first IDA-supported
irrigation project in Nepal, it has provided valuable lessons. In par-
ticular, it has pointed to the need for: (i) considerable technical supervi-
sion, given the implementing agency's institutional capability; (ii) training
of local staff, particularly at the support level; (iii) a stronger institu-
tion-building effort than had been envisaged at appraisal; and (iv) more
involvement and participation by farmers.
2.19    The Stage II project is due to be completed in 1986.  It has focused
mainly on construction activities. Other components, including management of
completed parts of the irrigation system, institution building, training, and
farmers' involvement in WUCs were addressed, but the results have not been
entirely satisfactory. The proposed project would consolidate the achieve-
ments under Stage I and II and, in particular, incorporate lessons learned
from the earlier projects.



-14-
Land Use, Cropping Patterns, and Crop Yields
2.20    Except for village sites and other small areas set aside for special
purposes (such as shrines and temples), all the land is cultivated, and some
85 percent is either already irrigated or will be commandable at full
development. The crops grown are the same with and without irrigation:
almost exclusively rice in the kharif, and wheat, oilseeds (rape and mus-
tard), lentils, and chickpeas in the rabi. Sugarcane and vegetables are
grown on the levees and the older terraces, where surface drainage is better.
Rabi crops, even in some parts of Stage I and II areas, rely mainly on
residual moisture, the high water table, and the high water-retention
capacity of the soil; irrigation is treated as a supplementary source of
water. Owing to strong extension efforts in recent years and the ready
market in India, wheat has shown considerable growth in area planted and
yields. The present cropping pattern and crop yields for the NEC command is
shown in Annex 1, Table 2. The somewhat more elevated lands and the greater
extent of levees in Stage III area, together with the larger number of rivers
that make it possible to dig shallow wells, account for the higher proportion
of vegetables and sugarcane, and also the better sugarcane yields.
Agricultural Support Services
2.21    Agricultural Extension.  Extension services are provided by DOA
through the administrative district. The DOA follows the Training and Visit
(T&V) system, which was first introduced in Nepal in Bara and Parsa Districts
in 1975 under the first Narayani Project (Cr. 373-NEP). An Agricultural
Development Officer (ADO) is in charge of all extension-related activities
within a district, assisted by an Assistant Agricultural Development Officer
(AADO). Junior Technicians (JT) operate at Extension Training Centers; each
serves 15-20 Panchayats. Typically, the JT supports and supervises five
Junior Technical Assistants (JTA), each of whom serves three to five
Panchayats. The extension contact at the Panchayat level is provided by
part-time Panchayat Level Agricultural Assistants (PLAA), who are selected
from local leading farmers. Subject Matter Specialists (SMS) are posted to
each district, to provide specialized support for JTs and JTAs and to
organize periodic training courses.
2.22    The present staffing of the agricultural extension service in the
three districts is shown in Annex 1, Table 3. Although the total number of
staff and the ratio of PLAAs to their first and second-line supervisors are
adequate, the present organization and the training given to staff working
with irrigation farmers within the command area are not sufficiently specific
to serve the needs of irrigated agriculture. Activities of the Training
Centers are further restricted by the lack of adequate transport.
2.23    Agricultural Research.  The Parwanipur Research Station is about 10
km north of Birganj, outside the NEC command. It was established in 1947 and
has been involved in research activities since 1960. Under the IDA-supported
Cash Crop Development Project (Cr. 1339-NEP), it has been upgraded to a
Regional Research Station. It is the main rice research station in Nepal; it
also conducts trials on planting methods, fertilizer applications, and
irrigation timings and quantities for other crops, One of its functions is
to provide preseason training for extension workers in the Eastern and
Central Terai.



-15-
2.24    Agricultural Inputs.  Seeds, fertilizer, and pesticide distribution
is under the control of AIC's Birganj office. These items are retailed
through village outlets operated by the cooperatives (Sajha), to whom AIC
delivers on demand, on whatever transport is practicable on the presently
inadequate road network. Since Birganj is the main transhipment depot from
Calcutta (where most of Nepal's imports and exports are handled), the supply
situation there is better than in other parts ot the country.
2.25    Agricultural Credit.  The ADBN has established one branch office and
four subbranch offices in the project area. In addition, there are about
70 Cooperative Societies (Sajhas), each serving about 800-1,000 farm
householtds. Most of the credit is for short-term production Loans. Recovery
rates during the last few years have been about 70 per;ent. There are two
commercial banks in the area, but their involvement in agricultural lending
is limited. Lending from private sources is widespread, although there are
no reliable data to indicate the extent (para 1.15).
2.26   Processing and Marketing.  The area is well served by a number of rice
mills with an estimated annual milling capacity of 24,100 tons. Many small
rice hullers operate in the villages. A sugar mill located in Birganj is
presently operating considerably below its capacity of 1,500 tons of cane per
day for 150 days. There is also a roller mill, processing wheat. Marketing
channels for foodgrains are well developed; millers and grain merchants in
Birganj and neighboring Indian towns have a widespread. network of traders in
the villages. A branch of the Rice Export Corporation (REC) handles rice
exports, primarily to India. Wheat has been exported to Bangladesh through
government-to-government deals. Extensive trading algo takes place through
informal channels across the border (para 7.09)t which lately has been
affected by the foodgrain surpluses in Bihar.
Other Public Services
2.27    The trunk road network consists of the Kathmandu-Raxaul (India)
highway, which passes through Birganj, bisects the project area, and connects
to the National East-West Highway, about 25 km to the the north, and with the
Indian highway system. Air service to Kathmandu is provided by a small
airport at Simra, to the north of Birganj. A network of power supply lines
serves the area from the national grid. There are municipal water supplies
in the main towns, but most villages rely on open ponds and handpumps.
Health clinics and schools are confined to towns and a few of the larger
villages.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Formulation and Objectives
Background
3.01    The irrigation facilities in the first 12 blocks of earlier stages of
the project do not yet provide an adequate, timely, and equitable water
supply to many parts of the command area. This is due to several problems,
especially: (i) inadequate density of the tertiary and field channels within
the 30 ha command areas; (ii) design deficiencies affecting the operation
of secondary and tertiary channels; (iii) the general deterioration of the



-16-
system because of inadequate maintenance; (iv) the lack of adequate flood
control devices; (v) insufficient drainage facilities; and (vi) an incomplete
road network. As a result of these deficiencies, the system's operators have
been unable to provide an effective and reliable irrigation service essential
to development of productive, market-oriented farming systems, and to the
attainment of the full potential benefits of the system.
Project Concept
3.02    The policy of HMGN, as stated in ehe Sixth Plan (FY 81-85) and
reiterated in the Seventh Plan (FY 86-90), is to make full use of the exist-
ing infrastructure and to operate and maintain the systems properly. These
objectives apply particularly to large surface irrigation projects. Taking
the Plan objectives into account, and also the compelling need to contribute
to the relief of Nepal's balance of payments situation, the project's
agricultural objective is to raise production through the more effective use
of water and other inputs, adjustments to the present cropping patterns, and
improved farm-to-market communications. Production objectives would be
further promoted through the establishment of more formalized relationships
between the project authority and DOA, particularly in the fields of agricul-
tural extension, adaptive research, and farm-level water management.
3.03    Staff training under the project and the establishment of a properly
funded, organized, and equipped maintenance system would improve the techni-
cal competence of project staff and their capability to operate and maintain
the irrigation system. During the project execution period, the assistance
of outside consultants would be needed. Another major project task is to
relieve HMGN's serious and persistent budgetary constraints by improving cost
recovery from farmers who benefit from improved irrigation services in the
Narayani and similar, large, public-supported projects.
Project Objectives
3.04    The objectives of the project are to increase dry-season agricultural
production by introducing an equitable, predictable, and reliable irrigation
system in the project area and to reduce the risks to monsoon crop production
by making protective irrigation available when requested. Flood protection
and drainage improvements would reduce the risks to crops and the physical
infrastructure. Management objectivea would be to develop full farmer par-
ticipation and cooperation in the water distribution system.
3.05    To achieve these objectives, project works would upgrade the irriga-
tion, drainage, flood control and road infrastructure for the entire NEC
command (37,400 ha), and would complete the irrigation and related civil
works infrastructure in the Stage III area (8,700 ha), which is located at
the tail reach and is part of the NEC command. It would introduce an effi-
cient water management system, including the necessary civil works to make it
possible, provide a farm road network, and improve the canal service roads.
In addition, the project staff's capability to operate and maintain the
project would be strengthened through the purchase of O&M equipment, estab-
lishment of a radio-communication system, and by support of O&M and estab-
lishment costs. A regional workshop to maintain and repair vehicles and
equipment of Narayani and other Terai irrigation projects would also be
provided under the project. Cost recovery would be improved by simplifying



-17-
the method of assessment. The task of collecting dues would be transferred
to the Revenue Department, which has had more experience and has more powers
to collect than NZIDP.
Summary of Project Components
3.06    The proposed project, which is designed to give Nepal the use of
Gandak River water--to which it is entitled in accordance with its agreement
with India (pare 2.07)--would be implemented over a seven-year period
(1986-93), incorporating the following main components:
(a) Improvements to NEC and Repairs to the Tilawe Barrage. Works on NEC
would include lining of selected canal reaches, canal slope protec-
tion, strengthening of canal embankments, and construction of control
and access structures. The Tilawe Barrage, severely damaged during
the 1985 monsoon, would be extensively repaired.
(b)  Stage III Area (8,700 ha).  Construction of irrigation and drainage
works down to the farm level together with about 40 shallow
tubewelts.
(c) Stage I and II Areas (28,700 ha). Improvement and repairs of the
irrigation and drainage systems, down to the farm level.
(d) Flood Protection and River Training Works. Construction of embank-
ments on the Lal Bakeya and Bagmati Rivers (Stage III area); flood
protection and river training works on eight rivers crossing the
Stage I and II areas.
(e) Improvement to Village and Service Roads. Gravel metalling of exist-
ing service roads in Stage I and II areas; construction of similar
service roads in the Stage III area; and upgrading of selected vil-
lage roads throughout the NEC command.
(f) Vehicles and Equipment. Purchase of O&M equipment including spares;
and a radio-communication system for NEC system operation.
(g) Regional Workshop. Establishment of an equipped workshop, for ser-
vicing and repairing O&M equipment of Narayani and other projects in
the central Terai.
(h) Technical Support. Provision of consultancies; training; agricul-
tural support; monitoring and evaluation; and studies, including
planning and design, of suitable irrigation projects in the Terai;
and
(i)  Support of Project Establishment and O&M Costs.
B. Detailed Features
Improvements to NEC and Repairs to the Tilawe Barrage
3.07    Although the NEC was considerably improved under the previous
projects, further improvements are needed now that the canal system is



-18-
operating with discharges approaching designed capacity. Specific improve-
ment works proposed under the project would be: lining of about 3 km of
canal section in need of protection, principally in curves; reforming and
protection of canal slopes (2 km); strengthening of embankments (3.5 km);
improvement of service roads (18.5 km); and provision of check and cross
drainage structures, and cart and foot bridges.
3.08    Before the NEC was constructed, a barrage on the Tilawe River (paras
2.08 and 6.04) commanded some 6,500 ha, most of which was integrated into
the NEC command. The barrage was extensively damaged during the 1985 mon-
soon. Since its diverted waters are required within and outside the NEC
command, it would be rebuilt and its flood protection works strengthened.
Stage III Area Works
3.09    Irrigation Works.  Two rivers divide the Stage III area (8,700 ha)
into three irrigation blocks (Blocks XIII-XV). Each block would be provided
with one or two main secondary canals (MSC) taking off from a gated structure
on the NEC, and with several branch secondary canals (BSC). The MSC and BSC
would be unlined channels with about 85 structures including culverts,
cross-drainage structures, and drops, as required. The total length of MSC
and BSC in the Stage III area would be about 150 km, equivalent to an average
length of about 17 m/ha.
3.10    Tertiary Canal (TC) turnouts would be fixed-discharge structures,
serving unlined TCs sized to deliver about 1 litre/sec/ha. Each TC turnout
would command about 30 ha. To encourage rabi irrigation, the TCs would be
constructed down to the 4-ha area. With the small number of farmers involved
(about 10-12) in this 4-ha area, and the shorter distance from TC outlet to
the farmgate (generally less than 150 m), the distribution to the farm would
be arranged by the farmers themselves (para 6.12). The alignment of channels
would be decided with farmers when the TC system is designed. Construction
of field channels would be undertaken by the WUGs, but would be designed and
supervised by project staff. Minor structures would be provided by the
proeect within the 4-ha command areas. The average length of TC down to the
4 ha outlet would be about 50 m per ha of CCA. The design and operation of
the TC system are detailed in Annex 6, Supplementary Data Volume (SDV).
3.11    Development of Local Groundwater Resources.  The closing of the
Indian Eastern Canal System (IEC) from early March to the end of April (para
6.02) affects water supply for rice nurseries. To ensure reliable supplies,
independent of IEC,l/ many farmers have developed shallow tubewells (para
2.17). Provision has been made under the project to construct about 40
additional shallow tubewells where early supplies for rice nurseries may
otherwise be difficult to obtain. Their final locations are yet to be deter-
mined. The construction and energization of the wells are supported under
the Stage III development program, but the WUGs would be responsible for
their O&M.
1/ With increased demand in the future, March/April closure would not be
necessary (para 6.03).



-19-
3.12    Drainage Works.  An internal drainage system, linked to n.atural
drains and rivers, would evacuate surplus irrigation and rainfall water
during the monsoon. Design capacity would be 3.0 I/sec/ha. The Stage III
area would require about 74 km of main and major drains and 95 km of minor
drains, equivalent to an average of about 17.5 m/ha of CCA, as well as suffi-
cient field drains.
3.13    Construction Camp.  The existing construction camp at Lal Bakeya
would be extended to accommodate the staff required to supervise new con-
struction in the Stage III area. Once project construction is completed, the
buildings and field offices would be used by the O&M staff and would serve as
a local training center for staff and farmers (para 3.27).
Stage I and II Area Works
3.14    The distribution system on commissioned parts of the command has not
been adequately completed and maintained and therefore cannot be operated
properly (para 6.01). Because the WUGs had no statutory authority to *-nforce
their directives to members, many field channels have not been constructed;
the ones that were constructed have not been properly maintained and
repaired. Thus, provision of equitable water distribution amongst farmers is
almost impossible.
3.15    To improve the distribution system within the Stage I and II areas
(28,700 ha), the project would construct or rehabilitate about 450 struc-
tures, including ungated control structures, and calibrated offtakes from the
NEC to the MSC and the BSC canals. About 1,000 fixed, ungated turnouts at
the head of the tertiary channels servicing the 30-ha areas and about 7,000
outlets 3erving the 4-ha subareas would also be provided.
3.16    In addition, about 85 km of secondary canals and i,730 km of TCs
system would be repaired and the TCs would be extended to the 4-ha level
(para 3.09). The WUCs would be provided with a layout plan of the field
channels below the 4-ha outlets, which they would construct themselves. Any
structures that may be required below the TC outlet would be constructed by
the project (para 3.10). Modification to the layout of TC command areas
would be made, where necessary, so that the WUGs are as far as possible in
the same administrative ward (para 6.13). In addition, improvements would be
made to the natural and constructed drains and to their related structures,
including completion of the missing portion of major drains within the 12
blocks and the pertinent field drains.
Flood Protection and River Training Works
3.17    In the Stage III area, flood flows in the Lal Bakeya River and Bag-
mati River (the eastern boundary of the NEC command) regularly inundate
adjacent lands. Retaining embankments would be constructed on critical
reaches to protect irrigated lands and the irrigation and drainage systems
against flooding. The Lal Bakeya embankments would be located at least 100 m
from the present river banks on both sides, would extend for about 23 km and
have an average height of 2.5 m. Gabion protection would be provided to the
inner slope on about 7 km of the embankment. Drainage gates would be
provided at ten locations. The Block XV embankment, started under Stage II,
would be extended by about 7 km; average height would be 3 m, and the width
at the top would be 4 m, to contain flooding from the Bagmati. Gabion
protection would be provided to the inner slope over 4 km; there would be



-20-
five drainage gates. Trees would be planted on the embankment toe on the
side away from the river. The rest of the embankment would be grassed over.
3.18    In the Stage I and II areas, works would be constructed to protect
land against floods from rivers crossing the command area. 'Short-cut'
channels (2.3 km) would be constructed on five rivers 1/ in Blocks I, II, and
IV, to improve the rate at which floodwater can be removed from the project
area. The 'short-cut' sections would have an average bed width of 21.5 m,
depths of 3 m, and side slopes of 1:2. New flood embankment (8.0 km) would
be constructed along four rivers 2/ in Blocks IV, V, VII, and IX at not less
than 50 m from the present river banks. Typical dimensions of flood embank-
ments would be 2 m high, with a top width of 4 m, and side slopes of 1:2.
All the above flood protection and river training works are required to
adequately rehabilitate the Narayani irrigation scheme and will not adversely
change the quality and quantity of water flows downstream.
Improvement to Village and Service Roads
3.19    Roadworks would include:  (i) upgrading of link roads connecting
villages with a population in excess of about 700 and storehouse locations to
the NEC service road throughout the command area; (ii) gravel metalling of
part of the existing MSC and BSC service roads in the Stage I and II areas;
and (iii) construction of gravel-metalled service roads along part of the
MSCs and BSCs planned for the Stage III area. The upgraded village link
roads would have a dirt surface 3 m wide. Of the 91 km to be upgraded, 40 km
would be in the Stage I area, 30 km in the Stage II, and 21 km in the Stage
III. The gravel metalling to the existing roads along the canals would be
2.5 m wide; about 152 km of such roads would be upgraded, of which 83 km are
in the Stage I and 69 km in the Stage II areas. The new roads along the
canals (for service and public use) to be constructed in the Stage III area
would be 3 m wide with 2.5 m of gravel metalling; about 60 km of such roads
would be required. Crossings over canals, drains, and streams would be
constructed in sufficient quantities to provide for farmers' access to their
fields. Additional service roads would be constructed along the main and
secondary drains under the drainage component.
Vehicles and Equipment
3.20    The project would provide equipment for maintenance of project works
and spares for equipment and vehicles already with the project authorities,
to facilitate their repair and efficient utilization. Details are in
Annex 1, Table 4, together with cost estimates. In addition, office, survey,
design, and drawing equipment would be required to improve the effectiveness
of project staff; items provided under the project along with estimated costs
are listed in Annex 1, Table 5.
3.21    Radio-communication system.  An internal network would support the
management and operation of the new and commissioned canal systems. Improve-
ment of the communication network system linking the project head office in
1/ Uria, Sikta, Dhutaha, Dhongahi, and Navrangia rivers.
2/ Navrangia, Tilawe, Bangari, and Pasaha rivers.



-21-
Birganj to key points on the Indian Eastern Canal System is recommended, to
ensure smooth water supply from India to the NEC command.
3.22    The internal radio-communication network would replace the existing
unreliable telephone links, which rely on vulnerable land lines. Tile system
would be of 150 MHZ, VHF and would connect the project head office with six
existing field camps and control points located at ten cross-regulators and
three gated spillways on the NEC. The voice system would be duplex in 50 W
for the headquarters' master station and simplex in 25 W for substations.
3.23    With regard to the communication system between the project head-
quarters in Birganj and key points on the IEC, an understanding was reached
that HMCN may consider approaching the Indian authority to improve this
system.
3.24    To ensure that an effective internal communication network is estab-
lished as scheduled under the project, agreement has been reached with HMGN
that it would, by July 1, 1987, issue all the necessary authorizations and
permits to commence operation of the internal radio communication system.
Regional Workshop
3.25    The project would support the construction of a fully equipped
regional workshop in Birganj, to service vehicles and equipment from this and
other public irrigation systems in the Terai. Details and estimated costs
of the regional workshop component are given in Annex 5, SDV.
Technical Support
3.26    Consultants.  Consultants would be retained to assist, inter alia,
the DIHM and project management with in-service training, project planning;
scheduling; design of irrigation, drainage and road systems; preparation of
bid documents and bid evaluation; construction techniques; construction
quality control; monitoring of progress of work; establishment of operation
and maintenance and water management criteria; and studies, including plan-
ning and design, of other irrigation schemes in the Terai. It is expected
that, as in the Stage I and II projects, most of the consultants would be
expatriates, and the cost of the consultancy has been estimated on this
basis. However, whenever local consultants with suitable qualifications can
be found--this has been increasingly the case during the last few years--they
would be hired individually and/or form part of a consulting team or teams.
About 280 man-months of expatriate consultant services would be provided over
a seven-year period. Details, including proposed terms of reference for
consultants, are given in Annex 8, SDV. An agreement has been reached with
HMGN that it would employ consultants whose qualifications, experience, and
terms and conditions of employment are satisfactory to IDA, and select them
in accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines on employing consultants.
3.27    Training.  In-service training of the project staff initiated under
the Stage I and II projects is an ongoing activity and would be further
strengthened under Stage III (para 5.12). Provision would be made under the



-22-
project to (i) construct or rehabilitate and equip training facilities,l/
including dormitories; (ii) engage instructors, and (iii) prepare training
curriculae. The project would also support overseas training (through short
courses and visits to other irrigation projects) for professional staff in
irrigation system design, construction, and management.
3.28    Agricultural Extension and Research.  The Agricultural Extension
Service in the three districts of Parsa, Bara, and Rauthat--which are in part
covered by the NEC command--is organized on a district basis according to the
T&V system (para 2.21). To serve the special extension requirements of
irrigated agriculture, one additional AADO and one SMS specializing in
irrigated agriculture would be provided to supplement the ADO's staff in each
district (para 5.19). The project would provide offices, vehicles, and
equipment, and recurrent costs of these AADOs and SMSs. Six houses--two for
each district--would also be provided for additional agriculturaL extension
service staff who would be assigned to the irrigated areas in the districts.
3.29    Adaptive agricultural research appropriate to the project would be
carried out in cooperation with Parwanipur Research Station (para 5.20). The
experimental and demonstration work would be carried out on rented land
within the NEC command area and be funded by the project.
3.30    Monitoring and Evaluation.  The project would strengthen and provide
facilities and equipment for a division within project management to monitor
and evaluate progress s-d the performance of commissioned works. Special
attention would be pai.  to water deliveries and agricultural performance
(para 5.15).
Support of Project Establishment and O&M Costs
3.31    Large-scale public irrigation projects, such as the Narayani Scheme,
are implemented by Irrigation Development Boards under the Ministry of Water
Resources; on completion, the Boards are meant to be dissolved and the staff
is either kept in the project, absorbed by DIHM in other projects or assign-
ments, or discharged (para 5.01). Budget allocations to the Boards are
generally inadequate to cover all necessary establishment costs or to provide
effective maintenance of the completed parts of irrigation and drainage
systems. Therefore, the project would support establishment expenditures
(staff salaries and allowances and other running expenses) for implementation
and O&M of the project at a rate that woald be progressively reduced during
project implementation (para 4.05).
3.32    O&M Costs.  At present, O&M funding of irrigation schemes in Nepal
is based on financial norms not related to a careful review of the physical
and staffing requirements. Budgetary allocations for O&M were only NRs
140/ha,2/ while a tentative estimate of appropriate O&M is NRs 370/ha, which
has been used in the economic evaluation of the project (Annex 2, Table 10).
The project would provide the facilities and equipment to undertake effective
1/ In addition to the modifications to the construction camp described under
para 3.13.
2/ In Practice, much less is allocated to the projects.



-23-
operation and preventive maintenance and would strengthen the O&M organiza-
tion for the NEC system. Moreover, the extent and frequency of repairs and
routine maintenance would be regularly reviewed. Therefore, an agreement has
been reached with HMGN that it would, through NZIDB: (i) carry out, by
December 31, 1986, under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA, a detailed
study of the physical and budgetary requirements for operation and main-
tenance of the works under the project; (ii) furnish, by June 30, 1987, to
IDA for its review and comments, a report summarizing the results and recom-
mendations of the study; and (iii) taking into account IDA's comments, if
any, implement the results and recommendations of such a detailed study
(Annex 8, SDV).
3.33    Estimates of establishment and O&M costs for the project are given in
Annex 2, Table 10. To confirm actual annual project establishment and O&M
costs, an agreement has been reached with HMCN that it would by March 31 of
each year, commencing on March 31, 1987, and thereafter, furnish to IDA for
review and comments, its estimates for the irrigation schemes and related
facilities in the project area for the forthcoming fiscal year of:
(i) salaries and allowances for project staff; and (ii) operation and main-
tenance costs (excluding establishment costs).
C. Design and Implementation Aspects
Status of Preparation
3.34    The project has been prepared with the assistance of consultants.
Preliminary designs, including modifications proposed by the appraisal mis-
sion, are now completed. A detailed work program and revised final designs
for the first two years of construction, scheduled to start in November 1986,
are to be completed by the consultants by July 1986. As a condition of
project effectiveness, designs must be completed for at least the 1986-87
construction season, and must be satisfactory to IDA. In addition, an agree-
ment has been reached with HMGN that it would ensure that the planning,
design, construction, upgrading, and operation and maintenance of project
works would be carried out in accordance with standards satisfactory to IDA.
In accordance with Bank's policy on projects implemented on international
inland water ways, there is no need in this case to inform the downstream
riparian (India), because the project is designed to rehabilitate an existing
irrigation scheme, in accordance with the existing agreements between the
riparian states for the use of the water of the Gandak River (para 3.06).
Implementation Schedule
3.35    Project implementation would start about November 1986.  The
implementation schedule (Chart 1) is based on the profile for major irriga-
tion projects in Nepal that have been completed within 6-3/4 to 7-1/2 years.
The implementing agency is well experienced and will have stronger consult-
ancy support than in the past. In addition, the contract package for most of
the civil works would be large and thus more conducive to quicker implementa-
tion (para 4.03).
3.36    The main construction season is from November through May.  However,
certain activities would be confined to the closure periods of the NEC and
other minor irrigation systems that serve the project, the only time when
there is an access to the fields. Other activities, such as preparation of



-24-
precast elements, could continue throughout the year. Most of the major
works would be implemented through a single ICB contract (para 4.03). The
rate of implementation is considered to be within the planning, design,
construction, and supervision capabilities of the project staff, assisted by
consultants, and the expected implementation capacities of the leading con-
tractor(9).
IV.  COST ESTIMATES, FINANCING, AND DISBURSEMENTS
Project Cost Estimates
4.01    Total project costs are estimated to be US$35.5 M equivalent, exclud-
ing taxes and duties from which foreign aid projects are exempt. The cost
estimates are given in Annex 1, Table 6, detailed in Annex 2 (Tables 1 to
11), and summarized below:
(NRs Million)         (USS Million)     v Foreign % Base
Local  Foreign  Total   Local Foreign Total Exchange    Costs
A. NEC improvement and repairs
to the Tilawe Barrage       24.0    20.5   44.6    1.2   1.0   2.2    46             8
S. Irrigation and drainage
(Stage III Area)            31.5    62.3   93.8    1.5   3.0   4.5    66           18
C. Irrigation and drainage
(Stage I and II Areas)      24.1    45.6   69.7    1.2   2.2   3.4    65           13
D. Flood control and
river training              10.7   21.7   32.4   0.5    1.1   1.6    67              6
E. Upgrading of road network    11.0   22.4    33.4   0.5   1.1   1.6    67             6
F. Equipment and radio-
communication system         2.1    26.4   28.5   0.1    1.3   1.4    93             5
G. Regional workshop            2.7    18.4   21.1    0.1   0.9    1.0    87            4
H. Technical support           32.2    51.0   83.1    1.6   2.5   4.1    61            16
I. Establishment and O&M       73.8    36.2   110.0   3.6   1.8   5.4    33           21
J. Land acquisition and
crop compensation           11.7     -      11.7   0.6      -    0.6       -         2
Total BASELINE COSTS          223.8   304.4  528.3   10.9  14.9  25.8    58           100
Physical Contingencies       22.9    37.2   60.1    1.1   1.8   2.9    62           11
Price Contingencies          60.4    78.4   138.8   3.0   3.8   6.8    56            26
Total PROJECT COSTS           307.1   420.0   727.7   15.0  20.5  35.5    58          137
or.s==   =g="   s:rc 33w   3533   ====
The foreign exchange component would be US$20.5 M, or about 58 percent of
total project costs. Costs are based on April 1986 prices. Physical contin-
gencies have been assumed at the rate of 15 percent on civil works and 10
percent on equipment, and represent about 11 percent of base cost or 8 per-
cent of total project cost. Price contingencies, which account for about 26
percent of the base cost, or about 19 percent of total project cost, reflect
expected inflation rates over the project period. The same rates have been
assumed for local and foreign expenditures: 7 percent in 1986-87 th.rough
1989-90, 5.5 percent in 1990-91, and 4 percent thereafter.
Financing
4.02    The proposed credit/grant of US$32 M would finance about 90 percent
of total project costs, or all the foreign exchange component, and about 77
percent of local costs. Of this amount, IDA will finance US$24.5 M, and the
Swiss Development Cooperation (SDC), US$7.5 M. The proposed credit/grant
allocation for IDA and SDC by categories is given in Annex 1, Table 8.



-25-
Accordingly, IDA will finance civil works and equipment, while SDC will
finance technical services and the recurrent expenditures of O&M and
salaries. The balance of capital and recurrent expenditures over the
implementation period would be met by HMGN from its development budget, for
which adequate funds were ailocated under the Seventh National Plan
(1986-91). IDA credit would be made to HMCN on standard IDA terms while SDC
contribution would be given as a grant. Agreement has been reached with HMCN
that it would promptly provide resources and funds to execute the project in
accordance with the agreed implementation program and expenditure schedules.
Procurement
4.03    Civil Works.  Major works to be financed under the project would cost
about US$17.5 M (about 50 percent of total cost), including physical and
price contingencies but excluding land acquisition and engineering and
administration costs. All these works would be packaged under one contract
to attract competition from large contractors and would be procured under ;CB
procedures. This would enable the contractor to plan a more continuous work
program by switching between activities according to seasons and the acces-
sibility of sites. Many of the irrigation and drainage works would be
restricted to the closure periods, but other activities, such as construction
of roads and flood control works, could be more continuous. Moreover, a
large contractor could mechanize construction of some types of works, and
could prepare precast structures in advance at times when other activities
are restricted. Contractors who propose to bid for project works totaling
the equivalent of US$1.0 M or more would have to be prequalified.
4.04    The estimated cost of minor works procured under LCB procedures would
be about US$2.1 M. Force account work would amount to about US$0.6 M. Con-
struction of structures in the field channels below the TC outlets would be
carried out through force account (paras 3.10 and 3.16).
4.05    O&M and Establishment Costs.  O&M of the NEC system and establishment
costs supported under the project amount to US$7.3 M. Of this total,
salaries and allowances of incremental project staff and other managemert
costs, estimated at US$4.3 M, would not involve procurement. Of the main-
tenance works, US$2.0 M would be implemented by small contracts and procured
through LCB procedures, and the remaining US$1.0 M would be implemented by
HMCN's departmental forces. SDC would support establishment and O&M costs
and salaries and allowances--representing in the aggregate about 65 percent
of total salaries and allowances of staff--on a sliding scale, in annual
ratios as given below (para 3.31). HMCN's share would increase accordingly.
HMCN's Fiscal Year                  SDC                  HMGN
-----------%-----------
1987-88 to                        90                   10
1989-90
1990-91 to                        70                   30
1991-92
1992-93                           50                   50
1993-94                           25                   75
1994-95                            -                  100



-26-
4.06    Equipment and Vehicles to be financed under the project would cost
approximately US$2.7 M, including physical and price contingencies. Heavy
equipment, vehicles, and workshop facilities (US$1.9 M) would be grouped
into appropriate packages of US$100,000 or more, and procured through ICB
procedures. Light equipment, including motorcycles, bicycles, and diesel
generators (US$0.8 M), would be purchased at various times over the project
life; they are available locally and would be purchased through limited
international tendering from at least three qualified suppliers eligible
under IDA procurement guidelines. Local purchase would ensure servicing
facilities and spares.
4.07    Technical support, comprising consulting services, studies, train-
ing, agricultural research, and monitoring and evaluation to be provided
under the project, is estimated at about US$4.4 M, including physical and
price contingenc.es. Consulting firms are expected to provide services
valued about US$3.9 M, of which about US$3.0 M will be provided by foreign
consultants and the remaining US$0.9 M by local consultants, all financed
by SDC. Training, M&E, and agricultural research costs are estimated to be
US$0.5 M and will be financed by IDA. Selection of consultants would be in
accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines for the procurement of consulting
services. Motorcycles and bicycles for extension staff (US$0.1 M) would be
procured under limited international tendering (para 4.06) and buildings
(US$0.4 M) would be procured under force account (para 4.04); other items,
including training, would not involve bidding.
4.08    Procurement Summary.  Procurement arrangements and costs in each
category to be financed by the credit are summarized in the following
table:
Procurement Method
(US$ M)
Item                           ICB        LCB     Other      NA/a   Total Costs
Civil works                    17.5        2.1      0.6      --         20.2
(17.5)     (2.1)   (0.6)                 (20.2)
Equipment, vehicles             1.9        --       0.8 /b   --          2.7
and workshop facilities    (1.9)         __      (0.8)                (2.7)
Consulting services /c                              3.9      --          3.9
(3.9)     --         (3.9)
Training, agriculture           --         --       0.5      --          0.5
research, monitoring                            (0.5)                 (0.5)
and evaluation
Establishment, operation        --         2.0      1.0      4.3         7.3
and maintenance                         (1.6)   (0.4)    (2.7)        (4.7)
Land acquisition                --         --        --      0.9         0.9
(0)        (0)
Total                          19.4        4.1      6.8       5.2       35.5
(19.4)     (3.7)   (6.2)    (2.7)        (32.0)
/a NA - not subject to procurement.
/b Procurement under limited international tendering.
/c  Including studies which comprise, inter alia, planning and design of
suitable irrigation projects in the Terai.
NOTE: Figures in parentheses are amounts to be financed by IDA and SDC.



-27-
4.09    Contract Review.  All bidding packages for works estimated to cost
US$0.5 M equivalent or more, and aLl contracts for goods and services, wouLd
be subject to standard IDA pre-action review. Such packages would account
for about 90 percent of the total estimated value of the civil works and
about 70 percent of he goods and services. The remaining contracts would be
subject to post-action review by IDA. Preferences for domestic contractors
and domestic manufacturers will be granted.
Disbursements
4.10    Disbursements under the credit would be made against:
(a) 100 percent of expenditures on civil works, including buildings;
(b) 100 percent of foreign expenditures, 100 percent of local expendi-
tures ex-factory cost, and 70 percent of local expenditure cost for
other items procured locally--on vehicles, equipment, and workshop
facilities;
(c) 100 percent of expenditures for consultancies, training, agricultural
research, and M&E;
(d) 90 percent of expenditures on establishment and O&M costs, and
salaries and allowances for project staff for FY87 to FY89, 70 per-
cent for FY90 and FY91, 50 percent for FY92, and 25 percent for FY93.
The percentage of salaries and allowances financed under the project
represents in the aggregate about 85 percent of incremental salaries
and allowances of staff.
4.11    Subject to IDA's approval, disbursement for civil works would be made
against certificates of expenditure submitted by NZIDB and itemized by
project component; likewise, disbursements would be made for payments of less
than NRs 500,000 for works (including departmental works), NRs 250,000 for
goods, staff costs for training, adaptive research, monitoring and evaluation
and the costs for special surveys. Documentation for these works would be
retained by project management and made available for inspection by IDA
during review missions. Full documentation would be required for all other
disbursements.
4.12    To speed up disbursements and to reduce the burden on HMCN's
Treasury, a special account (SA) would be established from which suppliers
and contractors would be paid. This SA would be for the equivalent of
US$0.4 M, which is the approximate amount HMGN is expected to spend in a
four-month period. All expenditures from this SA would be promptly reported
and documented to the IDA to facilitate its rapid and smooth replenishment.
The SA may only be used to pay for expenditures eligible for reimbursement by
IDA.
4.13    The estimated schedule of expenditures is given in Annex 1, Table 6.
The semiannual disbursement schedule for both IDA and SDC is given in
Annex 1, Table 7, and the proposed allocation of the qredit/Grant in Annex 1,
Table 8.  The expected rate of disbursement follows th,e typical disbursement
profile of the Nepalese irrigation sector.  Disbursements are expected to be



-28-
completed by May 31, 1994. However, if the project is implemented more
efficiently and with fewer delays, the implementation period could be reduced
substantially.
Accounts and Audits
4.14    Project accounts would be maintained by a cnief accounts officer,
who represents the Comptroller-General. Under HMGN rules, it is the respon-
sibility of the Ministry of Finance to maintain, through the offices of the
Financial Comptroller General, all government accounts. The Auditor-Ceneral
(AG) is responsible for auditing all acccunts. HMGN seeks to ensure that all
accounts are maintained according to sound accounting principles and the
scope of the audit is sufficient to evaluate the regularity, propriety,
economy, efficiency, and effectiveness of public expenditure. However, the
performance of HMGN in respect of the IDA audit and accounting requirements
has been weak and in most projects, the audited accounts are frequently in
default. This is partly because expenditures related to IDA-financed
projects are audited by the AG as part of the implementing government depart-
ment's overall financial records and the AG does not release the full audit
report until it is cleared through several steps. To ensure timely com-
pliance with covenants related to audit in IDA-supported projects, IDA has
been assisting project accounting staff in preparing separate project
accounts in such detail as required for audit, soon after the end of each
fiscal year, and has been presenting these to the AG.  IDA has also proposed
the format and content of the auditor's report on accounts that can be
prepared by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA, without waiting for the
full audit report of the AG, regarding the concerned department's overall
annual financial accounts. Similar procedures are being instituted for a
separate annual audit of all withdrawal applications based on statements of
expenditure. Agreements have been reached with HMGN that it would cause
JIHM, and NZIDB to (i) maintain separate records and accounts for all
project expenditures in accordance with appropriate accounting principles;
(ii) furnish to IDA such accounts, including the Special Account (SA),
audited by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA, in accordance with sound
auditing principles; (iii) forward to IDA such accounts, together with the
auditor's reports, within nine months after the end of each fiscal year;
(iv) include in the annual audit reports, submitted to IDA, a separate
opinion from the auditor as to whether the disbursements made on the basis of
statements of expenditure were in respect to goods and services received and
incurred for the purposes of the project.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
General
5.01    Public irrigation in Nepal is the responsibility of the Ministry of
Water Resources (MWR) through its Department of Irrigation, Hydrology, and
Meteorology (DIHM). The Secretary, MWR, is its chief executive officer. The
DIHM is headed by a Director-General, usually a professional promoted from
within the ranks of the DIHM organization (Chart 2). Responsibility for the
implementation of any public irrigation project financed by external donors
rests with their nominated Boards, which consist of representatives from the
various ministries and other entities related to rural development.



-29-
Narayani Zone Irrigation Development Project - Present Organization
5.02    General.  The Narayani Zone Irrigation Development Board (NZIDB),
formed in 1973 for executing the Birganj (Narayani Stage I) Irrigation
Project, continued its functions under the Stage II project and would execute
the proposed Stage III project. It is a semiautonomous government agency,
located in Kathmandu, chaired by the Secretary, MWR. At present it has 14
members, including representatives from the Ministries of Finance, Agricul-
ture and Land Reform, the Planning Commission, the Directors-General of DIHM
and of DOA, and the Regional Directors of DIHM and DOA (Central Region). The
General Manager (CM) of the project is the Member-Secretary to the Board.
The Board's functions are to (i) approve the annual budget proposils for
implementing and operating the project; (ii) appoint senior staff;
(iii) award large contracts and consultants' agreements; (iv) prepare semian-
nual reviews of implementation programs and progress; (v) coordinate policy
matters on programming, budget, and finance; and (vi) determine the level of
water charges.
5.03    Performance of NZIDB.  As originally constituted, the full Board must
approve all civil works contracts valued more than NRs 2.5 M (US$125,000),
equipment purchase contracts valued more than NRs 500,000 (US$25,000), and
employment of consultants. Consequently, NZIDB spends much of its time on
relatively minor administrative matters and therefore delays decisions on its
main function of project policy formulation, promotion of project develop-
ment, overall control of project activities and expenditures, and coordinat-
ing the services of government institutions represented on the Board.  Thus,
NZIDB is unable to keep close control over actual project implementation.
5.04    Project Management.  The Chief Executive Officer of the project is
the GM, appointed by HMGN after consultation with the Ministry of Water
Resources, the Secretary of MWR and the DG of DIHM. Agreement has been
reached with HMGN that it would, at all times, maintain in the position of
General Manager of NZIDB an officer whose qualifications, experience, and
terms of reference shall be satisfactory to IDA. Regarding other senior
project staff, past record of changes and transfers has been good: staff
rotation was well within the limits that ensure continuity. This is expected
to continue.
5.05    The GM, the heads of all the operating divisions and the project
consultants are in Birganj, at project headquarters. The GM is responsible
for (i) preparing the .nnual engineering work program, budget, and staff
requirements, for presentation to the Board; (ii) overseeing project staff,
including consultants; (iii) authorizing construction by force account and of
civil works and equipment contracts up to the limits of his financial
authority; and (iv) coordinating all project activities at the Regional and
District levels. The project organization and its linkages to the agricul-
tural support services, the Regional and District Coordinating Committees and
farmers is shown on Chart 3.
5.06    Organization Structure.  The project staff is divided into five
divisions:
(a) The Administrative Division, responsible for personnel, contract
procurement, land acquisition, water charge assessment and collec-
tion, and general administration.



-30-
(b) The Finance Division, responsible for budgeting, finance, internal
audit of the stores, and inventory control of equipment.
(c) The Design and Construction Division, responsible for design, bid
documentation and evaluation, supervision of construction of project
works, and provision of designs and construction assistance to the
WUGs for developing the field channel systems. It is headed by an
Executive Engineer (EE) and is subdivided into two sections: one for
survey and design, and one to supervise all construction activities.
Each is headed by a Divisional Engineer (DE). This division would
require considerable strengthening.
(d) The Operation and Maintenance Division has only been separated from
the Design and Construction Division under the Stage II project. Its
task, for which at present it is not adequately equipped and staffed,
is to operate and maintain the entire system, fromn the Indian border
down to the 4 ha area level.
(e)  The Mechanical Division is responsible for repair and major main-
tenance of all project vehicles, equipment and plant, including pump
units for tubewells constructed under Stage I and II projects.
5.07    Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) is at present carried out by a small
section, which conducts agricultural surveys of limited scope. It is too
small to undertake the comprehensive, project-wide program that would be of
particular importance, given tne proposed project's emphasis on water manage-
ment. However, with the assistance of CIDA, detailed objectives and proce-
dures for M&E of the project were formulated during the Stage II project, and
will be introduced in Stage III.
Proposed Project Organization (Charts 3)
5.08    The NZIDB.  HMGN is considering a reduction in the membership of the
Board. According to present thinking, it would be confined to the Secretary
of MWR who would continue to be its Chairman, the Directors-General of DIHM
and DOA and one representative each from the Ministry of Finance and the
Planning Commission. The GM of the project would be its Secretary.
5.09    The Board would meet four times a year to consider policy and inter-
agency coordination issues, allowing the GM to spend more time on the
day-to-day management of the project. To reduce the Board's involvement,
the GM would be given increased authority to approve contracts for civil
works and for the purchase of equipment. Accordingly, an agreement has been
reached that by December 31 of every second year, commencing on December
1987, HMNG would, in consultation with IDA, review, and if required, revise
the Project General Manager's limits of contractual commitments for the
operation and management of the project. The GM would continue to be fully
accountable to the Board, to whom he would justify all commitments made under
his increased limits of authority.
5.10    Project Management.  The existing project organization would be
changed as follows:



-31-
(a) The Administrative Division's responsibilities for assessment and
collection of water charges would cease with the proposed transfer of
this function to the Revenue Department (RD) (para 7.24);
(b) The Finance Division would continue to function and be staffed
without substantial changes;
(c)  The Design and Construction Division would be subtantially
strengthened during the implementation period, and its functions
adapted to the changing scope of works (Annex 1, Table 9). The
division's organization structure is described in detail in Annex 9,
SDV. It would, as before, be headed by an executive engineer (EE).
Additional assistant engineers wouLd be assigned to the design and
survey section as required by the annual work load. The present
cadre of supporting staff would be replaced by draftsmen and sur-
veyors. All design staff would require substantial training to
ensure that it can design and supervise civil works and structures
according to the principles and concepts of the project. The division
would be phased out when the project is completed; most of its per-
sonnel would be transferred to other irrigation projects, but some
would be assigned to the O&M Division in which a small nucleus of
professionals would be retained for any future development work in
the project area;
(d) The Operation and Maintenance Division would also need considerable
strengthening. An EE would head the division, which would have
sections for operation and for maintenance of commissioned parts of
the system; each section would be headed by a DE. The Operations
Section would operate the system from the headworks to TC turnout at
the 30-ha area and supervise WUG activity below the TC turnout. It
would consolidate the canal inspectors' records at the TC level, and
collect information from which water charges can be assessed
(para 7.23). As part of its overall water management function, the
Operations Section would allocate water and monitor deliveries at all
levels (para 6.11). The Maintenance Section would maintain the
conveyance and delivery system from the headworks of NEC to the 30 ha
turnouts, the drainage system, all flood control works and roads.
The division's organization structure is described in detail in Annex
9, SDV.
(e)  The Mechanical Division would be built up to enable it to maintain
and repair all project works and equipment, including project
tubewells, and to administer and operate the Regional DIHM Workshop
(para 3.25 and Annex 5, SDV).
(f)  The Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Unit would become a division and
given additional staff and resources. It would collect and evaluate
data to fulfill the M&E tasks described in para 5.15, provide project
management with quarterly and semiannual progress reports, and
monitor project quality control (para 5.14).
5.11    Staffing.  The staff required to implement and to operate and main-
tain the project are listed in Annex 1, Table 9. The EEs required to head
the technical divisions are in place. The main additional requirements of
technical staff would be at Assistant Engineer, Overseer and Supervisor level



-32-
in the Operations Section of the O&M Division, and for assistant engineers,
draftsmen and surveyors in the design section. To enable project management
to carry out the functions described in para 5.10, HMGN would be required as
a condition of effectiveness to authorize all staff positions required by the
project for effective management.  In addition, an agreement has been reached
with HMGN that it would continue at all times to provide all staff positions
required to properly manage and operate the project.
5.12    In-Service Training.  The ongoing in-service training would be sub-
stantially extended and would place special emphasis on survey, design cal-
culations, construction supervision, quality control for irrigation and
drainage systems and associated civil works, and design and layout of field
channels below the TC outlet. The project field staff, with the new posi-
tions added, would be trained in survey procedures to locate and layout TC
systems and set up and supervise the activities of the WUGs. Appropriate
training would be provided to canal operators at all levels in operation and
maintenance of the system within their required scope of work respon-
sibilities and to WUG members in improved irrigation techniques.
5.13    To strengthen the existing training program, an agreement has been
reached with HMGN that it would cause NZIDB to (i) furnish IDA for its
approval by January 1, 1987, the overall training program; (ii) by January 1
of each year, commencing on January 1, 1987, furnish to IDA for its approval,
the annual training program for the following Borrower's fiscal year and
(iii) thereafter, on April 1 of each year, implement such training programs
as so approved.
Quality Control
5.14    Quality control during project implementation will be the task of
the Design and Construction Division monitored by the M&E Division. On
completion of the project, the Operation and Maintenance Division will ensure
that the quality of maintenance is such as to enable effective project opera-
tion. Accordingly, an agreement has been reached with HMGN that it will take
all such actions as shall be necessary to ensure quality control of planning,
design, construction, upgrading and operation and maintenance of project
works.
Monitoring and Evaluation
5.15    The M&E Division (para 5.10) would be responsible for collecting and
analyzing data on project planning, implementation and performance, par-
ticularly with respect to (i) construction targets, progress and quality
control; (ii) actual disbursements compared to targets; (iii) effectiveness
of water management: timeliness and quantity of deliveries compared to
projected schedules; (iv) operations and effectiveness of WUGs in securing
compliance of their members to rheir directives; (v) maintenance quality and
costs; (vi) agricultural progress in terms of changing patterns of land use,
croping patterns, institutional changes in tenancy agreements, trends, if
any, to increase or decrease owner occupancy; (vii) support from ABDN,
cooperatives, AIC and the agricultural extension;  .viii) water charge collec-
tion; and (ix) monitor quality zontrol under the project.
5.16    To undertake the tasks listed above, the M&E staff would collect the
necessary data from the line divisions and other agencies responsible for the



-33-
activity. To obtain the agricultural performance data required, the M&E
Division would complete questionnaires for each crop season on a sample group
of farmers, spatially distributed over the project area and covering a range
of farm sizes and land tenure arrangements. In addition, the division would
review selected crop-cutting data pertaining to the project area routinely
collected by the ADO's staff, to obtain an independent estimate of crop
yields for each season. Periodic M&E Reports would be prepared for the GM
and the Board; such reports would compare actual achievements with estab-
lished targets and make it possible to set realistic targets for the coming
year or season.
5.17    In addition to reports prepared by M&E division to the Board, they
wiLt prepare all project progress reports for project management that can
be used to provide information to IDA. Accordingly, an agreement has been
reached with HMNG that it wouid (i) furnish to IDA, commencing on January 1,
1987 and thereafter, until the completion of the project, semiannual project
progress reports in the scope and detail acceptable to IDA, and submit them
within two months after the end of each reporting period; and (ii) submit IDA
not more than six months after the completion of the project, a project
completion report in a format agreed with IDA.
5.18    To provide a benchmark against which development can be measured, an
agroeconomic survey would be undertaken separately for the Stage I, II and
III areas. Follow-up surveys would be conducted every two years, to
facilitate the assessment of changes in agricultural production as the
project is implemented. Reports summarizing the findings of the initial and
follow-up surveys would be prepared by the project authorities for the
Board's perusal. The M&E Division would be responsible for conducting the
surveys itself, or through a contracted competent agency. Accordingly, an
agreement has been reached with HMGN that it would cause the NZIDB to: (i) by
June 30, 1987, conduct a base-line agroeconomic survey, under terms of
reference satisfactory to IDA, and submit to IDA for its review and comments,
a report summarizing the results and conclusions of the survey; (ii) taking
into consideration IDA's comments on the initial survey, repeat the survey
every two years and submit, by June 30, 1989, 1991, and 1993, to IDA for its
review and comments, reports summarizing the results and conclusions; and
(iii) as a result of the above surveys, take such remedial action as neces-
sary.
Agricultural Support Services
5.19    Agricultural Extension (Chart 6).  At present, the agricultural
extention service does not address effectively the needs of farmers who use
canal irrigation. To ensure that they are adequately supported and advised,
the ADO's staff would be supplemented with a second Assistant ADO (AADO),
and a SMS specializing in irrigated agriculture, assigned specifically to
canal commanded areas (para 3.28). The AADO Irrigation would be the contact
with the office of the GM. His terms of reference are given in Annex 6.
Agreement has been reached with HMGN that it would, by June 30, 1987, appoint
a second Assistant Agricultural Development Officer and a Subject Matter
Specialist for irrigated agriculture to each of the three project districts,
together with supporting office staff, and equipment, under functions and
terms of reference satisfactory to IDA.



-34-
5.20    Agricultural Research.  An adaptive research program under the project
would focus primarily on crop selection and sequences, taking into account produc-
tion constraints faced by farmers. Another aspect of the program would be the
integration of crops into the recommended crop sequences for which there is a ready
market. The venue would be suitably located rented land; the work, conducted by
staff employed by the project, would probably be supervised and coordinated by the
Parwanipur Research Station (para 2.23). Agreement has been reached with HMCN that,
by June 30, 1987, it would establish, and thereafter maintain an adaptive farm
planning research program with terms of reference satisfactory to IDA, aimed to
support the agricultural objectives of the Narayani Scheme, under the technical
supervision and control of the Borrower's Department of Agriculture.
Regional and District Coordinating Committees
5.21    Central Region Coordination Committee (CRCC).  HMGN intends to establish a
CRCC to promote interagency coordination and cooperation at the regional level. It
is proposed that the committee be chaired by the GM and include the Regional Direc-
tor of Agriculture, the Zonal Managers of ADBN and AIC from Birganj, and three
farmer representatives (one from each project district). The committee would meet
twice a year, after the paddy and wheat harvests, to review production problems
during the past season and to propose remedies.
5.22    District Coordination Committee (DCC).  District Coordination Committees
would also be established, because of the division of irrigation and agricultural
support services between the two ministries and their agencies. District agricul-
tural committees already exist; they meet monthly, but no one from the project
attends the meetings. The current membership consists of the ADO, the District
Managers of ABDN and AIC, and the District Cooperative Officer. The membership
would be expanded to include EE of the O&M Division of the project and the AADO
responsible for irrigated agriculture extension in each district, since it would be
appropriate to utilize these committees for coordinating the project's activities.
Post Project Organization
5.23    The present project would complete construction of all the physical
infrastructure of the scheme. Inevitably, operational experience will indicate the
need for modifications of designs and structures, but these are expected to be
minor. It would, however, be essential to determine the detailed organizational
arrangements that would be concerned within DIHM with project operation, management
and maintenance. Although the exact range of disciplines, and the number of staff
in each section cannot be determined at present, it appears certain that a nucleus
of design and construction engineering would have to supplement sections concerned
with system operation and maintenance and close liaison, cooperation, and guidance
to the WUGs. A tentative post project organization is given in Annex 1, Table 9
and shown on Chart 2, Annex 9, SDV.  It assumes that the Board would continue to
function even after the project is completed, as well as the CM. An agreement has
been reached with HMCN that by July 1, 1991, it will prepare and furnish to IDA for
its review and comments, a proposal relating to the organizational arrangements
for operation and maintenance of the irrigation schemes and related facilities in
the project area to be established within its Irrigation Department; such organiza-
tional arrangements, satisfactory to IDA, would be implemented starting July 1,
1992.



-35-
VI. WATER MANAGEMENT
Introduction
6.01    The Stage I and II projects emphasized the construction of canals and
structures capable of providing the designed water requirement;. However,
the management of the completed works was not geared to ensure a predictable,
reliable service to the farmers. Without such a service, farmers resort to
illegal means to take the water they require at the expense of other users;
the system then becomes unmanageable. To overcome these problems, the
project would provide the necessary infrastructure to convey water so that
each farmer can receive his timely allocated share and operate the system
according to a water management plan that will ensure that water is used
efficiently. The water management objectives and the plan and general
guidelines according to which they would be achieved (para 6.08) were dis-
cussed and agreed with the project authorities during the project preparation
and appraisal. However, to ensure its implementation, HMCN and its NZIDB
will have to define details of the following: (i) principles of water
allocations; (ii) water distribution procedures to minimize operational
losses and to match the varying demand patterns through the annual irrigation
cycle; (iii) criteria for procedures for efficient operation and preventive
maintenance so that the system will continue to provide the designed irriga-
tion service; and (iv) the role that water users would have in the management
process.
Water Supply and Demand
6.02    Nepal's agreement with India (para 2.07) specifies that up to
24.1 m3/sec (850 cusecs) be delivered to the head of NEC whenever required,
except during scheduled closure periods for repairs and maintenance of the
Don Branch, which feeds the NEC.
6.03    In the past, principally because the NEC command area has not been
fully developed, actual deliveries were well below authorized quantities, as
shown on Chart 7. At present, the Indian system is subject to two annual
closures: the first in November/December and the second in March/April.
While the November/December closure, for about 45 days, is essential for
maintenance after the monsoon, its timing has some flexibility. However, in
March/April, water is available and can be delivered to the NEC regardless of
low irrigation demand in Bihar during this period. In the monsoon period,
the Don Branch has to be closed occasionally, either because of damages to
cross drainage structures, or because of a high silt load carried by the
Gandak River which, if allowed into the canal, would clog it. Generally, in
the past, BRVPD has been able to restore interrupted supplies in less than
two weeks, thus causing no damage to growing crops. Ocassionally, the Don
Branch is closed in the kharif because there is no demand for water. There
is no reason to believe, either from past experience or from operational
considerations, that COI would not honor its water Agreement with Nepal in
the future.
6.04    In addition to water coming from India, the NEC system obtains, or
has the potential to develop, a limited surface supply from local sources.
Three rivers (Tilawe, Sirsia, and Jhanj, para 2.08) are diverted through
small barrages that serve distribution systems that interlink with the NEC



-36-
system. Fourteen other streams with water resource potential cross the NEC.
However, supplies in all the 17 rivers are unreliable toward the end of the
dry season. Many private shallow tubewells have been developed, and this
development is accelerating.
6.05    Irrigation requirements at the head of NEC for the proposed designed
cropping pattern are presented in Annex 1, Table 10. During the peak demand
period an estimated conveyance system efficiency of about 65 percent between
the NEC and the individual field has been assumed. It can fluctuate between
60 percent to 70 percent. Field application efficiencies are estimated at
about 70-75 percent. Therefore, the overall system efficiency (from the head
of NEC to the plant) on completion of the project, would vary between 40 and
55 percent.l/ Sufficient water would be available in the NEC command at peak
demand periods to satisfy the irrigation requirements of the design cropping
patterns, even without taking into account the local resources.
Water Management
6.06    Water Allocation.  At present, only about 75 percent of the total NEC
command area is developed. Even within this area the canal distribution
system is incomplete and water allocation among farmers served has not been
equitable: the quality of the irrigation service depends on the distance from
the NEC. There is virtually an 'on demand' supply in the head reaches and a
deteriorating service in both quality and quantity towards the tail ends.
Under the project, the full NEC command area would be developed with a dis-
tribution system down to about the 4-ha area; channels and control struc-
tures, mostly ungated, would be provided so that water can be distributed
evenly to all parts of the command area with minimum reliance on operators.
6.07    Water Management Objectives.  The objectives of the water management
improvement program are to: (i) deliver water in a timely and equitable
manner to all farmers in the project area so that they fairly share available
supplies; (ii) deliver water to each farmer at a flow rate that enables
efficient on-farm irrigation; (iii) notify farmers before the beginning of
the rabi season of the time they will receive their allocations, by preparing
operation schedules which take account of the physical constraints of the
network and the expected water supplies at the head of the NEC; and (iv) so
far as possible, adapt the delivery schedules to crop requirements. To
achieve these objectives it would be necessary to make project management
fully conversant with its task by providing to all pertinent staff and
farmers full and thorough training.
6.08    Guidelines for Water Deliveries.  Operation of the network would be
based on the following guidelines:
1/ The overall efficiencies of similar projects in the Terai have been
estimated to be between 40 and 55 percent. The higher efficiencies are
obtained during the kharif, for the rice irrigation; the lower ones relate
to the dry season.



-37-
(a)  The NEC would be operated continuously with variable flows, depending
on the demand for'water in the system, up to the limit of Nepal's
water entitlement from the Don Branch at the head of NEC under the
1959 Agreement.
(b)  The MSC and BSC canal systems, grouped into 15 blocks, would be
operated on an intermittent 'ON/OFF' weekly rotation; all operational
canals within each block would be maintained at full supply level
(FSL) during their 'ON' period and provided with control and measur-
ing structures at all flow division points. The number of gated
structures would be minimized by constructing modular divisor struc-
tures to regulate the flows according to design requirements to each
part of the system.
(c)  All TC turnouts within a block would operate simultaneously during an
'ON' period and would be modular structures capable of delivering
fixed flows from the parent canal to the 30-ha service areas.
(d)  Outlets serving the 4-ha area within a TC command would be gated
structures and water supplies would be rotated so that the full flow
of the TC can be diverted in turn to each 4-ha outlet over a rotation
which would be allocated in one week (168 hours) periods.
(e)  Each farmer would receive the full discharge of the turnout for a
time period in proportion to his land holding to the command area
of the outlet.
During the rabi season when rainfall is insignificant and full irrigation is
required, water delivery schedules to each block would be predetermined and
all users within the block would be notified in advance. During the kharif,
only supplementary irrigation is required; demand would depend on gaps in the
monsoon rains. Since water supply and canal capacity would be generally
adequate, the system in the kharif would operate "on demand." During kharif
shortages, water would be allocated following the operation criteria used in
the rabi.
6.09    For a farmer to irrigate efficiently, the stream size has to be
arourd 18 1/sec (0.6 cusecs). If it is less, the water is difficult to
spread evenly over the fields; if much greater, it would be difficult to
manage the flow and operational losses would increase. Allowing for system
losses, about 18 1/sec would be the required flow to irrigate about 30 ha in
a week (168 hours). The TC turnout in the conveyance system is therefore
fixed to command about 30 ha below the turnout. To ensure effective and
equitable water distribution, an agreement has been reached with HMGN that it
would by January 31, 1987 adopt, and thereafter implement a detailed water
management plan, satisfactory to IDA, for the irrigation schemes in the
project area.
6.10    The proposed water management program can only be implemented if the
system, including field channels, is properly maintained. To ensure effec-
tive maintenance, staff would be provided with adequate transport and equip-
ment to inspect and maintain on a regular basis all canals, drains, and other
associated structures and service roads.



-38-
Management Organization
6.11    The NEC system would be operated at two distinct but interdependent
management levels: the canal system from the NEC headworks down to TC tur-
nouts would be operated by the project through the O&M Division (para 5.10).
Below the TC turnouts, the TC and field channel systems (down to the
farmgate) would be managed by WUGs (para 6.14) under the guidance of the
project staff. It would be the individual farmer's responsibility to manage
supplies on his farm. Under the project, the tasks at each management level
have been defined so that logical operational procedures can be formulated to
manage effectively and efficiently the water supply through the yearly
irrigation cycle. To enable the different management levels to fulfill their
functions, a maintenance program has been formulated under Stage II, but a
more detailed program will be defined in the future within an O&M plan to be
prepared under the project (Annex 9, SDV). Facilities, financial and
institutional arrangements would be provided under the project to enable the
operational staff to function efficiently (paras 3.20 and 3.32). The perfor-
mance of the irrigation service would be monitored (para 5.15).
Water Users' Groups (WUGs)
6.12    An essential prerequisite for successful operation below the TC
turnout would be to organize the water users within the 30 ha area so that
they can manage the rotation of water supplies under the supervision of the
project staff (para 5.06). Once a TC command area is defined at the detailed
design stage, the potential users should be organized into Water Users'
Croups (WUGs). For that purpose, an agreement has been reached with HMGN
that it would establish Water Users' Groups (WUGs) as follows: (i) in ter-
tiary commands where there is already an irrigation service by December 31,
1986; and (ii) in tertiary commands to be brought under irrigation not less
than six months before the tertiary is scheduled to begin operation. This
advance establishment of WUGs would enable project management to deal with a
responsible body of farmers regarding the layout design and the constructior.
of the TCs and field channels (para 6.14).
6.13    To be successful, the WUGs should be as cohesive as possible.  There-
fore, as far as topography allows, their area of activity would coincide with
boundaries of the local administrative ward, even if this would require some
changes in the TC command area boundaries in the Stage I and II areas. The
WUGs would elect their Chairman from their membership.
6.14    The project staff would explain to the WUGs their responsibilities
under the project, together with the rights of individual users, and proce-
dures to be followed in undertaking their managemert responsibilities. The
first task of the WUGs would be to construct, under the project staff's
technical supervision, the field channel systems within the TC command areas.
Material and labor for all needed structures would be provided by the
project. If the WUG members failed to construct the field channels, the work
would be done by the project and the farmers would be called upon to repay
project authorities the full cost as arrears of land revenue. During and
after construction, the project staff would ensure that all WUG members
understand the principles of water allocation, weekly rotation to the 4 ha
outlets, and their turns within the 4-ha area. The users would also be
informed of the procedures for assessment and collection of water charges and
of their legal rights and actions in case of disputes or problems related to
water supplies.



-39-
6.15    To enable the WUGs to perform these functions effec*tively, they need
statutory powers. Accordingly, an agreement has been reached with HMGN that
it would by September 31, 1987, take all such actions as shall be necessary
to constitute the Water Users' Groups as statutory bodies, with sufficient
power to (a) supervise the distribution of water amongst its members in
proportion to the size of their landholding; (b) cause its members to con-
struct and maintain the required field channels including field drainages
adjoining their holdings and any other section of the field channels and
field drainages that does not skirt commandable areas; and (c) in case of
default, arrange for such work to be done at the cost of the defaulters;
provided that in the event that a Water Users' Group does not carry out such
maintenance work, the Borrower shall, at the expense of such Water Users'
Group, carry out the construction and maintenance work in question.
6.16    In view of the fact that the panchayat and its derivative, the ward
organization, are very strong in Nepal, the WUCs (which would, as far as
possible, be based on wards, see para 6.13) are the most likely forum to
bring pressure on their members to work together, to operate and maintain
their systems properly, and to pay water charges--assuming that the service
they receive meets the project's objectives. The WUGs use moral and peer
pressure on their members to contribute their labor and maintenance works and
to irrigate only during their turns without necessarily resorting to
authority.
VII. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION, FARM INCOMES, AND COST RECOVERY
Agricultural Production
7.01    The Present Situation.  Present agricultural production and the
farmers' cropping patterns reflect differences in irrigation water supply
(Annex 1, Table 2). The entire project area receives some kind of kharif
supply, although the distribution network beyond the 1,000 ha offtakes (0.6
m /sec) is more or less completed only in the Stage I and II areas. In the
kharif, most of the area is planted to rice. In the rabi, the main crops are
wheat, oilseeds, and pulses. Wheat is irrigated in most of the Stage I and
II areas, but in the Stage III area is largely grown on residual moisture.
Other rabi crops in all the three areas are grown mostly on residual mois-
ture. The proportion of wheat is higher in the irrigated areas. Sugarcane
occupies about 2 percent of the area; vegetables about 1 percent. Most of
the sugarcane is produced under rainfed conditions. Climatic factors and
agricultural practices constrain yields. Although the Birganj sugar factory
constitutes a secure market for the cane growers in the project area, the
profitability of sugarcane production versus other crops and crop combina-
tions is very low.
7.02    Expected Future Developments.  In the 'future without project' situa-
tion, some improvements are likely in the Stage I and II areas as farmers and
systems operators gain experience. However, the Stage III area would change
only marginally because the infrastructure for water distribution, drainage
and transport would not exist.



-40-
7.03    In the 'future with project' situation, the cropping pattern is
expected to be fairly uniform, and the relatively high proportion of
vegetables in the Stage III area (3 percent), now irrigated mostly by wells,
would be maintained.
7.04    Paddy would remain the predominant kharif crop.  Improved drainage
and improvements in the agricultural practices will lead to increased
profitability of sugarcane production. In addition, the market for cane
would be assured. However, a conservative estimate has been made assuming
about 3 percent of the project area to be planted with sugarcane in the
future. It is further assumed that this percentage will remain unchanged at
full development of the project. Even so, some farmers, particularly larger
ones, might :)Lant a somewhat higher proportion of their land to sugarcane.
The proportion of paddy planted in early May is expected to increase;
however, since its harvesting, which takes place during the rains, is dif-
ficult, it would be restricted to around 15 percent of the CCA. The improved
dry-season irrigation supply, coupled with earlier planting of the main paddy
crop, would make it possible to inicrease wheat to about 50 percent, oilseeds
to 16 percent, and pulses to 11 percent of the CCA, though the actual crop-
ping pattern would respond to market demands (para 7.08). Vegetables, sup-
ported by private groundwater supply, are likely to occupy 1-3 percent of the
CCA in each season. The cropping intensity is estimated to reach about 175
percent at full development (year 15) in comparison with the present inten-
sity of about 135 percent (Annex 1, Table 2).
7.05    Crop Yields.  In the 'future without project' situation, some yield
increases in presently irrigated areas are likely as farmers, supported by
improved extension, will increase input use and improve cultural practices.
However, such increases would be small as water supply is likely to remain
unreliable. In the with-project situation, average yields of $YV paddy at
full development are estimated to reach 4.2 t/ha, local paddy varieties (if
still grown) 3.5 t/ha, wheat 3.2 t/ha, pulses 0.8 t/ha and oilseeds 1.5 t/ha.
These increases reflect response to an improved water supply and to the
impact of an intensified and irrigation-oriented extension service. Annex 1,
Table 2 shows present and future cropping patterns and yields.
7.06    Production.  The annual incremental production with the project, at
full development, based on the projected cropping patterns and crop yields,
is given in Annex 1, Table 11, and summarized in the following table:
Future                 Future             Incremental
Without Project          With Project          Production
…______________-------- 000 tons-------------------------
Paddy                   116.0                   146.9                  30.9
Wheat                    24.7                    59.6                  34.9
Oilseeds                   1.6                    8.3                   6.7
Sugarcane/a               2.2                     3.7                   1.5
Vegetables                17.9                   21.9                   4.0
/a Sugar equivalent.



-41-
7.07    Input Requirements.  As indicated above, only limited changes in
cultural practices are assumed under the 'future without project' situation
and no substantial increases in the use of inputs have been envisaged. In
the 'future with project' situation, certified planting material would
account for about a sixth of farmers' requirements: about 200 tons of cer-
tified seeds and about 7,000 tons of fertilizers would be used annually.
Existing storage facilities for fertilizers in the project area are adequate.
Fertilizer and seed requirements are detailed in Annex 1, Table 11.
7.08    Market Prospects.  The grain trade from the project area has tradi-
tionally been oriented toward India. To some extent, this is likely to
continue, although India itself now has surpluses and therefore entry into
its market may become more difficult. However, given the food deficit in
Nepal, it is expected that surplus grain from the project area would be used
in the country. According to a recent study 1/, Nepal had in 1982-83 an
overall food deficit of about 24 percent.2/ The study shows that the mountain
and hill regions are almost always deficit areas, and that surpluses are
produced in the Terai.
7.09    Prices.  Partly because there is no sizable commercial movement of
foodgrains from the project to the deficit regions, and partly because of the
good transport and communication links between the project area and the
Indian State of Bihar, foodgrain prices have been largely determined by
prices in adjoining Indian markets. This trend is expected to continue.
Projected prices, detailed in Annex 1, Table 12, assume a slight decline in
major grain prices, with most other prices holding steady. The agricultural
price support policy of HMGN has been ineffective, since announced support
prices are not maintained by appropriate market interventions (para 1.18).
As a result, prices are subject to fairly wide seasonal fluctuations and
regional variations. The large number df independent traders and agents
purchase about 80 perceqt of the marketable surplus directly from farmers;
they are alsp a major source of credit. The lack of on-farm storage
facilities and the need to repay loans force farmers to sell their produce
soon after harvest (about 50 percent of marketable surplus) when prices are
generally lower. Although farmers would benefit from a more effective price
support mechanism primarily by greater price stability, it has been assumed
in the following analyses that prices would remain subject to seasonal varia-
tions and that many farmers would continue to sell at the lower post-harvest
prices. Input prices, with the exception of fertilizers and pesticides, are
determined by local supply and demand. Fertilizer prices contain a subsidy
element which, it has been assumed, would be gradually phased out completely
at full development; similar expectations prevail in adjoining areas of
India, to which all trading activities in the project area are closely
linked.
1/ Rerort of the Food Security Review Mission to Nepal. FAO, 1984.
2/ This estimate is derived by comparing total grain (plus potato) produc-
tion in terms of calories with total calorific requirements of the
population, assuming an average per capita daily requirement of 1,800
calories.



-42-
7.10    Storage and Processing.  On-farm storage is usually limited to grain
for family consumption, and to seed.  Off-farm grain storage is maintained by
the Sajhass the NFC, the Rice Export Corporation (REC), grain merchants, and
millers. Eidisti;ng wholesale storage facilities near the project area are
adequate. The area is well served by privately owned milling facilities,
including a modern roller mill for wheat. Any additional grain processing
demand resulting from the project can be expected to be satisfiel by the
private sector. Oilseeds are processed primarily as a small-scale cottage
industry, with most of the cake finding a market in India. Pulse milling is
also a small-scale private enterprise.
Farm Incomes
7.11    Present incomes from holdings of comparable size vary in line with
the availability of water which ranges from farms which are completely
dependent on rainfall, through farms with an insecure canal supply, to farms
with a relatively abundant canal supply. The situation reflects the degree
of completion of the irrigation system and the location of the holding rela-
tive to the existing canal system. In the Stage I and II areas, location of
the holding with respect to the main canal is the dominant factor affecting
the security of present water supplies. In the Stage III area, at present
most of the farmers are either totally dependent on rainfall or have at best
an insecure supply of surface water.
7.12    Project impact regarding farm income and poverty has been assessed
through representative farm models. The impact has been examined for farm
sizes of 1.0 ha: (i) near the NEC in the Stage I and II areas; (ii) toward
the tail of a secondary canal in the Stage I and II areas; and (iii)-a loca-
tion dependent exclusively on rainfall in the Stage III area. The main model
assumptions, such as cropping patterns intensities, household size, and use
of hired labor, based on farm surveys and district statistics, are detailed
in Annex 3.
Net Farm Incomes/a Increase due
(1.0 ha holding)      to project
P         W  W         (W-
Farm Location                                   -------NRs -------()
(a)  Near NEC in Stage I and II areas         7,500  9,300 14,200           53
(b)  At the tail of a secondary canal in
Stage I and II areas /b                6,800  8,870 14,200           60
(c) Exclusively rainfed location in
Stage III area                         5,680  7,350 15,000          104
P - Present, W - Future without Project, W - Future with Project
/a Net return to family labor and farm capital investment before tax and
water charge payments, assuming that farm implements are fully owned
by the farm family. The depreciation allowance is excluded from the
input cost.
/b It is assumed that cropping intensities of tail end farmers amount to
93 percent in the present and to 95 percent in the 'future with project'
situation as against the intensities of head reach farmers.



-43-
7.13    As can be seen above, increases in net farm incomes due to the
project would range from 53 to 104 percent.  Production increases on farms
located near NEC in the Stage I and II areas would result mainly from
improved timeliness of the irrigation service but, as they are located close
to the main canal, would be small. The farms located on the tail reaches of
secondary canals in the Stage I and II areas would benefit from a substantial
increase of timely water supply; hence, the considerable increase in their
net income. The greatest increases in benefits would be experienced by the
farms in the Stage III area, which is presently dependent on rainfall.
Impact on Poverty
7.14    The project impact on poverty has been analyzed for 0.3-ha, 1.2-ha,
and 2.0-ha farm models. The main assumptions are similar to these made for
the farm income models (para 7.12). The average farm family size was assumed
to be seven persons. The results are summarized in the following table:
farm sign                           0.3ha                1.2 ha            2 .0 ba
xra locatio                    i 1                       it                 X 1   wkM
(a) Sear NEC in Stage I and I1 areas 2,790  4,260  1,470  11,160  17,040  5,880  18,600  28,400  9,800
(b) At tail of secondary canal  2,660  4,260  1,600  10,640  17,040 6,400  17,740  28,400 10,660
in Stage I and II areas
(c) bIeluively rainfed location    2,200  4,500  2,240   8,700  18,000  9,300  14,700  29,400 14,700
in Stage III area
F - ulture witbout project, V - future witb project.
Ia Not return to family labor and farm capitl iwleasmt before tax and water charge payments.
7.15    The poverty level in Nepal is estimated at NRs 1,600 per capita per
year (1986 prices). The minimum farm size which would be required to achieve
this level of income at full development would be about 0.8 ha. Thus,
although all project farmers are expected to realize incremental benefits,
about 60 percent of the farm families are likely to remain below the poverty
level at full development, unless they could generate significant off-farm
income. Without the project, some 90 percent of the farmers would remain
below poverty level.
.Capital and O&M Costs
7.16    For the purpose of evaluating cost recovery, the costs (expressed
in 1986 prices) have been divided into capital and O&M costs.  The present
value of the irrigation infrastructure to be constructed under this project
in the Stage I and II areas (28,700 ha) is estimated at NRs 5,960/ha. The
present value of the irrigation infrastructure (including on-farm development
works, flood protection, and upgrading of roads) to be constructed in the
Stage III area (8,700 ha) is estimated at NRs 13,100/ha. Costs of works
completed under Stages I and II have been adjusted to 1986 price level, but
no account has been taken of works executed by BRVPD prior to 1973, which
were a way of compensation to Nepal by India for the use, in India, of the
Gandak River water, and were therefore free of charge. This places the
weighted average present value of the capital costs for the entire command
area at NRs 16,910/ha. Annualized capital recovery at 10 percent interest,



-44-
discounted over 30 years, would amount to about NRs 1,790/ha. The annual
expenditure on O&M is estimated at NRs 370/ha. Thus, achieving full cost
recovery from the farmers would entail payments of NRs 2,160/ha/year, or
about 15 percent of the estimated average net farm income at full develop-
ment.
Cost Recovery
7.17    Background.  Present revenues from water and water-related charges do
not cover the cost of O&M. While in the short run the deficit has been
largely covered through government support, this imposes a heavy burden on
the government budget and cannot be regarded as a long-term solution. It is
therefore essential to devise a cost recovery system that would ensure suffi-
cient revenues to cover at least the full O&M costs without impairing
farmers' incentives to optimize irrigation benefits. Such a recovery system
is planned for the project and, taking into account experience gained, would
be gradually extended to other projects providing a service of comparable
standard (paras 7.24-7.25).
7.18    Agricultural Land Tax.  Taxes on farmland, which have remained
unchanged since 1967/68, form one means of revenue mobilization. They could
become an important vehicle for indirect recovery of public investment in
irrigation. They average about NRs 35/ha in the project area, but vary
according to land grade. Despite the low rates and the numerous exemptions
and rebates, the rate of collection is not very high. For example, in Parsa
District, out of a total assessment of NRs 3.0 M in FY 1984/85, only about
NRs 1.8 M (60 percent) was collected. The Bank's 1985 Economic Report 1/
recommended that HMGN should raise the land tax to achieve an average effec-
tive tax rate of 1.5 percent of agricultural output and institute periodic
adjustments for inflation.
7.19    Present Water Charges.  Water charges have so far been introduced
only in a few donor-financed irrigation projects, including projects financed
by IDA. In the case of Narayani project, the NZIDB charges project farmers
at a rate of NRs 100/ha for irrigating a one-season crop and NRs 200/ha for
sugarcane. This is equivalent to an average of about NRs 140/ha per year in
the completed parts of NEC command at the presently reported irrigation
intensities. A flat charge of NRs 200/ha/yr is levied for public tubewell
water. The recovery from surface water has been poor; for example, from the
total assessment of NRs 1.67 M in 1983/84, only about NRs 0.21 M (13 percent)
was collected; present rates of recovery are only fractionally higher. The
poor recovery reflects in part the farmer's reluctance to pay for an unreli-
able and inequitable service. The recovery from project tubewells has been
significantly better, in part, because of the more reliable and equitable
service and, in part, because of more effective enforcement (a farmer is
supplied with water only upon the presentation of payment for the last
delivery). From the total assessment of NRs 173,200 for groundwater in
1983/84, about NRs 120,000 (70 percent) was collected.
1/ See "Nepal--Prospects for Economic Adjustment and Growth," World Bank,
1985.



-45-
7.20    Farmer's Ability to Pay Water Charges.  To assess the farmers'
ability to pay water charges, the project rent 1/ has been estimated. At
full development, this would average about NRs 4,740/ha (Annex 1,
Table 13.1). Although, in the intermediate period the rent would be con-
siderably lower, the rent indicator shows that there would be scope for
increased cost recovery in the future. The rent resulting from irrigation is
reflected by the difference in values between irrigated and rainfed lands.
Land with assured irrigation near the NEC and on head reaches of MSCs seLls
for about NRs 130,000/ha, while the unirrigated land on the left bank of the
NEC is valued at about NRs 70,000/ha.  Land prices at the tail end of the NEC
system also reflect the lack of assured irrigation and are similar to those
above the NEC.
7.21    Present Assessment and Collection Procedures.  The nationwide legal
basis for the assessment and collection of water charges is laid down in the
"Irrigation, Electricity and Related Resources Act, 1968."  According to the
Act, water charges are not taxes, but user fees charged to farmers for the
irrigation service. However, the existing law establishes only the basic
principles. In irrigation schemes where there is no Irrigation Development
Board, water charges are determined by HMCN and the dues are collected by
DIHM. In schemes with a Board, e.g. the NZIDB, the level of water charges is
recommended to HMGN by the Board. On the basis of this recommendation, HMGN
determines the rate; the dues are then collected by the Board (paras 5.06 and
5.10) and paid into the general revenue account of the Treasury. This system
has been in effect since 1982/83. Previously, project staff were responsible
only for recommending the assessment; water charges were collected from
landowners, along with land taxes, by the staff of the District Office of the
Land Revenue Department (RD). It was believed that transferring respon-
sibility for collection of water charges to the project would be a step
toward making it financially independent. However, these expectations did
not materialize.
7.22    Present Constraints to Cost Recovery.  The present poor quality of
the irrigation service is the main reason why farmers do not pay water char-
ges in the Narayani or other government irrigation schemes. However, while a
reliable service is a prerequisite to improved recovery, it is unlikely to
result in significant improvements without an appropriate collection
mechanism. Present collection arrangements are unsatisfactory. The law
provides DIHM with only limited support and incentive to improve cost
recovery. Verification procedures to ascertain that irrigation water has in
fact been delivered to a farmer's field are unclear. Although the project
authorities are responsible for collecting charges, they have no legal
authority to enforce payments.
7.23    Proposed Improvements.  Covenants for recovering O&M costs, and such
portion of capital costs that lie within the farmers' payment capacity, exist
in major irrigation projects supported by IDA (Mahakali, Bhairawa-Lumbini,
Narayani II, and Sunsari-Morang) as well as those supported by the Asian
Development Bank; between them, they cover over 95 percent of all public
1/ The project rent is equal to the net incremental income l2ss the neces-
sary rewards to the farm family for its labor, entrepreneurship, and
cultivation risk.



-46-
schemes in the Terai. Most of the projects have a Board with authority to
determine the level of water charges. However, HMGN has difficulty in com-
plying with these covenants prior to providing a reliable irrigation service,
an important objective of all these projects. Therefore, any improvement in
collection rates, and the imposition of realistic charges, must necessarily
follow the provision of a reliable, equitable service and adequate, verifi-
able documentation of deliveries. Moreover, assessment procedures should be
simplified, for example, by replacing the existing rates with a flat rate
per hectare per year irrespective of the crops grown, which would eliminate
the need for a detailed examination and verification of the crops actually
irrigated. This would be feasible since each farmer will have access to the
same amount of water per unit area. Other IDA-supported irrigation projects
in the Terai are planned on similar principles and could therefore eventually
also charge a flat rate if the system proves successful. Further, if collec-
tion were to become the duty of RD, which has the experience and the legal
authority to secure payments, rates of collection should also improve.
7.24    Accordingly, an agreement has been reached with HMCN that it would:
(i) by December 31, 1986, (a) introduce a flat rate of NRs 200/ha/yr on all
commandable land in the Narayani Scheme that receives a regular surface water
supply; (b) increase water charges in the Birganj Groundwater Scheme to
NRs 400/ha/yr; (ii) by July 16, 1987, assign its Revenue Department with the
responsibility of collecting water charges in the Narayani Scheme; and
(iii) by August 31, 1988, and thereafter every two years: (a) review and, if
required, revise the collection procedures of water charges in the project
area; and (b) adjust, as required, the rates of water charges to cover by
fiscal 1993; and thereafter, full costs of operation and maintenance of the
irrigation schemes under the project and a reasonable portion of capital
expenditures, taking into account the farmers' payment capacity.
7.25    Agreement has been reached with HMGN that it would by April 1, 1989,
prepare and furnish IDA, for its review and comments, with the results and
recommendations of a study undertaken under terms of reference satisfactory
to IDA on all major irrigation projects in Nepal for implementing therein the
improved cost recovery measures introduced under this project, and there-
after, taking into account IDA's comments, if any, on the basis of
appropriate recommendations of such study, implement cost recovery measures
for such major irrigation projects. Such terms of reference will include
assessment of: (i) the need to rehabilitate the water distribution system,
(ii) farmers' capacity to pay, and (iii) the availability of reliable water
supply in each such major irrigation project commanding not less than
2,000 ha.
7.26    Cost and Rent Recovery Under the Project.  Cost and rent recovery
indices are estimated at 13 percent and 16 percent, respectively (Annex 1,
Table 13.2). The estimates have been based on the following assumptions:
(i) a flat rate of NRs 200/ha/yr would be charged in completed irrigation
blocks provided with a reliable irrigation supply; (ii) water charges would
increase in real terms at about the same rate as the projected increases in
productivity to gradually cover all O&M costs; and (iii) assessments would be
fuLly collected.



-47-
VIII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Project Impact
8.01    The project impact in terms of increased agricultural production,
employment generated, farm families benefited, and value added to the local
economy is summarized in the following table:
Stage I & II   Stage III  Total Area
Increase in irrigated area (ha)                    5,800/a      8,700       14,500
Increased foodgrain production (tons/yr)          42,775       22,715       68,490
Increased oilseed production (tons/yr)             5,800           960       6,760
Increased sugarcane production (tons/yr)          13,685        3,130       16,815
Directly, benefiting farm families (nos.)         24,100         7,400      31,500
Generated farm employment
(men-year equivalent)                           7,040        2,260        9,300
Value added to the local economy (NRs M/yr) /b    140               66          206
/a  About 20 percent of the already developed command (various tail end parts)
which does not receive irrigation at present would be fully integrated
into the system.
/b Defined as the sum of gross farm incomes minus cash inputs (excluding labor).
8.02    Employment Effects.  The increase in employment opportunities result-
ing from project activities would come from: (i) construction works; (ii)
intensification of agricultural pro4uction; and (iii) transport, marketing,
and processing. It is estimated that labor employed during the main con-
struction period (November - April) over the next seven years would average
about 7,500 jobs per day. Labor requirement for a typical cropping pattern
is expected to increase from 150 man-days ha at present to about 220
man-days/ha at full development. Thus the project would create about 10,700
full-time farm jobs, with additional employment generated in transportation,
marketing, and processing of incremental production.
Economic Analysis
8.03    Main Assumptions.  The assumptions in the economic analysis are
detailed in Annex 3 and are summarized below:
(a) Prices and Conversion Factors. Agricultural output was valued on
the basis of June 1985 IBRD projected world market prices (1986
through 1995) expressed in 1986/87 currency values with appropriate
adjustments for freight, handling, and processing. Nontraded
foodgrains and other nontraded goods and services were adjusted
through the use of two conversion factors: (i) Standard (SCF-0.90)
and (ii) Construction (CCF-0.90). Thq shadow wage rate (NRs
7.8/man-day) has been derived as a weighted average of the observed
monthly rates and adjusted by the SCF.  The opportunity cost of
capital (OCC) in Nepal was assumed it 10 percent. A summary of
economic prices is given in Annex 1, Table 12.
(b) 'Without' and 'With' Project Situation. Average annual growth rate
of 3.2 percent achieved in Nepal over the 1980/81 to 1984/85 period
has been assumed for the 'future without project' situation. The



-48-
projections for the 'future without' and 'future with project' situa-
tions were based on cropping patterns and yields (Annex 1, Table 2),
developed from field surveys, results of monitoring and evaluation
studies and district agricultural statistics.
(c) Benefits Build-up Rates. The increase in agricultural production
benefits was based on: (i) a seven year build-up period for transi-
tion of yields from the 'present' to 'future with project' situation;
(ii) a build-up period of three years for the transition from
'present' to 'future with project' crop intensities; and (iii) rate
of remadeling of existing, and completion of new irrigated areas in
line with the project implementation schedule.
(d) Project Cost. The economic cost streams include the cost of project
civil works (including establishment, consultant services, and physi-
cal contingencies) required for the completion of the entire Narayani
irrigation system, the opportunity cost of land lost due to construc-
tion of the canals, the cost of O&M, and of upgrading and maintenance
of the road network. The economic costs are derived from the cor-
responding financial ones excluding taxes and adjusted by the
appropriate conversion factors.
8.04    Economic Rate of Return (ERR).  The ERR and the Net Present Value
(NPV) were separately estimated for Stages I and II and Stage III areas. The
results, summarized below, and detailed in Annex 1, Table 14.1 to 14.4,
indicate that the entire project, as well as each of its components, would be
economically viable.
ERR         NPV /a
717        (NRs/hia)
Stage I and II areas (28,700 ha) b/               22           15,675
Stage III area (8,700 ha)                         19           18,370
Total NEC command area (37,400 ha)                21           16,300
a/  Discounted at 10 percent interest which is the estimated OCC in Nepal.
b/ The ERR would decline to 19 percent if the sunk cost of the Stage I
and II projects were included.
Sensitivity Analysis
8.05    A sensitivity analysis was conducted to determine the effects of
deviations from the main assumptions on the economic viability of the
project. The measure of sensitivity used, the 'switching value', is the
value of the variable tested which would reduce the present value of the
project's net incremental benefits discounted at 10 percent (OCC) to zero.
The main results are in the following table:
Stage I & II Areas        Stage III Area           Total Project
Variable               AP      SV   Change       AP    SV   Change    AP   SV   Change
Net Incremental
Benefits (NRs M) /a 701    252       -64%      299   139     -54% 1,000  391    -61%
Construction
Costs (NRs M)        195    645    +231%       105  +265    +152%   300  910   +203%
AP - Appraisal Value, SV - Switching Value
/a Costs and benefits discounted at 10 percent interest.



-49-
8.06    Additional sensitivity tests conducted are summarized below:
(a) HMGN Funding of O&M Cost. The funding of O&M cost would be supported
on a decreasing scale by SDC so that by the end of the implementation
period HMGN would finance the entire cost of O&M from its recurrent
budget (para 3.31). However, if O&M support were to be inadequate
(para 3.32), the achievement of expected development impact would be
seriously jeopardized and irrigation service to farmers would revert
to the level currently in the Stage I and II areas. It is estimated
that if O&M allocations were to be reduced by 50 percent of require-
ments, irrigation benefits would gradually decline to about NRs
2,000/ha by the year 2000.  Under these circumstances the ERR for the
project would decline to 11 percent.
(b) Commodity Prices. A reduction in the price of either paddy or wheat
the main crops in the project area) by 25 percent would reduce the
ERR by less than one percentage point.
(c) Implementation Delays. Major civil works would be packaged under
one contract to attract competition from large contractors. However,
the nature of the works may force the execution of civil works
through a series of small contracts which could delay construction
(three years delay was assumed) and result in higher cost (20 percent
cost increase was assumed). Under these circumstances the ERR would
decline to 18 percent for the Stage I and II and to 15 percent for
the Stage III area, respectively.
(d) Reduction of Implementation Period to 5 years. A reduction in the
time required to complete the project from seven years (base case)
to five years would increase the ERR from 21 percent to 23 percent;
and the NPV would increase from NRs 16,300/ha to NRs 19,100/ha.
(e) Increase in Sugarcane Area. An increase in the area planted to
sugarcane from 3 percent expected at full development in the 'with
project' situation to about 8 percent would lower the ERR only mar-
ginally. Overall project profitability would remain unchanged at 21
percent.
Project Risk
8.07    Apart from deviations from main assumptions analyzed above, the net
benefits and/or the equity of their distribution could be affected by the
following specific conditions or events:
(a) Surface Water Supply. The Indian authorities could fail to supply
NEC with water from the Don Branch in the quantities assumed. This
risk is small (except in the case of major damage to the Don Branch
Canal, see (b) below) as supplies potentially available in the Gandak
River are more than adequate (para 2.06). In fact, with better
coordination between the project authorities and the Bihar authority
responsible for management of the Indian Eastern Canal system
(BRVPD), it is likely that, the assumed supply will be improved
particularly with respect to the present pre-kharif closure.



-50-
(b) Major Flood Damage to the Don Branch or NEC. Both canals cross
difficult terrain and have many cross-drainage structures over rivers
and torrent streams. Experience has shown that these canals and
their associated structures are susceptible to flood damage; major
floods could lead to a prolonged closure. However, in the past, both
the Indian and Nepalese authorities have been able to repair any
damage quickly, so that the risk is small of interruption to supplies
for a period that would significantly affect crop yields.
(c) Inadequate Water Management. Many of the benefits, particularly in
the Stage I and II areas, are predicated on the assumption that the
system would be managed in such a way as to provide a secure, equi-
table, and timely water supply to all the farmers in the command.
The system improvements proposed to achieve these ends would make
operation of the secondary and tertiary canals a relatively simple
procedure involving only a limited number of major control points.
The project would define the operationaL procedures necessary to
attain the required management capability levels and would train the
concerned project staff and the WUCs in their respective operational
roles. Nevertheless, implementation of any management system demands
the cooperation of the farmers, and the possibility of management
failure is a greater risk, particularly in view of the lack of dis-
cipline among the farmers in earlier projects. However, this problem
developed at least in part because the system could not be managed
properly owing to design deficiencies. That is to say, there was no
control over allocation of the water supply since farmers located
near the NEC and on the upper reaches of the secondaries had a marked
advantage. Since in the future, it will be possible for the project
authorities to manage the canal system in a manner that is less
susceptible to abuse, and the WUGs would be strengthened and accorded
legal status, the risk of a major failure with respect to water
management would be greatly reduced.
(d) Agricultural Objectives. The expected agricultural production is
based on crops with which the farmers have long experience, and the
proposed changes of the cropping pattern are small. They are sup-
ported by known and tested cultural practices. Such practices have
been adopted by many farmers in the project area with access to a
relatively secure water supply. Therefore the risk of not attaining
the assumed crop yields and cropping patterns is small.
The above discussion and the results of the sensitivity analysis indicate
that only large deviations from the basic assumptions would make the economic
viability of the project doubtful.
Environmental Effects
8.08    The main water-related diseases on the Terai are malaria and typhoid.
The latter relates to drinking water supply, but the project would have
little direct impact on the supply. Improvements to the drainage system
would result in less ponding of wastewater, but given the preponderance of
rice paddies in the wet season (both with or without the project), this would
not effectively reduce mosquito breeding sites in the kharif. HMGN has
abreed to take all the necessary measures to minimize the risk of malaria and
other water-related diseases within the project area.



-51-
IX. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01    Agreements have been reached with HMGN that it would:
(a) by July 1, 1987, issue all the necessary authorizations and permits
to commence operation of the internal radio communication system
(para 3.24);
(b) employ consultants whose qualifications, experience, and terms and
conditions of employment are satisfactory to IDA, and select them in
accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines on employing consultants (para
3.26);
(c) through NZIDB: (i) carry out, by December 31, 1986, under terms of
reference satisfactory to IDA, a detailed study of the physical and
budgetary requirements for operation and maintenance of the works
under the project; (ii) furnish, by June 30, 1987, to IDA for its
review and comments, a report summarizing the results and recommenda-
tions of the study; and (iii) taking into account IDA's comments, if
any, implement the results and recommendations of such detailed study
(para 3.32);
(d) on March 31 of each year, commencing on March 31, 1987, and there-
after, furnish to IDA for review and comments, its estimates for the
irrigation schemes and related facilities in the project area for the
forthcoming fiscal year of: (i) salaries and allowances for project
staff; and (ii) operation and maintenance costs (excluding estab-
lishment costs) (para 3.33);
(e) ensure that the planning, design, construction, upgrading, and opera-
tion and maintenance of project works would be carried out in accord-
ance with standards satisfactory to IDA (para 3.34);
(f) promptly provide resources and funds to execute the project in
accordance with the agreed implementation program and expenditure
schedules (para 4.02);
(g)  cause DIHM, and NZIDB to: (i) maintain separate records and accounts
for all project expenditures in accordance with appropriate account-
ing principles; (ii) furnish to IDA such accounts, including the
Special Account (SA), audited by an independent auditor acceptable to
IDA, in accordance with sound auditing principles; (iii) forward to
IDA such accounts, together with the auditor's reports, within nine
months after the end of each fiscal year; (iv) include in the annual
audit reports, submitted to IDA, a separate opinion from the auditor
as to whether the disbursements made on the basis of statements of
expenditure were in respect to goods and services received and
incurred for the purposes of the project (para 4.14);
(h) at all times, maintain in the position of General Manager of NZIDB an
.officer whose qualifications, experience, and terms of reference
shall be satisfactory to IDA (para 5.04);



-52-
(i)  on December 31 of every second year, commencing on December 1987,
in consultation with IDA, review, and if reo'uired, revise the Project
General Manager's limits of contractual commitments for the operation
and management of the project (para 5.09);
(j)  at all times provide all staff positions required for effective
project management (para 5.11);
(k)  cause NZIDB to:  (i) furnish IDA for its approval by January 1, 1987,
the overall training program; (ii) by January 1 of each year, com-
mencing on January 1, 1987, furnish to IDA for its approval, the
annual training program for the following Borrower's fiscal year and
(iii) thereafter, on April 1 of each year, implement such training
programs as so approved (para 5.13);
(1)  take all such action as shall be necessary to ensure quality controL
of planning, design, construction, upgrading, and operation and
maintenance of project works (para 5.14);
(m)  (i) furnish to IDA, commencing on January 1, 1987 and thereafter,
until the completion of the project, semiannual project progress
reports in the scope and detail acceptable to IDA, and submit them
within two months after the end of each reporting period; and
(ii) submit IDA not more than six months after the completion of the
project, a project completion report in the format agreed with IDA
(para 5.17);
(n)  cause the NZIDB to: (i) by June 30, 1987, conduct a base-line
agro-economic survey, under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA,
and submit to IDA for its review and comments, a report summarizing
the results and conclusions of the survey; (ii) taking into con-
sideration IDA's comments on the initial survey, repeat the survey
every two years and submit, by June 30, 1989, 1991 and 1993, to IDA
for its review and comments, reports summarizing the results and
conclusions; and (iii) as a result of the above surveys, take such
remedial action as necessary (para 5.18);
(o)  by June 30, 1987, appoint a second Assistant Agricultural Development
Officer and a Subject Matter Specialist for irrigated agriculture to
each of the three project districts, together with supporting office
staff, and equipment, under functions and terms of reference satis-
factory to IDA (para 5.19);
(p)  by June 30, 1987, establish, and thereafter maintain an adaptive farm
planning research program with terms of reference satisfactory to
IDA, aimed to support the agricultural objectives of the Narayani
Scheme, under the technical supervision and control of the Borrower's
Department of Agriculture (para 5.20);
(q)  by July 1, 1991, prepare and furnish to IDA for its review and com-
ments, a proposal relating to the organizational arrangements for
operation and maintenance of the irrigation schemes and related
facilities in the project area to be established within its Irriga-
tion Department; such organizational arrangements, satisfactory to
IDA, would be implemented starting July 1, 1992 (para 5.23);



-53-
(r) by January 31, 1987 adopt, and thereafter implement a detailed water
management plan satisfactory to IDA for the irrigation scheme in the
project area (para 6.09);
(s) establish Water Users' Groups (WUGs) as follows: (i) in tertiary
commands where there is already an irrigation service by December 31,
1986; and (ii) in tertiary commands to be brought under irrigation
not less than six months before the tertiary is scheduled to begin
operation (para 6.12);
(t) by September 31, 1987, take all such actions as shall be necessary to
constitute the Water Users' Groups as statutory bodies, with suffi-
cient power to (a) supervise the distribution of water among its
members in proportion to the size of their landholding; (b) cause its
members to construct and maintain the required field channels,
including field drainages adjoining their holdings and any other
section of the field channels and field drainages that does not skirt
commandable areas; and (c) in case of default, arrange for suc~h work
to be done at the cost of the defaulters; provided that, in the event
that a Water Users' Group does not carry out such maintenance work,
the Borrower shall, at the expense of such Water Users' Group, carry
out the construction and maintenance work in question (para 6.15);
(u) (i) by December 31, 1986, (a) introduce a flat rate of NRs 200/ha/yr
on all commandable land in the Narayani Scheme that receives a
regular surface water supply; (b) increase water charges in the
Birganj Groundwater Scheme to,'NRs 400/ha/yr; (ii) by July 16, 1987,
assign its Revenue Department with the responsibility of collecting
water charges in the Narayani Scheme; and (iii) by August 31, 1988,
and thereafter every two years: (a) review and, if required, revise
the collection procedures of water charges in the project area; and
(b) adjust, as required, the rates of water charges to, cover by
fiscal 1993, and thereafter, full costs of operation and maintenance
of the irrigation schemes under the project and a reasonable portion
of capital expenditures, taking into account the farmers' payment
capacity (para 7.24);
(v)  by April 1; 1989, pr,'pare and furnish IDA, for its review and com-
ments, witfi the results and recommendations of a study undertaken
under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA on all major irrigation
projects in Nepal for implementing therein the improved cost recovery
measures introduced under this project, and thereafter taking into
account IDA comments, if any, on the basis of appropriate recommenda-
tions of such study, implement cost recovery measures for such
irrigation projects.  Such terms of reference will include an assess-
ment of: (i) the need to rehabilitate the water distribution system;
(ii) farmers' capacity to pay; and (iii) the availability of reliable
water supply in each major irrigation prpject commanding not less
than 2,000 ha (para 7.25); and
(w) take all measures as may be considered necessary to minimize the risk
of malaria and other water-related diseases within the project area
(para 8.08).



-54-
9.02    Conditions of effectiveness would be that:
(a) designs, which must be satisfactory to IDA, have been completed for
at least the 1986/87 construction season, (para 3.34);
(b) HMGN have authorized all staff position required for the project in a
manner satisfactory to IDA (para 5.11); and
(c) all conditions, precedent to the effectiveness of the Swiss Contribu-
tion Agreement have been fulfilled.
9.03    With the above agreements, the proposed project would be suitable
for a credit of US$24.5 M on standard IDA terms and a grant of US$7.5 M on
standard SDC terms. The Borrower would be His Majesty's Covernment of Nepal.



-55-
ANNEX 1
NEPAL
NARAYANI III IRRIGATION PROJECT
MAin Supporting Tables
Tables
1   -   Salient Climatic Data
2   -   Present and Future Cropping Patterns and Yields
3   -   Existing and Future Staff Requirements - Agricultural Extension
4   -   Vehicles and Construction Equipment
5   -   Office, Survey, Design and Supervision Equipment
6   -   Estimated Schedule of Expenditures
7   -   Disbursement Schedule
8   -   Credit/Grant Allocation
9   -   Existing and Future NZIDP Staff Requirements
10   -   Project Irrigation Requirements and Flow Rates
11   -   Agricultural Production and Input Requirements
12   -   Summary of Financiai and Economic Prices
13.1 -   Estimated Farm Budgets and Project Rent at Full Development
13.2 -   Estimated Project Rent and Cost Recovery
14.1 -   Stage I - Cost and Benefits for Economic Analysis
14.2 -   Stage II - Cost and Benefits for Economic Analysis
14.3 -   Stage III - Cost and Benefits for Economic Analysis
14.4 -   Total Project - Cost and Benefits for Economic Analysis



-56-                               ANNEX 1
Table 1
NEPAL
NARAYANI III IRRIGATION PROJECT
Salient Climatic Data
Mean            Average              Pan
Temperature         Rainfall         Evaporation
(OC)               (mm)               (mm)
January                         15.7               15.5               74.4
February                        17.8               18.2               78.4
March                          22.8                12.8              148.8
April                           27.5               37.9              213.0
May                             29.7               87.7              220.1
June                           20.0               218.0              186.0
July                           29.5               442.9              161.2
August                          29.1              258.0              148.8
September                      28.8               231.1              129.0
October                         26.5               82.2              105.4
November                        21.5                4.9               84.0
December                        17.2                6.3               65.1
Total/Average                   24.6            1,414.7            1,614.2



ANAUhhI III IaixMiOu ft0JNC?
Prenami and ftta. C an rattrs An"    i.
Stan. I (15.900 ha)                                  Stamm I1 (1280 be)                                  Aae         (8Ml 00 b2)
p                i                                    P                 ii              v                    *                It               v
e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A                                                             lld    Ani e        ede  fl LA )( {J
Lice                U       3.2      94     3.4       94       4.2        96      3.0       ff      3.2      94        4.2      95        2.5     95       3.0      92      4.2
tegnrcan.             I    17.0        3    25.0        3       40.0        2    16.0         3     23.0       3       40.0       2       20.0      2      22.0       2      40.0
Vegetableas           1    30.0        1    35.0        1       40.0        1    30.0         1     35.0       1       40.0       3       27.0      3      30.0       3      40.0
lbat                 35    2.0        35     2.2       S0        3.2       31      2.0       33      2.2      50        3.2      24        1.0      24      1.0      49       3.2
Oileeds                I    0.8        3      1.0      16        1.2        4      0.8        4      0.9      16        1.2       6        0.7      4       0.8      16       1.2
vote"                 2    0.5         4     O.A       11        0.8        3      0.5        5      0.o      11        0.8       5        0.4       5      0.4      11       0.8
Total ltasity
- bart               137              142             175                  137              142              175                 135               135              173
lad occupacsy        139              145             178                 139               145              178                13t                137              175
la, Vegetables are a blead of laf, tuber and fruit vegetables. homene the yield is ,otionel.
1k lend occupancy intemaity slhow bow the fern is used. Sugarcane occupies tbe land
for the full year, beanc the blagber figure.



-58-                                AN"NEX 1
Table 3
NARAYANI III IRRIGATION PROJECT
Exisia  and putlre Staff Reguireuets - Aaricultural ExtensioQ
Organization and        Present                                                               Post
Staff Category         status       86/87  87188  88/89  A8.919 2% LL 5IL%2  921   Cosujy.tsn
Agricultural
Extension Serlice
Pars& District.
DADO                     1(1)          1       1      1       1      1       1      1          1
AADO District            1(1)          1       1      1       1      1       1      1          1
AADO Irrigation          -(-)          1       1      1       1      1       1      1          1
Sms                      2(2)          3       3      3       3      3       3      3          3
JT                      23 (26)       23      23     23      23     23      23     23         23
JIA                     20 (31)       20      20     20      20     20      20     20         20
PLAA                   121 (143)    121    121    121    121    121    121    121            121
Bara Distr ct
DADO                     1(1)          1       1      1       1      1       1      1          1
AADO District            1(1)          1       1      1       1      1       1      1          1
AADO Irrigation          -(-)          1       1      1       1      1       1      1          1
8M8                      2(2)          3       3      3       3      3       3      3          3
JT                      17 (22)       17      17     17      17     17      17     17         17
JTA                     11 (27)       11      11     11      11     11      11     11         11
PLAA                    54 (134)      54      54     54      54     54      54     54         54
RAuthat District
DADO                     1(1)          1       1      1       1      1       1      1          1
MADO District             1(1)         1       1      1       1      1       1      1          1
AADO Irrigation          -(-)          1       1      1       1      1       1      1          1
sms                      2(2)          3       3      3       3      3       3      3          3
JT                       2(12)         2       2      2       2      2       2      2          2
JTA                      5(34)         5       5      5       5      5       5      5          5
PLAA                    15 (101)      15      15     15      15     15      15     15         15
AIC and ADBN Liaison
AIC                       1            1       1      1       1      1       1      1          1
ADBN                      1            1       1      1       1      1       1      1          1
Figures in parentheses indicate district totals.
DADO - District Agricultural Development Office;
AADO - Assistant Agricultural Development Officer; 8N8   S Subject Matter Specialist;
JT - Junior Technician; JTA - Junior Technical Assistant.



ANNEX 1
-59-                                    Table 4
NEPAL
NARAYANI III IRRIGATION PROJECT
Vehicles and Construction Equipment
Total       Method of
Item  Description                    Quantity    Unit Cost       Base Cost      Procurement
(NRs '000)    (NRs '000)        (ICB)
A.    New Items
1.   Angle dozer, 12 tons              2          1,205.2        2,410.3          ICB
2.   Wheel Loader, 1.4 m3              1            982.0          982.0           "
3.   Motor grader, 3.1 m               1          1,071.2        1,071.2           "
4.   Tire roLler, 8/16 tons            2            720.5        1,441.1
5.   Macadam roller, 8/10 tons         2            605.8        1,211.5
6.   Dump truck, 4 tons                4            338.0        1,351.8
7.   Water sprinkling tanker;
6000 lit.                         1            497.4         497.4            it
8.   Fuel tanker, 2000 lit.            1            242.3          242.3
9.   4 WD type vehicle                 5            199.0          994.7           t
10.   Pick-up truck                     3            174.3          523.0           to
11.   Motor cycle                      10             15.0          153.0          LTD /a
12.   Bicycle                          20              1.3           25.5           "
13.   Portable diesel generator,
5 KVA                             3             58.3          174.8           "
14.   Spare parts for above (20X of
cost)                           sum              -         2 207.5            "
Sub-total             13,286.2
B.    Existing vehicles and equipment
1.    Spare parts                    sum              -          5,779.0
TOTAL                 19,065.2
/a  Limited International Tendering.



-60-                                     MLI
Table 5
W-L
M  AFS A III SIRG&TI MA PROJECT
Officg, Survey, Deua  and Sunervision Eanimnt
Total
lte      Descrilption                                     guagaitv   21t  C08st   I sl CUt
A.       Office Ecuinment
1.      Personal Computer with voltage stabilizer            1          186.2           186.2
2.      Photocopy machine with voltage stabilizer            1           79.1            79.1
3.      Blue copy machine witb voltage stabilizer            1           66.3            66.3
4.      Air conditioner                                      5          165.8           828.9
5.      Spare parts for above (202 of cost)                sun           -                 a
Sub-total             1,266.4
B.       Survey Ecuiment /J
1.       Theodolite witb tripod                              4           53.0           212.0
2.       Auto level witb tripod                              7           18.0           126.0
3.       Electric distance (ceodimeter)                      1          140.0           140.0
4.       Plane table with alidade and tripod.                4            5.0           120.0
5.       Stereoscope                                         1           14.0            14.0
6.       Survey Staff, 5S                                   12            1.0            12.0
7.       Survey staff, 3a                                   24            0.8            19.2
8.       Survey pole, 2.                                    20            0.7            14.0
9.       Camping sets                                        6            7.0            42.0
10.       steel tape, lo0                                    3            3.0             9.0
II.       Steel tape, 50m                                     3            2.0             6.0
12.       Linen tape, 50.                                     6            1.0             6.0
13.       Linen tape, 30.                                    12            0.8          _.J9
Sub-total               729.8
C.       Dsin  guinment /lg
1.       Progrsmmable calculator witb printer, cassette
recorder and interface                              2           20.0            40.0
2.       Drafting equipment with table and lights            6           16.0            96.0
3.       Lettering set                                       6            3.0            18.0
4.       Planimeter with calculator                          4            5.0            20.0
5.       Curvimeter                                          4            5.0             2.0
6.       Drawing sheets                                     sum           -              15.0
7.       Tracing paper                                      sum           -__
Sub-total               200.0
D.       utervision Eauiument
1,       Rand auger                                          2           10.0            20.0
2.       Cone penetrometer                                   1           15.3            15.3
3.       Moisture and dry density measuring equipment        2          330.3           660.6
4.       Schdidt hamer                                       2            17.9           357
5.       Current meter                                       1           42.1          A"
Sub-total               803.0
TOTAL                 2,999.2
/I  Equipment required for project establishment.



06661061 III 106106110 UWEC
EmtlNted Scedule of Ripead1t"rO
otael. IflledIa7 Cu t1_hs ..               Totals Including c nti ngo-too
mass 1ii,,                             Ws  iIISion)
$68 818 86M  80Ot  Itl 12M  t@t*I 81/8 61186 86/69 SOM 90/91 91192 92/  total
zs*5c asset stage *Ua *85 9           ***-**t*-t5t$e  ex-3w tsagtas sags *2=: sxagas 2Uzza szz-_T S=-=5
A. NEC Itprvi_nt ad _oair$ of Tfloa  Uara       t155  It0.  120  1 4   .0  1.0     -   .sS   0. 6     s  0.6  0.6  0.4  0.0    -  2.9
V. 1n1i.t1an end Ssfnp Stags  III fe              3.?  6.2  11.6 31.3   5 .4 26.6  17.0 140.0   0.2  0.4  0.9  I.5  t.?  1.3  0.6  S 6
t Ielbigstion,WOfage. Istag,I ad!I fr.1d          0.8   6S 3.6 38 L2  26.  1L.2  & L  10o.3   0.0  0.3  1.0  1.4  1.2  0.6  0.2  S.0
0. Flood Cmntrol and tivr Trsbfngf                  - I6,3 13 Il .        -    -    - 43.6       -  o.8  0.8  0.     -    -    -  2.1
E. I_gading of bed Ustusch                        2.2  6.2  1.2  1.  8.2   . t6  6.t 49.    0.1  0.3  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4  2.4
F.  Wpuu_t and Ondlo-(44mnlteaton System         24.9  1.3  1.4  I'S  1.6  I.T  1.8 34.3   1.2  0.t  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  t.?
6. bgIioalW wshop                                 4.2  6.  t0.2  1.9  2.0  2.t  2.2 2a8    0.2  0.3  0.S  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  1.4
It. Teaficat Sepot                               26.3  17.6  17.4  1.6  1S.4  9.t  4.0 1065    1.3  0.9  0.8  0.8  0.9  0.4  0.2  S.3
1. (stabli1t1int. Oerationnd Btntence            11.9 1t.1 20.2 22.1 23.S 24.? 23.9 14S.5   0.6  0.8  1.0  1.t  1.1  1.2  1.2  t.0
d. tad Iqlasition an Crp C_spsAtion               0.9  t.0  2.4  3.0  3.2  3.4  3.5  t1.S   0.0  0.0  0.1  0.1  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.9
Total PaCT COSTS                                  90.6      129  I1135.3 2t.2  92.6  C46 M.1   4.4  4.4  &I  6.6  6.2  4.6  3.1  3S.5
.                 .~~~~~~~~~~~~F
to 



NEPAL
NARAVANI III IRRIGATION PROJECT
Disburseaent Schedule /a
(USS N)
IDA Credit                   SOC Grant /b          IDA Credit and SOC Grsnt
IDA Fiscal Year        During                        During                        During
and Semester          Semester   Cumulative         Semester   Cumulative          Srmester   Cumulative
1987
2nd                  0.8         0.8               0.2           0.2              1.0          1.0
1986
1st                  1.0         1.8               0.3           0.5             1.3          2.3
2nd                  1.3         3.1               0.4           0.9              1.7         4.0
1989
Ist                  1.5         4.6               0.5           1.4             2.0          6.0
2nd                  1.9         6.5               0.6           2.0             2.5          8.5
1990
1st                  2.0         8.5               0.7           2.7             2.7         11.2
2nd                  3.0        11.S               0.8           3.S             3.8         1S.0
1991
$st                  3.5        15.0               0.8           4.3             4.3         19.3
2nd                  3.0        18.0               0.8           5.1             3.8         23.1
1992
Ist                  2.0        20.0               0.7           S.8             2.7         25.8
2nd                  1.7        21.7               0.6           6.4              2.3        28.1
1993
1st                  1.3        23.0               O.S           6.9             1.8         29.9
2nd                  1.0        24.0               0.4           7.3              1.4        31.3
1994
1st                  0.5        24.5               0.2           7.5             0.7         32.0
/a  Based on the Nepalese irrigation sector disbursement profile.
/b  SDC grant is in Swiss Francs (SF) and amounts 15 M SF; the present US Dollar equivalent
of 7.5 M may vary with exchange rate movements.                                                                    FE



-63-
ANNEX 1
Table 8
NEPAL
NARAYANI III IRRIGATION PROJECT
Credit/Grant Allocation
Amount of
credit/grant
Caterorv                                      allocated            Percentage Financed
IDA       SDC /l
1.  Civil works:                                18.0                  1002
2.  Equipment, vehicles and                      2.4                  1002 of foreign expenditures,
workshop equipment                                                1002 local expenditures of
ex-factory costs and
702 of other locally
procured items.-
3.  Technical services and studies:
(a) Consultancies and studies                         3.5        lOO1
(b) Training, agricultural research
and monitoring and evaluation           0.4                  100l
4. Project establishment and
OaM costs (excluding salaries)                        2.4)        902 in FY 87-89
}       702 in FY 90-91
}        50  in FY 92
}       252 in FY 93
5.  Salaries and allowances of staff /b                   1.6)        902 in FY 87-89
}       702 in FY 90-91
}       50%in FY 92
)       25% in FY 93
6.  Unallocated                                  3.7      7
Subtotal                                24.5      (7.5
TOTAL                                         32.0
la  Swiss Development Cooperation
/b  For administrative feasibility, disbursements would be made against
totai salaries and allowances; the declining disbursement rate would mean
that grant allocation represents in the aggregate 85% of the salaries
and allowances of incremental staff.
/£  St 15.0 X



-64-
ANNEX 1
Table 9
NEPAL
NARAVANI 111 IRRIGATION PROJECT
Existina and Futuro NZIDP Staff Requirements
Division and                    Present                                                             Post
Staff Category                  Stetus    86/87  87/88  886/89  89/90  90/91  91/92  92/93  ProJect
Finance and Administration
Divisions
Chief AeCountant                   I         I       I       I       I       I       1      a
Senior ACcountant                  2         2       2       2       2      2       2       2        2
Section Officer                    I         a       I       I       a       I       a      1        I
Officer Assistant                  3         3       3       3       3       3       3      3        3
Accountant                         2         2       2       2       2       2       2      2        2
Junior Office Assistant            4         4       4       4      4       4       4       4        4
Assistant A4countsnt               4         4       4       4       4      4       4       4        4
Design and Construction
Division
Ezecutive Engineer                 I         I       I       I       I       1       t       I
Desian and Survey Section
Divisional Engineer                -         1       1       1       a       1       1       I
Assistant Engineer                 -        12      12      12      12     12      12      12
Overseer                           -        24      24      24      24      24     24      24
DOaftstan                          -        12      12      12      12      12     12      12
surveyor                           -        12      12      12      12     12      12      12        -
(Laborer)                         _         12      12     12      12      12      12      12        -
Construction Section
Divisional Engineer                -         I       I       1       1       1       1       1       -
Assistant Engineer                 2         2       4       5       5       S      5       4        -
Overseer                           7         4       8      10      10      10     10      a8         -
Supervisor                        14         4       8      to      10      10     10       8        -
Operation and Maintenance
Division
executive Engineer                 1         1       I       1       1       1       1       1        1
Ooerations Section
Divisional Engineer                -         1       I       I       I       I       1       I        I
Water Management Unit
Senior Assistant Engineer                    I       I       1       f       I       1       1 I
Assistont Engineer                 -         5       5       5       5       S       5      5        5
Overseer                          II        13      13      14      14      14      14     14       10
Supervisor                        10        20      30      35      35     30      30      25       15
Canal Inspector                 400        400    400    350    300    250    200    200           105
Cooperative Unit
Cooperstive Officer                          1              1       1       1       1       1        1
Senior Assistant Engineer                    1       1       1 t             1 t             I
WUG Oroaniaation Unit
Assistant Engineer                 -         I       I       1       1       1       1       1        1
Overseer                                     1       2       2       4       6       7      7        7
Supervisor                         -         3      12      12      22     32      37      37       37
Water Charge Unit /a
Survey Team Chief                  1         1       1       1       I       I       1       I        I
Survey Inspector                   7         7       7       7       7       7      7       7        7
Surveyor (Amins)                  27        27      27      27      27      27     27      27       27
Maintenance Section
Divisional Engineer                          I       1       I       I       1       1       I        1
A5sistant Engina r                 3         2       2       2       2       3       3       3        3
Overseer                           2         4       4       4       4       6       6       6        a
Supervisor                         -        10      10      10      10      12     12      12       a2
mechanical Divisiof'
Divisional Engineer                          1       I       1         I      i              1
Assistant Engineer                 1         2       2       2       2       2       2       2        2
Overseer                           2         2       2       2       3       3       3       3        3
Senior Mechanic                    3         3       3       3       3       3       3       3       3
Auto Electrician                   1         1       I       1       I       1       I       I        1
Machinist                          -         I           1       1       1       1       1       1
Mtonitoring and
Evaluation Section
Senior M&E Officer                 -         1       1       1       I       I       I       I        1
M&E Officer                        I         1       I       I       1       1       1       I        I
Junior Technician                  I         S       5       5       5      5       6       5        6
Junior Technical Assistant         3        30      30      30     30      30      30      30       30
/a  May rovert to Revenue Department.



-65-
ANNEX I
Table 10
NEPAL
NARAYANI III IRRICATION PROJECT
Project Irrigation Requirements and Flow Rates /a
Rice  Wheat  Oilseeds  Pulses   Sugarcane  Vegetables    Total  Flow Rate
----------------(Mm3)…-------------   (m3/sec)
January        -    30.4    10.0        5.8       3.8           2.1        52.1      19.8
February       -    37.8       -        5.6      3.1            1.5.       48.0      18.3
March          -    46.6       -        2.8       5.5           2.3        57.0      21.7
April          -      -        -         -        5.6           2.3         7.9       3.0
May          16.3     -        -         -        7.1           2.8        26.2      10.0
June        26.0      -        -         -        3.3           1.5        30.8      11.7
July         19.1     -        -         -        1.1           0.1        20.3       7.7
August      60.5      -        -         -        2.4           0.9        63.8      24.1 /d
September   60.4      -        -         -       2.0            0.8        63.2      24.1 /d
October     41.6      -        -         -        3.8           1.5        46.9      17.9
November       -      -        -         -         - /b          - /b        -         -
December       -    14.9    10.8        3.3      3.8 /b         1.9 /b    34.7       13.2 /c
Total      223.9  129.7    20.8        17.5     41.5           17.7       451.0        -
!a   At the head of the NEC.  Overall efficiency used is 40 percent.
/b   In addition to the amounts indicated, sugarcane and vegetables would be supplied
partly from wells during the November-December closure period.  The water
requirements during this period would be (i) for sugarcane, 3.8 Mm  in Novem er
and 3.8 Mm" in December; (ii) for vegetables, 1.9 Mm in November and 1.0 Mm
in December.
/c   Assuming canal opens on Dec mber 16.
/d   All quantities above 24.1 m /sec will be supplied from local schemes.



tU1 ImnDn  E
Agrlcultural Production and Input Re!luirewnts
Usit                          With Pm t                      I       l
b1it      M             205                jo36        2025          193        315
In Paiutitn 
PM                           UKt      103,tlU.,    !15:92             ia,m.9       144,924.4        -        h30932.1
c SwE   S                    ta        15,657.0      17375.0           15#65.0       1920o.         -        4,045.0
any                      t         2199W.2       24Pd7J            2.m.o2       59,561.6                34495.0
m                            tms.e                     974.4              5M9       -3639.2                  2444.8
6Jlt9                        tans        8e.3        1,566.4              694.3      325.5          -        6h757.1
pm  ".                      ta         12.P30       24.5540            12,992.0     41,400*0        'Z13S.0
so "rawts
sW                           ts       146.813.0    15fft2.2           146,813.0    234o334.3        -       75.4
t199                         Wu         1#444.3      258                1e4o4.3      4,140.0        -        1,9.2
9(13                      hk    2.6e7o.016.    2.724.4m30        29673.016.0   34324#301.5       -      59965
umIfIIIIIIE               h51    1.40.915k0   2,215,21S.0        1.940415.0  30554.300.0         -    1339.085.0
E1                         hi      111120        923,810.0         391,1|23.0   1,91g410.        -      927,0.
DI0                        kg             -      2VIM.0                   -      9  665.0               70.315.0
Kml  UiciU                gb.  2.20&M0.0   3.00310.0             2P203.03.0   5M272.30.          -    2.214.51iO.
BIII  PM                  d      4#264.984.0   4,4557630         4.264.994.0   5,362.52.0        -      Fwb*o
E ll9(1                  Subs  11.7151. 0  11.M3583.0            11,715.03v.0  1te3761176.0       -    6fla 30
Ldsr
o3                      miduus  5.557,332.0   5,969.159.0        5.f2.D.0    7,896.723.0          -    2.047,564.0
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



-67-
ANNEX I
Table 12
NEPAL
NARAYANI III IRRIGATION PROJECT
SummaEy_of Financial and Economic Prices
1986/87               1990/95
Crops (NR9/ton)                   Financial  Economic  Financial  Economic
Paddy (medium)                      2,800       3,040     3,320       3,600
Wheat                               3,000       4,640     2,670       4,130
Maize                               2,500       3,760     2,310       3,470
Pulses                              4,100       4,500     4,100       4,500
Oilseeds                            5,140       5,750     5,140       5,750
Sugarcane                             320         160       320         260
Vegetables                          1,670       1,500      1,670      1,500
Straw                                 300         270       300         270
Inputs
Fertilizer (NRs/kg)
-N                                7.78      11.54      13.73       13.73
-p                                5.87        9.06      9.58        9.58
-K                                2.63        5.56      5.75        5.75
Bullock Labor (NRs/day)             30.00       27.00     30.00       27.00
Wage Rate (NRs/manday)              11.00        7.80      11.00       7.80



NEPAL
NARAYANZ IZZ IRRIGATION PROJECT
Estimated Farm Budgets and ProJect Rent at F4ll Development
Presently Rainfed Farms             Presently Irrigated Farms /a
P           W            w              P            W           W
-----------------------------(NRs/ha)-----------------------------
Farm Budget
Gross Value of Production              10,"60     12,420       22,300         12.320       15.020       21.690
Less Input Cost                        4.100       4,570        6,600          4.370        5,180        6.790
Less Depreciation Allowance for
Farm Implements                         300         300          500            320          320          500
Less Cost for Hired Labor                 480        500          700            490          520          700
Less Land Tax and Water Charged lb          0           0         200             140         150          200
Total Costs                        4,880       5,370        8.000          5.320        6.170        8.190
Net Farm Family Income                 5.380       7,050       14.300          7.000        8.850       13.500
Reward to Family Labor                  1,120       1,160       1.600           1,150       1,220        1.630
Net Return to Farm                     4,260       5,890       1.~,700         5,850        7.630       11,870
Project Rent
00
Net Return to Farm                     4.260       5.890       12,700          5.850        7,630       11.870
Taxes and Water Charges /c                  0           0         200             140          150         200
Net Return Before Tax                  4,260       5,890       12,900          5.990        7,780       12.070
Less Management Fee (10%) /d              430        590        1,290            600          780        1.210
Less Risk Equivalent /e                 1,030       1,240         560            620          750          540
Implicit Land Rent                     2,800       4.060       11,050          4.770        6,250       10.320
Project Rent If (W -                                      6.990                       1,480 /2       4,070
P - Present, W - Future Without Project, W - Future With Project
/a  Headreac'  farms near NEC in Stage I and Stage It areas.
/b  Land taxes vary in accordance with land grade and amount to about NRs 35/ha.  However. all farms
smaller than 1.0 ha are tax exempt. In addition, numerous other exemptions and rebates are in
effect leaving most agricultural land untaxed.
/c  Since project rent should show the incremental land rent before water charges are paid. water charges
are added before calculating project rent.
/d  Premium for management and entrepreneurial skills. assumed as 10% of net return to thle tarms.
Se Risk equivalent for uncertain availability of water assumed as 10% of gross value under
rainfed conditions. 5% under present unreliable irrigation and as 2.5% under irrigated
conditions with project.
If  Project rent is the incremental land rent due to the project.
/9  Projact rent as the incremental land rent due to the Stage I and Stage II projects i.e. tW - P).



NEPAL
NARAVANI III IRRIGATION PROJECT
Estimated Project Rent and Cost Recovery /a
(NRs/ha)
Stage I and IS        Stage III        Total ProJect
Project Rent
Gross Value of Production                   27,010               35.920           29.060
Less Production Cost                         7.210                8.080            7.410
Less labor Cost                              2.410                2.280            2.380
Net Income                                  17.390               25.560           19.270
Less Management Fee                          1.740 *              2,560            1,930
Less Risk Equivalent                           870                1.800            1.080
Project Rent                                14.780               21.200           16.260
Project Rent as % Of Net Income                 85%                  83%              84%
Cost Recovery (Rs/ha of net CCA)
Water Charges                                2.900                1.500            2.580
Cost Recovery as % of Project Rent               20%                  7%               16%
Project Cost
Capital Cost
Irrigation Infrastructure                 12.120 /b            13.100             n.a.
Remodelling Works                          5960                _-                 n.a.
Sub-total                                 18.080               13.100           16,920
Operation and Maintenance Cost               2.830                1,500            2.520
Total Cost                                20.910               14.600           19.440
Cost Recovery as % of Project Cost               14%                 10%                13%
Cost Recovery as % of Operation
and Maintenance Cost                           102%                100%               102%
/a  Expressed in incremental present values discounted over 30 years at 10%
in constant 1986 prices.
/b  Capital cost of works completed under the Stage I and 11 projects
adjusted to 1986 price level excluding interest.



IMTM  U!l IfUI   I.C
Stais I - Cost and 3.tit. tfo Econmic bllsis
1987   1916   1961   1990   1991   12   19S3   1994   1995   1996   19            19      1SY9 20-2016
A.   1E I URICOLTE. rU        =  U     T MmCT
6rss Val  Uitt proJwct                            227460 23*30 23.0 24730 256.10 264.60 268.30 27*40 272.40 272.90  2#290 272.90 272.90   272.90
Proacti  Cost Uiu   Project                        91.70  92*.6   93.60  94."0  96.70  96.30  99.3o  100.20 100.0 100.31  100.30 100.60 100.3   100.90
IL Valu VitiUt ProJct                             135.90 140.70 14S.90  152.40  159.40 166.M0  16900  171.20 171.30  172.10 1210 172.10 172.10   172.1
I. WAUE OF MRIULL FUUcnO ON PLECT
Boss Val   1th Proct                              227.60 233.30 239.0 250.20 264.60 202.0 29790 317.30 337.40  353*40 375.  318.40 M3.                401.40
pro6ctlom cut With projet                           1.O  92.60  93.60  95.70  96.08  102.7  106.90 '12.00  117.30  22.3  127.30 130.70 132.90   134.1
at vale With Pject                                135.90 140.t70 15.90  154.3  1653  19.30  11.0  205.30 22.10 235*60 24820 257.70 264.10   217*30
Iinowtal btits /a                                      -      -       -   2.10   6.40  12.60  22.00  34.10  46.30  63*50  76.10  65.60  92.oo    95.20
C. IInSTIU   COST
Prrot  of Cao  El1U                                14.00  13.00  31.71  15.53  12.63   6.60   4.04
bRoelUnm and       izaizs                           0*69   4*60  11,54  11*54   7.71         -      -       -      -       -      -       -      -         -
0th.,                                               1.05   2.22   2.79   2.9   2.79   2.79   2.79           -      -       -        
Sutl                                               15.74   19.82  46.04  29.06  23.13   t.39   6.83         -      -       -      -       -      -         -
D.  a11cu  COST
orratim .n Hmintao                                  2.40   2.40   2.40   2.40   2.40   2.40   2.40   2.40   2.40   2.0    2.40   2.40   2.40            2.40
Ecamic Ct   Lnd Asist                               0.94   0.94   0.94   0.94   094   0.94   0.4   04   0.94   94 4   0.94   0.94   0.94                0.94
9i*-tStal                                           3.34   3,34   3.34   3.34   3.34   3.34   3.4   3,34   3.34   334   34   3.34   3.34                3.34
TOt  cost                                          19.0   23*16  49.3   33.20  26.47  12.73  10.17   3.34   3.34   3*34   3.34   3.3    334             3.
uT UIImIL  BEFmITS                                -19.08 -23U  -493  -31.10 -2007   0.07  11.63  33076  44.96   0.16  72.76  92.26  36"6               91.6
~~~~~~-"- - "- ---   --- --
Iit.l  ate .f btum    21,70L.
_a  15e900h
,  l5.9eob                                                                                                                               Fq~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



IWI*MZI III RTIO  TRM
Stabt 1 - Cust and hoefits top Ecimmit Mulsis
£967   198   189            1 991     19 1M        1M 4   1995   16"   1997   1"9    1999 2002016
A. VWE O A3XOLTM.. PUU I HimhJ PUJCT
6ress Vale Wiut project                          160.20 165.00 19.   196.70 204.10 211.20 214.20 216.70 217.70 216.10 216.10 218.10 216.10   21812
Proutian Cost lithMt Project                      72.80  73,50  74*40  75*50  76,0  78.30  N.10  79.90  80,20  60.50  60.50  10.50  80.50    60.50
Not Value Dithout P   t                          107.40 111.50 11590  121.20 12720 13290 135.10  1360  137.50 137.60  Z7.60 137.0  13.60   1.#60
8.   LtIE O t0RICULTUL PURTIS WITH PIIIIECT
Gross Value ith PoJect                           160.20 185.00 190*30 19.20 211,00 225.30 238.20 254.10 270.60 287.60 301.70 312.30 319.50   323.10
Production Cost With Project                      72.80  73.50  74.40  76.10  78.70  81.90  85.40  69.60  93.0  98.59 102.20 104.90 106.80   107.80
met Value 8ith Proect                            107.40  111.50 115.90 123.10 132.30 143.0 152*.0 164,50  176,70 189.30 19.*50 207.40 212.70   215.30
Incr_wu    lneita /a                                  -      -       -   1t90   5.10  10.50  17.70  27.70  39.20  51.70   1.90  69.60  75.10    77.70
C. IDlEIEN  COST
Prororti4  of Comn Elnti                          6.54  19.13  17.25  15.00   5.93   3.41   1,74         -      -       -      -       -      -        -
Rlodulln VWd Nodtmization                             -   0.60   4.40   8,64  10,37  1045   6.29          -       -      -      -       -      -        -
Otr                                                0.61   2.25   2.35   2.35   2.35   235- 
S-total                                            7,15  21.#9   24,00  25.99  18.65  16.21  10.03        -      -       -      -       -      -        -
. REtURIT COST
aeation and Maintena                               1,92   1.92   192. l2.92   192   1.92   1.92   1.92   1.92   1.92   1.92   1.92   1.92             1.92
Economic Cut ot Lan hmasitim                       0,76   0.76   0,76   0.76   0*76   0*76   0.76   0.76   0.76   0.76   0.76   0.76   0.76           0.76
sb-total                                           2.68   2.68   2,68   2.68   2.68   2.68 2.66   2,66   2.68   2.48   2.68   2266   268              2.68
total Cest                                         9.83  24.66  26,68  28667  21.33  18.89  12.71   2.68   2.66   2*6    2.68   2,68   2.68           2.U6
MET IIElltAL MOM                                   -9.B3 -24.66  -26.6  -26.77 -16.23  -8.39   4.99  25.02  36,52  49.02  59.22  67U12  72.42    75.02
Internl Rte of Retum a 22.442.                                                                                                                                           ¢  z
/a 12.600 ha



6AY11 III IUIOTIIN FISET
Stm III - Cost aNd 8.tits for Lesmic baltiu
Alls N
1987   1988 1 96I      199    11   12   1993   199    19996               9    1998   199 210-2016
A. WLIE OF AWIUt. PUCUU O       IZ T IT
Bss Value liiwut ProJect                          98.40 101400 103.80 107,40 111.50 115*50 117.10 118.40 118.70  WO0 118.70 116.70 118.70   118.70
Productimn Cost Vithwt Proct                      46.90  47.20  47,50  47.#   48.30  48.70  48.90  49.10  49.10  49.10  49.10  49.10  49.10    49.10
lSt value WUletut cProJt                          51*50  53.80  5630  59.0  63.20  66.80  68.20  69.30  69.60  69.60  69.60  6940  69.60    69.60
Do VMlE OF 48RXtU.LIW  M.fIVCTIU UITN PROECT
6Ur VluW 11th ProJect                             98.40 101.00 103.0 107.40 111.5  119.40 129.40 142.80 157.50 172.80 188.9  205.80 217.10   m.94
Proctn Cost 1ith Project                          46.90  47.20  47,50  47.80  48.30  49.*60  5150  54.40  57.50  60.70  64.10  67.70  70.20    71.40
Not Vdlus I1th ProJct                             51.50  53.80  56.30  59.60  63.20  6980  77.50  68.40 100.00 112.10 124.80 138.10 146.9    151.50
lacutald Bmtits /a                                   -      -       -      -      -   3.00   9.30  19.10  30.40  42.50  S520  68.50  77.30    81.90
C. ID Pau COSrT
PriuortUe at Coa f Elaut                           4.71  13.02   9.23   9,03  12.72   4.93   2,07       -       -      -      -       -      -        -
Irrilatm DistrMiutm Sute                          3.25   6.39  13.50  22.37  23.38  1.24  1O.S0         -       -      -      -      -       -        -
nw                                                **0.28   0.28   0.28   0.32   0.28   0.23   0.23      -       -      -      -       -      -        -
&btl                                              8.24  19*69  23.01  31.3  36.88  22.45  12.15         -       -      -      -       -      -        -
D. IECII COT
eation a  Nint    e.                                 -       -      -      -   0.31    .83   1.71   2.28   244   2.64   2.64   2.64   2.64         2.64
kcuiinic c.t f LW  eitim                             -       -      -      -   3*27   3.27   3.27   3.2    3.D    3.2        27 347   3.27 3.  3.27
8Sb-t@tAl                                            -      -       -      -   3.58   4.10   4" 58.55   5.91   5.91   5.91   5.91  s59             s.
TOtal Cet                                          8.24  19.69  23.01  31.8  40.46  26.3  17.83   5.55   5.9   5s.9    So1   59    5.91            s."
ET IIIEIEI BEIMS                                  -6,24 -19.69 -23.01 -31,68 -0.46 -23.55  -8.53  13.55  24.49  36.59  49n.2   42.59  71.39    75.99
Iatteral but at Return 3 184.8 
is 8700 by
Li)



11FTM11 III tllUATIX MJEtT
totw  pr.t - Cast Sd   wits tor Ecmi. bialusis
m5 3
197   198   19   199    199    1M             19    194    195   199 IM             16   199 200206
A. VALUE OF MIXaLTWA M. IOIES WIIETO   MULE
ross Vaiw Wtiut Plrojat                            50620 519.30 53.60  5.40  571.70 5 0  599.0 606.50 608.0 609.70  0970  09.70 60970   609.70
Ptductin Cost  ithout Proiat                      211.40 213.30 21*550 218.20 221.90 22530  227.30 229.20 722.90 230.40  230.40 230.0  23040   230.40
Nt Valw Nitout Projat                              24.80 36.00 318.10 333.20 349.80 366.20 32.30 377.30  378.90 379,30 379.30 379.30 379.30   379.30
B. VIE OF ACtLTM   fMUCTII  INM  PRCt
Gross Valuiw  ith Priect                           506.20 519.30 533*.6   556.o0 587.10 626.70  665.10 714.20  765.50   19.0o  86.10  906.50 933.60   4740
Produdtan Cast With Projet                         211.40 213.30 215.50 219.60  225*80 234.20 243.80 256.00 248.70 22.00 M.60 303.30 309e.9    313.30
Nit  alu With projet                               294D.0 30600 318.10  337.20 361.30  392.50 421.30 458.20 496.80 537.00 572.50 603.20  623.70   634.10
lrumntal knits                                          -      -       -   4.0   11.50   26.30  49.00  8O9   117s"  157.70  193.20  223.90 244.40   254.80
C. tIlESllENT COS
Pror,otien at Con Elements                          25.25  45.15  58.19  39.6  31.28   14.94   7.85          -       -       -      -       -       -        -
aumdellingt bdenization and Km Norks                 3.94   11.59  29.44  42.55  41.9   27.69   1879         -       -       -      -       -       -        -
Othr                                                 1.94   4.75   5.42   5.42   5.42   5.42   3,07           -      -       -      -       -       -        -
9Sb-total                                           31.13  U.49   93.05  87.53  78.66  4B.0S   29.71          -      -       -       -      -       -
1>. IECINUNT COiST
Iheration md NhIntemt                                4,32   4.32   4.32   4.32   4.63   5.15   6.03   6.60   6.96   6.96   6.96   6.96   6.96              6.96
Ecwmic Cost af Land  kcisdsUt                        1.70   1.      1,70   1.70   4,97   4.7   4.97   497   49            4.9 7   4.97 4. 97 4.997
9 1-tota1                                            6.02   6.02   6.02   6.02   9.60   10.12  11.00   11.57  11,93  11.93   11.93   11.93  11.93    11.93
Total Cost                                          37.S   67.51  9.07  93.55  U.26  58.17  4071   11.57  11.93  11.93   11.93  11.93  11.93    11.93
MT ICM TM    MUMEFItS                              -37.15 -67.S1  -n.07  -B9.55 -76.76  -31.87    .29  69.33  105.97 145.77 181.27 211.97 232.47   242.87
uu anammam     um ui   ii                     u3n i            u       m       u    ni
Int     b   of Returm a 21.01L.                                                                                                                                                           Z
/____ he
/    .400 ba                                                                                                                                                                       > I.



-74-
ANNEX 2
NEPAL
NARAYANI III IRRIGATION PROJECT
Detailed Cost Estimates
Tables
1   -  NEC Improvements
2   -  Irrigation and Drainage Works in Stage III Area
3   -  Remodelling Stage I Area - Irrigation and Drainage Works
4   -  Remodelling Stage II Area - Irrigation and Drainage Works
5   -  Flood Protection Dike and River Training Works
6   -  Upgrading of Poad Network
7   -  Equipment and Vehicles for O&M and Radio Telecommunication Works
8   -  Regional Workshop
9   -  Technical Support
10   -  Establishment and O&M Costs for Stage I and II and III Areas
11   -  Land Acquisition Requirements



ARutJAuI III IRRIGATION PROJECT
Table 1. NEC tiprovennt /a
Ostailed Cost tablo
(NeN '000)
Quantity                                                       Be" Costs
unit  I987? t98  1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 Total Unit Cost   t987    1988    t989    1990    1991  t192  193  Totatl
1. INVESTRENT tOSTS
A. Canal Lining                                        lm      -    I    I    I 0.6    -    -   3.6        6.706          - 6.706.0 6.706.0 6,706.0 4.023.6      -    - 24,141.6
S. Canal Slope Protection                              km       - 0.   0. 5  0. S  0.5    -    -    2         31S         -   157.5   1t7.S   157.5  15.S       -    -    630.0
C. Left Sank Strenthening                              km      - 0.5    I    I    I   -    -   3.S          140.2         -    70. 1   140.2   140.2  140.2      -    -    490.7
0. Raising of llo. 2 Service Road                      1       - 3.5    5    5    5    -    -  18.5           SO          -   175.0  250.0   250.0   250.0       -    -    925.0
E. Additional Structures
Check Strcturs                                      no      -    I    1    1    -    -    -      3        279          -   279.0   279.0   279.0        -     -    -    837.0
Cross Orains                                        no      -    I    1    I   -    -    -       3        359          -   359.0   359.0   3S9.0        -     -    - 1t077.0
Cart Bridges                                        no      -    2    2    1    1    1    -      7        300          -   600.0  600.0  300.0   300.0 300.0    - 2.100.0
Foot Bridge                                         no      -    I    I    I    -    -    -      3         50          -   50.0    50.0    SO.0         -     -    -    150.0
O/S Protectton                                      no      -    -   7S   75   75  i5    -  300              4         -       -   300.0  300.0   300.0 300.0    -  1,200.0
Su-Total Additionat Structurs                                                                                             -. 1288.0 1, 588. 0 1,288. 0   600.0 600.0    - 5.364.0
F. Reirs of Tlau. Barrage  and Reolted Works b                 -    -                               -              13000.0                        -        -     -    - 13,000.0
Total INVSTENT COSTS                                                                                                  t3. 000.0 8, 396. 6 8.841. ? 8 541. 7 S. 171. 3 600.0    - 4,4551.3
Total                                                                                                                  13,20040.0 28,396.Z6 8.8421.? 8.05241.? 5,*171.32 8600. 0 '2- Z44,5251.43
22=S222     2 ::::: 2- ::::::5   22: 22*2 = =22   2  *2 -=2Z2
la  Cost schedule in NIOGII fiscal year with base costs as of Apr11 1986. I
ib  Preliminary cost estimate based on the *xtent of flood deage.
(XD 



nKiPL
""Text8 III 1181461118 P60410
'table,& termigst and  soinA  bi    in Stop III am  UlocO  12-Is. e.7oo No /a
sait lad eCost tal.e
Ot*fiit low    l
116 0001f
otatity                                                                   so" Costs
thit   Sts7  toIs NCt   tsnie   li1    1692    10962  total    unit Cot  11s7    tsss         1069     t110     taot    tw2       tss6    Totel
....   ......  .... .... ....  ...............    ................  ....   .....  ..... ..... ...... .........
t. twisntt COSTS
A. tin And franch Seondary Cools
Canal sorks                                       U1        -    -      to     Is      iS      15      S4   61.4          ot        n -     -  t.010.0  e, 5.0  I.515.0  1.s1ts.0   6184  6201.4
Str.ctts                                                    -                   i s5   75      so      26    27s       4.1t3                   2.406.5 32,600.6  2.600   2.a6.4       1251.4 tSa2u.s
%&-lotIl tin and Branch S_condwy Canls                                                                                                 -       - 2.4,16  5,124.6  5s12 3.n121.s t.0 7.89     ",485.3
L  5%*-Sconary Cnoal
Caal  ke                                                                to -    -  1      25   20   14.1   a8. I         6as        -       -    tse0       60    412s5    27*n  0    266.5  t.654.0
Stto                                               i        -    -     21      53      5?      52      27    237        37            -        1 044.9  2.4.1.   2,.S62.0  2101. I 1.43t.11 1171.2
"*-TotaI  S*-Secondary Caal                                                                                                            -       -  1.233.1 2s4211  2065.4  2,429.1   1. GM64 tO. a".s
C. Tortias VW COf h
Tertiary Cwal :kWe                                 U        -    -      O       2s 2   25      2s       a      03          2        -       -      2.0    205.0   205.)   2S. 0       65. 6    62.6
tertiary Sttwa                                    rno       -   -      1SO    230     250    250      225   1.15        6L4         -       -   05  1,607..s  1.607.S  167.5 t      . 446L8  1.233.8
00 Awthors                                         to       -    - 1.00   2.000   2.000   2,000   1.700   I a700        0.2?        -       -   29    5.7    31.1    s31.7   452.0  2,313.0
0mi Strutqs                                       bs        -        452.1  71f4. 6 2.234.S2.651.3 2.4923.4  6.700,     6.64                              712, S 2.2)0.3 0    2.36L2  2.353.  6,212.3
S*-Totsl frtllia Ias and 0*b                                                                                                           - A        1.73.0  3.0S&?   ,55s4.6  4.512.0  4.327.0  M W1t.1
D. 11r VW Sinar Cosina
llsJcr *oras                                       k        -           10      20     20      Is    6L4    73.4        42.6        -426.    656S.L0    656.0   642.0   25S.5 3141.5S
Str"                                               is                  s o 5   to0     71s     75      20    320        27.1                    ,315.0  2.716.0  2,032S  2.032.5    12 .0  L.67
NI,.. Drict                                        to                   to1    25      25      25      t0      05       S.174                     57.4    1463.5 S  43.5   143.$    57.4   S45. 3
Stituro                                                                 I   t   40     40      40      II    141        764                      4252.4  1.0 sL  -056.0  1,056.0   290.4  3,A 8
S%6-Total biosr ai iner "tow nft                                                                                                               - 2262.6  A.765.5  4,0680  2.874.0  t.242.3 1. 2.20.6
L Cana srice   oda                                   k         -   S       s      20      20      L.            61.4        226        - 1,0 0   2,42.0  4.510.0  4, 5S. 0    216.          - 1a9.1  ,
f. Oral        s Srrce   Sands                       %M            S       i s6   2       2      2.4       -   63.4        23.5        - SM.S    252.5   470.0   410.0    71.,              - 1I ,48.S
6  lsic andt ohdificati  of [txisting Stretww      000 Is      -    -       1       2      2       2      tI7    67      too0,3        -       -    10.4    210    216.2   216.6    al4.3   143.3
. Nicacllansus Morks                                OWls       -            1       2      2       2      I.7    L7      442.06                     442.    a4        680.1   8610.1I   751.5  2,845.1
I. Shatll  Idall scm
friling marks 4fo 4 01#ell                       sett       -  40        -       -              -       -      40         74        - 2s950.0 -0              - 
Proc_?At of Pp ed Sia                            _It        -   0        - tell-                        -      40         to        -  720.e         -                          .             720.0
Pmp Manse s_   PipIng                            tel            4             -        4G                                 26        - I. 12. 0                                              1. 120.0
3 py orsry                                        sets      -  40        -           -           -       -     40          12           46.0                     -              .             460.0
Sub-Total Shallow 6tiell I S_r                                                                                                         - s6260.0                 -                             S-26.0
4. fiol to Cp                                                  -   -        -       -       -      -          -                  3.125.0       -        -        -&3 
total IUntsIUII  1O676                                    a                                                                           250 e.275 i76.f1 n    21,t.7.  22,0 n  2.7 Lt577. 2 tQOW66.23. M 16
toktl                                                                                                                               ILt125.e 0I375 t2, 7*   1. 217.02S. 22.7 165ttS77.2 MOMS.93.726.6
to  Coat achdal* #n       tim    yl - w ttb bae" 605t as of    l Ap 6l 6
r   Uetal tI of arwtuerks aw stm4t_rs olse  in A_os 6. SW.
--------   -----   ---   -      --      -------------   ----  -  ---------------------------------------------------------------    -------------------------------------------------------     -   --------------------------------l-    l- 
tJIS



NEPAL
ItY63l ftI  It6t30*110   PRWECT
tabI.a   R ds1l tng of Stag  I Area   rirgtion S Orsfeg  lMorka Stocks I to 6   15.980 hat    a
Detailed Cost Table
sit I eol
tuantity                                                                ease Costs
-----------------~~------------------- i -----------~----  unit  ---------------_----_--_______----_----_--___--__--__--__
Unit   t9B7  19U 18989    199             1991   1992 1993  Total    Cost  1981   19U           t1989       t90    M99t   t992 1993  Total
.:3:.5:  sags  saga:::: sagas::.   s   2:::2 g :::: Xs: a:5:: nsa::..  sa   as:.:: :sags: as :::::: s:a*s=:s sa:: .       ax s B:os  Saga  sa:%..-
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Ibin and 8rtnch Secory Canal
Rhimodalllng                                 0001h        -        3        5        S        3    -    -          tS   291        -   873.0  t,455.0  1.455.0    n3.0         -    -  4.6.0
Aiturcation                                  000 ba       -        2        5        5        4    -    -          16    83        -   I68.0    41S.0    415.0   332.0    -    -  1.328.0
Ssb-totaI Ntin an  Branch Secondary Canl                                                                                              - 1.039.0  1.870.0  1.870.0 1.205.0                   SU.9   0
8, Sub-secondery Cantl
Cal  orks                                       he        -        S        9        9        5    -    -          28  1S. 5       -    77. S    139.1    139.5    77.S    -    -    434.0
Structuses                                                -       30       60       60       40    -    -         t9o    28       -   780.0   .560. 0  t. S.0 1.040. O                  4.940.0
Suib-Totel Sub-secondary Canal                                                                                                        -   857.5  t.699.5  1.B99.5 t. 117.5    -    -  S.374.0
C. Tertiaries and CfO Ob
OFO  aerthworks                                  a        - 2. 663.3 S.326. 7 S. 326.  2. 663.3     -    -   15.980  0.23          -   616. 0  1.232.0  1,232.0   616.0        -    -  3.696 0                           1
OFO Structures                                  ha        - 1.342.  S, 29. 4 5. 295.4 4. 046 5    -    -   t5.980  0. 95           - t, 273. 5  S 022.5  5. 022.5  3S. 0      -    - IS. t56. 5                        _
_.. _   _--  _   __---___       _ _-- -- - - - - - - -   -- - -   -- - _ ---   --- -- -  _4
Sub-Total Tertiaties and OfO hb                                                                                                       - 1,i89.5  6.2S4.5  6,254.5 4.4S4.0         -    - 18,52.5S
0. Service Roads                                   km        -       12       24       24        12    -    -         72    53        -   636.0  1,272.0  1,272.0   636.0         -    -  33816.0
E. liqwoimnt of Existing Project CMs                         -         -        --                           . -                 662.0         -         -          -        -    -    -    662.0
Total INVESTEINT COSTS                                                                                                               662.0 4,422.0  1.026.; tt.O950 7412.15    -    - 34.;68;.5
gags: sagaus:  sagasg22a:ssaasza:a55:::  aa  as  gavs::::
total                                                                                                                                 682.0 4.422.0 110.    tt00 110.0 t7.412.5           -    34.66. 5
::::ss    =g: assssagagsa: sa:5gs5::=:: gaa  a:g-Z:B sass sssasa
/a Cost schetul, in WIGN fiscal yer with base costs as of ritl 1986.
ib Oetails of earthoorks and structures given in Annex 6. SOM.
-- - - - -  - - -  - - -  - - - -  - - -  - - --  - - - -  - - -  - - - -  - - - -  - - -  - -  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
IW 3



NEPAL
WARAThNI 111 IRRIGATION,PMOECI
table 4. Romdalling of Stag. 11 Area Irrigation and oreinage Uwrks (Blacks 7 to (2. 12.8t0 (I. /a
Detailed Cost Table
U1QR  0001
Quantity                                                         Base Costs
Unit   mie lo88 U989  (990    (991    1992    (993    Total   Cott  (987 le88   I98"   (990        991     199     1993    Total
1. INVESTNENT COSTS
A. Wain and Breanch Socondary Canals
Remodelling                            000 hae              2       4       4     2.8              12.8  218            -  432.0  884.0    84. 0    604.8        - 2.26C 8
Structures                             000 hae              2       3       4     3.8       -      12.8   93     -      -   188.0  279.0  372.0   353.4          - (.190.4
Suli-Total Mlain an  Branch Secondary Canals                                                                                   Gi6180 1. 143.0 (.236.0    958. 2       3.955.2
B. Sub-secondary Canal
Cana Iworks                              km       -    -   13      14      14   13.6         -    54.6  IS.8      -    -  202.8   2(8.4   2(8.4    212.2         -    831.8a
Structures                               no       -    -  60       65      T0      69        -     264   286            - t. S60.0 (. 690. 0 1.820.0  t .794.0   -  IL 884. 0
Sub-Total Sub-secondery Canal                                                                                        -     - .762.8 t. 90& 4 2,3. S.4  2, 008.2     - 7.715.8
C. lertlaries and 0(0 /6b
0.0 Eartheorks                           ha       -    -      1 .996.4 4.159. 1 4. 159.1 2.495.4  12.810  0.23    -             -  462.0  962.5   962.5   577.5S  2.964.5                      0
0(0 Structures                           hae         -    -   3.056.6 4.019.5 4,395.2 1,338.5  (2.810  0.95-                    - 2.9(2.7 3,630.0  4. 168.0 (.275.4 12.206.0 
Sub-Total Tertiaries end 0f0 /b                                                                                      -     -       - 3.374.? 4.792.S 5. 150.5 1.852.9 (5, (70. 5
D. Drainage System
Major Drainag"  Canals                   ha       -    -   6        6       7     7. 2       -    26. 2    19     -     -   ((4.0   114.0  133.0   (36.8         -   497. 8
Plinor Drainaew Canals                   ha       -    -   13      14      14   (3.6         -    54.6  B. 23     -     -   61.0    67.2   87.2       64.7       -   340.2
Structures                               no       -    -  25       26      26      27        -      104    28     -    -  700.0  728.0  728.0   7S6. 0              2.912.0
Stb-lotal Drainage System                                                                                            -    -  39.0  929.2  948.2   977.5                3,710.0
E. Service Road,                            ha       -    -   (8      (8      16      (8        -       2    53      -    -  954.0  954.0  954. 0    954.0          - 3.8(S. 0
F. Improvement of luisting I'ro3ect Cw               -                                                                388. 0               --                       - 358. 0
Total INVESTNENT COSTS                                                                                                    S 55.0 4. 229.8 S. 309.3 9.296. I (0.046.4 (.85S2. 9 34,965. 4
Total                                                                                                                     556.0 4,229.8 B. 39. 3 9.989.) ( 0.048.4 (.852.9 34,965.4
/a Cost schedule in lNNW fiscal year with base costs at of priIl 1968.
/b DetilIs of eartheorks and structures given in Ann.x IL SOYl.



NEPAL
NARAYINI III IRRIGATION PROJECT
Table 5. Flood Protection Dikes and River Training Works /a
Detailed Cost Table
4NRs 0001
Quantity                                                       Base Costs
Unit  1987 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 Total  Unit Cost  1987   1988          1989    1990   1991 1992 1993  Total
2:=:  :==S :=:: 2::: 2:: ::: :::::=: :::: :2::=  =::::::::  2:::   ::                                   ,=::  =22  == == == 
1. ItNVESTMENT COSTS
A. Flood Protection Dikes
1. tal Eakeys River
Enbankaunt                                            kV      -    4    4    4    -                 1 -    t2  1. 234      4.936. 0  4.936.0 4.936.0                 t14. 08. 0
Sub-Total La$ Bakeys River                                                                                                 -  4.936.0  4.936.0 4.93&0    -    -          1 '4.808.0
2. Sageeti River
Erbantunsnt                                           km      -    4    3    -    -    -    -        7       1.1 90     -  4. 760. 0  3.570. 0           -           -    -  8.330.0
Sub-Total Begmati River                                                                                                       4,760.0  3.570.0           -        -       8.330.0
Sub-Total Flood Protection bikes                                                                                                 9.696. 0  8.506.0 4.936.0    -    -    -23.13A 0
B. River Training Works
t. River Training Works in Stage I Area                                                                                                                                                                  -
Short Cuts                                            km      -  0.9  0.9  0.9    -    -    -   2 7          ?.4U8     -  2.264. 1  2.264. 1 2.264. 1               -  6.792.2
Flood Dikes                                          k'm      -    I    I    I    -    -    -        3       265. 7     -    265.7    265.?   265.7    -         -       797. I
Sub-Total River Training Workes in Stage I Area                                                                            -  2.529.8  2.529.8 2.529.8    -    -    -  t.589.3
2. River Training Works in Stage 11 rea
Flood Oske Along the Bangari River                    km      -  0.7  0.7  0.7    -    -    -        2       t99.3      -    133.5    133.5   133.5    -    -    -    400.6
Flood Dike Extension Along the Pasaha River           km      -  0.7  0.7  0.7    -    -    -        2       181.4      -    12t.5    12t.5   12t.5    -    -    -    364.6
Gabion Works Along the Pasaha River                   km       -  0.2  0.2  0.2    -    -    -   0.5         1.782      -    297. rC   297.6   297.6    -    -    -    892.8
Sub-Total River Training Works in Stage It Area                                                                            -    552.7    552.7   552.7    -    -    -  1,658. 0
Sub-Total River  raoining Works                                                                                               -  3. 082. 4  3.082.4 3.082.4    -    -    -  9,247.3
Total INVESTMIENT COSTS                                                                                                          - 12,778.4 1i. 588. 4 8. 018.4    -    -    - 32.385.3
Total                                                                                                                              - 12,778.4 1 588.4 8, .018. 4    -    -  -  32. 385. 3
2=::::::::::::: ==:::  :: r:===::   ::::=
/a Cost schtdule in HH6g1 fiscal year with base costs as of April 1986.
'go
tnsi



NEPAL
NARAYAISI Zil IRRIGATION PROSJECT
labl 6. Upgrading of Road Network /a
Dtetaild Coat table
(*Rs I 000I
tantity                                                          Base Costs
- -- - - - - -  Unit  ------______
Unit  1987 1988 1989 1990 3991 1992 1993 Total  Cost   1987    t988    t989    1990    t991    t992    t993    Total
..fl S: mf:lm ==lZ :m:. ::=l m=:: mm:.'=r tin: mm:. n.m.:== =:32mm: ::====5 Ct====: .2:==== 35535:t mm..m.3 flmmflm
1. INVESTRIENT COSTS
A. Upgrading of Villagp Link Road
Stag  I Area                                         km       2    3    7    7    7    7    7    40    9*    188.0   282.0   658.0   658.0   658. 0   658.0   658.0  3,7 60.0
Stge 11 Area,                                        la        1    4    S    5    5    5    5    30    93          93.0   372.0   4t5.0   465.0   465.0   465.0   465.0  2.790.0
Stage III Area                                       km       3    3    3    3    3    3    3    21    93    279.0   279.0   279.0   279.0   279.0   279.0   279.0  1,953.0
Sub-Total Upgrading of Village Link  oad                                                                              560.0   933.0 1,402.0 1, 402.0 1.402.0 t.402. 0 1. 402.0  8.503. 0
S. Grawvel Ptaolttig on Existitn  tSC A ISC Road,
t. Stage I Area                                      ke       5   13   13   13   13   13   13    83   164    820.0 2. 132.0 2, 132.0 2,132.0 2. 132.0 2. 132.0 2. 132.0 t3, 612. 0
2. Stage II Area                                    km       3   It   It   II   It   It   It    69   163    489.0 t, ?93.0 t. t93.0 t, 793.0 1, 793.0 t.793.0 1, 793.0 11,247.0
Sib-Totat Gravel Metalling on Existitng tSC 3 BSC Roadt                                                             1,309. 0 3.925.0 3,925.0 3.925.0 3.925. 0 3.925.0 3,925.0 24,859.0                           CO
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                                 1,889.0 4. 858. 0 5.327.0 5. 327. 0 5,327.0 5.327.0 5. 327.0 33.362.0                         1
=::::= ::,= .:::::: s:s=  ======= ::==::= ::m=:s: :::,:===SSf
Total                                                                                                                   1,869. 0 4. 858.0 5. 327.-0 5, 327. 0 S. 327. 0 5,327. 0 5.,327. 0 33,362. 0
==::=== :=S===   ==== :2BM   =====. =m======azam *==-==     2 .:a.::*:- xza
......  ........ ___________________________.___________..................mm.........min..s........m..................m...m.............m__________
/a  Cost schodule  in tt8MN fiscal year with bas  costs as of Oprit 1986.
I----
ONts



NEPAL
NARAYANt ItI IRRIGATION PROJECT
Table 7. Equipment and Vehicles for 081 and Radio-Communicat1in System /a
Deta1led Cost Table
itRs I0003
Quantity                                                          Base Costs
----------------------------------------  Unit  -------------------_----__--_,___-----__------__---_______--__
Unit  1987 1988 1989 1990 t99t 1992 1993 Total  Cost    1987    198               1969    1990      1991    1992    1993    Total
::,: :,:: :::: :::: ::: :t: z::: :::, ::::: :::: :::::::: in:::::: s::s:=: tan===:::-= in:=: :t::.in ====:=,i ===n:====,
1. INVESTENET COSTS
A, Equipomnt and Vehicles for 08M
OH Equipment for Stags tIl  h--                                                                             t13286 0         -        -        -        -        -        - t3.286 0
Office Equipment /c                                                                                -            ,2i6.0        -        -        -        -        -         -  1,265.0
Swp,evision Equipmnt /d                                                                                         603.0         -        -                                         803.0
Sub-Total Equipswit  nd Vehicles for 081                                                                         15,355.0         -        -            -             -        - 15.355.0
8. Survey rsa Design Equipment
Survey Equipment /-                                                                                -                 -   627.0         -                 -        -        -    62?. 0
Design Equipment If                       ,                                                                          -   200.0         -                                         200.0
Sub-Total Survey  nd Design Equipnmt                                                                                    -   827.0         -         -        -        -        -    627.0
C. uadto-Comuanication System
t. Equipment
Naster Station                                                                                 -             767.4         -        -        -        -        -        -    767.4
Sib-Station (Type A. 6 Stations)                                                                           1,380 -  -  -   -t3U0  -  -                                      1,383.0
Sub-Station IType IL  18 Stations)-                                                                        4. 031.0        -        -                 -                 -  4,031.0
Sub-Total Equipcent                                                                                           61 8. 4         -                                                6,181.4                           F-
2. Erection                                                                                        -            334.0                           -                                334.0                            t
Sub-total Radio-Camjrnication System                                                                             6, t5  4                               -             -           b .Sl.
Total INVESThENT COSTS                                                                                             255870.54    27.0 :  :                       -        -          22. 697.4 
It. RECURRENT COSTS
AL Spare Parts                                              -                                                               274.0 11 tOt.0 1101.0 1.0 tOt   t t10t0 1 10.0  5 t9. 0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                                       -   274.0 1.101,0 3,101.0 I,101.0 1,t101.0 1.10.0  5,7?9.0
t::::==== ==a=t:=:: S::t: sat::::$ =S5==::: ::===tg ttttt:= 5======
Total                                                                                                                218041. 1001.0  1.13.   .103.100 3 101.01.1.0       .0 1. 1021.0 2,7.
Ia  Cost schedule in NNWG  fi scal year with base costs as of April 1986.
h   Details given in Annex t, Table 4.
Ic  Details given in Annex t, Table 5.
/d  Dataijs given in Annex t, Table 5.
/I  ODtails given in Arnnex 1, Table 5.
If  Details given in Annex 1. Table 5.                                                                                                                                                                       lb
-------------------------------------------------------------_-------                ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------                        toD -
_4 t-



NEPAL
NARATAWI IIl IRRIGATION PROJECT
Table 8. Regional Workshop /a
0eteiled Cost Table
Base Costs
0uantity                   Unit                               INRs '0001
-  Cost   --       -      - -   -   -   -   -    -   -   -   -   -   -    -
Unit  1987 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 Total  lNRsl   1987    19SS    t9S9    1990    1991    1992    1993    Total
: :2 :=:=::5   S:  :::: :::.. : :      :::: ::.::     ::::  :=:::::::::::::::::::::=:::::
1. IWVESTNENT COSTS
I. Land an    nd L .ivelopmnt                                                       -            240.0       -        -       -       -        -       -    240.0
8. Civil Morks and Building                                                          -         1. 100.0 2 100. 0 4 160. 0     -        -       -       -  7 360. 0
C. Equipment. fchinery and Tools                                                     -               -  250.0 t 590. 0        -       -        -       -  1.840. 0
0. Off,ce Equipment                       ----                                                       -       -   260.0        -       -        -       -    280.0
E. local Consultancy Service                        ---                                          240.0   200.0   200.0        -       -        -       -    640.0
F. Training Expenses                                                                -                -   260.0   260.0   260.0   260.0   260.0   260.0  1.560 0
G. Inventory of Spare Parts                         ---                                        2.000.0 2. 000. 0 1 040.0 1 040.0 1. 040.0 i. 040. 0 1. 040. 0  9.200.0
Total iNVESTMENT COSTS                                                                            3 580.0 4B. 10. 0 7. 530. 0 1.300. 0 1. 300. 0 1. 300. 0 1. 300. 0 2. 120.0
Total                                                                                              3,580.0 4. 810.0 7.530.0 1. 300. 0 1. 300.0 1,300.0 1.300.0 21. 120.0
/a  Cost schedule in HNGM  fiscal year with bae  costs as of April 19866.
"3
m >4
tD X1



kEI-AI
NARATARI III IRRIGATIONI PROJECT
Table 9. Technical Support /a
Detailed Cost table
iNRs I 000)
Quant ity                                                       Base Costs
Unit   1987 t968 1989 1990 1991 1922 1993 lotal  Cott    1987         1988     12989     1990     1991    1992    1993    total
1. IUVESTPIENT COSTS
A. Agricultural EKtenston and Research
Office and quarters                                                                               -          6398.0          -                                               8.398.0
Accamodat ion                                                                                                  at81. 0       -                           -        -       -    8)0.0
Vehicles                                                                                          -1,230.5                   -        -         -        -            -       1 2430. 5
Fuel and Oil                                                                                      -229. 6    344.4    344.4    344.4    344 4   344.4   344.4  2,296.0
Research and Training                                                                             -124.1    185.2    188.2    186. 2    186.2   186.2   116 2  1.241.0
5t&-Total Agricultural Extension and Research                                                                  10.7192. 2    530. 6    530. 8    530.6    330. 6   530.85  530.6 13. g75.5
S. Training
Rehabilitatiorn of Traisning Centers-                                                                          600.0    600.0    600.0                   -        -       -  l. no. 0
Overseas Training in Technical Services /b--668.)t   432.3    216. 2    216. 2    2)6.2   216.2                                                                           -  l.965. 0
Training for On-Form De"veopmnt                                                                   -753.2    753.2   1,53.2    753.2    376.8   378.6                      -  3.1660 
S%6-Total Training                                                                                              2.021.3  l.78.5S  1, 569. 4    969.4    592.8   592.8        -  1.531.0
C. Consultant Services /C
Consultant Services                                        47   57   52   45   53   20    6   280   20    S 9,33. 0 11. 685. 0 10,660.0  9.225.0 10,866.0 4,100.0 1, 230. 0 57.400.0
ePAort printing and other misc, services-           -     -     -      -     -     -     -        -             S5.2    220.0    295.4    208. 1    t30.9   257. 3   298 1  1.463. 0
Sub-Total Consultant Services                                                                                   S. 690. 2 1 1, 90.0 10. 955. 4  0. 433.)t 10. "S.9 4 3157. 3 1,5S28.1 3SO.863. 0
Total IWVESI)SENT COSIS                                                                                           22. 503. 7 14. 221. 1 13.055. 3 10.933,0 12. 119.2 S. 480. 6 2.058. 7 80. 371 5               O
IL. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Agricultural Extentsion and Research
Spare Parts for Vehicles                                                                         -                        5.5     8s5 s     85.5     85.5    85.3    S1.3    478.8
Suh-Iotal AgrIcultural Extention and Research                                                                        -       5. 5    65.       85.      85.5    85.5    51. 3    478.8
S. Monitoring and Eva,.jetion
NAT Services                                    000 ha    27   27 29.9 32. 8 35. 7 38.6 38. 6 229.8    t0     270. 0    270 0    299. 0    328.0    357.0   386.0   386.0  2. 296. 0
Sthb-Totat I Woitor tng and Evaluation                                                                           270.0    270.0    299. 0    328.0    357. 0   386 0   386.0  2, 296.0
7otal RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                                270.0    3S5.5    384.5    413.5    442.5   471.5   437.3  2,774.8
Iota)                                                                                                              22.7?73. ? 14,576. 6 13. 439.8 It, 346. 5 12.561 I 5.952. 1 2,496.0 83. 146.3
/a Cost schedule in NIIGN fiscal year with base costs as of April 1986.
lb Foreigjn currency is required for 1986/87. 1987/88 end 19881/89.
/C quantities extpressed in equivalent maronths of foreign consultants time. Details are
provided in Anwes 7. SOV
%O 1,4)



NEPMt
88981881 IIS 198118TI10  PU&CT
Table 10. Establishment and  Opeation 8 98intanee Cost for Stages 1. II J III /a
ODta led Cost tabl
.urns '0o0o
Owentity                                                         BaMe Cost
_.__________  --------.------------------  Uni t  ---~----------^----~~-----~------~~-~~~-~------------------~-~~~-----------
unit  1S87 1988 198  1990 tni  1992 1113 Totel  Cost   198t7   IS             199      1990      tS9t     1992     1993    Total
1. INWESTNENT COSTS
A. Project Establialint A                                                       -                                                 904.5  4.522.5  6L030.0  6 3t1.5  5.427.0  4.522.5  2.412.0  30J  50.0
Total INVESTIgUT COSTS                                                                                                            ;904.5  4.522S. GU030.0  6,231. 5  5.427. 0  4.522.5  2.412.0  30.t50.0
It . ICOIRUNT COSTS
.  eration aW   sinte
Salary of Staff                                                 000 ha  28   28.? I28. 28.7 31.6 34.5 37.4 28.3   17   3,357T.    35.   3.357.9  3.357.9  3.697.2  4.03L85  4.375.S  25541t.I
S.pir and Msantenance Coat of 08I Eqwlpwnt                      00  to  28.7 2.72 28.72a7? 31.6 34.S 37.4 216.3    3t    8.7 489.7 889.7                  8 6 97    9791.6  1t 09.5  I.1514   6767.3
fuel Cost for 088 EquipSent                                     00  ha  2a 7 28 7 2a 7 2   31.6 34.5 37.4 216.3    4    1. 348 9  1, 346.9  1. 348 9  1. 34 9  1,485.2  1t621.5  1 757. 6  10. 20. 
tabor Cost for Bapair and Naintoenas of Project facIlities   Ot he  28.? 28.728.728.? 31.6 34.S 37.4 218.3    39  1t.t9.3  1. 11.   1,111.3  1.1I9.3  1.232.4  1.34s.5  1.458a6       513.7
Material tost foe RIar 8 4 ltaint e- of lroject Facilittio   0o0  h   26.7 28.7 28.7 28L  31.6 34.S 37.4 216 3   100   2.610.0  2,670.0  2.870.0  2.870.0  3.t60.0  3,4S0.0  3.740.0  21.8130.0
Other                                                           00  ha  28.7 28.7 28.7 28.7 31.6 34.5 37.4 218.3    32        918.4   91& a     Ofta4    018.4  1.011.2  1.104.0  1.t986.  6M989.6
Sub-Total operatio  and V aintanto                                                                                            10,504.2 10,504.2 10, SO4.2 10 S04.2  1.S5M.8 12, f2.0 13.6S&.4  7n1.t97.8 1
Total tECIIU1EIS  COSTS                                                                                                           10. 504.2 10. 54.2   . 504. 2 10. 504. 2 It. 55. 0 t2.627.0 13,6 8 4    .6897. 8    I
total                                                                                                                              11 , 40 87 t5, 02fL67 t1, 534.2 16,8A3.7 16,92.6 0 t7.1419.5 16,1O0. 4 t1t10.047.8
sosass .  s.. as ta5.5.5*   s-sa a:a%e  8...  as sassa:: 55a.stsssafl  ssa.ssza.
_   ---- --_ - --_ --_-   -_   -_- -  ---___    -_ ----- -- --- -- --- -- --------___ -______       -._-_-------
/a  Cost sce_ule in NIOM  fiscat lor wtth bo   costs as of 4rit  t98
lb  Enginoing and Ministration.
0-



NEPAL
ARAVARI fi1  IRRIGUTIOU PRIOJECT
Table It. Land Acquistition Requirements /a
Detailed Cost lable
Bass Costs
Quantity                                                             (MhR  lOOt
Unit  1987 19;   1989 1990 1      ;91992 1993 Total     ste?l ;98;  ;911    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    Total
ass   exss on. s s sea. Rass   sas  S:u *s:: swats   assass    :5:55 ass:: sass::. sZass:::  sat::::: 55:55:::  ssas:. g5215225
1. IlUESTNENT COSTS
______________._
A. Flood Skas
fanti                                                         he    3.4  3.4  1.7    -    -    -    -   8 s           32. 100  109.1 109.1    54.6          -        -        -        -    272.9
tal fakeya                                                    ha    7.5  7.5  3. 6    -    -    -    -  18.6          32.100  240.8 240.    115. 6                                     -     97. 1
Sub-Total Flood DiksI                                                                                                             349.9 349.9   t?O. I         -        -        -        -    880.9
8. River Training
______________
Short Cuts                                                    ti    4. 6  4.6  4.6    -    -    -    -  13.8          32t100  147.7 147.7   147.7           -        -        -        -    443.0
Dties                                                         ha       4    4  2.4    -    -    -    -  10.4          32.100  128.4 t28.4    77.0           -        -        -        -    333.8
Sub-Total Riwer Training                                                                                                          276. 1 276. 1  224.7         -        -        -        -    776.8
C. Rods
Upgrading of Village Roods                                    he    5.2  5.2  5. 2  S.2  5.2  S. 2  5.2  36.4         32.tOO  166. 9 166.9   168.9   166.9   166.9   166. 9   1668    t. 18.4
Sub-Total Roud                                                                                                                    166.89 166.9   166.9   166.9   166.9   166.S   166.9  1.168.4
D. Field Cop nd Qartors                                           ha    0.1    -    -    -    -                  . -   O.1  32.100    3.2     -       -        -        -        -        -       3.2
E. Irrigation and Drainage Facilities i  Stags Itn ArSa
Rain Secondary Canals                                         ha       -    -  7.3  7.3  7.3  7.3  7.3  36.5          32.100       -      -   234.3   234.3   234.3   234.3   234.3  1.171.?
franch Secondery Canls                                        ha       -    -  6.5  6.5  6.S  6.5  6.5  32.5          32,100        -     -   208.7   208.7   208.7   208 7   208.7  1.043.3
Sub-Secondary Canls                                           he       -    -  8.7  8.7  8.7  8.   8. ?  43.5         32.100       -      -   279.3   279.3   279.3   279.3   279.3  1.396. 4
lertiary Canals                                                he      -    -    - 10.7 10.? 10.? 10.7  42.8          32.100        -     -        -   343.5   343.S   343.5   343.5  1.373.9
Rein and  ajor Orains                                         ha       -    - 14.9 14.9 14.9 14. 9 14.9  74.5         32.100        -     -   478.3   478 3   478.3   478.3   478. 3  2. 391.5
Ninor Drains                                                  he       -    -    - tt.9 11.9 11.9 11.9  47.6          32.100           -           -   382.0   382.0   382.0   382.0  1.528.0
Sab-Totl Irrigation and Orainaga facilities in Stage 111 Area                                                                          -      - 1.200.  1.926.0 t.928.0 t.926.0 t.926 0  8,904.5
Total IVSTNENT COSTS                                                                                                                 796.  792.9 1.762.3 2.092.9 2.092.9 2.092.9 2.092.9 11.722.9
a:: :::: ass: ss::: 55:::s:t StSS-.: 555:::: :5:=S:3 :S::=:SS
Total                                                                                                                                  796.1 792.9 1.762.3 2.092.9 2.092.9 2.092.9 2.092.9 11.722.9
s:::: *ssss sas::.as::: 5:555:: 5fl5555 flfl555 55555555w=zz
/a  Cost schedule in OG  fiscal year with bas  costs as o' ;            IOl 1988.
--------------_-------------------------------------------------__-----------__--------.--------------------------------------------------_---__--_--------__-----------------_---
….4
,-tsl



-86-
ANNEX 3
NEPAL
NARAYANI III IRRIGATION PROJECT
Assumptions for Financial and Economic Analyses
(Table of Contents)
Prices and Conversion Factors
General
Exchange Rate
Standard Conversion Factor
Economic and Financial Prices of Commodities
Prices of Agricultural Inputs
Opportunity Cost of Labor
Economic Cost of Unskilled Construction Labor
Construction Conversion Factor
Agricultural Benefits
Crop Yields and Inputs
Cropping Intensities
Rate of Modernization and Completion of New Works
Crop and Farm Budgets
Cost of Irrigation
Investment Cost
Operation and Maintenance Cost
Land Acquisition Cost
Additional Sensitivity Tests (Appendix)



-87-
ANNEX 3
Page 1
NEPAL
NARAYANI III IRRIGATION PROJECT
Assumptions for Financial and Economic Analyses
Prices and Conversion Factors
1.      General.  The economic prices 3f major traded agricultural com-
modities (at farm gate) were derived from the IBRD world market prices (1986
projected through 1995) expressed in 1986/87 currency values with appropriate
adjustments for freight, handling and processing. Non-traded foodgrains and
other non-traded goods and services were brought to a common basis with the
traded goods and services through the use of conversion factors. Two conver-
sion factors have been used: (i) Standard (SCF); and (ii) Construction
(CCF). Details on their derivation and use is described below. The oppor-
tunity cost of capital (OCC) was assumed at 10 percent.
2.      Exchange Rate.  Conversions from local into foreign currency and vice
versa were made at the rate of US$1.0 = NRs 20.5. The official rate is
established daily by the Nepal Rashtra Bank based on a trade-weighted basket,
with the US dollar as the intervention currency.
3.      Standard Ccigversion Factor.  A SCF of 0.9 has been used in the
economic analysis of the project. To measure Nepal's net economic benefits
from the project, costs and benefits of the project have been evaluated at
world market prices.  This requires certain price adjustments, since many
items are not traded in the world markets and the prices of others are
affected by tariffs and trade restrictions. To make them comparable, a SCF
has been applied to the price of non-traded goods. In the absence of trade
restrictions, the SCF can be estimated by using the following formula:
SCF          X + m
(X+SX-Tx )+(M-sm+Tm)
Where: X = export value (f.o.b.);
M = import value (c.i.f.);
S = subsidies on exports;
T = taxes an duties on imports.
Using available trade statistics for the years 1977/78 - 1983/84 yield a SCF
of above 0.91. However, since this method does not take into consideration
quantitative restrictions on trade, the estimates derived provide only an
upper limit.



-88-
ANNEX 3
Page 2
4.      Economic and Financial Prices of Commodities.  The economic prices
for traded commodities such as rice, wheat, maize and sugarcane were derived
by using border prices in US dollars according to IBRD commodity projections
and converted to local currency values at the standard exchange rate
(Annex 1, Table 12). The domestic cost components (local transport, handling
and marketing charges) were adjuste& by a SCF of 0.90. Although Nepal has
traditionally been an exporter of ri-e, the combined eifects of stagnating or
de^lininZ production and pnpulation pressure have brought about an overall
food deficit of 23.5 percent in 1982/83 which is expected to persist. A
detailed review of the supply and demand pattern for major agricultural
commodities indicates that regional markets in deficit are the hills and
mountains and that the Terai produces a surplus. However, road communica-
tions are limited and project farmers react more readily to the demand pat-
tern in India than in the country's interior. For example, the present
market price for medium rice in Birganj is about NRs 2,800/t, which is equiv-
alent to the price prevailing in Raxaul (India). The price is About NRs
4,100/t in the mountains. However, this higher cost reflects the high cost
of transporting rice to the mountains.
5.      Prices of Agricultural Inputs.  Input prices, with the exception o;
fertilizers, are determined by local supply and demand. Fertilizer prices
contain a subsidy element, which it has been assumed would be gradually
phased out and eliminated completely by full development; similar expecta-
tions prevail in adjoining areas of India, to which all trading activities in
the project area are closely linked. Fertilizers have been valued at the
projected world market prices. Pesticides and insecticides have been assumed
to be traded. The SCF has been applied to the local components (transporta-
tion, storage and marketing) of these largely imported inputs. The economic
price of farm power (bullock pair with operator) was derived from going daily
rental rates, adjusted by the SCF. A summary of economic and financial
prices is presented in Annex 1, Table 12.
6.      Opportunity Cost of Labor.  The shadow wage rate for labor was
estimated at NRs 7.8/manday which amounts to a conversion factor for
unskilled labor of 0.7. Most wages for farm labor are paid in kind. The
rate of compensation varies from 3.3 to 5.0 kg of paddy which amounts to
about NRs 11.0 per day. Labor demand has a pronounced seasonal pattern with
peak monthly requirements for paddy cultivation extending from May through
September. The peak labor demand also attracts migrants from the State of
Bihar and from the Nepalese hills, where unemployment is severe. In slack
months (October through April) labor demand may decline in some periods to as
low as 15 percent of the available labor supply and wages decline to about
NRs 7.0/manday. The shadow wage rate has been derived as a weighted average
of the observed monthly rates and adjusted by the SCF.
7.      Economic Cost of Unskilled Construction Labor.  Wages paid to
unskilled construction labor, averaging about NRs 15.0/manday, have been
adjusted by the conversion factor for unskilled labor of 0.7. The improve-
ment of the NEC and the construction of additional irrigation facilities
would be carried out by labor-intensive methods during the agricultural slack
season (November through March). The main source of labor would be the
project area.



-89-
ANNEX 3
Page 3
8.      Construction Conversion Factor.  The construction of project civil
works requires the use of a mixture of equipment, materials, and skilled and
unskilled labor:
(a)  Traded Components include capital-intensive works whic:   -.uire
imported materials and expatriate support in survey, design and
construction supervision. Hence the conversion factor of 1.00 has
been used.  It is estimated that about 40 percent of the construction
costs fali under this category.
(b) Non-Traded Components include works that require skilled labor and
locally manufactured materials. The SCF of 0.90 has been used as the
conversion factor for these works which account for about 15 percent
of the construction costs.
(c) Unskilled Labor. A ratio of economic to financial wages equal to
that assumed for agricultural labor (0.70) has been used for
unskilled construction labor (para 8). It is estimated that the cost
of unskilled labor would constitute about 25 percent of the total
construction costs.
The weighted average of these conversion factors wouid be as follows:
Conversion Factor   Weight
Traded Items                                 1.00          0.60
Non-Traded Items                             0.90          0.15
Unskilled Labor                              0.70          0.25
Construction Costs                           0.90          1.00
(weighted average)
Thus, a CCF of 0.90 has been adopted for converting the costs of
construction works from financial to economic prices.
Agricultural Benefits
9.      Estimates of crop production, yields, inputs and farm incomes at
present, future without, and future with project situations are based on the
crop yields and input data given separately for: (i) irrigation facilities
in the already developed command area (28,700 ha); and (ii) extension of
irrigation facilities into new areas (8,700 ha). The input and output
requirements are presented in Annex 1, Table 11 and the build up assumptions
are summarized below:
(a) Crop Yields and Inputs. A seven year build-up period has been
assumed for transition of yield levels from the 'present' to 'future
with' projeet situation. The build-up rate was based on surveys,
studies, monitoring of irrigation impact under the Stage I and II
projects and performance already achieved by good farmers with access



-90-
ANNEX 3
Page 4
to reliable irrigation water supply. In the 'without project' situa-
tion yields were assumed to improve by about 3.2 percent in the next
ten years provided that adequate O&M of existing facilities is
ensured. In tho case of less than adequate O&M, it was assumed that
yields would either remain unchanged (paddy) or decline by about 10
percent (all other crops).
(b)  Cropping Intensities.  Experience from irrigation projects in similar
areas suggests that increases in cropping intensity to the full
development level would be faster than increases of crop yields. A
build-up of three years has therefore been assumed fcr transition
from 'present' to 'future with' project intensities. The 'future
without' project cropping pattern is expected to change only
marginally, with small increase in the area planted to sugarcane and
oilseeds enabled by an overall increase in cropping intensity by
about 6 percent.
(c)  Rate of Modernization and Completion if New Works.  The rate of
completion of modernization works and the completien of new
irrigation blocks was based on the current implementation proposals
prepared by project consultants.
The summary of the expected build-up rates is as follows:
Rate of Change               Year    1   2    3   4    5   6   7    8   9   10
Yields and Inputs (%)         W       6  14   28  49   68  84  97  100
W     14  36   76  92  100
Cropping Intensities (%)    W        10  20   30  40   50  60  70   80  90  100
W     40  70  100
W  =  'future without' project
W  =  'future with' project
Rate of Modernization and Completion of New Works
Year  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  Total
---Incremental f'0000 -----_-___
Modernization
Stage I                 0   3.2   3.2   3.2   3.2   3.1        0   15.9
Stage II                 0   2.5   2.5   2.5   2.5   2.8        0   12.8
New Works
Stage III                0   0     0      0     2.9   2.9   2.9    8.7
Total Area                0   5.7   5.7   5.7   8.6   8.8   2.9   37.4
10.     Crop and Farm Budgets.  Using project yields and input data
individual crop budgets at both financial and economic prices have been
calculated for the main crops for the present, and the future without and



-91-
ANNEX 3
Page 5
future with project situation at full development. Annex 1, Table 13.1
provides the typical farm budgets for farmers representing typical project
conditions.
Costs of Irrigation
11.     Investment Cosc.  The capital costs of all civil works, including the
cost oF roads, radio telecommunication equipment, charges for surveys, design
and construction supervision and physical contingencies were based on 1986
expected contract rates and adjusted by the CCF.
12.     Operation and Maintenance Cost.  Since O&M involves mainly employment
of unskilled or semiskilled labor, the unskilled labor conversion factor
(0.70) was used for adjustment of the financial O&M cost. Thus, for the
economic analysis, annual O&M cost for the surface irrigation scheme
estimated as NRs 370/ha was adjusted to NRs 270/ha reflecting the large
proportion of unskilled labor cost of this item.
13.     Land Acquistion Cost.  Land acquisition requ.rements for the project
are expected to be about 270 ha and would be mostly confined to the Stage III
area. The cost of land for the irrigation system was deducted from the
investment cost. Instead, the expected value of this land without irrigation
(NRs 6,200/ha) based on the future without project situation was taken to
represent the opportunity cost and was entered as a recurrent cost :stream
into the analysis.



-92-                        ANNEX 3
Appendix
NEPAL
NARAYANI III IRRICATION PROJECT
Additional Sensitivity Tests
1.      Two additional sensitivity test have been performed to estimate the
impact of: (i) a reduction in the time required to complete the project from
seven years (base case) to five years; and (ii) a change in the area planted
to sugarcane from 3% expected in the base case in the 'with project' situa-
tion to about 8% experienced at present.
2.      Five Year Implementation Period.  A reduction in the time required to
complete the project from seven years (base case) to five years would
increase the ERR from 21% to 23% and the NPV would increase from
NRs 16,300/ha to NRs 19,100/ha. Other things being equal, the rate of com-
pletion of modernization works and the completion of new irrigation blocks
for this test have been revised as follows:
Rate of Modernization and Completion of New Works a/
Year 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 Total
-------------Incremental  '000) ----------------
Modernization
Stage I                 0   3.2   4.2   4.2   4.3    0        0   15.9
Stage II                0   2.5   2.5   3.9   3.9    0        0   12.8
New Works
Stage III               0   0      2.9   2.9   2.9    0       0    8.7
Total Area                0   5.7   9.6  11.0   11.1   0       0   37.4
a/  See 'base case' implementation schedule for comparison (para 9, Annex 3).
3.      Increased Area under Sugarcane.  An increase in the area planted to
sugarcane from 3% expected at full development in the 'with project' situa-
tion to about 8% would lower the ERR marginally by about 0.5% at the
projected price and yield developments. While yield increases to 60 to 80
tons per hectare appear feasible, particularly if extension efforts are
increased under the ongoing Cash Crop Development Project, they are expected
to take place only gradually and would not change the economic viability
substantially



-93-
ANNEX 4
NEPAL
NARAYANI III IRRIGATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available Within the Project File
Documents Related to the Project
1.      Project Preparation Report on Narayani Zone Irrigation Development
Stage III Project; Nippon Koei Co., Ltd, Birganj; June 1984
2.      Updated Project Preparation Report on Narayani Zone Irrigation
Development Stage III Project; Civil and Irrigation; Nippon Koei Co., Ltd.
Birganj, September 1985
3.      Project Preparation Report on Narayani Zone Irrigation Development
Stage III Project (Agriculture and Economic Analysis), Development Research
Grcip 0D) Ltd, Lattipur, August 1985
4.      Agriculture Practices in Narayani Zone Irrigation Development Project;
(Parsa), R.C. Mishra IDS; November 1985
5.      Water Requirement Calculations - Narayani Zone Irrigation Project;
A. Seager (Consultant), December 1985
6.      Staff Appraisal Report - Birganj Irrigation Project (Narayani Zone)
Nepal; The World Bank, Report No. PA 146a, March 1, 1973
7.      Staff Appraisal Report -~ September 18, 1978, Narayani Zone Irrigation
Development Stage II Project; The World Bank, Report No. 2067a-NEP
8.      Project Performance Audit Report - Nepal Birganj Irrigation Project
(Narayani Zone)(Credit 373-NEP); The World Bark, Report No. 4267,
December 30, 1982
9.      Evaluation of Proposal of Establishing Central Workshop for
Irrigation Projects; APROSC, Kathmandu, Nepal, September 16, 1985
10.     Report on Preventative Maintenance Requirements; CIDA, April 1979
General Documents
1.      Report of the Food Security Mission to Nepal; FAO, Rome,
September 1984
2.      Study to Establish Irrigation Subsector Policy Priorities Vol. I, II
and III; His Majesty's Government of Nepal, Ministry of Water Resources,
Water and Energy Commission; Kathmandu, Nepal, undated.
3.      Nepal - Prospects for Economic Adjustment and Growth; The World Bank,
Report No. 5867-NEP, December 12, 1985



NEPAL
NARAYANI III IRRIGATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Calendar Year       1966          1987           1988         1989           1990          1991          1992          1993
Financial Year             FY87          FYr8          FY89           FY90          FY91          FY92          FY93
Project Year              (1)           (2)           (3)           (4)            (5)          (6)            (7)
Quarter  III1IVI  11 III IV  I It IIIIV  I I 11  III IVI I  I 11      IV     I      I I      It IV  I  ti I III IEt7
Monsoon                  _                1$    -:      19 _    I                    1      -- t 
CANALS                                                            -     _-   _             - .     _
STRUCTURES
REPAIRS Or TILAWE 8ARRACE
II.~~~~~~~~~~                                _-=V  II :LCA  =- _         W_             --l_  _                      _          =e 
SECONDASY CANALS
CANALS
TERTIARIES & OFD                                         -
CANALS
DRRAINS
MA    MOR DRAINS                                                                                  --             -
CANALS
staucruacs
SERVICE ROADS A CAMPS                                      km        .
It IRIAtNINC  DRAIAE (SAE II fAREF   3  i  
SECONDARtY CANALS
CANALS
TERTIARIES & OfI) 
CANALS
DRAINS 
STRUCTUEtS6
MAJOR & MINOR DRAINS
STRUCTruRES
SERVICE ROADS & CAMPS
SHALL.OW TU9EWEU.S                                                                           1
EMBANKMENT
CABIONS
VEHICLES & EQUIPMENT
RADIO TELECOMMUNICATION
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION
MoNITroRiN- r v-ALuATION
TRAINING
CONSULTANCY
FEBRUARY 198O



NLIAL
NARAYANI III IRRIGATION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF DEPARTMENT OF IRRIGATION,
HYDROLOGY AND METEOROLOGY (DIHM)
MINISTRY                               WATER&
OF WATER                               ENERGY
RESOURCES                             COMMISSION
SECRETARiAT
DIRECTOR
GENERAL
HYDROLOG                              PLANNING &                                                                     CENTRALLY
& MtETEOROL                              DES$.N                              CONSTRUCTION                            OPERATED
ID IVISION                            DIVI 10 DIVISION                                                              DIVISION
HYDROLOGY         METEOROLOGY            ROECT              DESIGN                             CONSTRUC'TION         PLANNING            KAMALA             MANIAKALI
SECTION            SECTION             SECTION            SECTION                                SECTION            SECTION             SECTION            PROJECT
_   l   KARNA,2 L                                                             MAJOR               WORK           GROUNDWATER
GROUNDWATER _ _j    WATER                                                                          PROJECT            PROGRESS          DEVELOPmENT           CHITWAN
SECTiON          RESOURCES                                                                     I MPLEMENT          EVALUATION           BOARD              PROJECT
L   PROJECT                                                                       SECTION            SECTION
OTHER            RESERVED                               PENDMSARW
ADMIttN.       r  FINANCE             SURVEY               POOL                                PHEWN DAM BAIRAWA 
SECT,ON        |   SEC7ION            SECTION              POST                              RECONSTRUCTION      GROUNDWATER           PROJECT             PROJECT
PROJECT            PROJECT
r 4R- ^,           tUtDW- ESTERN                        CENTRAL             EASTERN                                 KOSi
WESTERN            WESTERN            RECIONAL           REGIONAL            REGIONAL                               WESTERN
REGIONAL           REGIONAL          DIRECTORATE  |     DRECTORATE|         DtRECTORATE                            CANAL DEV
DIRECtORATE          DIRECTORATE                              lARD
USA:D
RRIGAT.ON
I MANAGEMENT
PROJECT
WORLD BANK 30365B



NEPAL
NARAYANI III IRRIGATION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF NARAYANI ZONE IRRIGATION
DEVELOPMENT BOARD (CONSTRUCTION STAGE)
NZIBD
CENTRAL                                              GENERALIMONITORING
REGI ON                                             MANAGER                                          |     AND
COORDINATION                                         (GM)&SEC'Y,                                           EVALUATION
COMMITTEE                                              NZIEB DIVISION
DESIGN <&       OPERATION &                          AGRICUL.  1
ADMINISTRATION      FINANCE        CONSTRUCTION       MAINTENANCE       MECHANICAL         SERVICES     I
DIVISION         DIVISION          DIVISION          DIVISION          DIVISION          LIAISON    -
ADBN/AIC
I~                                                                                                  'I
I                                                                                                                   I 
DISTRICT                          UNIT NO. 1                          UNIT NO. 2
COORDINATION                       IDIVISIONAL                          DIVISINAL
COMMITTEE                           ENGINEER                           ENGiNEER
FARMERS
LEGEND
LINE AND EXECU71VE AUTHORITY
-----LIAISON AND COORDINATiON                                                                      WORLD BANK 30365C



NEPAL
NARAYANI III IRRIGATION PROJECT
EXTENSION ORGANIZATION & ITS RELATIONSHIP TO THE PROJECT
DIRECTOR
GENERAL OF                                          PROJECT
AGRICULTURE                                       COORDINATOR
REGIONAL
REGION                  DIRECTOR     -
SAEO
AGRICULTURAL      …-SMS TEAM
DISTRICT               DEVELOPMENT                                          
OFFICER                  NZIDP-3                 I RRIGATION
_  |                 ~~~~~~DISTRICTS             Ss IS
SUB-CENTER
SUB-CENTER                 JUNIOR                     AADO      l…NZIDP
TECHNICI_                I RRIGATION --
[SUB-CENTER
JUNIOR
TECHNICIAN   l
JUNIOR                   JUNIOR
TECHNICAL                TECHNICAL
ASSISTANT                ASSISTANT
P. L.A.zA                  L.LA iA
9 WARDS                  9 WARDS
LEGEND'
LINE OF COMMAND
----COORDtNATION                                                                                WORLD BANK 30365E



-98-                                       CHART 5
NEPAL
NARAYANI 1II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Historical Deliveries to Head of the Don Branch and Head of the NEC
70
60                          lJx                                                          Delivery to Head
of Don Branch
so                                    No Record
for Don
40
DelEvery to Head of NEC
b  30
Design Capacity of NEC
~20
DJF M A MJi  JAISON   0                     MAM  j     A S  O ND  J  F M AM  J  JASO0N
1983                                1984                                1985
World Bank -- 30.36b



80°                                                              2 .
N D IA    C,u                                                                                   H CIN A
,  >   '        ,           . ~~~~~HUMLA       <
DARCHUlA                     r     ' ,;-                    r
\    ,_,,+>-'   B~A.;4ANG                       ;       ,   
.t~~~~~V  INAD                   W  /.l    AUPA    'A   M          G   l           '
8  DADElDHURlA,                                                                                                 -_
)  x   4     ~~~DC.-f  r    ACHHAM ,% KLKT,   igW\fDOLPA                                                     
-e                                         r      i^JAKKS                     \-             aI"IUS.^ Gaoe t~~~~~AJAROT 
HAN~*                             _ 204 PUTA  
I   ) KA111MANDU   \ .  1BARD)    A               SALYA
yf-,   /    BHAKTAPUR  /                  -1             <                  /            t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
*11409%s@8z-oo3// 1l \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
/1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B                                                                                p  
st /   \                              \_                                             V~~~~~~~~~~~DNGEKHR
KATHAANDTUR    VALLE                                                                                 Hist      PAaseepePPAr
I  \             lof Ine cots olbe                                           ~~~LUM    IN
|   .,               teas*fs std ts Cxtlusne lof a,                              |      )      l  M~~~~~(K
KAHIO                                                                                                             NAWALPARASIr,, d at
I                     .            atd Iheriletnbonalfnstr
LAITU                          T#. mapr ygnn rIh eashas bee peae &f-
YA N I  ~ ~ ~~~~~~'h Wol Bawsr sttpeaf ctw*neo                         2                     08
\¢~~~~S aS it boua" MOs
\ ~~~~ On26°       t O  ~
pa fTeKd  8a 2                                                                         84m  4  2



IBRD 1955
86'                                                               88'
NEPAL
NARAYANI IRRIGATION PROJECT
Irrigation Development                                                            30'
E7i  Investigation                                                            Rivers
Z|      |Under Construction                                                   Development Region Boundaries
F    -1  Construction of Main Infrastructures                                 Administrative Zone Boundaries
E    ]   Main Construction Completed                                          District Boundaries
m        Completed                                                            International Boundaries
17    Reference Numbers
(See reverse side for list of
Public Irrigation Projects)
AA   />C                                                         H             I           N             A
/~~~
/GOR          /             V
/ !1 t \ j RASUWA 
JDHADING'L$ A  Gl7M Ai T I                                          M, Everest                                               280
& Id' /, IN\3IUPALCHOK                                                                   -N< 
W  WE2   17 J A$pUKOT~ I /                         ,           
< 1P - / X | I ~~~~~~DOLAKHA-    
4~~
m   5~~~~ x--- 6THM odu         /      ,  )   !   -.  >1           t
.* 13                                   7j   \A          B K6t^^f,^ > { / / I / SOWKHUMBU
1 BHAISTAPUR                                         S  / '!  SANKHUWASABHA         TAPLEJUNG
~ASHRE-
~'~)  MAKWJNIU   LALAMEC   PKHTA& 
PARSA  'q   S"'                                     OKHALDHUNGA
d 1 <                      ' _  SINDHULI                -r SOERHATUUM
BA\tA                       '                                                      R       ANCHTART
IJALAM
,UDAYAPUR
A                                 SAPTARI                  ~~~~~~~        ~~~~~MORANG  -
SAPTA                        iHAPA~~~~~~~~~ARI 18



V'                     ~~      ~~~~C H-  I    N       ANE A
2   _ ' ;   & 5 2 >-=¢ 2  Dr >t   <   C  H  t      N      A                                                   ~~~~~~~~N  E P A  L
dn.-R2    t si-- HU^tA    -                                                  NARAYANI im IRRIGATION PROJECT
t   _                                     00 W, 1)  S  /?                                                               Major Drainage Basins
.f RCJTA£-i    /   S-o.NSo2 ><, * ^t+ 4 8   *  ' ;> {                         SHI Rtver basin drainage areas
0<>                  -               'A         >l/4Q>#' ~ 9;  . i    [.  ;                                                     --- - -- Rivers
I ~~~~~~    .'-4~~~~~~~~~j  Jt*MLA                                                      @ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~National capital
p,t; 3% *m -f,2 , J.i) X i * . .? *5 2 / *, O  {           C|_ o                                                                   Selected towns
-'-a 4              4    ,, ,  ,  ,,District boundaries
ANCHANPUR '        O;*f-lttfaw      n Ei      .M U                                                                                       ---    Zone 1boundanes< .  <  t2  .   :^  r  SZ  ;Z bnJ
A.  -'   '                     A$$G                                           -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  Region boundanes
S                                             j                                                                                      International boundarCes
i'                                           v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
~~A*_N i4's                          8F    - gXA_                                                     q } SlEU#)(  AIN
N  AA               r
KIII)MVE\ FRSA  -1  L|  1,  10   ',  4  6
*-~~~~~~~~~~J~~ *k  D >SAUfeO E,AKl4;AIT                    t #AU8
(MA~_. fl t44,.>         
MlLOMtfR0o    20    io  eo   IQ    0 o     160                                                                            }~           Htbt5§H                           *        I2i 
filLES0  20  40  tfO  80    100                                                                                 4,X,,r vl    ,_          l 7,M  'o  4*ASUW
Th. W.W P-A AW ft0 - '- /k.
-. T.     ¼-d ..sb4                                                                                                          .,4 ..  - r. hh/ f. d f
f ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-.                                                      .                                                ECNAI    .r                                    4sffoS=r drsrO snp7 o
. .   .fru San, ,n'- sv-b~  o. rd n f o.   honk 5,64  eac.sef tot  c onw.fb7f r
.n.~-..>. any.ll<f, on.Z Arnan dC ifr.^ nfra u sa$T  flOridT flak  ndR sbO'ac ,
Fn,Sot,    r-dooonouo  n   O.botan  o   n2, stop  o                                                                                      ...oN.



rC*
Project areas
Groundwatet (developrmnelil v,l
i     Barrage                                                                                                    NARJi
Ilrgotion conal
Control gates
Q2     Power stotion
Roads
Railroads
_._-._  international boundaries                                          H               F               P
Gandok_____.r_
Barrage    .             Tni~en, -'_lrn-k'nag-                                           *
Commrnnd Area
%.40,000 ha(Gross)
\ -     K  ;                ~~~~Commond Areo                       
23, 520 Ha (Gross)                                       CANAL
930,000  Ho ( Gross)                                                
Cma e                                         ComAmrend Are
zI      5      !'0    15 .    2J                          680,000 ha (;
Kilometers
83'30                                                            84'0 ',
.  .                                                        .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



IBRD 19550
N  E P A  L                                                                   j 
IRRIGATION PROJECT                                                       .    ,              ,
)ject Location                                                                     Arna-
I N D I A
*4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5 ..-;..  ..                               -
(3AN(if,AlIJU"H
-.
X   Qq<?  12700h~~~~~~~~~~~:ra'-  ;,_j
1. KATHIMANDU
/   Stagel
Area
16,000ho
.~ ~~ %            \./*S*BIgnAt
12,700F h
Stage ID
* Area
CommadAe                 ~8$Oh
52,000H  Gos                     ~      ~       
FEBRUARY 1986



To Kathmondu
C H I N A
(     C-5HU}TAN                                                                  z                s          
I (If i ILIp9;r^                                                                  jwr)$ 
Of III~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
t.ANGL AJESH i
Tilowe                           N                                                                    '1
Boarrage 
Pwanipur
-  rX              Pro1ectdAuthority      Q
lMc'ck  1V   h  <   rIock         )
\   ,            \         Ae   X      -_    U, b    .                    71 
a / . \/Ls 3~~~~~)                                                                 0 ,1\                     f'.
Wock~~~~~Ic
;    +  s   ef    E     X        .t>;    i    \s  '        5x ~~~~~BIRGANJ      -           "               \Block V
(4  ~~~~~BockJl DI                               41
..,   N   4*y ~ ~ ~ ~~I    DI 
I- ;   1 -STAGE. I    STAGE 21 -
'n prt  red by Thi World BLk ans B  exCloiswy for'  e c  AvsC of
S exCluvely for Vh inform/ uw of The World 8      tI nterna l Iw
'on rhe denominfntJons used end Me bowndarie jAow  on thi nwp do fam
Of "to World Onk and te kgornan  Finane C'orv        y ofedfio^  v$t Aa
s of  'y terrioy or Cty er4of?e or accepftan  of wIA* bwmtteem



IBRD 1954s
N E P A L
NARAYANI m IRRIGATION PROJECT
General Plan
Project areas                      Block boundaries
Proposed flood dikes                Existing roads
ut t  |l!*Existing flood dike       - -  --Railroad
2     4      6      8                      - Main canal                         Transmission lines
Kilometes     JSecondary canals                                      1    Towns
Kilometers
2    3    4    5                         Rivers                     .- -international boundaries
t:      Groundwater development
Mile,                                  areas
Existing tubewelis
-  .1~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
it "   \                               N ' t \\m/' 7 '  
i   , '3loch  \  3lok                    t''           '\   '"
'I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
STAGE Ir  S TAGE M?                     a 
: .                                                  I   \     ~     ,
'                '--  -N 
MARCH 1986



