Dmme f
The World Bank
FOR omcwL. USE ONLY
Report No. P-4332-NEP
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO TRE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 21.6 MILLION
TO THE
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
FOR A
NARAYANI III IRRIGATION PROJECT
June 2, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Is contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.0 = KRs 20.5
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AG             -      Auditor General
AIC            -      Agricultural Inputs Corporation
BSC            -      Branch Secondary Canal
CCA            -      Cultivated Commanded Area
DG             -      Director General (DIHM and DOA)
DIHM           -      Department on Irrigation, Hydrology and
Meteorology
DOA            -      Department of Agriculture
FAO            -      Food and Agriculture Organization
GM             -      General Manager
cOI            -      Government of India
HMGN           -      His Majesty's Government of Nepal
ICB            -      International Competitive Bidding
IDA            -      International Development Association
LCB            -      Local Competitive Bidding
M&E            -      Monitoring and Evaluation
MOA            -      Ministry of Agriculture
MSC             -     Main Secondary Canal
MWR            -      Ministry of Water Resources
NEC            -      Nepal Eastern Canal
NZIDB          -      Narayani Zone Irrigation Development Board
NZIDP          -      Narayani Zone Irrigation Development Project
(Stages I, II and III areas)
O&M            -      Operation and Maintenance
SA             -      Special Account
SDC            -      Swiss Development Cooperation
Stage I Area   -      Narayani Zone-Blocks I-VI--15,900 ha
Stage II Area  -      Narayani Zone-Blocks VII-XII--12,800 ha
Stage III Area -      Narayani Zone--Blocks XIII-XV--8,700 ha
TC             -      Tertiary Canal
T&V            -      Training and Visit System
(of Agricultural Extension)
USAID          -      United States Agency for International
Development
WUG            -      Water Users' Group
FISCAL YEAR
July 16 - July 15



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NEPAL
NARAYANI III IRRIGATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:         Kingdom of Nepal
Amount:            SDR 21.6 million (US$24.5 million equivalent)
Terms:             Standard
Project Objective The main objectives of the Project are to increase
and Description:  dry-season agricultural production and reduce the risks to
monsoon crop production by introducing an equitable,
predictable and reliable irrigation system in the Narayani
irrigation scheme. The proposed project is the third phase
of an IDA-supported program and would complete the
development of irrigation and drainage infrastructure over
about 37,400 ha served by the Nepal Eastern Canal in the
Narayani Zone of the Central Region of Nepal. The project
would also provide for: flood protection and river
training works; improvements to village roads and canal
service roads; support to agricultural extension and
research; a regional workshop; training of project staff;
consulting services; funding for project establishment and
O&M; a small component for groundwater development; and
monitoring and evaluation. In view of the experience with
the implementation of the first and second projects, no
major risks are anticipated regarding the physical
implementation of the project. Possible risks that could
affect project objectives include: HMG's failure to make
adequate provisions for OEM financing after contributions
from the credit phase out at the end of implementation; a
major flood damage to the main canal and other essential
irrigation infrastructure; and inadequate water management.
With respect to these risks, the cost of project
establishment and ObM would be financed under the credit on
a declining basis; special training would be provided to
project staff in water management and water users' groups
would be strengthened; and project planning and design
would enable the introduction of a water management system
that would enable the irrigation service to be timely,
reliable and equitable.
This document has a rstricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance |
of their offiil duties Its contents may not otherwie be disclsed without World Dank authoriation.



Estimated Costs: a1
US$ Millions-
Project Component                  Local   Foreign   Total
NEC Improvement and Repairs
to the Tilawe Barrage                 1.2      1.0       2.2
Irrigation and Drainage
(Stage III Areas)                     1.5      3.0       4.5
Irrigation and Drainage
(Stage I and II Areas)                1.2      2.2       3.4
Flood Control and River Training        0.5       1.1      1.6
Upgrading of Road Network               0.5       1.1      1.6
Equipment and Radio-Communication
System                                0.1       1.3      1.4
Regional Workshop                       0.1       0.9      1.0
Technical Support                       1.6       2.5      4.1
Establishment and O&N                   3.6       1.8      5.4
Land Acquisition and Crop
Compensation                          0.6       -        0.6
TOTAL BASE COSTS                  10.9     14.9      25.8
Contingencies
Physical Contingencies                1.1      1.8       2.9
Price Contingencies                   3.0      3.8       6.8
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS              15.0     20.5      35.5
Financing Plan: b/
--US$ Millions--
Local   Foreign   Total
IDA                                     9.2     15.3      24.5
SDC                                     2.3      5.2       7.5
HMGN                                    3.5       5.2      3.5
TOTAL                           15.0     20.5      35.5
a/ Not including taxes and duties estimated at about US$0.5 million.
b/ SDC grant is denominated in Swiss Francs and is fixed at 15 million
Swiss Francs: the US$ equivalent of 7.5 million (using exchange rate
of April 22, 1986) may vary with exchange rate movements. Cofinancing
is on a joint basis following Bank Group's procurement and consultants
guidelines.



-iii-
Estimated
Disburseuents:                                  IDA FY
FY87 FY88 FY89 FY90 FY91 FY92 FY93 FY94 a/
(a) For IDA Credit
Annual       0.8   2.3   3.4    5.0   6.5   3.7   2.3   0.5
Cumulative    -    3.1   6.5   11.5  18.0  21.7  24.0  24.5
(b) For SDC Grant
Annual       0.2   0.7  1.1    1.5   1.6   1.3   0.9   0.2
Cumulative    -    0.9   2.0    3.5   5.1   6.4   7.3   7.5
Rate of Return:    21 percent
Appraisal Report:  NEPAL:  Narayani III Irrigation Project,
Report No. 6067-NEP, dated June 2, 1986
Map:               IBRD 19549
a/ One semester.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE KINGDOM OF NEPAL
FOR A NARAYANI III IRRIGATION PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Kingdom of Nepal in an amount of SDR 21.6 million
(US$24.5 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance the
Narayani III Irrigation Project. Cofinancing has been arranged with the
Swiss Development Cooperation (SDC) for a grant of Sw F 15.0 million (about
US$7.5 million equivalent).
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      The most recent economic report, Nepal:  Prospects for Eccnomic
Adjustment and Growth (Report No. 5867-NEP), was distributed to the
Executive Directors on December 17, 1985. The principal features and recent
performance of the economy are described below. Country data are shown in
Annex I.
3.      Nepal is one of the least-developed countries in the world.  Per
capita income is estimated at US$170 (1983) and health and education
standards are well below the average for South Asia. Life expectancy at
birth is about 46 years, infant mortality is about 145 per 1,000 and adult
literacy is only 19 percent. The population, estimated to be 16.3 million
(mid-1984), grew at a rate of about 2.7 percent per year between 1971 and
1984. About 95 percent of the population lives in rural areas.
4.      Population density with respect to arable land (394 persons per
sq km) has reached very high levels, and cultivation has been extended to
marginal lands and forests. Forests have been denuded further to meet the
growing demand for fuelwood, on which Nepal depends for more than 90 percent
of its energy consumption, mostly for household cooking and heating. Because
of deforestation and excessive grazing on hills and mountains, when rainfall
is abundant, accelerated soil erosion occurs causing rivers to silt and flood
with consequent loss of agricultural productivity.
5.      Agriculture, largely rainfed, accounts for nearly 60 percent of
Nepal's GDP and merchandise exports and provides the main source of
livelihood to more than 90 percent of the population. Crop production
1/ Substantially unchanged from Cottage and Small Industries II Project
(Report No. P-4295, dated April 24, 1986).



-2-
accounts for about 60 percent of agricultural output, livestock for 30
percent, and forestry for 10 percent. Apart from agricultural land, Nepal's
only other important exploitable resources are hydropower and tourism.
Exploitation of its vast hydropower resources will depend upon the
Government's ability to enter into complex agreements with neighboring
countries regarding the use and development of water resources and the
exchange of water-related benefits. The tourism sector, based primarily on
Nepal's Himalayan environment provides about 20 percent of the country's
foreign exchange earnings, but accounts for only about 1 percent of GDP.
6.      Following centuries of self-imposed isviation, efforts to develop
the economy of Nepal began in the mid-1950s--a time when the country had
virtually no physical infrastructure, an ancient administrative system, and
very limited educational and health services. Between 1955 and 1975, the
country's primary development goal was to build basic infrastructure and
provide a basis for future economic growth. Reasonably good progress has
been made. A basic road network now exists. Schools accommodating almost
half of the children of primary school age have been built, as have a number
of secondary schools and a national university. A rudimentary hospital
system, including rural health posts, has also been established. Then, in
the Fifth Five-Year Plan the Government shifted its development objectives to
stress accelerating economic growth and creating employment, as well as
raising living standards. These objectives were reiterated in the Sixth Plan
(FY81-FY85) and in the Seventh Plan (FY86-FY90), which also appropriately
assigned high priority to developing agriculture, small-scale industries and
Nepal's abundant water resources. Additionally, both Sixth and Seventh Plans
stressed the need to conserve soil, control population growth, make better
use of existing infrastructure, expand absorptive capacity and develop human
resources. But despite rapid expansion of development expenditures, sup-
ported by growing foreign assistance, from US$103 million (7 percent of GDP)
in FY75 to US$421 million (18 percent of GDP) in FY85, per capita real income
grew at only 0.5 percent annually during this period.
7.      The country's difficult terrain, landlocked position, and poor
natural resource base have contributed to its disappointing economic
performance.  Other important factors are the Government's severely limited
capacity to manage the economy and to administer rapidly expanding develop-
ment programs.
8.      Over the past ten years, public expenditures have continued to grow
faster than revenues, with increasing shares of the growing budget deficits
financed by aid flows. The situation deteriorated sharply, starting in FY83
when large unanticipated emergency expenditures due to a drought necessitated
recourse to significant domestic bank borrowings. The budget position has
remained unstable since then, and the continued reliance on domestic bank
financing has created inflationary pressures. Serious balance of payments
problems have also emerged in the past three years as the cumulative result
of a decade of poor economic management, as characterized by low real GDP
growth, and dwindling agricultural surpluses for export. The external pay-



-3-
ments position remained precarious in FY84 and FY85, with the country con-
tinuing to lose foreign exchange reserves. By June 1985, gross official
international reserves had declined to the equivalent of 1.6 months of
imports compared with the peak of 6.2 months at the end of FY82.
9.      To restore financial stability, the Government needs urgently to step
up domestic resource mobilization while stringently controlling the growth of
expenditures in order to reduce domestic bank borrowings. As a result of
efforts to improve income tax assessment and collection and to apply indirect
taxes, revenues have steadily increased, but the tax structure remains
inelastic and narrowly based. Immediate reform should be geared to
rationalizing the structure of taxation and widening the tax base, for
example, by reducing income tax exemptions and deductions and eliminating
sales tax rate differentials between imported and domestically-produced
goods.
10.     To control expenditure, the Government must contain the growth of
wages and salaries, now the largest component in the regular budget. A
freeze on further civil service hiring is required over the next few years.
Implicitly, selective redeployment of positions is also required in order to
achieve priority objectives in some sectors. Also, in the wake of a hefty
35 percent general salary increase introduced in FY85, no increases should be
allowed in the Sev-enth Plan period. Additionally, public enterprise reform
must be pursued in order to reduce subsidy and transfer payments to public
corporations, some of which are causing a serious drain on the budget.
Development expenditures should be directed toward activities that will
produce economic results efficiently and quickly. To this end, existing
productive capacity and infrastructure need to be strengthened to increase
their usage, for example, through measures to improve operations and maintain
roads and irrigation canals. Resources for new investments should be
directed to activities that will earn additional foreign exchange for the
economy within short gestation periods. To lessen the burden of counterpart
funding, the Government should take a critical look at the pipeline of ongo-
ing operations and re-evaluate the returns to the economy of completing each
project. Tough decisions will likely be requi:ed to postpone, re-design or
cancel any ongoing project that does not measure up to the criteria applied.
11.     Concurrently, additional foreign exchange needs to be generated
through export promotion and efficient import substitution in order to stabi-
lize the country's precarious external payments position and to accelerate
real GDP growth in the medium to longer term. To improve its agricultural
trade position, the Government's immediate priority should be to secure an
adequate supply of foodgrains (rice, maize, wheat) and principal food crops
(sugar, oil seeds) to eliminate the sporadic requirement for food imports in
years when the monsoon fails. An effort should also be made over the longer
term to promote the export of minor cash crops such as ginger and cardamom.
The key elements to improve agricultural production over the medium term
include: improvements in the supply and distribution of agricultural inputs;
increased access by farmers to credit; investments in transport, storage and



-4-
other basic infrastructure to facilitate marketing; and a more effective and
flexible agricul.ural pricing policy. The development of cottage and small
industries (CSI) should also receive high priority over the next few years
because of their potential for earning foreign exchange. Currently, the
output from CSI, such as carpets, ready-made garments, and handicrafts,
accounts for 30 percent of Nepal's total merchandise exports. In recent
years, the Government has legislated a wide range of fiscal and administra-
tive incentives to stimulate private investment in CSI as well as the export
of CSI products. Implementation of these measures, together with the
alleviation of severe transport and transit constraints, constitute essential
elements of an export trade promotion strategy for Nepal.
12.     In late 1985, the Government took major first steps toward
stabilizing, and stimulating growth of, the economy. Effective November 30,
1985, the Nepalese Rupee was devalued by about 14 percent. Subsequently, the
Government introduced a financial stabilization program as part of a 13-month
standby arrangement with the International Monetary Fund. Major features of
the program are: (a) maintenance of a flexible exchange rate policy;
(b) restraints on public regular and development expenditures;
(c) strengthened tax administration to help reduce the budget deficit;
(d) restraint on the creation of domestic credit, especially bank credit to
the public sector; (e) maintenance of key bank deposit rates at positive real
levels; (f) increases in the prices charged by public enterprises and a
reduction in the subsidies received by them; (g) restraint on external comr
mercial borrowing; (h) increased numbers of licenses for commercial imports;
(i) abolition of a 10 percent cash subsidy on exports; and (j) a number of
procedural and institutional reforms liberalizing and rationalizing the trade
and exchange regime.
13.     The tasks that Nepal must undertake to address its multiple long-term
development problems are challenging. While it attempts to mobilize domestic
resources to finance about 40-50 percent of development expenditures, exter-
nal assistance at concessional terms will continue to play an important role
in financing investment and achieving economic growth. In the last three
years, aid commitments to Nepal have averaged US$250 million per year, and
have almost entirely been in the form of grants or concessional credits with
grant elements exceeding 70 percent. Gross disbursements grew from about
US$130 million in FY81 to US$165 million in FY85. Nearly 70 per_ent of total
aid disbursements have come from members of the Nepal Aid Group, formed in
1976 and now comprising eight Developing Assistance Committee (DAC) countries
and four multilateral agencies.
14.     By December 1984, Nepal's official foreign debt outstanding and
disbursed amounted to about US$430 million. As virtually all loans have been
concessional, debt-service payments, including payments to the International
Monetary Fund (IMF), have remained small in relation to exports of goods and
services: in FY85, debt-service payments amounted to about US$17 million,
equivalent to 5 percent of exports of goods and services. These payments



-5-
over the medium term, are anticipated to remain at about 7 percent of Nepal's
exports of goods and services.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
15.     Bank Group operations in Nepal began in 1969 with an IDA credit of
US$1.7 million equivalent for a telecommunications project. Since then, 43
additional credits have been approved, bringing total IDA assistance to Nepal
to US$599.1 million equivalent, net of cancellations. In view of Nepal's
many development needs, this assistance has been for projects in a wide
variety of sectors. Five of these sectors account for about 90 percent of
IDA credits by-amount: irrigation/agriculture (US$192.0 million for 16
projects); water supply and sewerage (US$46.8 million for three projects);
power and energy (US$168.0 million for four projects); telecommunications
(US$41.7 million for four projects); and highways (US$67.0 million for three
projects). The proposed credit of US$24.5 million would be the second to be
approved in FY86. No Bank loans have been made to Nepal. IFC has made three
investments in Nepal, the first in FY75 (US$3.1 million) for the expansion of
the Soaltee Hotel project in Kathmandu, the second in FY82 (DM 14.5 million)
to Nepal Orind Magnesite Company for the mining and production of dead burnt
magnesite, and a third approved in FY84, but not yet signed to NepaL Metal
Company (DM 7.8 million), for a zinc/lead mining and concentrates project.
Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits and IFC operations as
of March 31, 1986.
16.     Bank Group lending to Nepal has been modest until now, considering
the country's need for external assistance. The international community has
shown considerable interest in Nepal's economic development and, to date,
shortage of funds has not been a major bottleneck.  The main constraint on
the utilization of increased aid has been Nepal's limited absorptive
capacity, affecting the pace of project preparation and implementation. The
Bank Group has provided assistance to the Government in project preparation
through two Technical Assistance Credits (Cr. 659-NEP and 1379-NEP) and by
acting as Executing Agency for a number of technical assistance projects
financea by UNDP. Project completion reports have been prepared for six
projects: First Telecommunications (Cr. 166-NEP), First Highways
(Cr. 223-NEP), Tourism (Cr. 291-NEP), Birganj Irrigation (Cr. 373-NEP) the
Settlement (Cr. 505-NEP), Bhairawa-Lumbini Irrigation (Cr. 654- NEP), and
the First Rural Development (Cr. 617-NEP) Projects.
17.     In recent years Bank lending has attached particular importance to
(a) agriculture (including irrigated agriculture) and forestry;
(b) population control; and (c) education and training. Agriculture, a main
source of livelihood to over 90 percent of the population, accounts for about
60 percent of CDP and of merchandise exports. The primary objective of our
Lending in this sector is to increase production and employment. To that
end, we will emphasize actions and investments aimed at improving the supply
of inputs, strengthening support services to maximize benefits from existing



-6-
infrastructure and equipment, upgrading the irrigation network, and improving
operation and maintenance in medium and large scale irrigation projects. In
forestry, the Bank Group will support reforestation schemes at the community
level. Investments in agriculture and forestry would have to be supplemented
by effective programs to control population growth, particularly in the hill
areas, where a rapidly growing need for food, fuelwood and fodder is causing
serious environmental degradation. The manpower development objectives will
be to improve the quality of primary education and to increase the supply of
trained technical manpower for public administration. Outside these three
areas of primary emphasis, Bank Group involvement would concentrate in areas
where investments would complement growth in production capacity.
Accordingly, we plan to maintain some support to the power sector which
previously abeorbed a significant portion of our lending; we envisage our
future role in the sector more as a provider of technical assistance and a
catalyst for mobilizing additional external resources. In the transport
sector, our plan is to combine technical assistance through sector work with
selected interventions designed to facilitate regional integration and
improved rural access to markets and input supplies. We also propose to
continue supporting cottage industries where previous investments have made a
notable contribution to export promotion, import substitution and rural
employment generation.
18.     In allocating resources, the Bank Group's basic approach will be to
strike a proper balance between quick and high yielding investments (e.g.,
agriculture), which is dictated by Nepal's precarious budgetary and balance
of payments position, and an equally important commitment to those sectors
whose impact cannot be felt immediately but which nevertheless are vital to
the country's long-term development (e.g., population and human resource
development). Some of the Bank Group's operations would be deliberately
targeted to the poorest and least developed parts of the country, such as the
hill area3.
19.     The proposed Narayani III irrigation project would contribute to
Nepal's policy objective to utilize more fully, and more rapidly, existing
irrigation infrastructure and thereby enable past investments to realize
their expected return. The project would complete the construction and
development of the physical infrastructure (water distribution system,
drainage, farm roads) in the course of which it would apply the lessons
learned during the first two phases of the scheme.
PART III - SECTORAL BACKGROUND
General
20.     Agriculture is the mainstay of the economy.  However, the resource
base for agricultural production is restricted due to the rugged terrain;
only about a sixth of the land area (3.1 million ha) is suitable for



-7-
cultivation, of which some 50 percent is irrigable. Decades of inefficient
land use and exploitation of natural resources have resulted in severe agro-
ecological imbalance, particularly in the Hills, and have placed severe
constraints on the development of the country. While HMGN's development
strategy and investment priorities for the agriculture and rural sectors have
been generally consistent with the national and sectoral needs, achievements
have fallen short of the targets for the production of basic agricultural
commodities, correction of the agro-ecological imbalances, and improvement of
the socio-economic conditions in rural areas. This has been so because some
of the investment programs were not well designed and many were not effec-
tively implemented due to shortages of skilled manpower and local funds, and
weaknesses in the relevant institutions, administrative structure and opera-
tional procedures.
21.     Agricultural production during the last decade increased only by
about 0.7 percent per annum, while population surged by about 2.7 percent per
annum, thus leading to a progressively deteriorating food balance. An FAO
study on food and security, dated September 1984, estimated that 39 out of
the 75 districts currently have a deficit in food production and unless
production trends are changed, domestic production of cereals would meet only
about 65 percent of Nepal's consumption requirements by year 2000.
22.     The present forest area in Nepal is about 5.3 million ha.  These
figures represent a 33 percent reduction in forest areas since 1964.
Destruction is accelerating because of tree felling for fuelwood and addi-
tional cultivable lands, and reduction of regeneration and seedling growth by
uncontrolled grazing. As the forests are destroyed and fuelwood sources
become remote and relatively inaccessible, use of dried dung and crop
residues for fuel is increasing, thereby depriving the soil of what are often
the main sources of nutrient replacement and resulting in a continuous
declint in productivity. The disappearance of forests is also resulting in
increased damage to agricultural lands in the lower catchments of the water-
sheds and, in general a degradation of the environment. With the increased
population pressure on the land, accessible forests in the Hills are faced
with the grim possibility of complete denudation within the next 15 years,
and those in the Terai within 25 years, unless reforestation and conservation
efforts are enhanced.
The Irrigation Subsector
23.     Water Resource Utilization.  Nepal has abundant surface water
resources. Annual average discharges of its rivers total about 150 billion
m3 and would be capable of irrigating 8 to 10 million ha. However, there
are only about 1.3 million ha suitably located for gravity irrigation. The
major and minor rivers can serve relatively small command areas in Nepal
while they are costly to develop, because of the Large diversion structures
needed to spill the huge monsoon floods and the sediments that should be
desilted out of the systems every year in very large quantities. The
development of these rivers is further constrained by the need for legal



-8-
agreements with India. Groundwater resources are abundant in the Terai, but
development is constrained by lack of infrastructure to keep scattered pumps
and engines operating reliably. Electric power to energi,e tubewells is
severely restricted in extent and amount, particularly in the more remote
parts, but the situation is improving.
24.     Irrigation Development.  At present, only about 540,000 ha have some
form of irrigation, of which about 140,000 ha are under public schemes. The
inventory of irrigation facilities (1985) by ecological zones and development
regions is as follows:
Region          Mountain       Hill      Terai       Total        Z
__ --(_______ha)…-____--___- …_
Eastern          4,365        75,676    148,912   18,953        33.2
Central          4,028        34,618    129,900    168,546       31.3
Western              29       38,254     60,990      99,273      18.4
Mid-western      2,254        12,313     32,674      47,241       8.8
Far-western      3,641         8,476     32,438      44,555       8.3
Nepal           14,317       119,337    404,914    538,568    100.0
Z                2.7           22.1       75.2       100.0
Private sector surface irrigation development consists mostly of simple river
and stream diversions which often use temporary weirs to head up the river
flows into ungated intakes. It was initiated in the Hills and started to
extend into the Terai during the first half of the present century when
diversion schemes were constructed by large landowners and farmer groups.
25.     The first two government-operated schemes (Mahakali, 4,700 ha, and
Chandra, 11,000 ha) were constructed on the Terai during the 1920s. These
are based on river diversion and were implemented with the assistance of the
Indian government as recompense to Nepal for water rights allotted to much
larger irrigation schemes in India. Design parameters were similar to those
of the Indian systems of the period: they aimed at spreading water rela-
tively thinly over the largest possible area, to provide drought insurance to
kharif crops. The distribution system was developed only to the 700-1,000 ha
block level; farmers were expected to build the system beyond it but this
expectation did not materialize. Consequently, much of the potential command
could not be seeviced. After independence, Indian assistance to construct
irrigation schemes in Nepal continued; schemes were based on traditional
design concepts, and ended with similar unsatisfactory results.
26.     In the late 1970's, HMGN's planning objectives were changed to
(a) extend the distribution system down to the 50 ha level; (b) organize
Water User Groups (WUGs); and (c) provide agricultural support services to
the farmers. This policy change was a corollary to increasing support of the



-9-
irrigation sector by the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank. A more
recent policy trend in the public irrigation sector has been to extend the
irrigation infrastructure down to 5-7.5 ha areas.
IDA Involvement In Irrigation Development
27.     The objective of IDA's involvement in the irrigation subsector is
twofold: (a) to support the Government's efforts to increase agricultural
output for domestic consumption and, to the extent possible, for export; and
(b) to assist in strengthening managerial and institutirnal capability as
well as sustaining growth in agricultural productivity. As one of the
world's poorest countries with a high population growth rate, Nepal must
continue to give high priority to increasing employment and agricultural
production. Development of water resources will be an important means of
achieving this objective. This does not necessarily mean development of only
new areas. Under Nepal's L,lnditions, investment enabling improved operation
of existing assets is at least as important, if not more so, in the short
run. IDA has assisted HMGN to utilize more fully and rapidly irrigation
infrastructure already built and thereby enable past investments to realize
their full potential. However, there is also a need to improve planning for
the long term development of water resources and to coordinate better the
activities of the various donors. IDA's assistance in the sector will be
geared to these needs. To date, IDA has financed six irrigation projects (of
which four are ongoing), one irrigation engineering credit, and irrigation
components in three rural development projects.
28.     The first project undertaken with IDA assistance was the Birgan
Irrigation Project (Narayani Zone) (Cr. 373-NEP, US$ 6.0 million, 1973). Its
objective was to complete and upgrade the irrigation and drainage system on
28,700 ha of the 37,400 ha commanded by the Nepal Eastern Canal (NEC) and to
provide groundwater irrigation to 2,700 ha, north of the NEC command area,
through public tubewell development. Because of implementation delays which
led to considerable cost overruns, the surface component was reduced to
16,300 ha, which was designated Stage I. The reduced project was completed
in 1981. The Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR No. 4267 of December 30,
1982) concluded that the groundwater component has been less than successful,
mainly due to inadequate attention to operation and maintenance (OEM), some
well failures, and the then unreliable power supply.
29.     The Narayani Zone Irrigation Development Stage II Project
(Cr. 856-NEP, US$14.0 million, 1978) followed on the Birganj Irrigation
Project. It was designed to develop the 12,700 ha deferred from the Stage I
project and to provide intensified agricultural support services. While
progress in the achievement of physical targets has been satisfactory, opera-
tion and maintenance and the involvement of farmers in water distribution at
farm level is still weak. Completion is scheduled for the end of 1986.
30.     The Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater Project (Cr. 654-NEP, US$9.0
million, 1976) represented the first stage of a public sector groundwater



-10-
irrigation development program in Western Terai. The project provided for
the construction of 64 deep tubewell systems serving about 7,600 ha, together
with provision of agricultural supporting services. Implementation of
project works was delayed by t-o years, resulting in a 20 percent cost
overrun. The delay was due to: (a) slow tendering and land acquisition
procedures; (b) shortages of construction materials; and (c) inadequate
staffing and budget allocations. The credit was fully disbursed in March
1983, when project completion stood at 80 percent (PPAR No. 5261 of
September 20, 1984).
31.     A follow-on project, Bhairawa-.umbini Groundwater Project Stage II
(Cr. 1316-NEP, US$16.0 million, 1982) prrvides financing for completion of
Stage I works, O& of the completed wells during the 5-year implementation
period, including the public tubewells developed under the Birganj Irrigation
Project (para. 28), and introduction of imiproved design and construction of
new tubewell irrigation systems. Performance of completed tubewell systems
has suffered from unreliable power supply and shortages of spares for
maintenance. Power supply is expected now to improve as the national power
grid is nearing completion. Lack of effective agricultural support and
difficulties with organization of the farmers into WUGs have been additional
obstacles to successful operation; this situation is now gradually improving.
32.     The Sunsari-Morang Irrigation and Development Project (Cr. 812-NEP,
US$30.0 million, 1978) was designed to restore and improve an existing
system, the Chatra Canal command, serving 69,000 ha. The project concept and
scope were revised in mid-1983 because of: (a) the desirability of adopting
a considerably more detailed approach to managing water distribution than
originally envisaged; and (b) the limited implementation and financial
capacity of HMGN to develop in one time-slice the whole 69,000 ha.
Consequently, the project was divided into 4 stages. The area of the ongoing
project (Stage I) was reduced to 12,000 ha. The first stage is expected to
be completed by the end of 1986. The second stage, covering an additional
23,000 ha, is now under preparation.
33.     The Mahakali Irrigation Project (Stage I) (Cr. 1055-NEP, US$16.0
million, 1981) aimed to rehabilitate and upgrade an existing irrigation
system of 3,400 ha on the left bank of the Mahakali (Sarda) River in the Far
Western Region and to extend it to 6,600 ha. Implementation is more than a
year behind schedule, mainly because of delays in engaging local and foreign
consultants, procurement of equipment and materials, and difficult commiunica-
tions to the rest of the country. Most of the problems have now been
resolved, but the project area has been reduced to 4,700 ha, due to (a) HMGN
decision not to release some of the forest lands for agriculture and
(b) mapping errors at preparation. The reduced project continues to be
viable. Completion is scheduled for 1987.
34.     The Babai Irrigation Engineering Project (Cr. 1093-NEP, US$3.5
million, 1981) financed the preparation of detailed designs for the proposed
Babai Irrigation Project on 13,500 ha, and for 46 km of the East-West



-11-
highway. A consulting firm was engaged in 1981 and work has progressed as
scheduled.
35.     A component of the First Rural Development Project (Cr. 617-NEP,
US$8.0 million, 1976), completed in December 1983, provided for improvements
of small scale irrigation schemes in the Hills and development of a high-lift
scheme on the Batar plateau in Nuwakot District, for a total of approximately
1,900 ha. The small scale irrigation schemes have made a substantial impact
on production; the effect of the more complex lift scheme has not been up to
expectation. A follow-up project in the same district has been negotiated,
and includes a number of additional small schemes. The Second Rural
Development Project (Cr. 939-NEP, US$11.0 million, 1979) includes a component
for the improvement of small scale Hill Irrigation schemes in the Mahakali
Zone. Implementation is progressing slowly.
36.     Lessons of Past Investments In Irrigation.  The principal lessons
learned from IDA's experience with past lending in the subsector include the
need to: (a) bring the water distribution network closer to the farmer's
fields; (b) provide closer technical supervision of design and construction
parameters, and operation of the completed parts of the project; (c) increase
the emphasis on staff training and institution building; (d) increase the
involvement of farmers in water management through proper training and
organization and giving their groups the necessary statutory powers to carry
out their roles; (e) increase O&M expenditures; and (f) improve cost recovery
mechanism. The rates charged have not only failed to cover operating and
maintenance costs, but the collection mechanisms have been weak. A basic
reformulation of charges and collection mechanisms is needed to reduce the
budgetary burden on HMGN.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
37.     The Project was appraised in November/December 1985.  Negotiations
were held in Washington, D.C., between April 16 and 22, 1986. The Nepalese
delegation was led by Mr. C.D. Bhatt, Director General, Department of
Irrigation, Hydrology and Meteorology. The Staff Appraisal Report titled
Narayani III Irrigation Project (Report No. 6067-NEP) dated June 2, 1986 is
being circulated separately. A supplementary Project Data Sheet is attached
as Annex III.
Project Description
38.     The objectives of the project are to increase dry-season agricultural
production by introducing an equitable, predictable and reliable irrigation
system in the Narayani irrigation scheme. The project would have the follow-
ing components: (a) improvements to the NEC and extensive repairs to the
Tilawe Barrage, which was damaged during the 1985 monsoon; (b) development of
the Stage III area (8,700 ha) including about 40 shallow tubewells to support



-12-
early rice nurseries; (c) improvement and repairs in the Stage I and II areas
(28,700 ha); (d) flood protection and river training works; (e) improvement
of the road network; (f) provision of vehicles and equipment to support
project construction and maintenance activities and radio communication
equipment for improvement of project operation; (g) establishment of a
regional workshop; (h) provision of technical assistance for consultancies,
staff training, strengthening agricultural extension and research and
studies, including planning and design, of suitable irrigation projects in
the Terai; and (i) support of project establishment and O&M costs.
39.     The project will use water from the Candak River, an international
water way, in accordance with a treaty dated December 4, 1959, as amended,
between Nepal and India. It has been designed taking into account the provi-
sion of such treaty. The rehabilitation works under the project would
include embankments for flood protection to be constructed at the Bagmati and
Lal Bakeya, as well as Eavrangia, Tilawe, Bangari and Posaha Rivers. None of
the works will adversely change the quality or quantity of water flows
downstream; and, as the proposed project is a rehabilitation operation,
notification to the downstream riparian is not required pursuant to OMS 2.32.
40.     The Narayani scheme is probably the most important irrigation
rehabilitation operation in Nepal. It is expected to serve as a model for
rehabilitating existing irrigation schemes as well as for the planning and
design of new projects and the development of effective and sustainable
operational systems. The lessons of past lending outlined above are taken
into account in its design. To encourage farmers to use dry season
irrigation, the tertiary canals would be constructed down to the 4-ha area.
Within this area, construction and maintenance of field channels and water
distribution would be undertaken by the farmers themselves organized as water
users groups (WUGs). The WUGs would be constituted as statutory bodies by
December 31, 1986, and established concurrently with the completion of the
infrastructure, thereby ensuring the close involvement of farmers in water
management. The technical staff will be trained by the project while the
WUGs as well as individual farmers would be given training through the
agricultural extension service system. HMGN would be required under this
project to make appropriate budgetary allocations for financing O&M, and the
project includes a study, scheduled to be concluded by June 1987, of the
physical and budgetary requirements for O&M. Consultant services would be
provided under the project to assist with various aspects of project
implementation. Finally, the cost recovery mechanism would be strengthened
through the transfer of responsibility for collecting water charges from the
project management to the Land Revenue Department and through adjustment
(every two years) of the level of water charges from August 31, 1988 onwards.
Detailed Features
41.     Improvement of NEC.  Improvements started under the first and second
projects would be completed so that NEC can operate at design capacity.



-13-
These include: brick lining of about 3 km of canal section; protection of
canal slopes (2 km); strengthening of embankients (3.5 km); improvements of
service roads (18.5 km); and provision of check and cross drainage
structures, cart and foot bridges.
42.     Before the NEC was constructed, a barrage on the Tilawe River com-
manded some 6,500 ha, most of which was later integrated into the NEC
command. The barrage was extensively damaged during the 1985 monsoon. Since
its diverted waters continue to be required within, and upstream of, the NEC
cGmmand, it would be rebuilt and its flood protection works strengthened.
43.     Stage III Area Development.  The area (8,700 ha) would be provided
with main secondary canals (MSC), several branch secondary canals (BSC)
totalling about 120 km, and about 85 structures including culverts, cross-
drainage structures and drops as required. Tertiary canal (TC) turnouts
would be fixed-discharge structures, each commanding about 30 ha. To
encourage dry season irrigation, the TCs would be constructed down to the
4-ha area. Within this area, water distribution would be arranged by the
farmers themselves. Construction of field channels from the 4-ha point would
be undertaken by WUCs. To ensure irrigation water for early rice nurseries,
the project would construct about 40 shallow tubewells where water supplies
are not available from other sources. An internal drainage system would
evacuate surplus irrigation and excess rainwater during the monsoon. The
area would require about 74 km of major drains and 95 km of minor drains, as
well as field drains. The existing construction camp would be extended to
accommodate staff required to supervise new construction. Upon completion of
construction activities the buildings and offices would be used by the O&M
staff.
44.     Stage I and II Area Works.  To improve the distribution system within
the Stage I and II areas (28,700 ha), the project would construct or
rehabilitate about 450 structures, including ungated control structures, and
calibrated offtakes from the NEC to the MSC and the BSC canals. About 1,000
fixed, ungated turnouts from the TCs servicing the 30 ha areas and about
7,000 outlets serving the 4 ha sub-areas would also be provided. In
addition, about 85 km of secondary canals and 1,730 km of the TC system would
be repaired and the TCs would be extended to the 4 ha level. The WUGs would
be provided with a layout plan of the field channels below the 4 ha outlets,
which they would construct themselves. Any structures that may be required
below the TC outlets would be constructed by the project. In addition,
improvements would be made to the natural and constructed drains and to their
related structures, including completion of the missing portion of major
drains within the Stage I and II areas and the pertinent field drains.
45.     Flood Protection and River Training Woiks.  Two rivers, the Lal
Bakeya and the Bagmati, regularly inundate adjacent lands in the Stage III
area. To adequately rehabilitate the Narayani Irrigation scheme, retaining
embankments would be constructed on critical reaches at the Bagmati and Lal
Bakeya Rivers. The embankments would be grassed over and protected by trees.



-14-
In addition, flood protection works would include short-cut channels and new
flood embankments at four other rivers (Navrangia, Tilawe, Bangari and
Posaha).
46.     Improvement to Village and Service Roads.  Roadworks would include:
(a) about 91 km of link roads connecting vilLages and storehouse locations
to the NEC service road; (b) gravelling of part of the existing MSC and BSC
service roads in the Stage I and II areas; tc) construction of gravel-
metalled service roads on the MSC and BSC in the Stage III area; and
%d) upgrading about 152 km of existing roads and constructing about 60 km of
new roads, also in the Stage III area. Service roads would be constructed
along all main and secondary drains.
47.     Vehicles and Equipment.  New equipment for constructing project works
and spares for equipment already with the project would be provided, as well
as office, survey, design and drawing equipment. An internal radio network
would support management of new construction, and subsequent operation of the
canal system. Subject to agreement with COI, it is proposed that the project
head office should be linked to key points on the Indian Eastern Canal
System, to better manage water supplies to the NEC command. It was agreed
with HHCN that it would, not later than July 1, 1987, issue all the necessary
authorizations and permits to enable NZIDB to install the internal radio
communications facilities required.
48.     Regional Workshop.  A regional workshop would be established to
service vehicles and equipment from this and other public irrigation projects
in the eastern Terai.
49.     Technical Support.  Consultants services of about 280 man-months
would be required to assist project management with various engineering,
design, construction supervision, in-service training tasks, and studies of
other irrigation schemes elsewhere in the Terai. It was agreed with HMCN
that it would retain consultants whose qualifications, terms of reference and
period of employment are acceptable to IDA; their selection will be in
accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines on employing consultants.
50.     In-service training of the project staff, initiated under the Stage I
and II projects, wo'Ald be strengthened. Provision would be made under the
project to (a) construct or rehabilitate and equip training facilities;
(b) engage instructors, and (c) prepare training curricula. The project
would also support overseas training in irrigation system design, construc-
tion and management.
51.     The agricultural extension service is organized according to the
T&V system, under the IDA-supported second agricultural extension project.
To serve the special extension requirements of irrigated agriculture, the
proposed project would finance one additional Assistant Agricultural
Development Officer and a Subject Matter Specialist in irrigated agriculture
in each district, to concentrate on the canal-irrigated areas. Adaptive



-15-
agricultural research, appropriate to the project, would be carried out
within the NEC command area in cooperation with the Department of Agriculture
and funded by the project.
52.     Monitoring and Evaluation.  The project would provide facilities and
equipment to monitor and evaluate the progress of project construction and
performance of commissioned works. Special attention would be paid to water
deliveries and agricultural production performance.
53.     Support of Project Establishment and O&M Costs.  Incremental staff
salaries and allowances-about 65 percent of the total salaries and
allowances--and other establishment and O&M costs would be financed by the
Swiss Development Cooperation (SDC) under the project at a declining rate
during project implementation, as follows:
HMCN's Fiscal Year                  SDC                    MlGN
1987-88 to 1989-90               90                      10
1990-91 to 1991-92               70                      30
1992-93                          50                      50
1993-94                          25                      75
1994-95 onwards                  --                     100
54.     O&M funding of irrigation schemes has until now been based on finan-
cial norms not related to physical and staffing requirements: budgetary
allocations in surface-irrigated areas are only NRs 140/ha; a tentative
estimate of the appropriate figure is about NRs 370/ha. The extent and
frequency of repairs and routine maintenance would be regularly reviewed.
It has been agreed with HMGN that it would, through NZIDB: (a) by December
31, 1986, carry out, under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA, a detailed
study of the physical and budgetary requirements for operation and main-
tenance of all works under the project; (b) furnish, by June 30, 1987, a
report summarizing the results and recommendations of the study to IDA for
its review and comments; and (c) thereafter, taking into account IDA's
comments, if any, implement the results and recommendations of the study.
To permit disbursement for project establishment and O&M costs, assurances
were obtained from HMGN that it would: (a) by March 31 of each year, start-
ing in 1987 for FY87/88, submit to IDA for review and comments, its estimates
of salaries and allowances for project staff and estimates of operation -ad
maintenance costs (excluding establishment costs); and (b) taking into
account IDA's comments, make the required budgetary allocations to adequately
cover O&M costs.
55.     Design and Contracting Packages.  Consultants engaged under the
previous projects have prepared the Narayani III feasibility study and are
preparing revised final designs and contracting packages for the 1986-87



-16-
construction season, taking into account modifications suggested during
project appraisal. Most of the individual works planned are relatively
minor, and the actual work experience gained under the Stage I and II
projects have given a good basis for cost estimations on Stage III works.
To help ensure prompt startup of the project, completing satisfactorily
revised detailed designs for at least the 1986-87 construction season would
be a condition of credit effectiveness.
Organization and Management
56.    Operation and Maintenance of public irrigation in Nepal is the
responsibility of the Department of Irrigetion, Hydrology and Meteorology
(DIHM), which is part of the Ministry of Water Resources (MWR). The
Secretary, MWR, is the chief executive officer. The DIHM is headed by a
Director-General, usually an engineer. Responsibility for constructing the
large public irrigation projects rests with their Boards, established under
the Development Board Act. The Secretary of HWR is the Chairman of all these
boards; members are representatives fron the concerned ministries, entities
related to rural development and the senior regional officers of the con-
cerned ministries.
57.     Narayani Zone Irrigation Development Board (N2IDB).  The NZIDB,
formed in 1973 for executing the Stage I project, would oversee the execution
of the proposed project. At present it has 14 members, including repre-
sentatives from the Ministries of Finance, Agriculture and Land Reform, the
Planning Commission, the Directors-General of DIHM and of DOA, and the
Regional Directors of DIHM and DOA (Central Region). The project's General
Manager (GM) is its Member-Secretary. The Board's functions include:
(a) approval of annual budget proposals for executing, implementing and
operating the project; (b) senior staff appointments; (c) award of large
construction and consultancy contracts; (d) semi-annual reviews of implemen-
tation programs and progress; (e) coordination of policy matters on
programming, budget and finance, and (f) determination of the level of water
charges.
58.     The Chief Executive Officer of the project is the GM, appointed by
the Minister of Water Resources, in consultation with the Secretary, MWR,
and the Director-General of DIHM. It has been agreed with HMGN that it
would, at all times, maintain in NZIDB a General Manager whose
qualifications, experience and terms of reference shall be satisfactory to
the Association.
59.     The GM, the heads of all the operating divisions and the project
consultants are in Birganj. The GM's responsibilities include:
(a) preparation of the annual engineering work program, budget and staff
requirements; (b) administration of project staff, including consultants;
(c) authorization of construction by force account and of civil works and
equipment contracts up to the limits of his financial authority; and
(d) coordination of all project activities at the Regiona' and District



-17-
levels. The project staff is organized into administrative, finance, design
and construction, mechanical and the recently formed operation and main-
tenance divisions. Monitoring and evaluation (M&E) is at present carried
out by a small section.
60.     Proposed Organization.  HMGI is considering a reduction of the mem-
bership of the NZIDB. The Secretary of MWR would continue to be its
Chairman; others would be the Directors-General of DIHM and DOA, and one
representative each from the Ministry of Finance and the Planning Commission.
The GM of the project would continue to be its Secretary. The Board would
meet four times a year to consider policy and inter-agency coordination
issues. To reduce the Board's involvement in day-to-day issues, the GM would
be given increased authority to approve contracts for civil works and for
equipment purchase. The main changes in project organization would be as
follows: (a) the Administrative Division's responsibilities in connection
with water charge assessment and collections would cease with the proposed
transfer of this function to the Revenue Department; (b) the Finance Division
would continue to function without substantial changes; (c) the Design and
Construction Division's design and survey section would be strengthened and
its functions adapted to the changing scope of works; more engineers would be
assigned to the section who would be suitably trained to ensure that they can
design and supervise civil works and structures according to the principles
and concepts of the project; eventually part of the division's staff would
form a small nucleus in the O&M Division for any future development work;
(d) the Operation and Maintenance Division's Operations Section would operate
the system from the beadworks to the 30-ha area, and allocate the water and
monitor deliveries; the Maintenance Section would maintain the system to the
30 ha turnouts, all the drainage system, flood control works and roads;
(e) the Mechanical Division would administer and operate the Regional DIHM
Workshop; and (f) the Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Unit would become a
division and would collect and analyze pertinent data on project planning,
implementation and performance, particularly with respect to (i) construction
targets, progress and quality control findings; (ii) actual disbursements
compared to targets; (iii) effectiveness of water management: timeliness and
quantity of deliveries compared to projected schedules; (iv) operations and
effectiveness of WUGs in securing compliance of their members to their
directives; (v) maintenance costs; (vi) agricultural progress in terms of
changing patterns of land use, cropping patterns, or any institutional chan-
ges in tenancy agreements; (vii) support given by the agricultural supporting
services; and (viii) water charge collection. It would also be responsible
for the preparation of progress reports.
61.     To enable project mnnagement to carry out its functions, it would be
a condition of effectiveness that IMGN authorize all the required project
staff positions in a manner satisfactory to the Association. 1MGN would, at
all times, continue to provide all staff positions required for effective
project management.



-18-
62.     In-service training would place special emphasis on survey, design,
construction supervision, quality control for irrigation and drainage systems
and associated civil works, and design and layout of field channels below the
TC outlet. Appropriate training would be provided to canal operators in
operation and maintenance of the system within their required scope of work
responsibilities, and to WUC members in improved irrigation techniques. HCGN
has agreed to cause NZIDB to: (a) submit an overall training program to IDA
by January 1, 1987, for its approval; (b) by January 1 of each year comenc-
ing on January 1, 1987, submit to IDA for its approval the annual training
program for the following fiscal year; and (c) thereafter, promptly begin
implementation of the approved annual programs not later than April 1 of each
year.
Water Management
63.     Nepal's agreement with India specifies that up to 24.1 m3/sec
(850 cusecs) be delivered to the head of NEC from the Don Branch whenever
required, except during closure periods for scheduled repairs and
maintenance. In the past, principally because the NEC command area has not
been fully developed, actual deliveries were well below authorized
quantities. In addition, the NEC system obtains, or has the potential to
develop, a limited supply from local sources. three rivers are diverted
through small barrages which serve distribution systems that interlink with
the NEC system. Fourteen other streams which cross the NEC can, potentially,
be developed. However, supplies in all these rivers are unreliable towards
the end of the dry season. Private shallow tubewells, a more reliable
source, contribute to supplies; and their number is increasing.
64.     The water management program is designed to:  (a) deliver water in a
timely and equitable manner to all farmers in the project area so that they
fairly share available supplies; (b) deliver water to each farmer at a flow
rate that enables efficient on-farm irrigation; (c) notify farmers of the
time they will receive their allocations by preparing operation schedules
which take account of the physical constraints of the network and the
expected water supplies at the head of the NEC; and (d) so far as possible,
adapt the delivery schedules to crop requirements.
65.     To achieve the water allocation objectives, the NEC system would be
operated at two distinct but interdependent management levels. The canal
system from the NEC headworks down to tertiary outlets would be operated and
maintained by the project through the Operations Section of the O&M Division.
Below the turnout, the TC and field channel systems (down to tho farmgate)
would be managed by the WUGs. It would be the individual farmer's respon-
sibility to manage supplies on his farm. A regular maintenance program would
ensure that the management system outlined is able to function. Performance
would be monitored. To ensure effective and equitable water distribution,
HKGN agreed that it would by January 31, 1987 adopt and thereafter implement
a detailed water management plan for the irrigation scheme in the project
area satisfactory to IDA.



-19-
Water User Groups (WUCs)
66.     An essential prerequisite for successful operation below the TC
turnout would be to organize the water users within the 30 ha area. As far
as topography allows, the WUGs' area of activity would coincide with the
local administrative Wards. Thus, Ward leaders may well become WUG leaders,
thereby ensuring continuity of the traditionally established leadership. The
Chairmen and members of the WUGs would be trained in the procedures to be
followed. Their first task would be to construct the field channel systems,
according to designs and layouts provided by project management. Structures
would be built by the project. It has been agreed with HMGN that: (a) in
tertiary commands where there is already an irrigation service, water users'
groups will be established by December 31, 1986; and (b) it would cause its
NZIDB to establish water users' groups along each new tertiary canal not less
than six months before the tertiary is scheduled to begin operation.
67.     To enable the WUGs to perform these functions effectively, they need
statutory powers. Accordingly, it was agreed with HMGN that it would, by
December 31, 1986, constitute the Water Users' Groups as statutory bodies,
which would grant them authority to (a) supervise the distribution of water
amongst their members in proportion to the size of their landholding;
(b) cause their members to construct and maintain the field channels adjoin-
ing their holdings and any other sections of the field channels that do not
skirt commandable areas; (c) in case of default, arrange for such work to be
done at the cost of the defaulters, provided, however, that if the WUGs fail
to maintain their part of the distribution system, the work will be carried
out by HMCN at the cost of the WUG concerned.
Cost Recovery
68.     The Boards which have been established in each of the major irriga-
tion projects are at present responsible for determining the level of, and
-ecovering, water charges within their jurisdictions. In the Narayani
project, the NZIDB charges farmers NRs 100/ha for a one-season crop and
NRs 200/ha for sugarcane. This is equivalent to an average of about
NRs 140/haf per year at present irrigation intensities. Recovery from surface
water schemes has been only about 15 percent on the average, which reflects
in part farmers' reluctance to pay for an unreliable and inequitable service.
However, recovery in the adjacent area served by public tubewells (under the
Birganj Groundwater Scheme) has been significantly better, partly due to the
more reliable and equitable service and partly due to more effective enforce-
ment (a farmer is usually supplied with water only upon the presentation of
payment for the last delivery); collection rates in this case are reported
to be around 70 percent.
69.     Substantial improvements in recovery are possible when the quality of
the irrigation service is improved. Once farmers have realized the benefits
of a reliable irrigation service, it should be possible to increase the level



-20-
of charges and, more importantly, to improve collection rates. Assessment
under the project would be simplified by replacing the existing rates with a
flat annual rate on the cultivated command area (CCA). Responsibility for
collection would be transferred to the Revenue Department which has the legal
power to enforce payment. Water deliveries in other irrigation projects in
the Terai (e.g., Sunsari-Morang and Mahakali) are expected to operate along
similar principle., and following an assessment of the lessons learned in
Earayani in revising its cost recovery system, the other schemes are also
expected to charge a flat rate. As the service, and the benefits from
irrigation improve, it should ba possible to gradually increase the water
charge to cover, at least, full O&M costs and, taking into account farmers'
payment capacity, part of capital costs.
70.     An agreement was reached with HMCN that it would:  (a) by December
31, 1986, introduce a flat rate of not less than NRs 200lha/yr on all comman-
dable land in Narayani that receives an assured surface water supply, and
increase water charges in the Birganj Groundwater Scheme to not less than
NRa 400/ha/yr; and (b) charge its Revenue Department by July 16, 1987, with
the duty of collecting water charges in the Narayani Scheme. In addition, an
agreement was reached with HMGN that it would, by August 31, 1988, and there-
after every two years, review and if required, revise the assessment and
collection procedures and adjust, as required, the level of water charges in
the project area to ensure that, by fiscal 1993, and thereafter, water char-
ges would cover the full O&M costs and a reasonable portion of capital costs,
taking into account the farmers' payment capacity.  Commitments for recover-
ing O&M costs and such portion of capital costs that lie within the farmers'
payment capacity exist in all major irrigation projects supported by IDA
(e.g., Kahakali, Bhairawa-Lumbini, Narayani II and Sunsari Morang) as well ac
projects supported by the Asian Development Bank; between them, they cover
about 95 percent of all public irrigation schemes in the Terai. The delivery
of reliable water supply, the provision for improved operation and main-
tenance and the transfer of recovery responsibility to the Revenue Department
under this project would result in significant improvements in cost recovery.
To ensure that the reforms introduced under this project are extended to
other major projects after a brief trial period, HMGN agreed to complete, by
April 1, 1989, a study of how these reforms can be applied to all other major
irrigation projects (larger than 2,500 ha) in Nepal and to prepare and fur-
nish to IDA, for its review and comnents, the results and recoumendations of
the study.  Upon receipt of IDA's comment's, if any, HHGN would implement the
recommendations of such study. The timing of the study would take into
account the need to: rehabilitate the water distribution system; make avail-
able reliable water supply to the farmers; and test the farmers' response in
terms of their willingness and capacity to pay water charges.
Project Cost and Financing
71.     Total project costs are estimated at US$35.5 million equivalent,
excluding taxes and duties. The foreign exchange component would be US$20.5
million or about 58 percent of total project costs. Costs are based on



-21-
estimated prices of April 1986. Physical contingencies have been assumed at
the rate of 15 percent on civil works and 10 percent on equipment, and amount
to about US$2.9 million. Pr1re contingencies, which amount to about US$6.8
million, reflect expected inflation rates over the project period. The same
rates have been assumed for local and foreign expenditures: 7 percent in
1986-87 through 1989-90, 5.5 percent in 1990-91, and 4 percent thereafter.
72.     The proposed credit of US$24.5 million would finance 69 percent of
total project costs. The Swiss grant of about US$7.5 million (Sw F 15.0
million) would finance 21 percent. The combined external financing (US$32.0
million) would represent 90 percent of total project costs. Cofinancing
would be on a joint basis following Bank Group's procurement and consultants
guidelines. Allocation of the credit and grant by categories is shown in
Annex V. The balance of capital and recurrent expenditures over the
implementation period would be met by HMGN from its development budget, for
which adequate funds were allocated under the Seventh National Plan
(1985-90). The credit would be made to HMGN on standard IDA terms.
Procurement and Disbursement
73.    Major civil works to be financed under the project would cost about
US$17.5 million (about 50 percent of total cost), including physical and
price contingencies but excluding land acquisition, engineering and
administration costs. All the major works would be packaged under one con-
tract to attract competition from large contractors and be procured under ICB
procedures. This would enable planning a more continuous work program by the
contractor by switching between activities according to seasons and site
accessibility. The estimated cost of other miscellaneous and dispersed minor
works procured under LCB procedures satisfactory to IDA would be about
US$2.1 million. Force account work would amount to about US$0.6 million.
Operation and maintenance and establishment costs amount to US$7.3 million.
Of this amount salaries and allowances of incremental project staff and other
management costs, estimated at US$4.3 million, would not involve procurement.
Of the maintenance works, US$2.0 million would be implemented by small con-
tracts and procured through LCB procedures satisfactory to IDA, and the
remaining US$1.0 million would be implemented by HMGN's departmental forces.
This component would be financed by SDC on a declining basis, with HMGN's
share increasing accordingly (para 53).
74.     Equipment and vehicles would cost approximately US$Z.7 million,
inciuding physical and price contingencies. Heavy equipment, vehicles and
workshop facilities (US$1.9 million) would be grouped into appropriate pack-
ages of US$100,000 or more, and procured through ICB procedures. Light
equipment, motorcycles, bicycles and diesel generators (US$0.8 million),
would be purchased at various times over the project life; they are available
locally and would be purchased through limitee international shopping from
at least three qualified suppliers eligible under the Bank's guidelines.
Local purchase would ensure servicing facilities and spares. Costs for the
consulting services are estimated at about US$3.9 million, including physical



-22-
and price contingencies. This component would be financed by SDC. Selection
of consu'lants would be in accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines. Training,
MaE, and agricultural research costs are estimated at US$0.5 million and will
be financed by IDA. Bicycles for extension staff (US$0.1 million) wouLd be
procured under limited international shopping from at least three qualified
suppLiers eligible under Bank guidelines; buildings (US$0.4 million) would be
constructed by force account. Other items would not involve bidding.
75.     Bidding packages for works estimated to cost more than US$0.5
million, and all ICB packages for goods and services, would be subject to
standard IDA pre-action review. Such packages would account for about 90
percent of the total estimated value of the civil works and about 70 percent
of the goods and services. The remaining contracts would be subject to
post-action review by IDA.
76.     The proceeds of the IDA credit and the Swiss grant would be disbursed
over seven years against: (a) 100 percent of expenditures on civil works;
(b) 100 percent of foreign expenditures, 100 percent of local expenditures
based on ex-factory costs and 70 percent of other expenditures on items
procured locally, on vehicles and equipment; (c) 100 percent of expenditures
for technical services; and (d) 90 percent of expenditures on O&M, estab-
lishment costs and salaries and allowances for project staff for FY87, FY88
and FY89, 70 percent in FY90 and FY91, 50 percent in FY92 and 25 percent in
FY93. Disbursements for payments of less than NRs 500,000 for works (includ-
ing departmental works), NRs 250,000 for goods, staff costs for training,
adaptive and engineering research, monitoring and evaluation and the costs
for special surveys and study tours would be against statements of
expenditures. The supporting documentation would be retained by NZIDB for
review by IDA. Full documentation would be required for all other
disbursements.
77.     Special Account.  To ease the burden on HMGN between incurring
authorized expenditures and obtaining reimbursements from IDA, a special
account would be established which would be equivalent to approximately four
months of estimated expenditures or US$0.4 million equivalent. Payments out
of this account shall be made exclusively for project components to which IDA
contributes and according to IDA's guidelines governing payments from such
accounts, including prior submission of two confirmed copies of the contract
against which payments are made, except in the case of statements of expendi-
ture which will follow the normal procedure whereby HMG would retain support-
ing documents for review by IDA. Reimbursement applications for expenditures
to be funded through the special account would be accompanied by certified
statements of transaction.
Accounts and Audits
78.     iMGN has, in the past, been in arrears with audit covenants of
irrigation projects. Following a recent intensive follow up and review, the
situation is now improving, and good progress is being made toward full



-23-
compliance with covenants. It was agreed that HMGN would cause DIHM and
NZIDB to: (a) maintain separate records and accounts for all project expen-
ditures in accordance with sound accounting principles; (b) have such
accounts, including the Special Account, audited by an independent auditor
acceptable to IDA, in accordance with sound auditing principles; the audit
report would include a statement verifying that funds advanced by IDA to the
special account had been used for the purpose for which they were provided;
%c) forward to IDA such accounts, together with the auditor's reports, within
nine months after the end of each fiscal year; (d) include in the annual
audit reports, submitted to IDA, a separate opinion from the auditor as to
whether the disbursements made on the basis of statement of expenditures were
in respect to goods and services received and incurred for the purposes of
the project.
Benefits, Justification and Risk
79.     Agricultural benefits from the project would derive mainly from
extending the command area by 8,700 ha and by providing a more efficient
irrigation service to the entire command. The annual incremental agricul-
tural production at full project development is expected to be about 68,500
tons of foodgrains, 6,800 tons of oilseeds and about 16,800 tons of
sugarcane. The value added of agricultural production is estimated to
increase by about NRs 206 million (US$8.8 million) per year. About 31,500
farm families would benefit directly from this project. The increase in
employment opportunities would result in 9,300 full time farm jobs. Project
construction work would provide employment to about 7,500 unskilled laborers
over seven years. As a result of the project, annual farm incomes on the
typical one hectare farm are expected to increase from an average of about
NRs 7,000 to about NRs 14,200 and the incidence of poverty among farm
families would be substantially r2duced.
80.     The economic rate of return (ERR) is about 21 percent.  The results
of the sensitivity analysis indicate that only large deviations of expected
benefits (by -61 percent) or construction costs (by +203 percent) could make
the scheme economically unviable. Perceived project risks are the following:
(a) if provisions for operation and maintenance were to be only half that
required after IDA assistance for the project is completed, the ERR could
decline to 11 percent; however, HMGN awareness of the linkage between ade-
quate 0&M and cost recovery, and the legal agreements with IDA reduce such
risk; (b) the Indian authorities could fail to provide water from the Don
Branch to NEC in the quantities assumed; this risk is small since flows in
the Candak River are more than adequate for all project needs; moreover,
provisions have been made under the project for better coordination between
the NZIDB and the Bihar authority responsible for management of the Indian
Eastern Canal System; the assumed supplies may in fact improve, particularly
in respect to releases prior to the wet season; (c) a major flood could
damage the Don Branch or NEC: both canals cross difficult country and have
many cross drainage structures over rivers and torrent beds; however, in the
past both the Indian and Nepalese authorities have been able to repair any



-24-
damage quickly, so that the risk of interruption to supplies for periods that
would affect crop yields in the kharif to a significant extent is small; and
(d) NZIDB could experience difficulties in implementing an efficient water
management system. Much of the benefit is predicated on the assumption that
the system would be managed to provide a secure, equitable and timely water
supply to all farmers in the command. Implementation of any management
system demands the cooperation of all parties, and increased farmer dis-
cipline will be needed to reduce the risk of failure. However, at least a
part of past indiscipline has developed because design deficiencies made it
difficult to provide reliabLe and equitable service to water users. Since it
will be possible to manage the canal system in a manner which is less suscep-
tible to abuse, and the WUGs would be strengthened and accorded legal status,
the risk of a major failure of water management would be much reduced.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
81.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors
approve the proposed credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June 2, 1986



-25-                                             ANNEX I
-A I  L s  k                                        Page  1  of 6
- OCUALun             ,U    i      o Al 
lS                 t1@~~LMST  CUC  PTMAT^zX 
1geOL).                  tileSl  UICKNI 8     llCWS i6m
lgk        19701, "la ria&            A U &                  SCIZrAC FA A PCIFLC
Ann CT D  sq. a)
TOTAL                              160.4       140.6      140.6
AORICOLTUUAL                        35.3       36.4        41.2
GM  Nu     F (on)                        .          .        160.0              276.3                   I011.t
(RILOURAU O OIL NUlVVALIT)          3.0         10.0       10.0              26S.7                    34.6
P1MATIm A1 VTAL nmSTz S
POWMUATION.09D0-AR (THOUANDS)   9404.0    11350.0    15736.0
a""1 POFU1       CE OP 0,TAL)      3.1         3.9         4.9               22.3                     33.9
P0CULTIOU POJUCTIOII6
nCUsATION IS W    2000 C7ELL)                            24.5
STAROIUM F0OII6TTi  (PULL)                               74.0
PorUlATioN  iliBI                                          1.6
FOaUsT  mai
133 go. W.                        44.8       80.6       111.6              173.6                    316.9
ug SQ. Ms. SAL. LAM              26G.2      301.4       374.5              333.3                   1391.2
POPULATION aCt STRUCTURE CZ)
0-14 TU                          39.0        42.0       42.1               36.3                     36.2
I1s-  TN                         57.4        35.0        54.2              ".4                       37.7
65 AND AlOVE                       3.4         2.9        2.9                *.3                      3.3
POPULATZOi CRfUM  RATE CZ)
TOTAL                              1.4         1.9        2.3                2.u                      2.3
Utuu                               4.5         4.2        5.0               4.1                       4.1
CRUDE UZOTI RanE (VEX TNOOS)        45.9       46.3        41.*               27.5                     30.1
cuim D13 au (M TOUS)                25.6       23.0        16.1               10.2                      9.4
CROss   UOoucTIo1  RATE              :.7        3.1         3.0                1.7                      1.s
TAMMYT PLANIUI
ACWTOIS. 4UI1 (C3003)              .2. 9.7              223.2
USR  (I OF  AI  UN)                 .                     7.0              49.4                      34.3
FOD AD HUTrITO
LNU oF 1OOD nOD. MI CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                      106.0      101.0        64.0             116.6                     124.4
PEIL CAPITA SU"LY OF
CALORIES CZ Oar R3WeNTS)         87.0        94.0        69.0              106.3                    115.7
PROTEIN  (cuns Fm DAT)           50.0        50.0        47.0              60.1                    6S.3
OF WHICH MANAL AND PULSE         10.0        9.0         8.0 Ic            14.4                     14.1
CHMD (ACES 1-4) DEAN  RAZE          32.5       27.3        21.0               7.3                       7.2
LIFE EPECT. AT URTS  (YEARS)        36.4       41.4        46.1              60.5                      80.6
sWANT IlOrT. RALTE (PER TlltNS)    194.5      172.5       143.0              69.2                     64.9
ACCZ5SSTO SAFE WATE (1POP)
TOTAL                              ..                    14.0 Id            44.2                     46.0
URBAN                            47.7        71.0        S3.0t             77.2
RURAL                             '-          b.0         7.0 7i-          34.6                      37.1
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(S OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..         1.5         2.0 Id            7.6                      SO.1
UR1I                               ..        13.0        16.0              26 2S.8                   52.9
RUAL                              ..          1.0         1.0 Id            5.5                      I6.7
POPULATION PER PNYSICIAS        73470.0    51360.0 Ia  30060.0 Id          3318.0                   7751.7
POF. PER NURSINGII PERSON           ..      70500.0 to  33420.0 7d         4690.7                    2-66.8
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           8260.0     6930.0      5720.0 /f         1039.2                    1112.1
URIAS                           290.0       330.0       *50.0 o7          299.1                    b51.6
RURIAL                            ,..                      .028.2                                 159b.9
ADEISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED         ..          ..          ..               52.3          *1.1
AVERAGE SIZE OF NtOISEHOLD
TOTAL                             ..          5..
URBAN                              .          ..
-  RURAL                             ..          ..
AVERAGE tlO. Of PERSONS/RO04
TOrAL                                                  ..                 ..
URBAN                             2.0         ..
RURAL                             ..          ..
PERNTACS Of WCLLI3 WIM ELECT.
TOTAL                             ..          ..          ..                ..                        .
UoRn"                            30.2         ..
RURAL.                                                 ..                 ..



-26-                                       ANNEX I
STABLECs 3~                                    Page 2 of 6
NcPAL                  - SOCAL INDICATOUS DATA SHEET
NEPAL                                naxnsct GRoun (ItmGD AVENS=  Ia
MST                      (1OST RECENT STLNATE) /b
RECANT             LOW INCU  .          RIDDLE INCUS
196&L      1970lb ESTmtAT!!b         ASIA 6 PACItIc        ASIA & PACIFIC
ADJUISTCED ENOLUIENT RATIOS
PntI f   TOTAL                    10.0        26.0        73.0              92.6                     100.7
IALE                   19.0        43.0       102.0             105.5                     104.4
PENAL=                  1.0         8.0        *2.0              79.3                     97.2
SrCoNDARS: TOTAL                   6.0        10.0       21.0               31.3                     47.6
KtLC                   11.0        16.0        32.0              40.8                      50.6
PUBIS                   2.V         3.0         9.0              21.9                     64.8
VOCnowSa CZ or S5DNUMW)              0.2         5.6        6.a Ia             3.2                     18.4
PUPL-TEASER RATIO
PRZnr                             33.0        22.0       46.0               38.0                     30.4
SECOMNhA                          32.0         ..        22.0               17.4                     22.2
PASSESOER CARS/STOUSAND P1P          0.1         0.4        ..                 0.9                     10.1
RADIO RZCKERS/tTOUSMID FOP3.0                   4.8        22.7              129J                     172.9
TV IRECMVRSITNOUSND Pay              ..          ..         ..                19.8                     58.5
UEWSPAPE  ("UDILY GICEAL
INTEREST") CIRCLATO
PUr THWSn  POPULATION               0.7         2.4         7.1              25.7                     65.3
CUlI. ANNAL ATTENDANCE/C*PITA        ..          ..         ..                 6.0                      3.4
TOTAL LABOR, FOCE (T110S)         4653.0      5534.0      7413.0
PUBIS (PFCU t)                    40.5        39.2        39.0              33.2                     33.6
ACUICEL7URX (UNCUT)               Y5.0        94.0        93.0 /d           69.6                     52.2
INDUSY (PECENT)                    2.0         2.0        2.0 7             15.3                     17.9
PARTICIPATION IA=  (PECENIT)
TOTL                              51.6        48.8        47.1              41.9                     33.9
MALE                              61.5        58.8        56.9              53.6                     50.8
EALS                         .    41.8        36.6        36.9              25.1                     2b.8
ECONOMaC WmNIDCICY RATO              0.6         0.9        1.0                1.0                      1.1
InSc  DINSTIS72[
caRC   w   VIVATE ECCDk
RECEIVED BY
RICHEST 5O OE OUSZEI.LDS           ..          ..        35.3 /c
RICGEST 202 o0 ROUSULD,S           ..          ..        59.2 7g             *-                      4U.0
LOUEST 202 OP HOUSSIIOLDS          ..          ..         4.6 rc             ..                       b.4
LOVES 40S OF IOUSEOLDS             ..         ..         12.6  c             ..                      15.5
Pe t TASCT C-
ESTMLATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URSA                               ..          ..        95.0        1      33.9
RURAL                              ..         ..         45.0              111.6                    151.9
ESTDATED RELATIVE POVERTY ICUE
EVEL. (USS FM CAPrTA)
URBAN                              ..          ..         ..                 ..                     177.9
RURAL                              ..         ..         41.0i1             61.7                    164.7
ESTlATIED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOM LEVEL CZ)
URBAN                              ..         ..         55.0 Ic            43.8                     23.5
RURAL                              ..         ..         61.0 /c            51.7                     37.8
NOT AVAILABLE
!IOT APPLICABLE
N 0 T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. (average of countries
smug the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, *'Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and lVbl: "Data for 197u" between
1969 and 1971; and data for "loet Recent Estimate" between 1981 and 1983.
/c  1977;  Id 1980; /e Personnel in goverant services only;  /f i97b;  S 1979.
JUNE. 1955



-27-                                             ANNEX   I
Page 3 of 6
DUWfl1OII5 OF SOCIA  INDICATO
No  Altboho  th dau are d raw s fro   wrurit elyjudupd tm muhemMade madM   mbl. it slul ho uld e hum    tha th* y my not be asaruauoly
npab b s at i leh e f tdaduddnJem. and cow  pu  by diffent cean   cellig t dat. Tb dataamnofethulm              miiie
eoicrilin,   I                                                  -     .1ou  *   _ p i cl
The unes tomps an (al dh  am ceuaty wup _od the saut c_my md (2) a country goup wits ummuwt hiwr rap Income than the acutry
Aoupo       utdlUb y (uaaptlfor-H les ODi Espormu groupwhem Middie ln   Ntb Afris nd Midd Est ig n buses. a pr
mociemctl t Waidt.). li.    I  ac gboup da th ari- ppulpatoen _i     athic _ sum feroc indiator and showe only whmajority
dth _ aii i* a op  hdaa f      tor    idater. Slhne die    mrcounutm   ong the indatendp       w ilabilityofd mand is noe unife
uuan mu_ beaetid mm     inamg ate..Indiator toaa Thme ave ar7e only umsiul ia cmpsulu hde wvalue aw   indkatori *  uma -ang
ARlEA (thouand sq.knL)                                          Crud AWh Rate (pr s  as.md)-Number of live births in the year
Tera-Totai surfac area comprising land area and inlad wates;    per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                       Crud Dewd Rae (per ah.usued)-Number of deaths in the year
Agdubwml-Estinte  of agricultural ar  uw  temp rily or          per thousand of mid-year population; 1960, 1970. and 1933 data.
permanently for crops pastur  market and kitcben gardena or to  Gr Repedelm Rae-Averap  number ofdaulghters a woman
he fallow, 1960. 1970 anc 19U2 data.                            will bear in her normal rproductive period if she expeiences
prsnt age-speckfc rcrlity mnes; usually five-year avenges ending
GNP PEl  CAPIfA (US)-CNP per capta estites at cunent            in 1960.1970. an  1983.
arwket pm. calculated by s-me conversion method as World    b           flendA e ra.rs   (rh                 -Aanu   awn-
Bask Atlas (193143 basis): 1933 data.                            xer of accepton of binh-control devices under auspice of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA-Annual appare                     raIy planning progrm.
consumption of commercal priay enemy  (coal and lignite.               PIelr'4smn (peror Gf-ir)e  baO-The percen-
petroleum. natunl gS and hydro- nucear and geothermal ele-      tap of married women orchili-bearing age who a  practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970, an  whose husbands are practicing any form of contraception. Women
1982 datL                                                       of child-bearing age are generally women aged 1549. although for
sme countries contraceptive usge is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATSlTICS                                 groups.
Tol Ptp.kd... Mid- Yew (rhomvd-As of July 1; 1960, 1970.        FOOD AND NUITION
and 1983 data.
Index effod PdPwcdo  Per Capt (1969-71 - I00--lndex of per
Urha  PopsWin. (ptrcent of treal)-Ratio of urban to total       capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
population; different definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  exelude animal feed and see for agicultue. Food commodities
ability of data among countries; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.     include primary commodities (e.g. sutgcane instead of sugars
hbpulaoA- PA*cris                                               which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
fopueaior u Yer 200TheI projection of population for 2000.      excluded); they comprise cereals. root crops. pulses. oil seeds.
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on  vegetables. fruts. nuts. suprcane and sugar beets. livestock. and
total population by age and sex. fertility rates. mortality rates. and  livestock products. Aggrepte production of each country is Sased
iternational migration in the base year 1980. thes pneters      on national average producer pnce weights: 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.            -p  Capita Sapl  f Colories (prewr qfrequn- rsj-Comput-
Staltonarv popultio  Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in countrv
ulity rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies compnse domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level  tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate- 1). In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agricultn.re. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age structure is also  food processing. and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant. and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal act% it'
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature. body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing In percent for
rate to replacement lemel                                       waste at houshIold level: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data
Popvdation Monsenuwn-Is the tendency for population growth to   Per Capita Supply of Protein (ranes per diayj-ProLein contenL 0o
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per dav. Net supply of food is defined
achieved: that is. even after the net reproduction rate has rcached  as above. Requirements for all countnes established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year t is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary pop':lation to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. ol which 111 grams
the year r. giwen the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards are lower than tholt of
ment level from year t onward. 1985 data.                       75 grams of total protein and 23 erams of animal proeeiii a- an
Pop-lation Denstyr                                              average for the world. proposed by FAQ in the Third %korld;i ood
Per sq.km.-Mzd-year population per square kilometer t100 hec-   Supply. 1961. 1970 and 19x2 data.
tares) of total area: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data                 Per Capita Protein Suppl fram Ainimal and Pulse-Pr.'iin arpi;.
Per rq km  ajret ultural land-Computed as above for agricultural  oftfood dern ed from aninmals and pukes in eram' per dl. 1i. 'h5
land oniv. 1960. 1970. and 19N2 data                            1970 and 19'' dant
Ppulatien Age Snrrsare (percentj-Children t0-14 years). work-   Child (ages 1-4l Death Rate (pei rhousand)-N umber otitdt.1:.u,'
ingaget15-64 vears). and reured (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the %ame age
of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.              group in a yven year. For most developing countries data derned
from life tables: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
Pepuulusien Gmrhwr Rate (perceiu-ttal---Annual growth rates of
total mnid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.   HEALTH
Papulaion Grouwt Rate (percerat)j-nau-Annual growth rates       Life Epecatncy at Birth (yea-)--Number of years a neobom
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.     infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortalitv for all people



-28-                                            ANNEX  I
Page 4 of 6
at tbh due of of ha birth wa to sty th  -  throughout it Ufb;  Ap&meee Raia. - prxay. ed aceuer-Toui stude e
1960, 1970 ad 1963 data.                                     rold In pimary Nd sedary levs dvded by numbers of
h  Mwhjt Raw (pm  hed)-Number of Iifas who die                tache  in dn coronapondlg bveb.
bore rechig on yer of ap pr tdound live births In a give
year 19ff0, 1970 and 1913 data.                              CONSUMPTION
Aeer is SO POW f(pwe   ef p8p.mkJ-i ar4            . _end               Cue c pmie d Po                      cae_-sn r ca  cn-
xurd-Numbar or poopla (toal, nuAe, and rurl) with reasonable  p-r motor cas  adng ls than eight penon; excludes ambul-
main to safwar sup*y (lahad  tetd sfaC  wats  or             ancs, hre and miliuty vehil
untregtd but  umminmiend wa term ald     that ffo  prde      Jau.o Raeeive  (par rhe.uuodppapsulera)-All tpes of receivers
b      ursholas. sprinp anA snitary wels) a peronp of their rpec.  for mdio broadcts to sgeneal pubicper thousnd at pulawdon
dve p       In  an urba ae a public fountan or stoapost      excluds un-flcesed recve  In counti  and In yer when
lobated not -  taon M0 maOms ha a houms    y be c     d      repsrtion of radio s  wu In dffn; data for ecent yems  ay
* being wit   rsnable aosns or the ho_  In rura am           not b compa al sines most countrie abolished licensing.
eoableorao    would Imply that    houewwife orminbers oftbeor                                                       t
hous o  do mo have to sed a disproportionate pan of the day _tOalpublk per thond populuion elude unLfensed Ts
ine f i  txh  a*        filawt  nee ds                               In *  u    and inyvans wben registration of TV mm was
Acces a._ EeaDpearpu    peun.)- .    .hm                     id
_d ared-Number of peope (total urban, and ural) srved by 
acnm  disposl a poeta    of their rpecdve populations.         k1Fs  GeIre (PUP &pand                        dte aver-
Exct dbposl may indude the colecdton and diposL  with or     age dcruao  of daly ge neinet newspapr,  deid as a
without treamt, of human excrt and waste-water by water-     Fdodl  publautio devoted primaiy to recording generil news
bon systms or the - of pit pr sn d similar inaldtionL        It i cowdderd to be dailyf ifk appear at least tour times a wek.
tpadm. pa Ptosinh-fpulation divided by number of p1>         Ch_  Amul AUIAdI  pUr Capita pm  Yaw-Based on the
ti   physidi  qualif  from a medcl shool at university lvl.  number or ticets sold duriw  the year. including admisions to
AhuIde  per NIA    Po  .-Rpultion divided by number of       driemV denems and moble units.
pnaicag male and fema  grduate nun, astunt nure,
psedal nurses and nusing auxi;lad                             LAO     FORaCe
pAtie per Hspbd So&-eo4, w,, _ed rw-pudo,    e                                            Econom    y   ve p nv i-
(total, urban, and  ral)  ided by their res     number of    duding armed forces and unemployed but excluding houswives,
hospital beds available in public and private, genal ads d   students, etc.. coverinn  populatio  of all age  Definitions in
hospials and rehbilit  cne. Hopits  re esbl                  various countrie arn not comparab; 1960. 1970 and 1983 daut
pemamdy staffed by at la one physicnL Esablshments proyv.n   (F_eo)-Femal labor fame as pemntage of total labor
iding pricpaly cuodil cae are not included- Rural hospitl    torce.
owevr, include halt and meddal otes not permanently safred   A rkde   (preema)-Labor force in farming. forestry. hunting
by a physicin (but by a medical aisnt, nurse, midwife, etc.)    and flshing as percentage of total labor force; 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient acoim tion and provide a limited ranp  dat
of medical facilities.                                      bhusri (perej-Labor torce in urPing. constmction, manu-
Ad.minm per H.aital eJh-Total number of admissions to or     tacturing and electricity, water and ps as pecetage of toul labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the nunber of beds.     force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
PoUI WG    Rare (po        ,-4l mrk, adfa-Particdp on
HOUSING                                                      or activity rt are computed as totaL male, and fenale labor formc
A4a  Siw of Howelw (persaas per .s*h.d)-4orc4 wa,            a pemtage of totaL male and female population of all ags
and rrO-A household consists of a group ofindividual who share  repectivdr, 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These ane based on ILO's
Living quarnts and their mai meals. A boarder or lodger mry or.    paricipation raes reflting a-sex str cture of the population. and
nay not be included in the household for statsticl purpose   long time trend. A few estiutes are from mntional soure
APwg NwnMr of Pain  per RAoo-taual, urban, end nrua-         Econk Depend   r   Rato-Ratio or population under 15. and
Averagc pumber oa persons per room in all urban, and rural   65 and over. to the working age population (those aged 15-641.
occupied conventional dwellings, respectivly. Dwelings exdude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.               INCOME DISTRIBlTION
Percenage of Dwellns _rit Elkciriery-rtal. urba, and rural-  Perceaege of Toel Diwposable Iome (borh i casA and kind)-
Convcntional dwelling with electricity in living quarters as percen-  Accnring to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage oa totaL urban. and rural dwelinp respectively.        hold income.
EDUCATION                                                    POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Adsanred EmwLlwr  Ratos                                      The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Prmary school - total. maki and female-Gross totaL male and  level. and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrolment of all ages at the primary level as percentages of  Estimaed Absolac Pbverry Income Level (3SS per capita)-arban
respective primary school-age populations. While many countries  and rural-Absolucte poverty income level is that income level
consider primary school age w be 6-11 years. others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Estimaed Relativr Porerry Incomw Level (ESS per capita) -rban
educauon. gross enrollment may exceed 100 percent sincc some  and rural-Rural relative poverty income level is onc-third of
pupils are below or above the counrrv's standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Crban level is
age.                                                         derived from the rural level with adjust-nent for higher cost of
Secondary school - total, male and female-Computed as above;    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pn-  Eshmated Popaaio Below Absolare Poery lxcome Level tper-
mary instruction; provides gencraL vocationaL or teacher training  cent)-urbsn and rural- Percent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspond-  who are absolute poor.
ence courses are generally excluded.
Vocational Enroilmeni (percent of secondary)-Vocational institu-       Comparative Analysis and Dat Division
tions include tchnal, industiaL or other programs which operate      Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as departments of secondary institutions.                           June 1985



-29-                                       ANNEX    I
Page 5 of 6
ECONOMIC INDICATORS - NEPAL
GNP PUR CAPITA IN 1983: US$170
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1984/85                                  ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH. 1974/75-1984/85
(S. constant prices)
US$ Mln.      S
CDP at Market Prices               2.344       100.0                             3.2
Gross Domestic Investment            446        19.0
Gross Domestic Saving                247        10.5
Current Account Balance (arc.
official grants)                   -168       -7.2
Exports of Goods. NFS                288        12.3
Imports of Goods. NFS                487       20.8
CUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1982/83
Value Added
Value Added             Labor Force */          Per Worker
US$  ln.      S            Mln.                       US$
Agriculture                        1,286         56            6.3   91.0                204
Industry b/                          277         12            0.2     3.0             1.385
Services                             725        32             0.4     6.0             1.813
Total/Average                 2.282       100             6.9     100               331
COVERNMENT FINANCE
CENTRL  GO     W
NRs. Mn.
_ of GDP
1981/82      1982/83      1983/84       1984/85      1984/85
Current Receipts                      2.668         2.808        3.342        3.961          9.5
Regular Expenditures                  1.627         1.994        2.274        2.984          7.1
Current Surplus                       1.041           814        1.068          977          2.3
Development Expenditure               3.727         4.982        5.164        5.528         13.2
External Assistance (Net)             1.688         2.028        2.861        2.643          6.4
HONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES
1980        1981        1982        1983        1984        1985
(Million NFR. outstanding mid-July)
Honey and Quasi Money                     5.285        6.308       7.459       9.222       10.456     12.213
Bank Credit to Government                  1.258       1.263       2.062       4.090        5.029      6.433
Bank Credit to Public Enterprises           702          946         840       1.137          953      1.151
Bank Credit to Private Sector              2.346       2.952       3.142       3.264        3.842      4.689
Honey and Quasi Money as Z of GDP           22.6        21.7        22.9        27.4         27.4       29.3
General Price Indez (1974/75 = 100)        128.7       145.9       161.2       184.1        195.6      198.6
Annual Percentage Changes in:
General Price Index                          9.8        13.4        10.4         14.2         6.2        1.5
Bank Credit to Government                   15.8        -0.4        57.1        93.8         24.2       27.9
Bank Credit to Public Enterprises           14.9        33.3         1.0        44.0        -18.9       20.8
Bank Credit to Private Sector               28.9        26.9         2.4         3.7         16.9       22.1
Note: All conversionS to US dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered.
Fiscal year data are for Nepalese fiscal year, July 16 - July 15.
a/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their no=ral occupation.
b/ Includea mining. manufacturing. construction and utilities.



ANNEX    I
-30-                         ~~~~~~~~Page 6 of 6
1981/82   1982/83   1983/84   1984/85          MERCHUNDISE EYPORTS 1984/85
(USS Million)
US$ Nln.    S
BALANCE o0 PAYMDflS
Agricultural products             91.7      59
Exports                       277.6      250.4    303.5      306.0           Manufactures                      63.7      41
Merchendige f.o.b          115.6       82.3     123.9     155.4
Non-factor Services        162.0      168.1     179.5     150.6           Total                           155.4    100
Imports                       450.5     521.6    551.3       515.3
Merchandise c.i.f          382.5     459.0    473.6       445.7           EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1984
Non-factor Services         68.0       62.6      77.7      69.6
US$ Mln.
Resource Gap                  172.8      271.2    247.8      209.3
Public Debt. inc. guaranteed           426.5
Net factor Income              12.5       13.0       0.1       0             Non-Guaranteed Private Debt               -
Not Current Transfers          40.6       41.7      50.2      41.7           Total Outstsnding & Disbursed           426.5
Current Account Deficit       119.8      216.5     197.5     167.7
Official Grant Aid             89.4       95.3    100.1       87.1           DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1984/85            S
Net M&LT Loans                 59.8       67.0      87.2      73.8           Public Debt. inc. guaranteed             5.0
Diobursements               62.3       69.9      92.4      78.7
Repaymento                   2.5        2.9       5.1       4.9
Capital Plovs N.E.T.            9.3        5.2       1.0    -40.0            IBRD/IDA LENDING, Sept. 30. 1985 (Millions USS)
Overell Balance                38.8      -49.0      -9.1     -46.7                                               US$ mn.
Change in Net Reserves        -38.8       49.0       9.0      46.7                                              IRBD    IDA
(-increase)
Outstanding & Disbursed             -    236.3
Gross Official Reserves       322.6      163.1     123.1      93.6          Undisbursed                          -    354.9
(Mid July)
Outstanding. incl. undisbursed      -    590.3
RATE OF EXCHANGE
from March 20. 1978      From September 19. 1981    From December 17. 1982
to September 18, 1981    to December 16, 1982        to May 31, 1983           June 30, 1984 a/          December 31, 1984
US$1.00  = NRs 12.00     US$1.00  = NRa 13.2         US$1.00  = NRs 14.3        USS1.00   = NRa 16.4     USS1.00  = NRs 18.0
NRa 1.00 = US$ 0.083     NRa 1.00 = US$ 0.076        NRa 1.00 = US$ 0.070       NRa 1.00  = USS  0.061   NRs 1.00 = USS 0.056
March 31. 1985           June 30, 1985               September 30, 1985         December 31. 1985
US$1.00  = NRs 18.1      US$1.00  = NRa 18.1         US$1.00 = NRs 17.3         US$1.00 = ER. 20.9
MeR 1.00 = US$ 0.055     NRs 1.00 = US$ 0.055        NRs 1.00= US$0.058       MNs 1.00= US$ 0.048
a/  Since June 1, 1983, the Nepal Rastra Bank announces the exchange rate daily.
based on a trade-weighted basket, with the US dollar as the intervention
carrency. The rate shown here is the mid-rate on the date indicated.
South Asia Program Department
February 24. 1986



-31-
Annex II
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NEPAL
A. STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1986) a/ & b/
US$ million
(net of cancellations)
No.      Year       Borrower                  Purpose                IDA   Undisbursed
Fourteen credits fully disbursed                                    127.8
704     1977  Kingdom of Nepal  Second Water Supply & Sewerage    8.0         0.7
772     1978  Kingdom of Nepal  Technical Education                  5.7      1.2
812     1978  Kingdom of Nepal  Irrigation (Sunsari-Morang)         30.0      5.6
856     1979  Kingdom of Nepal  Irrigation (Narayani Zone)          14.0      2.8
939     1979  Kingdom of Nepal  Second Rural Development            11.0      6.8
1008     1980  Kingdom of Nepal  Comunnity Forestry                  17.0      9.7
1055     1980  Kingdom of Nepal  Irrigation (Mahakali)               16.0     10.9
1059     1981  Kingdom of Nepal  Third Water Supply & Sewerage    27.0        10.5
1062c/   1981  Kingdom of Nepal  Grain Storage                        6.2      2.7
1093c/   1981  Kingdom of Nepal  Irrigation (Babai)                   3.5      0.1
1100     1981  Kingdom of Nepal  Agricultural Extension & Res.    17.5         7.1
1OOc/   1981  Kingdom of Nepal  Hill Food Production                 8.0      5.1
1191c/   1982  Kingdom of Nepal  Cottage & Small Industries           6.5      0.7
1198c/   1982  Kingdom of Nepal  Second Education                    14.3     11.9
1260c/   1982  Kingdom of Nepal  Petroleum Exploration Promotion   9.2         4.0
1316c/   1983  Kingdom of Nepal  Irrigation VI-Bhairawa-Lumbini   16.0        11.5
1339c/   1983  Kingdom of Nepal  Cash Crop Development                6.0      3.6
1379c/   1983  Kingdom of Nepal  Technical Assistance II              6.0      5.2
1400c/   1984  Kingdom of Nepal  Second Forestry                     16.0     16.8
1452c/   1984  Kingdom of Nepal  Karnali Preparation                 11.0     11.4
1463c/   1984  Kingdom of Nepal  Primary Education                   12.8     13.4
1478c/   1984  Kingdom of Nepal  Marsyangdi Hydroelectric Power  107.0    114.4
1515c/   1985  Kingdom of Nepal  Third Highways                      47.5     50.9
1534c/   1985  Kingdom of Nepal  Agric. Manpower Development          8.4      9.7
1535c/   1985  Kingdom of Nepal  Industrial Development               7.5      8.5
1570c/   1985  Kingdom of Nepal  Agricultural Extension II            7.2      8.4
1588c/d/ 1985  Kingdom of Nepal  Telecommunication IV                22.0     22.0
Total,                           589.1    355.6
of which has been repaid         1.0
Total now outstanding b/         588.1
Total now held by IDA            588.1
Total undisbursed                          355.6
a/  No Bank loans have been made to Nepal.
b/  Prior to exchange adjustments.
c/  IDA 6th and 7th Replenishments Credits, principal amounts shown in U.S. dollar
equivalent at date of negotiations, as shown in President Reports, and
undisbursed amounts shown U.S. dollar equivalent are valued at the exchange
rate applicable on the date of this statement.
d/ Not yet effective.



-32-
Annex II
Page 2 of 2
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT (as of March 31, 1986)
Amount ($ million)
Year             Obliger              Type of Business      Loan   Equity   Total
1975    Soaltee Hotel (Pvt) Ltd.      Hotel                 2.7      0.4      3.1
1982    Nepal Orind Magnesite         Mine and process      4.8       -       4.8
(Private) Limited            magnesite ore
Total comitments now held by IFC                    7.5      0.4      7.9



ANNEX   III
Page 1 of 2
NEPAL
NARAYANI III IRRIGATION PROJECT
Supplement Data Sheet
Section I     Timetable of Key Events
(a)        Time taken by the country to prepare the project:
24 months.
(b)        The agency which has prepared the project:
Narayani Zone Irrigation Development Board, assisted by
consultants
(c)        Date of first presentation to the Bank Group and
date of first mission to consider the project:
October 1984; June 1985
(d)        Date of departure of appraisal mission:
November 1985
(e)        Date of completion of negotiations:
April 1986
(f)        Planned date of effectiveness:
October 1986
Section II    Special IDA Implementation Action
None



-34-
ANNEX   III
Page 2 of 2
Secticin III   Special Conditions
Conditions of credit effectiveness
(a)        submission by HMCN of satisfactorily revised final design
and contracting packages for the 1986-87 construction
season (para 55); and
(b)        authorization by HMGN of all staff positions required for
project implementation (para 61).
Other Conditions
(a)        HMGN/NZIDB would revise and simplify water charge assessment and
collection procedures with the objective of collecting at least
full O&M costs in the scheme area by fiscal 1993 (para. 70).
(b)        Collection of water charges would be done by HMGN's Revenue
Department (para. 70).
(c)        Water users groups would be establised (para 70) and given
statutory powers to ensure that they can effectively manage
water distribution below the 30 ha outlet (paras. 66,67).



-35-                         ANNEX IV
NEPAL
NARAYANI III IRRIGATION PROJECT
Proposed Procurement Methods
(US$ Million)
Procurement Method
(US$ M)
Item                         ICB         LCB    Other      NA a/    Total Costs
Civil Works                   17.5       2.1    0.6         --         20.2
(17.5)    (2.1)  (0.6)                  (20.2)
Equipment, vehicles            1.9              0.8 b/      --          2.7
and workshop facilities    (1.9)       --    (0.8)        -          (2.7)
Consul:ing Services            --        --     3.9         -           3.9
--       --    (3.9)        -          (3.9)
Training, agriculture          -                0.5         -           0.5
research, monitoring        -               (0.5)        -          (0.5)
and evaluation
Establishment, operation       -         2.0    1.0        4.3          7.3
and maintenance                      (1.6)  (0.4)      (2.7)        (4.7)
Land acquisition               -                           0.9          0.9
___  -   -                 (0)          (0)
TOTAL                      19.4        4.1    6.8        5.2          35.5
(19.4)     (3.7)  (6.2)      (2.7)        (32.0) c/
a/ NA--not subject to procurement.
bi/ Procurement under limited international tendering.
c/ Figures in parenthesis are amounts to be financed by IDA and SDC.



-36-                      ANNEX V
NEPAL
NARA"ANI III IRRICATION PROJECT
Credit/Grant Allocation
(US$N)
Amount of
Credit/Grant
Category                                     Allocated             Percent Financed
IDA     SDC al
1.  Civil Works:                             18.0                100Z
2.  Equipment, vehicles and                   2.4                100Z of foreign expenditures
workshop facilities                                          100Z local expenditures of
ex-factory costs and
70Z of other locally
procured items.
3. Technical services and studies:
(a) Consultancies and studies                     3.5        100Z
(b) Training, agricultural research
and monitoring and evaluation        0.4                  1001
4.  Project establishment and O&M costs                2.4}       902 in FY87-89
(escluding salaries)                                1        70% in FY90-91
501 in FY92
)       25% in FY93
5.  Salaries and allowances of staff b/                1.6)       90X in FY87-89
701 in FY90-91
'50X in FY92
}       25% in FY93
6.  Unallocated                               3.7
Subtotal                             24.5      7.5 c/
TOTAL                           32.0
a/ Swiss Development Cooperation.
b/ For administrative ease, disbursements would be made against total salaries
and allowances; the declining disbursement rate would mean that grant allocation
represents in the aggregate 851 of the salaries and allowances of incremental staff
throughout the project implementation period.
c/ Sw F 15.0 Million.



VFS -  eIS            i
Wz =e§§1r3
-wss Xj :
<(-9
+ .Si:  2'S'xf r>S t ,',§l. 



