OFFICIAL
CREDIT NUMBER 1715 NEP
Development Credit Agreement
(Narayani III Irrigation Project)
between
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                               , 1986


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1715 NEP
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                              , 1986, between
the KINGDOM OF NEPAL (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Borrower intends to obtain from the Government
of the Swiss Confederation (hereinafter called Switzerland), a
non-reimbursable contribution in an amount equivalent to Swiss
Francs 15,000,000 (hereinafter called the Swiss Contribution) to
assist in the financing of the Project on terms and conditions
set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the Swiss Contribu-
tion Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and
Switzerland; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
Te terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the    context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;


﻿- 2 -
(b) "Project Area" means the cultivable command area of
about 37,400 ha of the Nepal Eastern Canal irrigation scheme
located in the Borrower's administrative districts of Parsa, Bara
and Rautahat;
(c) "NZIDB" means the Narayani Zone Irrigation Development
Board established by the Borrower's Narayani Zone Irrigation
Development Board Order, 2029 (1972), as amended to the date of
this Agreement, issued pursuant to the Borrower's Development
Board Act, 2013 (1956) as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(d) "Nepal Rastra Bank" means the Borrower's central Bank
established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's Nepal Rastra
Bank Act, 2012 (1955), as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(e) "NRs" means Nepalese rupees, the currency of the
Borrower;
(f) "Water Users' Group" means a group of farmers sharing
water from a single canal outlet of the irrigation schemes in the
Project Area;
(g) "Swiss Contribution Account" means the account estab-
lished by Switzerland for the purpose of the Swiss Contribution;
and
(h) "Birganj Tubewell Scheme" means the public groundwater
development irrigation scheme located in the Borrower's adminis-
trative districts of Parsa and Bara.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twenty one million six hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 21,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit and the Swiss
Contribution may be withdrawn from the Credit Account and the
Swiss Contribution Account, respectively, in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may
be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower,


﻿-3-
the Association and Switzerland, for expenditures made (or, if
the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit and the Swiss Contribution.
(b) Except   as   the  Association   and  Switzerland  shall
otherwise agree, the allocation and withdrawal of the Swiss
Contribution shall be governed mutatis mutandi by the provisions
of the General Conditions.
(c) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in Dollars a special account in the Nepal
Rastra Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1994 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall  reasonably  request;  (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.


﻿- 5 -
Section 3.03. Except as the Association and Switzerland
shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works and
consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Swiss Contribution
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, or shall cause the NZIDB
to, take all such measures as may be considered necessary to
minimize the risk of malaria and other water-related diseases
within the Project Area.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of NZIDB and of the
departments and agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section, including the Special Account, for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate   auditing   principles   consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the said accounts and the audit thereof
and said records as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:


﻿-6-
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, separate
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain,   until   at  least  one   year  after  the
completion of the audit for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
was   made,   all   records   (contracts,   orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable    the  Association's   representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of
such expenditures were used for the purposes for
which they were provided.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall, or shall cause NZIDB to:
(a)  by December 31, 1986, under terms of reference satis-
factory to the Association, carry out a detailed study of the
physical and budgetary requirements for operation and maintenance
of the works under the Project; and
(b) by June 30, 1987, furnish to the Association, for its
review and comments, the results and recommendations of such
detailed study, and thereafter, taking into account the Associa-
tion's comments, if any, implement the results and recommenda-
tions of such detailed study.
Section 4.03. On March 31 of each year, commencing on
March 31, 1987 and thereafter, the Borrower shall, or shall cause
the NZIDB to, furnish to the Association, for its review and com-
ments, its estimates for the forthcoming Fiscal Year of salaries
and allowances of Project staff, and operation and maintenance
costs (excluding establishment costs) of the irrigation schemes
and related facilities in the Project Area, and, thereafter,
taking into account the Association's comments, if any, make the
required budgetary allocations to adequately cover such operation


﻿-7-
and maintenance costs, including salaries and allowances of
Project staff.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall:
(a) by December 31, 1986 cause NZIDB to set water charges
at a flat rate of not less than NRs 200 per hectare per year for
surface irrigation in the Project Area and a rate of not less
than NRs 400 per hectare per year for the Birganj Tubewell
Scheme.
(b) by July 16, 1987, assign its Revenue Department with
the responsibility of collection of watercharges in the Project
Area;
(c) on August 31 of every second year, commencing on
August 31, 1988, and thereafter: (i) review and, if required,
revise the collection procedures of water charges in the Project
Area to achieve full collection of such charges, and (ii) adjust,
as required, the rates of such water charges to cover by Fiscal
Year 1993 and thereafter, full costs of operation and maintenance
of the surface irrigation scheme under the Project, and a
reasonable portion of capital expenditures, taking into account
farmers' payment capacity.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall, by April 1, 1989, prepare
and furnish to the Association, for its review and comments, the
results and recommendations of a study undertaken under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Association, on all major irri-
gation projects in Nepal for implementing therein the improved
cost recovery measures provided for in Section 4.04 of this
Agreement, and, thereafter, taking into account the Association's
comments, if any, and on the basis of appropriate recommendations
of such study, implement cost recovery measures for such major
irrigation projects. Such terms of reference to include the need
to rehabilitate the water distribution system, farmers' capacity
to pay and availability of reliable water supply in each such
major irrigation project. For purposes of this Section, the term
"major irrigation" means an irrigation scheme with a command area
of not less than 2,000 ha.
Section 4.06. The provisions of Section 4.04 of this Agree-
ment supersede the provisions of Section 4.02 of the Development
Credit Agreement dated November 27, 1978, entered into between
the Borrower and the Association for purposes of Credit
No. 856-NEP.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) The Borrower shall have taken any action to alter the
organization or functions of NZIDB and such action shall have
materially and adversely affected the carrying out of the
Project.
(b) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph,
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of the Swiss Contribution shall have been sus-
pended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in
part, pursuant to the terms of the Swiss Contribu-
tion Agreement.
(ii) The provisions of subparagraph (b) (i) above shall
not apply if the Borrower establishes to the
satisfaction of the Association that:
(A) such suspension, cancellation or termination
is not caused by the failure of the Borrower
to perform aay of its obligations under such
agreement; or
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the, Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obliga-
tions of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) that the event specified      in  Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur; and
(b) that the event specified in paragraph (b) (i) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the
proviso of subparagraph (ii) of that paragraph.


﻿- 9 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) that the Borrower shall have furnished to the Associa-
tion designs and contracting packages for the 1986-87 construc-
tion season satisfactory to the Association;
(b) that the Borrower has authorized all the required Pro-
ject staff positions in a manner satisfactory to the Association;
and
(c) that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of
the Swiss Contribution Agreement (other than, if applicable, the
effectiveness of this Agreement) have been fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary, Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower, is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
His Majesty's Government
Kathmandu, Nepal
Cable address:                       Telex:
ARTHA                              2249
Kathmandu, Nepal


﻿- 10 -
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WJI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
By/S               4d2U
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By j5I
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Swiss
Contribution, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each
Category and tlie percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
Amount          Amount
of the        of Swiss Con-
Credit Allo-     tribution Allo-
cated (Expressed cated (Expressed      % of
in SDR           in Swiss Francs   Expenditure
Category     Equivalent)      Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil Works     15,880,000          -         100%
(2) Equipment        2,110,000          -         100% of foreign
and vehicles,                                expenditures,
including                                    100% of local
workshop                                     expenditures
equipment                                    (ex-factory
cost) and 70%
of local ex-
penditures for
other items
procured
locally
(3) Technical
services:
(a) Consul-         -          7,000,000     100%
tancies


﻿- 12 -
Amount          Amount
of the        of Swiss Con-
Credit Allo-     tribution Allo-
cated (Expressed  cated (Expressed     % of
in SDR          in Swiss Francs    Expenditure
Category     Equivalent)      Equivalent)    to be Financed
(b) Training,     360,000            -       100%
agricul-
tural re-
search,
and moni-
toring
and eval-
uation
(4) Project estab-       -          4,800,000     FY 1987: 90%
lishment, and                                FY 1988: 90%
operation and                                FY 1989: 90%
and maintenance                              FY 1990: 70%
costs of the                                 FY 1991: 70%
facilities                                   FY 1992: 50%
under the
Project ex-
cluding sala-                                FY 1993: 25%
ries and allow-
ances
(5) Salaries             -          3,200,000     FY 1987: 90%
and allow-                                   FY 1988: 90%
ances of                                     FY 1989: 90%
Project                                      FY 1990: 70%
staff                                        FY 1991: 70%
FY 1992: 50%
FY 1993: 25%
(representing
in the aggre-
gate about 85%
of salaries
and allowances
of incremental
staff)
(6) Unallo-          3,250,000            -
cated
TOTAL          21,600,000        15,000,000


﻿- 13 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower;
(c) the acronym "FY" means the Borrower's Fiscal Year;
(d) the term "incremental staff" means the Borrower's
additional staff retained after the date of this Agreement for
purposes of carrying out the investment and operation and
maintenance work under the Project; and
(e) the term "Project Establishment" means the engineering
and administration costs incurred by the Borrower's Project staff
for purposes of carrying out the Project, excluding expenditures
incurred in the operation and maintenance of the irrigation
schemes and related facilities under the Project.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to increase dry-season
agricultural production by introducing a reliable irrigation
system in the Project Area.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Improvements to the Nepal Eastern Canal, including lining of
selected canal reaches, canal slope protection, strengthening of
canal embankments, upgrading of service roads, and construction
of control and access structures.
Part B:
Rehabilitation of the Tilawe Barrage including the required
structures.
Part C:
Construction of about 40 shallow tubewells and the secondary
and tertiary canals and drainage system on about 8,700 ha in the
Project Area.
Part D:
Upgrading of the existing conveyance and distribution
irrigation systems on about 28,700 ha in the Project Area.
Part E:
Construction of the required flood protection and river
training works on the Lal Bakeya, Bagmati, Uria, Sikta, Dhutaha,
Dhongahi, Navrangia, Tilawe, Bangari and Pasaha rivers in the
Project Area.
Part F:
Upgrading of the village and service roads in the Project
Area.


﻿- 15 -
Part G:
Provision of equipment for the operation and maintenance of
the irrigation schemes and related facilities in the Project
Area.
Part H:
Provision of equipment for the establishment, operation and
maintenance of a radio communication system in the Project Area.
Part I:
Establishing, operation and maintenance of a workshop for
servicing operation and maintenance equipment of irrigation
schemes in the Terai, including provision of the required build-
ings and equipment.
Part J:
Monitoring and evaluation, and implementation of agricul-
tural extension and research, and training programs in the
Project Area.
Part K:
Management, operation and maintenance of the irrigation
schemes and related facilities in the Project Area.
Part L:
Provision of technical assistance for carrying out the
Project, including studies (planning and design) of suitable
irrigation projects in the Terai.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1993.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   Bidders for works estimated     to cost the equivalent of
$1,000,000 or more, shall be prequalified as described in para-
graph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Nepal may
be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraphs I through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin
of preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works contracts not to exceed in the aggregate the
equivalent of $4,100,000, may be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Light equipment, including motorcycles, bicycles and diesel
generators may be procured under contracts awarded through
limited international bidding procedures on"'the basis of evalua-
tion and comparison of bids invited from at least three qualified


﻿- 17 -
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with
the procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines
(excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
3.   Works not exceeding in the aggregate the equivalent of
$1,000,000, may be carried out by force account.
Part E:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of prequalification:
With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided
in Part A.2 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract for works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more, and for all contracts
for goods, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such proce-
dures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract required to be furnished to the Association
pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the
Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.


﻿- 18 -
3.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Con-
sultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Execut-
ing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
The Borrower shall:
(a) issue or cause to be issued, all the necessary
authorizations and permits to enable NZIDB to commence operation
of the radio communication system under Part H of the Project, by
July 1, 1987;
(b) at all times, maintain the position of General Manager
of the Project with an officer whose qualifications, experience
and terms of reference shall be satisfactory to the Association;
(c) on December 31 of every two years, commencing on
December 31, 1987, in consultation with Lhe Association review
and, if required, revise the Project General Manager limits of
contractual commitments for the operation and management of the
Project;
(d) cause NZIDB to: (i) by January 1, 1987 furnish to the
Association for its approval, an overall training program under
Part J of the Project; (ii) by January 1 of each year, commencing
on Jar.uary 1, 1987, furnish to the Association for its approval,
the annual training program for the following Borrower's Fiscal
Year; and (iii) thereafter on April 1 of each year, implement
such training programs as so approved;
(e) cause NZIDB to: (i) conduct base-line agro-economic
surveys, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Associa-
tion, not later than June 30, 1987, June 30, 1989, June 30, 1991
and June 30, 1993; (ii) within two months of finalizing each
base-line agro-economic survey, furnish to the Association for
its review and comments, the results and conclusions of each such
base-line agro-economic survey; and (iii) thereafter, taking into
account the Association's comments, if any, implement the conclu-
sions of each base-line agro-economic survey;
(f) for purposes of carrying out the agricultural extension
activities under the Project, under terms of reference satis-
factory to the Association, by June 30, 1987, appoint an addi-
tional Assistant Agricultural Development Officer and a Subject
Matter Specialist for irrigated agriculture to each of the dis-
tricts in the Project Area, together with supporting office staff


﻿- 20 -
and equipment, with functions and terms of reference satisfactory
to the Association;
(g) by June 30, 1987, establish and, thereafter, maintain
an adaptive farm planning research program with terms of
reference satisfactory to the Association, under the technical
supervision and control of the Borrower's Department of Agricul-
ture;
(h) by December 31, 1986, establish Water Users' Groups in
each tertiary command currently receiving irrigation water in the
Project Area, and, not later than six months prior to commencing
delivery of irrigation water to any tertiary command in the
Project Area, establish a Water Users' Group;
(i) by September 30, 1987, take all such action as shall be
necessary to constitute the Water Users' Groups, established or
to be established pursuant to paragraph (h) of this Schedule as
statutory bodies with sufficient powers to: (i) supervise the
distribution of water amongst its members in proportion to the
size of their landholding; (ii) cause its members to construct
and maintain the required field channels, including field drain-
ages, adjoining their holdings and any other section of the field
channels and field drainages that do not skirt commandable areas,
and in case of default, arrange for such work to be done at the
cost of the defaulters, provided, however, that in the event that
a Water Users' Group does not carry out such construction and
maintenance work, the Borrower shall, at the expense of such
Water Users' Group, carry out the construction and maintenance
work in question;
(j) without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.02
of this Agreement, by July 1, 1991, prepare and furnish to the
Association, for its review and comments, a proposal relating to
the organizational arrangements for operation and maintenance of
the irrigation schemes and related facilities in the Project
Area to be established within its Irrigation Department, and by
July 1, 1992, or such other Oate as the Association may otherwise
agree, adopt and implement such organizational arrangements,
satisfactory to the Association;
(k) without limitation to the provision of Section 9.06 of
the General Conditions, commencing on January 1, 1987 and
thereafter, until the completion of the Project, furnish to the
Association semiannual reports of such scope and in such detail


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" are Categories (1) (a),
(2), (3) (b) and (3) (c) set forth in the table in paragraph I of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accord-
ance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiv-
alent to SDR 360,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the


﻿- 23 -
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
s.uch deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) the   total   unwithdrawn  amount   of  the  Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, minus the
amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with
respect to the Project, shall be equal to the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Associa-
tion shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice have been or will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any


﻿- 24 -
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


