Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15967 MD
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
General Education Project
March 21, 1997
Municipal and Social Services Division
Country Department IV
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
I US$ = Moldovan Lei 4.57
(as of October 1996)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
MOLDOVAN FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AEWG    -  Working Group for Assessment and Evaluation
BEC       -  Bid Evaluation Committee
CAS       -  Country Assistance Strategy
CCEAC    -  Coordinating Commission for Curriculum and Assessment Evaluation
CPAR      -  Country Procurement Assessment Report
DAL       -  Department of Didactic Materials and Library Assistance
DEE       -  Department for Evaluation and Examinations
EC        -  Expert Commission
GDP       -  Gross Domestic Product
GPN       -  General Procurement Notice
GTZ       -  Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
ICB       -  International Competitive Bidding
IDF       -  Institutional Development Fund
INPCD    -  National Institute for Teacher Training
IPPS      -  Institute for Psychological and Pedagogical Studies
MEC       -  Manuscript Evaluation Committee
MoF       -  Ministry of Finance
MEYS      -  Ministry of Education, Youth, and Sports
NCAC      -  National Curriculum and Assessment Council
NCB       -  National Competitive Bidding
NS        -  National Shopping
OECD      -  Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PMU       -  Project Management Unit
PPF       -  Project Preparation Facility
SA        -  Special Account
SOE       -  Statement of Expenditures
TOR       -  Terms of Reference
UNICEF   -  United Nations Children's Fund
VAT       -  Value Added Tax
WG        -  Working Group
Vice President                Mr. Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Director                      Mr. Basil G. Kavalsky, EC4DR
Division Chief/Manager        Mr. Thomas A. Blinkhorn, EC4MS
Staff Member                  Ms. Monika Huppi, Task Manager



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
General Education Project
CONTENTS
Loan and Project Summary.....
1. BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE                                                    ................................................1
A. Country Context ..................................................1I
B. The Education Sector ....................................................2
C. Main Issues and Constraints                                                        .6
D. Government Strategy ..............................................8
E. Rationale for Bank Involvement ..............................................8
2. THE PROJECT ..................................................                                                                         10
A. Project Background ...................................................                                                      10
B. Project Objectives ...................................................                                                      10
C. Project Description ..................................................                                                      10
D. Impact on Women, Environment, Poverty and Participation ..................................... 14
3. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND PROCUREMENT .                                                               .......................................... 15
A. Project Costs and Financing ...................................................                                            15
B. Procurement ...................................................                                                             17
C. Disbursement ...................................................                                                           21
D. Accounts and Audits ...................................................                                                    22
4.  PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION  ....................................................                                                          23
A. Project Management and Implementation ...................................................                                  23
B. Monitoring and Evaluation ...................................................                                              24
C. Supervision ...................................................                                                            25
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Moldova from October 15 to
31, 1996. Appraisal team members included: Ms. Monika Huppi (Task Manager, EC4CH), Mr.
Antonio Lim (Project Assistant, EC4MS), Ms. Marlaine Lockheed (Principal Education Specialist,
HDD), Mr. Lloyd Briggs (Teacher Training Specialist, Consultant), Mr. Gert van den Brink
(Curriculum Development Specialist, Consultant), and Mr. James McCall (Textbook Specialist,
Consultant). Peer reviewers for the project were: Mr. Indermit Gill (PSP), Mr. Bruno Laporte (HDD),
Mr. Michael Mertaugh (EC 1/2HR), and Ms. Terrice Bassler (EC2HU).



5.   BENEFITS  AND   RISKS                              ................................................. 26
A. Benefits and Justification .................................................  26
B. Sustainability and Risks .................................................  26
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ......................................... 28
ANNEXES
Moldova at a Glance
I     Current and Reformed Structure of Moldova Education System
II    The Curriculum Development Component
III    The Learning Assessment Component
IV    The Teacher Retraining Component
V     The Textbook Component
VI    Project Management Unit
VII   Summary List of Technical Assistance
VIII  Project Cost Summary
IX    Estimated Loan Disbursement Schedule
X     Project Implementation Plan
XI    Project Monitoring Indicators
XII   Supervision Plan
XIII  Procurement Packages and Schedules
XIV   List of Documents in Project File
MAP  IBRD No. 28265
TABLES
Table 1.1 Sunimary of Enrollments, Teachers and Schools
Table 1.2 Education Expenditures in Moldova
Table 1.3 Allocation of Total Public Education Expenditures by Education Level
Table 3.1 Summary of Project Cost Estimates by Component
Table 3.2 Summary of Project Cost Estimates by Expenditure Category
Table 3.3 Project Financing Plan
Table 3.4 Procurement Arrangements
Table 3.5 Disbursement Summary



- i -
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
General Education Project
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                      Republic of Moldova
Implementing Agency:           Ministry of Education, Youth, and Sports
Beneficiary:                   About 636,000 students and 45,000 teachers
Poverty Category:              Not Applicable
Amount:                        US$16.8 million
Terms:                         Payable in twenty years, including five years of grace
period at the rate for variable LIBOR-based US Dollar
single currency loans.
Commitment Fee:                0.75% on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days
after signing, less any waiver.
Financing Plan:                IBRD - US$16.8 million or 84% of project costs net of
taxes; Government of Moldova - US$3.2 million or 16%
of project costs, plus taxes and duties.
Economic Rate of Return:       Not Applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:        No. 15967 MD
Map:                           IBRD No. 28265
Project ID Number:             MD-PA-8558






MOLDOVA
GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
1. BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE
A. Country Context
1.1   Situated between Ukraine and Romania, Moldova is the second smallest country in the Former
Soviet Union. Over 50% of its ethnically diverse population of 4.4 million live in rural areas.
Agriculture and agro-processing continue to dominate the national economy, accounting for nearly 60%
of GDP.
1.2    CounLry Context. Serious terms of trade shocks, armed conflict and a series of natural
calamities caused a precipitous decline in national production and living standards in Moldova during
the first half of the 1990s. Between 1991 and 1994 output and real wages fell by 60 percent, while
employment decreased from over 2 million in 1991 to around 1.7 million in 1994.
1.3   In 1993, the Government of Moldova initiated a vigorous and quite successful macro-economic
stabilization program. Tight monetary policy, the introduction of a new, convertible currency and
significant reductions in the budget deficit resulted in a sharp decline in inflation (from almost 2000%
in 1992 to 15.1% in 1996). Coupled with recently introduced structural reforms, particularly in the
enterprise sector, the Government's stabilization program appears to have led to a slowdown in the
precipitous decline in national production during 1995. Preliminary figures for 1996, however, suggest
a renewed downturn in GDP growth. To strengthen the gains achieved through the macro-economic
stabilization program, significant further structural reforms are needed in the years to come, both in the
productive and social sectors.
1.4   Sectoral Background. Although education has traditionally been a national priority, the
education system left behind by more than four decades of central planning is largely inadequate to
effectively prepare the future work force for the demands of a market economy. Curricula, the
approach to teaching and learning, and didactic materials need to be substantially upgraded to ensure
that the education system meets the demands posed by new social and economic realities.
1.5   The need to curb public expenditures resulted in a significant reduction in public expenditures
allocated to education over the past few years. As a result, education spending has been largely limited
to salaries and utilities, with minimal, if any, amounts left for textbooks, pedagogical materials, teacher
training and often badly needed capital repairs. The lack of resources has thus prevented the
Government from effectively implementing education reforms needed to adapt the system to new social
and economic realities.



- 2 -
B. The Education Sector
1.6    With the adoption of a new education law in 19951, Moldova has set the stage to reform its
education system -- bringing it more in line with the European systems -- and to revise the approach to
education in response to the new demands on the system.
1.7    Structure. The new system provides for one year of mandatory pre-school, followed by four
years of primary and five years of gymnasium schooling. Upon completion of this mandatory 10-year
general education program, students will have the option to continue in an upper secondary track for
another three years or a flexible 1.5 - to 5-year vocational education track with three completion levels
or exit points (Annex I). Full implementation of this new structure is planned over the next 10 years.
1.8    During the transition period, the new system will gradually gain importance, as the old system
will be phased out. Mandatory general education will occur along the lines outlined above, but
voluntary upper secondary education will be ensured through various alternatives:  (i) general
secondary school with the new lyceums covering grades 10-12 and terninating with the baccalaureate
examinations and with the traditional 11-year comprehensive schools; (ii) vocational secondary
education ensured by technical/vocational secondary schools (lasting 2-3 years), technical secondary
colleges (lasting 3 years) and apprentice schools (Annex I).
1.9    Higher education is ensured through a combination of public and private universities,
politechnicums and colleges. The overall level of education in Moldova is quite high by international
standards. According to the last population census (1989), about 10% of the population aged 14 or
more had enjoyed a higher education and 45% had completed upper secondary school.
1.10   Enrollments, Moldova's current education system (excluding Transnistria 2) consists of over
3,300 educational establishments and 77,500 teaching staff serving almost 922,000 students. Eighteen
percent of the student body is enrolled in pre-school, 29% in primary school, 34% in lower secondary
school (gyrnnasium), 6% in upper secondary school, 4% in vocational training schools, 3% in colleges
and technical schools and 5% in higher education establishments. About 75% of general education
students study in Romanian language schools, while the remainder study in minority schools (Russian,
Ukrainian, Gagauzian and Bulgarian), of which the Russian language schools are by far the most
important (accounting for over 50% of the minority student body).
1.11   Like in many other transition economies, there has been a continuous shift away from
vocational/technical and towards general education at the upper secondary level. The number of
students per 10,000 inhabitants enrolled in vocational/technical schools and colleges has decreased by
over one third over the past ten years. Over the past three years alone, the number of new enrollments
in vocational technical schools declined by over 14%, while that of students continuing with upper
general education increased by almost 10 percent.
The Education Law adopted in 1995 sets the stage for education reformn in Moldova and defines the new
structure of the education system (see para. 1.33).
2 The status of Transnistira within Moldova has not yet been settled. The mainly Russian speaking Transnistria
region has set up its own Government which does not report to the Moldovan Central Government.
Consequently, the education system in Transnistria does not fall under the control of the Moldovan Ministry
of Education, Youth, and Sports (MEYS) with the exception of a small number of Romanian speaking
schools which are supported by the Moldovan MEYS.



- 3 -
Table 1.1 Summary of Enrollments, Teachers and Schools, 1995/1996
Total Number of
Education Level                     Students          Teachers        Schools
Pre-school                           166,600            18,000          1,725
General Education *                  636,790           49,100           1,469
Vocational schools                    35,060             3,800            76
Colleges                              33,800             2,600            47
Higher Education                      49,500             4,000             18
Total                                921,750           77,500          3,335
Note: *General Education includes grades 1-12; distribution of student enrollment
by level is as follows: primary (gr 1-4), 42%, lower secondary (gr. 5-9)
49%, and upper secondary (gr 10- 12) 9 percent.
Source: Ministry of Education (presently renamed the Ministry of Education, Youth, and
Sports)
1.12   Performance Indicators. Repetition rates appear to be low in Moldova, with over 95% of pupils
in all grades of compulsory and secondary education reported to be in that grade for the first time.
Dropout rates are reported as being equally low. Virtually 100% of the age cohort complete mandatory
general education (grade 9), while somewhat below 50% of the age cohort continue upper secondary
education and 35% continue with technical education. Participation in higher (university) education is
still relatively low (about 10%), though increasing. No reliable data exist on the overall effectiveness
of the Moldovan education system and on student achievement.
1.13   Teachers and Teacher Training. Pre-service teacher training is currently ensured through two
avenues: pre-school and primary school teachers follow a 4-5 year course at a specialized teacher
training college after completing 9th grade. Secondary school teachers follow a 4-5 year course at one
of several higher education establishments where they specialize in one or two subject matters and also
follow  some pedagogical training.   Most teachers of 'practical' subjects graduated  from
vocational/technical schools have no subject-based higher education or pedagogical training. The
Ministry is reconsidering the organization of pre-service teacher training to bring the system more in
line with most OECD countries, where specialized upper secondary school training for primary school
teachers has been replaced with higher education training.
1.14   The National Institute for Teacher Training (INPCD) is in charge of in-service teacher training.
In principle, all teachers are obliged to follow an in-service refresher course every five years. However,
resource and capacity constraints have prevented full realization of this requirement. Because neither
pre-service nor in-service teachers training has provided teachers with exposure to alternative
methodologies and approaches to learning now predominant in most developed countries, in-service
training will need to be adjusted and reformed accordingly to help improve educational quality in the
years to come.
1.15   The need to allocate resources more efficiently will require increases in the currently low
student/teacher ratio, particularly at the secondary and vocational training level and to increase the
currently low teaching load. At the same time efforts will need to be made to bring teacher salaries,
which currently average only 55% of salaries in industry, more in line with those in other sectors, so as
to stem the drain of teachers in high demand areas (e.g. foreign languages) into other occupations.



-4 -
1.16   Education Sector Management. Education management is still very centralized in Moldova.
The Ministry of Education, Youth, and Sports (MEYS)3 is responsible for all major aspects of
education. Its organizational structure includes departments for specific aspects/levels of education
(e.g. pre-school, general education, vocational education, higher education, post-university education)
and a network of semi-autonomous institutes, such as the Institute for Psychological and Pedagogical
Studies (IPPS) or the National Institute for Teacher Training (INPCD). The Ministry develops
education policy, manages the preparation of new curricula and approves the latter, prepares and
approves all assessment and examination materials, and manages the production of all textbooks.
1.17   The Ministry directly manages only a limited number of educational institutions. Although it
oversees all pre-school and   general education establishments, the latter are financially and
administratively the responsibility of local governments and fall under the auspices of rayon education
directorates. The latter, however, are dependent on the Ministry of Education, Youth, and Sports and
their flexibility is thus limited. The Ministry also oversees all vocational training schools, 35% of
colleges and 45% of higher education establishments and a limited number of special education
establishments and boarding schools. The remainder of colleges and higher education establishments
are under the administrative and financial responsibility of various sectoral ministries.
1.18   Education Sector Financing. The high priority which Moldova accords to education is reflected
in the important share of public expenditures and of GDP which go to education. Over the last three
years, education expenditures have averaged almost 22% of total public expenditures and 6.7% of GDP
(8.9% of GDP excluding Transnistria)4, compared to 4.8% of GDP and 12% of total expenditures in
OECD countries. Despite efforts to protect education sector expenditures during the time of necessary
budget cuts, real expenditures in the education sector dropped significantly during the transition period
(17% between 1993 and 1995 alone).
1.19   Over two-thirds of public expenditures for education are covered by the budgets of local
governments.  While the state budget covers vocational, technical and higher education, local
governments are responsible for pre-school and general education, except for boarding schools and
other institutions for children with special needs. The central government also covers the development
cost of curriculum and teaching materials, including textbook production, for all education levels (these
expenditures have become minimal over the past few years). Capital investments must be approved by
the central government on a case by case basis. Only upon approval of a particular project are funds
transferred from the central to the local government. The share of local governments' contribution to
education expenditures has increased by almost 20% since 1992, mainly because of the declining
importance of central government-financed vocational training expenditures.
After January 15, 1997. the Ministry of Education was merged with two other ministries and is now officially
called the Ministry of Education, Youth, and Sports.
Education expenditures and other public expenditures exclude Transnistria. Transnistria should also be
excluded from GDP when education expenditures are compared to GDP.



-5-
Table 1.2. Education Expenditures in Moldova
1993   1994   1995   1996
Actual Actual Actual Budget
Education Expenditure (thousand lei based on 1993 prices)  124,927  97,726 101,394 110,043
Share of Education Expenditure in Total Government Expenditure    21%    21%    22%    23%
Education Expenditure as % of GDP                          5.8%    7.2%    7.0%    6.4%
Local Government Education Exp./Total Education Exp.       69%    69%    69%    69%
Source: Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Economy
1.20   Resource constraints have led to a situation where salaries, school maintenance (essentially
utilities), and food expenditures account for close to 90% of education expenditures, leaving minimal, if
any amounts for textbooks, pedagogical materials, in-service teacher training and often badly needed
capital repairs. As a result, there has been a considerable shortage of textbooks and other pedagogical
materials in schools over the past few years and even minimal capital repairs which would have
allowed energy efficiency improvements that can cut down on utility costs. Perpetuation of this
situation is likely to weaken the educational system's effectiveness and severely damage the capital
stock.
Table 1.3. Allocation of Total Public Education Expenditure by Education Level
Planned
Level                      1992           1993        1994         1995          1996
% of total education expenditure
Pre-school                19.8%         21.1%        21.7%       21.7%          20.1%
General Education         46.4%         54.7%        53.4%       54.9%          54.8%
Vocational Schools        15.3%          9.5%         8.7%         7.8%          7.8%
Colleges                   6.5%          5.9%         6.8%        6.3%           6.3%
Higher Education          11.3%          8.0%         8.9%         8.6%         10.4%
Staff training             0.7%          0.8%         0.5%        0.7%           0.6%
Source: Staff calculations, based on data from Ministry of Finance
1.21   Over the past four years Moldova has increasingly shifted the focus of its educational
expenditures away from technical and vocational towards general education. This is a sensible strategy,
given that resources are severely constrained and returns to general education (particularly lower
grades) have traditionally been higher than those to technical and higher education. General education
(grades 1-12) now accounts for almost 60% of education expenditures, pre-school accounts for a high
20 percent. Vocational, college and higher education account for 7%, 5%, and 10% of total
expenditures, respectively.



- 6 -
C. Main Issues and Constraints
1.22   Approach to Teaching and Learning.  The approach to teaching and learning currently
predominant in Moldova's classrooms and also reflected in the current curricula and teacher training
courses is a legacy of the past and differs significantly from that in most developed countries. Curricula
as well as examinations are mainly content- and knowledge-based; students are expected to learn and
recite facts rather than build up learning and critical thinking skills. The teaching process is mainly
authoritarian and frontal. The teacher-centered approach, whereby a teacher "lectures" students, is the
traditional teaching method, while little attention is paid to discovery and group work, problem-solving,
discussion or project work which would further student initiative, interaction and critical thinking. To
effectively prepare the future labor force to enter an increasingly flexible but demanding labor market,
it is critical that the education system teaches students more cognitive and social skills such as creative
thinking, problem solving, decision making and responding to unanticipated problems.
1.23   The knowledge-based approach also strongly affects teacher training. The curriculum for
teacher training is very content- and knowledge-based and taught at a highly theoretical level, while
more practical applications such as classroom management and organization, differential pedagogy,
group work, and conflict resolution are left out completely. The content of academic subjects is
essentially limited to a study of the subject itself, while little attention is paid to issues related to
teaching and learning the subject.
1.24   Curriculum. The curriculum inherited from the past no longer corresponds to Moldova's social
and economic realities and needs substantial revision, both in terms of content and in terms of
approaches to teaching and learning. The Institute for Pedagogical and Psychological Studies (IPPS)
has started to revise the curricula for general education. However, the new curricula developed so far
suffer from a lack of vertical and horizontal coherence because there is no structure that would allow
coordination among individual curriculum developers, nor any review which would ensure inter-and
trans-disciplinary coherence. In addition, curriculum development remains a very closed process with
little, if any, input or feedback from key stakeholders, such as teachers, school inspectors, parents or the
academic community. Thus, there is a pressing need to revise the approach to and processes for
curriculum development to allow for improved coherence and increased stakeholder participation.
1.25   Learning Assessment. Although Moldovan students are currently administered a battery of
control, promotion and graduation tests throughout their education, there is essentially no valid
information generated on student achievement and the performance of the education system as a whole.
This is due to a number of key shortcomings of the current learning assessment system, such as: (i)
students are over-tested but under-assessed in terms of formative information and acquisition of flexible
skills; (ii) examinations and classroom tests are heavily content- and knowledge-based; (iii) centrally-
set written examinations are of low technical quality, lacking face validity, reliability and comparability
in terms of difficulty levels; (iv) testing and scoring are not developed to modern standards, as delivery
of hand-written and oral examinations create uneven testing conditions for candidates; (v) examination
results are not collected and analyzed; (vi) there is no identifiable "cadre" of trained specialists with
adequate time and resources to develop modern assessment types; and (vii) there are no clear lines of
accountability for examination quality within the Ministry of Education, Youth, and Sports.
1.26   Substantial revision of the assessment and examination system  is needed to develop a
mechanism which not only certifies students, but also provides a valid assessment of their acquired
knowledge and skills and at the same time provides feedback on the overall quality of the education
system. Emphasis should be placed on limiting the number and improving the quality and validity of
national examinations. Assessment objectives should be integrated into the new curriculum. A small



- 7 -
cadre of specialists capable of developing, administering and subsequently analyzing results of
examinations which objectively assess student achievement must be developed.
1.27   Textbooks. The profound political changes in the early 1990s left the Moldovan education
system confronted with the need to replace previous, often ideologized, textbooks. Mainly due to
resource constraints, these replacements have so far taken place on a piecemeal basis, with the result
that there remains a significant shortage of textbooks in schools and those textbooks which are currently
in use often do not correspond to the new needs of the education system. The introduction of new
curricula will require the parallel introduction of new textbooks, in sufficient quantities to allow for
effective teaching and learning.
1.28   Development of new textbooks, which has been extremely limited due to resource constraints,
occurs under a rather closed system. Authors are hand picked by the Ministry of Education, Youth, and
Sports and are largely limited to staff at the Institute for Pedagogical and Psychological Studies. In
most cases, the same people who write the curriculum also write the textbook. Publication is largely
ensured by the State Textbook Publisher, which is financially and managerially autonomous and does
not obtain any subsidies. Although there is a growing number of local private publishers, their
experience in textbook publishing remains extremely limited, as they have not had access to Ministry of
Education, Youth, and Sports contracts.
1.29   A fundamental problem in the supply of textbooks is the lack of a sustainable textbook
financing mechanism. The Ministry of Education, Youth, and Sports no longer has the budgetary
resources to guarantee adequate annual supplies nor development of new materials needed for a modern
education system. While external funding can help mitigate the immediate crisis by supporting the
development of new textbooks, it will be necessary to introduce a cost recovery mechanism that permits
books to be regularly reprinted as the need arises.
1.30   Resource Allocation. While the Moldovan education system is affected by significant resource
constraints, there is also a clear need to improve the efficiency of sectoral resource allocation.
Student/teacher ratios (national average of 13) and teachers' working hours are low, the ratio of non-
teaching staff to teaching staff is relatively high, vocational training students get free meals or stipends
irrespective of performance or income. Day care at early ages is provided free of charge, except for
some cost recovery for meals. To date practically no efforts have been made to introduce significant
cost recovery measures and, hence, increase private sector participation in education finance. The
Government is aiming to tackle these issues through efficiency enhancing measures such as a gradual
increase of the student-teacher ratio, a continued reallocation of resources away from vocational and
higher education towards general education, and increased involvement of the private sector in
education finance.
1.31   The proposed project is designed to help the Government implement the reforms needed in the
areas of curriculum and teaching materials development, learning assessment and in-service teacher
training, so as to help bring the Moldovan education system more in line with those in market
economies. It will also support the establishment and implementation of a cost recovery system for
textbooks. The resource allocation issue is being tackled through a continuous policy dialogue with the
Government, including work carried out in preparation of the proposed project and the Public
Expenditure Review. The sectoral development policy letter which the Ministry of Education, Youth,
and Sports provided to the Bank during negotiations outlined the Government plans to tackle resource
allocation issues. In addition, resources have been allocated under the proposed project to carry out
studies in the area of education sector management and resource allocation in view of a possible future
project which would support reforms in this area.



- 8 -
D. Government Strategy
1.32   The Government is fully aware of the need to reform the education system to bring it more in
line with those in market economies. The Government has already developed an overall education
reform strategy which has been adapted by the Parliament. Three key documents reflect the anchor
points of the new strategy: a concept paper, adopted by Parliament in December 1994; the new
Education Law, adopted by Parliament in July 1995; and the National Program for Education
Development (1995-2000) which is currently being revised.
1.33   The core components of education reform, as reflected in these documents, are:
* reform of the education system structure as described in para. 1.7;
* a major overhaul of the education program (curricula, teaching materials, textbooks, and
teaching methodology) at all levels to adjust the approach to teaching and its contents to
new demands on the education system, with particular focus on formnative education;
*  reform of teacher training and re-training to equip teachers with the necessary skills to
implement new approaches to learning and teaching and to expose them to modern
methodologies used around the world;
-  introduction of new education standards and modem mechanisms to assess student learning;
* development of a modern educational management system, allowing for increased flexibility
and more efficient use of resources;
- increased role of private educational establishments; and
* an increase in the resources allocated to education to improve conditions of service for
teachers and raise sectoral investments needed to implement the reforms.
1.34   Although these points present a good basis for the reforms necessary to upgrade the education
system, detailed formulation and actual implementation of the reforms still lie ahead in many areas.
The proposed project would help to further define detailed reforms and establish some of the
institutional frameworks and processes necessary for successful implementation of the reform program.
E. Rationale for Bank Involvement
1.35   The Bank's assistance strategy to Moldova initially focused on a response to the drought of
1992 (US$26 million - Ln. No. 3569), followed by a Rehabilitation Loan (US$60 million - Ln. No.
3653), a Structural Adjustrnent Loan (US$60 million - Ln. No. 3815) and a Pre-Export Guarantee
Facility (US$30 million - Ln. No. 3851) in the period 1993-95. While the Bank's 1996 Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) has identified a further need for structural adjustment support, it has also
pointed out that the Bank's focus over the years to come will increasingly need to shift towards
investment operations in key areas such as agriculture, energy and the social sectors to help broaden the
reform effort. Consequently, recently approved Bank projects include an Agriculture Project (US$10
million - Ln. No. 40110), an Energy Sector Project (US$10 million - Ln. No. 40200) and a Private
Sector Development Project (US$35 million - Ln. Nos. 39770/39771).
1.36   Although reforms are planned in all social sectors, the degree to which these changes are
embedded in a well-defined long-termn strategy varies. Strategic reform plans are furthest advanced in
the education sector; while reforms in health and social protection still remain to be formulated. Taking
into account the degree of preparation of reform plans and foreign assistance already in place in other



9
parts of the social sectors, the CAS highlights the education sector as the most suitable choice for Bank
support at this stage.
1.37   Reforming Moldova's education system so that it can adequately respond to the demands of the
new social, political and economic environment will be key to helping Moldova successfully complete
the transition to a market economy. Yet, it is virtually impossible to finance the required education
sector reforms with the limited budgetary resources available. To date, external support to the sector
has been very limited and piecemeal, preventing Moldova from successfully carrying out the necessary
reforms. The proposed project emerged as a priority during discussions with the Government in
October 1995, when a Bank mission examined priorities in social sectors.
1.38   Until preparation of the proposed project was initiated in January 1996, the Bank's involvement
in the sector had been limited to a sectoral analysis carried out in the framework of an overall
assessment of social sector needs in 1993. Since project preparation has been initiated, the Bank has
been involved in a continuous dialogue with the Ministry of Education, Youth, and Sports and other key
Ministries (Economy and Finance) on education reform issues. This dialogue was further supported
and expanded during the recently completed Public Expenditure Review, which included a detailed
analysis of education sector resource allocation issues.
1.39   As the CAS points out, the Bank's strategy in the education sector in Moldova is to use the
preparation and subsequent implementation of this proposed first project to initiate a long-term
dialogue and to reach agreement on comprehensive sector reform focusing on a medium term human
resource development strategy to support private sector development and to improve the sector's
performance. The proposed project will thus support the first phase of the Government's education
reform efforts and focus on reforms which largely need to be initiated by the center, such as national
curriculum, assessment and textbook reforms. It is expected that the dialogue and cooperation will
continue beyond the implementation of this proposed project, possibly with later support for reforms at
the upper secondary and/or vocational training levels and with the implementation of a comprehensive
education sector management reform. The proposed project would thus allocate resources for studies to
help define the reform program in these areas in detail so that its implementation could be supported by
future Bank assisted projects.
1.40   The proposed project has been prepared with financial assistance provided through a Policy and
Human Resources Development (PHRD) Fund from the Japanese Government and through the
Netherlands Trust Fund for the Social Sectors in Moldova. Project preparation focused heavily on
participation by staff of the Ministry of Education, Youth, and Sports, as well as those in the
community associated with definition and subsequent implementation of education sector reforms.
Throughout project preparation, the Bank maintained close coordination with other donors supporting
the sector. UNICEF is supporting pre-school reforms, the Soros Foundation is providing limited
support with textbooks in the humanities and foreign languages, particularly at the lyceum level, while
the European Union and GTZ are providing some assistance in the areas of vocational training, labor
market and higher education.



- 10-
2. THE PROJECT
A. Project Background
2.1    The proposed project is the first Bank-supported operation in Moldova's social sectors and in
the education sector. Project design has deliberately been kept simple; project interventions are limited
to supporting reforms in mandatory general education through four closely interlinked components.
The choice of supporting reforms in general education is motivated by three main factors: (i) the
Government's decision to initiate reform at this level because curriculum reform has already been
started, but slowed down due to fiscal constraints; (ii) economic returns from investments in general
education have always been significantly higher than those at other education levels5; and, (iii) general
education reform is less dependent on the pace of reform in other sectors.
B. Project Objectives
2.2    The project aims at supporting the first phase of Moldova's education sector reforms, focusing
on mandatory general education. The project's key objective is to modernize and improve the quality
of primary and lower secondary education through improved curricula, new textbooks, in-service
teacher training, and a modern assessment system. While the project will introduce innovative
approaches in each of these areas and involve some institutional changes in the Ministry of Education,
Youth, and Sports, it is deliberately designed to build on the sector's existing labor force and not
expand employment in or outside the Ministry of Education, Youth, and Sports. It largely builds on
existing institutions and the achievements of Moldova's education system to date.
C. Project Description
2.3    The proposed General Education Project comprises four components: curriculum development,
textbook production and financing, learning assessment, and in-service teacher training.
2.4    Curriculum Development Component (US$0.64 million, net of taxes, or 4% of base costs).
This component aims at supporting the Government's efforts to revise the entire curriculum for
mandatory general education, so as to ensure that the curricula correspond to new demands on the
education system and espouse a modern and methodologically improved approach to teaching and
learning.
2.5    The component comprises (i) the establishment of an integrated institutional structure for
curriculum development and assessmentlevaluation so as to promote cohesion in policy and activities
(Annex II), (ii) the development and establishment of updated subject curricula for grades 1 - 9, and
(iii) support to teachers with the implementation of the new curriculum.
2.6    The main innovation under this component is that the curriculum development process would
become significantly more broad based and participatory than it currently is and would, thus, ensure
increased stakeholder participation. Curricula would be drafted by working groups consisting of
curriculum development specialists from the Institute of Pedagogical and Psychological Studies, subject
matter specialists from academia, classroom teachers and rayon education inspectors/methodologists.
Draft curricula would be reviewed by a coordination and curriculum evaluation committee, composed
5See for examnple, George Psacharopoulos, "Returns to Investment in Education: A Global Update," Working
Paper No. 1067, (Washington, D.C.: The World Bank, 1993).



- I1 -
of a combination of subject matter specialists and teachers. Besides reviewing curricula for their
methodological, pedagogical and subject matter adequacy, coordination committees would be
responsible for ensuring vertical and horizontal coherence in the curricula. Before negotiations, the
Borrower submitted satisfactory evidence to the Bank that the new institutional structure for curriculum
development and learning assessment had been established
2.7    Each draft curriculum would undergo a broad based consultation process, so as to obtain
feedback from rayon education directorate subject matter specialists, teachers, schools administrators
and other interested parties. Feedback from the consultation process would be integrated in subsequent
drafts of the curriculum. Once adopted by the coordination and curriculum evaluation committee, the
new curriculum would be submitted to the newly established National Curriculum and Assessment
Council (NCAC) for further review. The latter would either send the curriculum back for further
revision or recommend its adoption to the Minister of Education, Youth, and Sports. At the end of the
project, a total of about 134 subject grade curricula would have been developed, adopted, and
introduced in schools.
2.8    The revised curricula would espouse modern approaches to teaching and learning and contain
revised contents, and key learning and assessment objectives. Together with the re-training of teachers
and new textbooks, they would be key to transforming Moldova's education system so that it can
provide students with the basic skills needed to function effectively in a modern market economy.
2.9    The component would also support introduction of the new curricula through the production of
supporting materials for teachers by the curriculum development working groups, contribution of the
curriculum development working groups to in-service teacher training, and participation of curriculum
development working group and coordination committee members in the textbook manuscript
evaluation committees. The project would also provide technology and science related equipment
relevant to the introduction of the new curricula in a number of pilot schools. The detailed list of
equipment would be drawn up by the curriculum development working groups with concurrence by the
World Bank. This pilot activity would test and establish the basis of minimum equipment necessary to
teach effectively those subjects requiring equipment before embarking on large scale investments
across the country. Bank approval of the proposed equipment list and the selection criteria for pilot
schools would be a condition of disbursement of the funds for these equipment.
2.10   The project would finance training and technical assistance for all bodies involved in
curriculum development, equipment, materials, development costs, including stakeholder consultations,
production of supporting materials for teachers, interim and final publication and dissemination of new
curricula, and, science and technology equipment in pilot schools.
2.11   Learning Assessment Component (US$0.82 million, net of taxes, or 5% of base costs). This
component aims at upgrading Moldova's assessment and examinations system into a national system of
assessment and evaluation capable of monitoring and providing feedback on the quality of the
education system.
2.12   The component would support the development of an improved assessment and examinations
system in five key areas: (i) integrating assessment objectives into the new curriculum; (ii) improving
key national examinations at grades 4 and 9 to monitor student performance and the impact of the new
curriculum and textbooks on learning outcomes; (iii) developing and disseminating to teachers
packages of exemplary assessment materials for key subjects in grades 1-9; (iv) training central trainers
in the use of these materials; and (v) conducting a sample based survey of student achievements under
the current system against which student performance under the new curriculum could be compared
towards the end of the project.



- 12 -
2.13   The new integrated institutional structure for curriculum and assessment development will
ensure integration and close coordination of curriculum and learning assessment development. In
particular, the new structure would ensure that learning assessment standards for each subject and level
are in line with standards of the national curriculum, and that there is coherence of assessment packages
and formats across subjects and educational levels.
2.14   Improvement of the system of examinations and assessment would occur at two levels: (i)
streamlining and upgrading of key national examinations6; and (ii) strengthening of classroom based
diagnostic and formative testing. The overall goal for national examinations would be to ensure that by
the end of the project every student in Moldova would be given his/her own copy of an examination
paper which is carefully designed and constructed, linked to national standards and curriculum
objectives, and composed of questions which ask for more than recall of factual knowledge. Improved
school based assessment would be achieved by providing teachers with supporting materials which
outline alternative ways of assessment and by including a module on modern school based assessment
in the project supported in-service teacher training component.
2.15   To improve the national system of examinations, the Ministry of Education, Youth, and Sports
would set up a small but specialized Department for Examinations and Evaluation (DEE) in charge of
development, administration and evaluation of national examinations. The unit would also contribute
to the development of materials for and support teacher training in assessment under the project's
teacher training component. The unit would be staffed through redeployment and training of existing
ministerial staff.
2.16   The project would finance specialized local and international training for staff of the DEE and
those members of the curriculum development structure in charge of learning assessment, technical
assistance, equipment and materials for production of new examinations and supporting materials,
development and dissemination of supporting materials for the new assessment system, and the actual
production and administration of new national examinations for grades 4 and 9 during the initial years.
2.17   Teacher Training Component (US$3.34 million, net of taxes, or 20% of base costs). The new
curricula and teaching materials to be introduced will also require significant changes in the approach
to teaching and learning. In order for the new curricula to succeed, it will be necessary to provide all
teachers and school inspectors in charge of mandatory general education with specialized training. At
the same time it will be necessary to strengthen the rayon level support system for teachers. A total of
about 45,000 teachers would have to be trained over a period of five years.
2.18   The project would ensure that the training would draw on existing in- and pre-service teacher
training institutions to provide intensive residential training to selected inspectors, methodologists,
school directors and teachers from each rayon. Upon completion of their training, the latter would
serve as trainers for teachers in their respective rayons. Rather than attending residential centralized
training courses, teachers would thus attend courses at the rayon level. This approach would not only
allow for the most cost-effective use of resources, it would also ensure that rayon inspectors and
methodologists establish the necessary rapport with teachers to subsequently serve as resource persons
6 Under the new system of national examinations the number of national examinations would be reduced to cover
only key exit points: at the end of grade 4 achievements upon completion of primary school would be tested;
at the end of grade 9 achievements upon completion of mandatory general education would be tested. The
baccalaureate at the end of grade 12 would measure student achievement after voluntary higher secondary
education.



- 13 -
for questions related to the new curriculum and learning assessment system. Each teacher would attend
an initial training course and a refresher course after two years.
2.19   The project would finance technical assistance, development and dissemination of training
materials, development and implementation of centralized courses for trainers and decentralized
courses for teachers, equipment necessary to develop and hold training courses for key central training
institutions and rayon education directorates.
2.20   Textbook Development and Financing (US$11.50 million, net of taxes or 69% of base costs).
The objective of this component is twofold: (i) to facilitate the introduction of the new curricula by
providing schools with an adequate number of textbooks in line with the new curricula for core subjects
and (ii) to help develop a sustainable system of textbook financing that would help guarantee
availability of textbooks upon project completion.
2.21   The project would finance the production of new textbooks and, where appropriate, teacher
guides, in the mother tongue for core subjects for grades 3-9. Books for the first two grades of primary
education are being financed by Government and other donor funds prior to the project start-up.
Textbooks would be procured through a system of competitive bidding which would combine
competition for authorship with competition for publication, thus requiring potential authors to work
directly with publishers and substantially increasing the pool of authors from the current system where
authors are hand picked in a rather non-transparent system. Book manuscripts would be evaluated by a
Manuscript Evaluation Committee (MEC), comprising representatives from curriculum development,
teacher training and teachers (Annex V). The project would provide training for publishers, Ministry of
Education, Youth, and Sports staff and Manuscript and Bid Evaluation Committees' members in
competitive bidding for textbook publishing and in principles of publishing textbooks in a competitive
environment.
2.22   To avoid a serious shortfall of textbooks in mandatory general education upon project
completion, the project would also support the introduction of a cost recovery system for textbooks
(Annex V). Under the system, students would be charged a book rental fee for a set of textbooks. The
latter would be structured to allow cost recovery over the life of a textbook (four years for primary
school books and five years for secondary school books). Fees would be collected by each school and
then transferred through a local bank to a centrally managed book fund. Rayon education directorates
would keep detailed records of the amounts collected and paid into the fund by school by grade and
ensure that each school is informed about the amounts to be collected by grade prior to the start of each
school year. The fund would then be used to finance reprints and re-editions as books would need to be
replaced. At current prices, the proposed annual rental fee for a set of primary school textbooks would
be between 17 and 20 lei per student per year and between 22 and 29 lei per student per year for
secondary school textbooks. Poor families with several school aged children would be provided with a
budget financed voucher entitling them to a discounted book rental fee.  Because of targeting
difficulties and moral hazard problems, the budget ceiling for vouchers would initially be established
based on the number of families with several children currently entitled to a state benefit under the
existing child compensation system, but the actual identification of children to receive assistance would
be left to rayons and individual schools. Before negotiations, the Borrower submitted to the Bank for
review and comments a detailed description of the operations of the textbook rental scheme agreed
upon by the Ministries of Finance, Economy, and Education, Youth, and Sports including the draft
7 Grades 3 and 5 manuscripts are already well advanced. Therefore competitive bidding would only be applied to
publication of textbooks for these grades, but for all other grades competition would also involve author
selection.



- 14-
Government decree and implementing regulations for the establishment and operation of the rental
scheme. As a condition of loan effectiveness, the Borrower would provide satisfactory evidence to the
Bank that the textbook financing mechanism has been adopted by the Government after Bank review
and comments. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that the textbook
financing scheme would be implemented and the textbook fund account maintained in a commercial
bank satisfactory to the Bank throughout the project implementation period, and that the Bank would be
provided within six months after the end of each fiscal year a copy of the yearly audit report of the
textbookfund carried out by independent auditors.
2.23   The project would finance development, evaluation, production and distribution of new
textbooks and training and technical assistance for Ministry staff, textbook evaluation committees and
publishers in competitive bidding procedures. It would also finance technical assistance, training,
computer equipment and public information campaign expenditures necessary for the introduction of
the new textbook financing scheme.
2.24   Project Management and Implementation (US$0.37 million, net of taxes, or 2% of base costs).
To manage and coordinate overall project implementation, a project management unit (PMU),
consisting of a Project Director, a procurement officer, a translator/administrative assistant and a part-
time accountant would be established in the Ministry of Education, Youth, and Sports. The project
would finance technical assistance (a project implementation adviser for one year with possibility of an
additional year's extension if needed), equipment and incremental operating costs necessary for project
management, as well as studies required for the preparation of a possible future project.
D. Impact on Women, Environment, Poverty and Participation
2.25   Environmental Aspects. The proposed project's focus is on curriculum, learning assessment
and instructional materials development and does not involve any construction nor use of
environmentally hazardous materials. New curricula and teaching materials will include education in
environmental awareness. The project has therefore been assigned an environmental category C.
2.26  Impact on Women. Education access in Moldova is equitable. The reform would enhance
equitable educational access to women and new curricula are expected to promote equality of rights.
2.27 Poverty Alleviation. Although the proposed project does not directly focus on poverty
alleviation, it is expected to indirectly contribute to poverty alleviation by helping to improve the
country's human capital stock, necessary for sustainable long-term growth in the future.
2.28   Participation, Project preparation involved a wide range of stakeholders through participatory
workshops which sought feedback from the academic community, rayon education directorates, school
administrators and teachers on proposed project activities. Feedback from these workshops was
integrated into project design. During its implementation, the project will further broaden stakeholder
participation in the education reform process, particularly through a more participatory process for
curriculum development and open competition for textbook production.



- 15 -
3.  PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND PROCUREMENT
A. Project Costs and Financing
3.1     Project Costs. Total project costs are estimated at US$21.6 million equivalent, including
contingencies and taxes. Detailed cost estimates are presented in Annex VIII. A summary of the cost
estimates by component and by expenditure category are provided below in Tables 3.1 and 3.2,
respectively.
Table 3.1 SUMMARY OF PROJECT COST ESTIMATES BY COMPONENT
%/,        % Total
(US$ Million)          Foreign        Base
Component                 Local   Foreign   Total     Exchange        Costs
1. Curriculum Development              0.24     0.40      0.64      62            4
2. Teacher Retraining                  2.62      0.72     3.34      22            20
3. Learning Assessment                  0.10     0.72     0.82      88            5
4. Textbook Development                 6.45     5.04    11.50      44            69
5. Project Management Unit             0.13      0.24     0.37      65            2
Total BASELINE COSTS                     9.54     7.12    16.67       43           100
Physical Contingencies                0.92     0.82     1.74      46            10
Price Contingencies                  0.95      0.60     1.55      38            9
Total PROJECT COSTS excluding taxes     11.42     8.54    19.96       43           119
Taxes                                 1.70               1.70                   1 0
Total PROJECT COSTS including taxes     13.12     8.54    21.66
Note: Totals may not be exact due to rounding errors.
3.2     Project cost estimates are based on October 1996 prices. Due to the evolving nature of the
Moldovan economy, all estimated costs are based on the US dollar. Physical contingencies of 10
percent were applied to the base costs except for the PMU. The following estimated world inflation
rates were used to adjust the costs during project implementation: 2.0% for 1997, 2.1% for 1998, 2.3%
for 1999, 2.4% for 2000, and 2.3% for 2001. The estimated total foreign cost is US$8.5 million.
Recurrent costs amount to US$0.27 million over the five year implementation period. Project
expenditures other than textbooks and technical assistance will be subject to VAT, customs duties and
fees, and social fund contributions, estimated at US$1.7 million over the five year period. These
expenses will be covered by the Government.
3.3    Prpject Financig. The proposed loan of US$16.8 million equivalent would finance about 84%
of the estimated total project cost (net of taxes) including 100% of foreign and 72% of local costs (see
Table 3.3 for details). The Government counterpart financing is US$4.9 million, including US$1.7
million for taxes and social fund contributions. Bilateral donors have been approached to provide grant
financing for the foreign technical assistance requirements. However, if no grant financing can be
secured, the technical assistance requirements would be financed from the loan proceeds. As a
condition of loan effectiveness, the Borrower would provide evidence to the Bank that a project account
for counterpartfunding has been opened and an initial deposit equivalent to at least 3 months worth of
counterpart contributions including tax contributions has been deposited



- 16-
Table 3.2 SUMMARY OF PROJECT COST ESTIMATES BY EXPENDITURE CATEGORY
%         % Total
(IS$ Million)             Foreign         Base
Expenditure Category                           Local    Foreign    Total    Exchange            Costs
I. Investment Costs
A. Equipment                                                      0.0        0.95      0.95      100            6
B. Textbooks and Didactic Materials
Textbooks                                                    4,45        4.45      8.90       50            53
Teachers'Guide and Didactic Materials                        0.14        0.15      0.29       52            2
Textbook Distribution                                        1.82           -      1.82        -            1 1
Subtotal Textbooks and Didactic Materials                        6.41        4.60     11.01       42           65
C. Training and Fellowships
Training                                                     2.58        0.15      2.74       6             16
Fellowships                                                     -        0.17      0.17      100            I
Subtotal Training and Fellowships                                2.58        0.32      2.90       11            17
D. Technical Assistance
Specialists                                                  0.01        0.83      0.84       99            5
Studies                                                         -        0.33      0.33      100            2
Subtotal Technical Assistance                                    0.01        1.16      1.17       99            7
E. Development Expenditures /a
Development Fees                                             0.09           -      0.09        -            I
Supplies and Operation Expenditures /b                       0.07        0.03      0.10       33            1
Subtotal Development Expenditures                                0.16        0.03      0.19       17            1
F. Public Dissemination Programs                                 0.14        0.04      0.18      21             1
Total Investment Costs                                               9.30        7.10     16.40      43            98
11. Recurrent Costs
A. Incremental Salaries                                          0.09           -      0.09       -             I
B. Incremental Operating Expenditures                            0.09        0.03      0.12       24            1
C. Repair and Maintenance                                        0.06           -      0.06       -             -
Total Recurrent Costs                                                0.24        0.03      0.27      11             2
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                   9.54        7.12     16.67      43            100
Physical Contingencies                                           0.92        0.82      1.74      47            10
Price Contingencies                                              0.95        0.60      1.55      39             9
Total PROJECT COSTS excluding taxes                                   11.42        8.54     19.96      43            119
Taxes                                                            1.70           -      1.70                     10
Total PROJECT COSTS including taxes                                   13.12        8.54     21.66
Note: Totals may not be exact due to rounding errors.
\a For curriculum development activities including fees, materials, and stakeholders consultations
\b Includes materials, travels, and other operating expenses to carry out development activities



- 17-
Table 3.3 PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
The Government
of Moldova           IBRD                Total
Expenditure Category               Amount    %        Amount    %        Amount       %
A. Equipment                                       0.14      13.7     0.91      86.3     1.05         5.3
B. Textbooks Production and Distribution
Textbooks                                        -        -    10.67    100.0    10.67          53.4
Teachers Guide and Didactic Materials            -        -      0.35    100.0      0.35         1.8
Distribution Expenditures                     2.20    100.0         -        -      2.20        11.0
Subtotal Textbooks Production and Distribution   2.20      16.7    11.02      83.3    13.22        66.2
C. Training and Fellowships
Fellowships                                      -        -      0.11    100.0      0.11         0.6
Training                                      0.51      17.1     2.50     82.9      3.01        15.1
Subtotal Training and Fellowships                0.51      16.5     2.61      83.5     3.13         15.7
D. Technical Assistance
Specialists                                      -        -      1.17    100.0      1.17         5.8
Studies                                          -        -      0.33    100.0      0.33         1.7
Subtotal Technical Assistance                       -         -      1.50    100.0     1.50         7.5
E. Development Expenditures /a
Development Fees                              0.10    100.0         -        -      0.10         0.5
Supplies and operating expenditures /b        0.07      13.2     0.46     86.8      0.53         2.7
Subtotal Development Expenditures                 0.18     27.5     0.46      72.5     0.64         3.2
F. Public Dissemination Campaigns                     -         -     0.11    100.0      0.11         0.6
G. Incremental Staff Salaries                      0.00       7.3     0.10      92.7     0.10         0.5
H. Incremental Operating Expenditures              0.09      62.3     0.06      37.7     0.15         0.7
1. Repair and Maintenance                          0.07     100.0        -         -     0.07         0.3
Total (Excluding Taxes)                3.20     16.0    16.76      84.0    19.96        100.0
Taxes                          1.70    100.0                         1.70
Total (Including Taxes)                4.90     22.6    16.76      77.4    21.66        100.0
Note: Totals may not be exact due to rounding errors.
\a Curriculum, training, and learning assessment processes
\b Operation: Subsistence and travels
B. Procurement
3.4      Procurement Arrangements.   All procurement would  follow   World  Bank  procurement
guidelines. Procurement of goods financed with Bank loan funds would be carried out in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines, Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits dated January 1995 as
revised in January 1996 and August 1996. Consulting Services would be procured in accordance with
the Guidelines for Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency (August 1981). Standard Bank Bidding Documents would be used for ICB, integral or amended
as approved by the Bank. For national competitive bidding (NCB), bidding documents based on the
Bank's standard bidding documents, amended as necessary to local conditions and approved by the
Bank, would be used. The GPN was published in Development Business, No. 452, December 16,
1996.
3.5      Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR). A Country Procurement Assessment Report
has not yet been carried out due to the lack of a clear legal and institutional framework for public
procurement in Moldova. A Country Procurement Strategy Paper is under preparation. A draft
national procurement law is being prepared with World Bank IDF grant assistance; the aim is to
stimulate more competition and transparency of the process, and to help establish sustainable
institutions to institutionalize this process.



- 18 -
3.6    The major procurement under this project would be textbooks and teacher guides. Because
individual contracts are expected to be small and the limited Moldovan textbook market is not likely to
be of interest to many international bidders, NCB procedures, acceptable to the Bank, would be used to
procure these items. These procedures will allow for a widely published and open competitive bidding
process in which domestic and foreign publishers will be eligible to participate on an equal basis after
pre-qualification. Bidding documents to be used for the procurement of textbooks and teacher guides
are based on the Bank's standard bidding document for the procurement of textbooks. For minority
schools, minority language editions will be published by translating Romanian language originals. If a
winning bidder for a book does not have the capacity to also provide the solicited language edition, the
Ministry of Education, Youth, and Sports will buy the translation right and award the contract for the
corresponding language publication to another capable publisher. Since these contracts will be small
(about $42,000 per contract), contracts for publication of translated books would be awarded through
International Shopping procedures.
3.7    Implementing Agency. The PMU would be responsible for all procurement required under the
project. Local counterparts involved in project implementation have attended Bank procurement
training in the neighboring countries. In order to improve procurement effectiveness, standard bidding
documents acceptable to the Bank for the procurement of textbooks and teacher guides have been
prepared prior to project effectiveness. Furthermore, to augment the PMU's procurement capabilities,
the foreign project advisor would assist the procurement officer during the initial implementation
period.
3.8    Goods (US$11.8 million). Goods to be procured include computer systems, office and training
equipment, sundries, and textbooks and teaching materials. Procurement of office and training
equipment for the rayon education directorates in the aggregate amount of approximately US$ 350,000
would follow the Bank's ICB procedures using the Bank's standard bidding document for goods. There
would be approximately seven packages, with up to 95 contracts for textbooks and other didactic
materials following NCB procedures (aggregate total amount of US$11.0 million), using a Bank
approved standard bidding document.
3.9   International Shopping (IS) procedures (aggregate total amount of US$2.6 million) would be
used for the procurement of the technical equipment in pilot schools, rayon's training equipment
including computers, training materials and supplies, and for translated editions of Romanian
textbooks based on the comparison of price quotations from at least three different suppliers in at least
two different qualified countries. National shopping (NS) procedures (aggregate total amount of
US$0.8 million) would be used for contracts less than US$50,000 per contract based on price
quotations from at least three suppliers for computer, office and audio-visual equipment, office supplies
and other consumables. Procurement of proprietary items (specialized software for learning assessment
and subscriptions to technical joumals) would be based on direct contracting (aggregate total amount of
no more than US$20,000).
3.10   Training, Technical Assistance. and Studies (aggregate total amount of US$4.0 million).
Consultant services under the project would be required to assist with the implementation of all project
8 Russian translations of certain Romanian textbooks would be subject to bidding. If a winning bidder for a
particular textbook is not capable of producing a minority language translation, the Ministry of Education,
Youth, and Sports would buy the translation right and award the contract for the publication of the translated
book through International Shopping. At the maximum this would involve about 42 separate contracts at $
42,000 each (base costs). However, as it is expected that a large number of winning bidders for textbooks
will also be able to produce minority language versions, the number of contracts awarded through
International Shopping is likely to be significantly lower than the maximum here indicated.



- 19-
components, including project management (see Annex VII for a description of technical assistance
required), and for studies in view of preparing a possible follow-up project. The majority of technical
assistance assignments for each component, other than the curriculum development component (which
will only require very specific, highly specialized, short term TA inputs) would be contracted through
component specific shortlisted TA contracts. Consultant services would be contracted in accordance
with Bank procurement procedures, including shortlisting for contracts with firms for the learning
assessment, teacher training, and textbook development components. There will be numerous local
training at different times of the year for trainers and teachers to be financed from the proceeds of the
loan. A detailed description of the type and duration of training courses is in Annex IV. Several
fellowships and study visits would also be financed under the loan proceeds. Participants and study
locations, including the institutions, would be selected on a competitive basis with criteria acceptable to
the Bank.
3.11   Miscellaneous Expenditures (aggregate total amount of US$0.2 million). The project would
introduce new processes of curriculum development and textbook financing in the country. In order to
solicit public support, a series of public participation consultations and public education campaigns to
gain feedback and explain the new systems and procedures would be carried out. Expenditures for
public consultations will include publication and distribution of draft curricula and holding of
consultation meetings. Since this will be an integral part of the curriculum development process and
involve small individual expenditures at various points in time, they will be based on direct purchasing.
The project would also finance incremental operating costs incurred by the PMU.
3.12   Prior Review. Procurement Monitoring and Reporting. Contracts for goods of US$200,000
equivalent or more and all consulting services would be subject to prior review. In addition, prior Bank
review would be required for the first five NCB procurement packages for textbooks and teaching
guides regardless of value. All procurement would be monitored closely and would be part of the
regular project progress report of the PMU. The procurement milestones are summarized in the
procurement plan in Annex XIII.



- 20 -
Table 3.4 Procurement Arrangements (US$ Million)
Procurement Method
Project Element                        ICB         NCB        Other    N.B.F.    Total
A. Goods
Computers Systems /a                                     -           -         0.3         -          0.3
(0.2)                  (0.2)
Office and Training Equipment /b                       0.4           -         0.1         -          0.5
(0.4)                  (0.1)                  (0.4)
Textbooks & Didactic Materials                           -       10.5          0.0         -         10.5
(10.5)       (0.0)                 (10.5)
Office supplies & consumables /c                         -           -         0.6         -          0.6
(0.5)                  (0.5)
Technical Equipment /d                                   -           -         0.2         -          0.2
(0.2)                  (0.2)
B. Service Contracts
Textbooks & Teaching Materials Distribution              -           -           -      2.2           2.2
C. Consultancies
Training and Fellowships /e                              -           -         2.6      0.5           3.1
(2.6)                  (2.6)
Technical Assistance Services                            -           -         1.1         -          1.1
(1.1)                  (1.1)
Studies                                                                        0.3                    0.3
(0.3)                  (0.3)
D. Miscellaneous
Recurrent Expenditures                                   -           -         0.1      0.2           0.3
(0.1)                  (0.1)
Curriculum Dev't. Fees & Consultations                                         0.1      0.1           0.2
(0.1)                  (0.1)
Refund to PPF Advance                                    -         0.5         0.2         -          0.7
(0.5)       (0.2)                  (0.7)
Total                                                       0.4       11.0          5.6      3.0          20.0
of which to be financed by the Bank                      (0.4)     (11.0)        (5.4)        -       (16.8)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IBRD
N.B.F. - Not Bank Financed
Totals may not be exact due to rounding errors.
"Other" method include International Shopping (IS) -US$2.6 million; National Shopping (NS)-US$0.8 million; Direct
Contracting (DC)-US$0.02 million; Training & Fellowships-USS2.6 million; Shortlisting & Individuals TA-
US$1.1 million; and Studies-US$0.3 million.
\a Includes printers, monitors, and UPS
\b Photocopiers, FAX machines, and audio-visual equipment
\c Includes training materials and supplies
\d Technical equipment for the pilot schools will be determined after the curricula have been developed.
\e Includes workshops and seminars



- 21 -
C. Disbursement
3.13   The proposed Bank loan of US$16.8 million equivalent would be disbursed over a period of
five years with an estimated completion date of June 30, 2002 and a closing date of December 31, 2002.
A detailed semester disbursement profile is in Annex IX. Disbursement of the loan proceeds would be
as follows:
Table 3.5 Disbursement Summary
Amount
Disbursement Category         (US$ million)    Expenditures to be Financed
1. Equipment, Supplies, and Other        1.0        100% of foreign expenditures,
consumables                                      100% of local expenditures (ex
factory) and 80% of local
expenditures for other items
procured locally
2. Textbooks and Didactic Materials      9.5        100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures (ex
factory) and 80% of local
expenditures for other items
procured locally
3. Training, Fellowships, Consultant     3.7        100%
Services and Studies
4. Incremental Recurrent Expenditures    0.1        100%
for Project Management
4. Refund to PPF Advance                 0.7
5. Unallocated                           1.8
Total                     16.8
3.14   Statements of expenditures (SOEs). The Bank may require disbursements to be made on the
basis of SOE for contracts for equipment, supplies, and training related expenditures not exceeding US$
200,000 or equivalent. Complete documentation supporting the SOEs would be retained by the PMU
and made available for review by the Bank and auditors. The minimum size of application for direct
payment from the Loan Account and issuance of a Special Commitrnent would be 20 percent of the
amount of authorized allocation to the Special Account.
3.15   Special Account (SA). A Special Account (SA) with an authorized allocation of US$300,000
based on four month average expenditures would be established in a commercial Bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The Bank would make the deposit(s) into the Special Account up
to the amount of the authorized allocation. During the early stage of the project, the initial allocation to



- 22 -
the Special Account would be limited to US$150,000. However, when the aggregate disbursements
under the loan have reached the level of US$3,000,000, the initial allocation may be increased up to the
authorized allocation of US$300,000 by submitting relevant applications for withdrawal. Applications
for replenishment of the Special Account would be submitted monthly or when one-third of the amount
has been withdrawn, whichever occurs earlier. Documentation requirements for replenishment would
follow the standard Bank procedure. Monthly bank statements of the Special Account which have been
reconciled by the Borrower would accompany all replenishment requests. A Special Account has been
opened by the Borrower in an acceptable local bank to facilitate disbursement.
3.16   Project Preparation Facility (PPF). The Borrower requested a Project Preparation Facility
advance of US$700,000 to complete project preparation. The advance is being used to finance
consultant services to complete the design of the curriculum development process, teacher training
program, learning assessment, and textbook production. A limited amount is being used to finance
office and training equipment. The advance is also being used to test the efficiency and effectiveness of
the new textbook procurement scheme. The PPF advance would be refunded by December 31, 1997 or
if earlier, upon loan effectiveness.
D. Accounts and Audits
3.17   The PMU would be responsible for maintaining project accounts, in a format acceptable to the
Bank. Project accounts would show expenditures by project component, source of funds and by
expenditure category. The PMU would hold a separate account showing amounts expended under the
SOEs for each fiscal year and would maintain the Special Account. Project accounts would be audited
by a reputable auditing firm acceptable to the Bank in accordance with International Accounting and
Auditing Standards. The audits would include a separate opinion on the SOEs and SA to be submitted
to the Bank and the MOF. During negotiations, assurances were obtainedfrom the Government that (i)
the Project Account shall be maintained and replenished it promptly with sufficient funds to finance the
Borrower's contribution to project expenditures; and (ii) within six months after the end of each fiscal
year, an annual audit report of the project accounts, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank
including an audit of the Special Account and a separate opinion on the SOEs and SA would be
submitted to the Bank.



- 23 -
4.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Management and Implementation
4.1    The Ministry of Education, Youth, and Sports will be responsible for overall direction,
coordination and oversight of project implementation. To this effect, the Ministry has designated three
distinct implementation agents: (i) a Project Steering Committee will provide overall guidance and
oversight, (ii) a project management unit (PMU) within the Ministry of Education, Youth, and Sports
will be in charge of overall project administration and logistical support to technical departments, and
(iii) technical departments and institutes under the Ministry will be in charge of implementing
individual project components.
4.2   Project Steering Committee. The steering committee, to be chaired by the First Deputy
Minister of Education, Youth, and Sports, would include the heads of key technical departments and
institutions in charge of implementing the various project components and representatives from the
Ministries of Finance, Economy and Education, Youth, and Sports. The Committee will be responsible
for providing overall guidance and project oversight and for monitoring performance progress. A
Government Decision No. 469-d dated November 11, 1996 was adopted that establishes the Project
Steering Committee with duly appointed members and with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
4.3    The Project Management Unit will be staffed by a project director, a deputy director in charge
of procurement, a part time accountant and an English speaking translator/administrative secretary.
The PMU will be responsible for day to day project management including preparation of work plans,
budgets and progress reports, all procurement, administration of and accounting for loan and
counterpart funds, and overall coordination of project implementation activities. The PMU will not
itself implement any project activities, but act as coordinator and administrator. The PMU will report
to the First Deputy Minister of Education, Youth, and Sports who has been designated by the Ministry
as the person responsible for overall preparation and implementation of the project.  Before
negotiations, the Borrower provided evidence to the Bank that a Project Director had been appointed
after Bank concurrence. During negotiations, assurances were obtainedfrom the Government that the
Project Steering Committe (PSC), Project Management Unit (PML9, and Department for Evaluation
and Examinations (DEE) would be maintained, with membership and staffing, functions, and
responsibilities acceptable to the Bank throughout the project period The staff of the Project
Management Unit have been appointed to the satisfaction of the Bank.
4.4    Because this is the first Bank investment project in the sector, there is a marked lack of
management and planning skills in the Ministry of Education, Youth, and Sports, no one in Moldova
has prior experience with the Bank's complex textbook procurement procedures and because project
implementation must adhere to a tight implementation schedule to concur with the school year, the
PMU would be assisted by a foreign project advisor, familiar with implementation of World Bank
financed projects, during the first project year and possibly extended the following year if needed.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that the foreign project advisor
would be appointed and employed with qualifications satisfactory to the Bank. As a condition of loan
effectiveness, the Borrower would provide evidence to the Bank that a Project Advisor, satisfactory to
the Bank, has been appointed
4.5    Technical Departments and Ministerial Institutes. Implementation of actual project activities
will be the responsibility of relevant technical departments and institutions of the Ministry of
Education, Youth, and Sports.  Their responsibilities will include (i) overall organization and
monitoring of implementation of particular project components; (ii) preparation of detailed work plans,
budgets, physical requirements, and progress reports for submission to the PMU; (iii) finalization of



- 24 -
technical specifications for equipment and materials to be purchased for implementation of their
component; and (iv) finalization of terms of reference for technical assistance and training required in
their respective parts of the project and, in cooperation with the PMU, evaluation of TA proposals
received. The following Ministerial Departments and Institutes will be in charge of implementing
individual components:
(i)    Curriculum Development. While the new institutional structure for curriculum and
assessment development will be in charge of actually developing and subsequently
monitoring the performance of the new curricula, the MEYS's Pre-University
Education Department, in coordination with the Institute of Pedagogical and
Psychological Studies will be responsible for overseeing overall implementation of this
component.
(ii)   Learning Assessment. The learning assessment component will be implemented by the
newly created Department of Evaluation and Examinations of the Ministry of
Education, Youth, and Sports.
(iii)   Teacher Training. Overall coordination and implementation of the in-service teacher
training component will be the responsibility of the National Institute for Teacher
Training, in coordination with the Ministry of Education, Youth, and Sports'
Department of Accreditation and Staff Training
(iv)   Textbook Development. Implementation of this component will be the responsibility
of the Ministry of Education, Youth, and Sports' Pre-University Education Department
in collaboration with the Department for Didactic Materials and Library Assistance,
although procurement of textbooks will be handled by the PMU. The textbook fund
will be managed by the Ministry of Education, Youth, and Sports' Finance and
Accounting department- under the direct supervision of the Inter-ministerial
Supervisory Committee.
4.6    Each technical department and/or Ministerial Institute in charge of a particular component will
be responsible for ensuring that project activities are carried out in accordance with the agreed upon
project objectives.  The Project Implementation Manual and other detailed project preparation
documents for each component, together with the project implementation schedule (Annex X) will
serve as guidelines for the implementation of each component.
B. Project Monitoring and Evaluation
4.7   Implementation Schedule. The proposed project would be implemented over a five-year period
with an additional six months for payment of financial obligations committed after the project
completion date of June 30, 2002 and full withdrawal of Loan proceeds. The PMU would submit an
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) to the Bank within six months of the closing date. A
summary of the project implementation schedule by component is in Annex X.
4.8    Monitoring and Reporting. To monitor project progress and evaluate project outcome, a set of
project performance indicators has been developed (Annex XI). The indicators provide a framework
for systematic monitoring of project implementation progress and will serve as basis for the format of a
routine progress report to be completed by the PMU. Based on inputs from individual implementation
agencies, the PMU would be responsible for preparing quarterly progress reports for submission to the
steering committee. Using agreed upon monitoring indicators as a basis, the PMU would also submit
semi-annual progress reports to the Bank covering each component's standing with respect to status and
issues; deviations from project targets and implementation plan; plans for the following six months;



- 25 -
recommendations; and actual and planned expenditures. During negotiations, assurances were
obtainedfrom the Government that the PMU, representing the MEYS, would prepare andfurnish to the
Bank semi-annual progress reports on all project activities in accordance with performance indicators
as agreed with the Bank.
4.9    Project Evaluation. Evaluation of project progress and adoption of necessary corrective actions
are important to the project, particularly in view of the fact that this is the Bank's first education project
in Moldova. Therefore, in addition to the regular project progress evaluation activities, a mid-term
evaluation would be carried out jointly by the Borrower and the Bank, after two years of project
implementation. During negotiations, assurances were obtainedfrom the Government that a mid-term
evaluation report will be submitted to the Bank, no later than one and three quarter years after loan
effectiveness and will serve as basis for the joint Bank - Borrower mid-term review. This report would
indicate the project progress from inception and propose additional measures and changes as
necessary to ensure achievement ofproject objectives.
C. Supervision
4.10   Project Supervision.  Periodic supervision of project implementation would be a joint
responsibility of the MEYS and the Bank. The Project Steering Committee and the First Deputy
Minister of Education, Youth, and Sports would be responsible for supervision on the Borrower's side.
The Bank would carry out regular, semi-annual supervision missions. Because this is the first social
sector project in Moldova, Bank supervision requirements are expected to be higher than the Bank's
average. A supervision plan is presented in Annex XII.



- 26 -
5.   BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits and Justification
5.1    The project is expected to result in a series of reformed institutional structures and processes
which will contribute to ongoing improvements and changes in the education system beyond project
completion. In particular, the project will establish a framework for curriculum development which
allows for greater transparency, stakeholder participation and feedback, increased curricula coherence
and integration of assessment and curriculum development. The project will also set the stage for more
reliable and valid national examinations and monitoring of sectoral performance, thus increasing public
accountability in education. It will introduce a system of open competition for textbook authorship and
publication which is expected to result in higher quality textbooks. The project will provide for
sufficient textbooks in classrooms to allow for more effective instruction and learning to more than
600,000 pupils. It will support the establishment of a cost recovery system for textbooks which will
help ensure that funds are available to reprint or republish books introduced under the project upon
project completion. It will introduce a system of in-service teacher training benefiting approximately
45,000 educators which is significantly more cost-effective than the current system and which is
expected to lead to closer collaboration between staff of the rayon education directorates and teachers,
thus facilitating the introduction of new teaching and learning methods in general and the new subject
curricula in particular.
5.2    While the immediate project beneficiaries will be general education students, the project is
expected to benefit the entire education system over time, as new institutional setups and procedures
will be expanded to cover other areas of education. By improving the quality of education, the project
will contribute to an improved human capital base and hence benefit the labor market and the economy
as a whole.
B. Sustainability and Risks
5.3    There are three major risks in this project. First, the country's tight fiscal situation may prevent
the Government from making the necessary counterpart funds available on a timely basis, thus
preventing important project activities from being carried out effectively. Similarly, shortage of funds
may prevent key project activities to be carried out beyond project completion. The former risk is
being minimized by limiting Government counterpart contributions to a critical minimum.
5.4    Care was taken during project design to minimize incremental recurrent costs of a permanent
nature, so as to not endanger sustainability of project achievements beyond project completion. Cost
effectiveness considerations were a critical aspect of project design and the least cost option has been
chosen where ever this option was not expected to result in significant quality loss. The cost recovery
system for textbooks will help to introduce a system which should allow for supply of new textbooks on
a regular basis upon project completion. Given that textbooks account for almost 70% of project costs,
this will be a key aspect of guaranteeing sustainability beyond project completion.
5.5    The second risk is that changes in the political and administrative leadership in the education
sector may hamper future actions necessary to implement the systemic reforms underlying the project.
This risk has been minimized by significantly involving working level persons of the Ministry of
Education, Youth, and Sports, educational institutions and other key Ministries in project design
through participatory workshops and through close collaboration between key staff and the project
preparation team. During appraisal, the preparation team agreed with the implementing agencies on a
detailed project implementation plan with monitorable indicators.



- 27 -
5.6    The risk of resistance to change at the local level will be minimized through a series of
informational workshops throughout the country prior to project implementation and subsequent
stakeholder participation and consultation processes, particularly in the area of curriculum
development.
5.7    The third and possibly most important risk is that the Ministry of Education, Youth, and Sports'
inexperience with project management in general, and Bank-assisted projects in particular, will hamper
smooth project implementation. A limited number of project components and close involvement of key
Ministry of Education, Youth, and Sports staff at all stages of project development should help reduce
this risk. However, despite limiting project activities to four closely inter-related components and to
mandatory general education, project implementation is based on an ambitious implementation
schedule which can only be adhered to if the project is well managed and monitored. Procurement of
textbooks and equipment will put particularly high demands on the PMU during the initial two project
years. Given the lack of management and planning skills in the Ministry of Education, Youth, and
Sports and the unfamiliarity with complex Bank procurement procedures, it will therefore be essential
that the PMU be assisted by an internationally experienced project advisor during the first project year
and possibly to be extended for another year if needed.



- 28 -
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.1    Prior to Negotiations, the Borrower submitted the following:
a) Ministerial Order No. 32.4.1, dated October 29, 1996, establishing the new institutional
structure for curriculum development and learning assessment; (para. 2.6)
b) Government Decision No. 742, dated December 30, 1996, establishing the fee levels and
mechanisms for payments to those involved in curriculum development; (Annex II)
c) Ministerial Order No. 418, dated December 12, 1996, appointing the Project Director after
the Bank's concurrence; (para. 4.3)
d) a sectoral development policy letter to the Bank; and (para. 1.31)
e) a detailed description of the operation of the textbook rental scheme including a draft
Government decree and implementing regulations for the establishment and operation of
the rental scheme agreed upon between the Ministries of Finance, Economy, and Education,
Youth, and Sports to the Bank. (para. 2.22)
6.2    During Loan Negotiations, assurances were received that the Government would:
a) implement the agreed upon textbook financing scheme and maintain the textbook fund
account in a commercial bank satisfactory to the Bank throughout the project
implementation period; (para. 2.22)
b) submit to the Bank within six months after the end of each fiscal year a copy of the yearly
audit report of the text book fund, carried out by independent auditors; (para. 2.22)
c) maintain the Project Account and replenish it promptly with sufficient funds to finance the
Borrower's contribution to project expenditures; (para. 3.17)
d) submit to the Bank within six months after the end of each fiscal year (i) an audit report of
the project accounts, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank including an audit of
the Special Account and (ii) a separate opinion of the SOEs; (para. 3.17)
e) maintain the Project Steering Committee, Project Management Unit, and Department for
Evaluation and Examinations with membership and staffing, functions, and responsibilities
acceptable to the Bank throughout the project implementation period; (para. 4.3)
f) appoint and employ a foreign project advisor with qualifications satisfactory to the Bank;
(para. 4.4)
g) prepare and furnish to the Bank semi-annual progress reports on all project activities in
accordance with performance indicators as agreed with the Bank; and (para. 4.8)no later
than one and three quarter years after loan effectiveness, submit to the Bank a project mid-
term evaluation report to serve as basis for the joint Bank-Government mid-term review.
The report would indicate the project's progress from inception and propose additional
measures and changes as necessary to ensure achievement of project objectives. (para. 4.9)
6.3    As Conditions of Effectiveness, the Borrower would:
a) provide evidence satisfactory to the Bank that the textbook financing mechanism,
satisfactory to the Bank, has been adopted by the Government after Bank review and
comments; (para. 2.22)



- 29 -
b) provide evidence to the Bank that a project account for counterpart funding has been
opened and an initial deposit equivalent to at least 3 months worth of counterpart
contributions (including tax contributions) has been deposited in the account; and (para.
3.3)
c) provide evidence to the Bank that a Project Advisor, satisfactory to the Bank, has been
appointed. (para. 4.4)
6.4    As Conditions for disbursement of funds for the equipment for pilot schools, the Borrower
would submit to the Bank for review and approval:
a) the list of proposed equipment; and (para. 2.9)
b) selection criteria for pilot schools. (para. 2.9)
6.5    Subject to the above agreements, the proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$16.8
million at the standard LIBOR-based variable interest rate for US dollar single currency loans with a
maturity of 20 years, including five years grace. The Borrower would be the Republic of Moldova.



- 30 -
Moldova at a Glance
Europe &   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          Central middle-
Moldova      Asia  Income       Development diamond'
Population mki-1995 (ml7ions)                        4.3      488    1,154
GNP per capita 1995 (USS)                            920      2,240    1 700                Life expectancy
GNP 1995 (buons USS)                                  4.0    1,093    1,962
Average annual growth, 1990-95                                                                    1
Population (%)                                       -0.1       0.4      1.4     GNP                               Gross
Labor force (e)                                       0.5       0.6      1.8     per                              primary
Most recent estImate (latest year available since 1989)                          capita                        enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)
Urban population (% of total populaton)                52       66       56
Life expectancy at bIrth (years)                      69        68       67
Infant mortality (per 1, 000 live births)             22        23       36               Access to safe water
Child malnutrItIon (% of children under 5)
Acceas to safe water (% of population)                 ..        ..      78
IllKeracy (% ofpopulaton age 15+)                      4                                    Moldova
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  77       97      104                 Lowddn            g
Male                                                78        97      105                Lowar-middle-ncone group
Female                                              77        97      101
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975    1985      1994    1995
Economic ratios
GDP (billions US$)                            ..       ..       3.9     4.0
Gross domestc hnvestmentVGDP                   ..      ..       8.0      8.3             Openness of economy
Exports of goods and non-factor servlceslGDP  ..       ..      45.2    39.4
Gross domestic savings/GDP                    ..       ..       0.6      2.8
Gross national savingslGDP                    ..       ..       1.1      2.3
Cument account balancelGDP                     ..      ..      -2.5    -2.7
Interest paymentWlGDP                         ..       ..       0.2      0.7     Savings                       Investment
Total debt/GDP                                 ..      ..      12.9    17.9
Total debt servce/exports                     ..       ..       2.4    10.2
Present value of debtWGDP                      ..      ..      11.2
Present value of debt/exports                 ..       ..      70.5                          Indebtedness
1975-84  1985-95    1994      1995  199644
(awverge annual growth)                                                                   Moldova
GDP                                 4.4    -5.5   -23.3        -3.0      5.7               Lower-middle-income group
GNP per capia                       3.5    -5.9   -23.8        -1.0      5.6
Exports of goods and nfs             ..       ..    36.6        3.6      6.7
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975    1985      1994    1995
(% of GDP)                                                                       Growth rates of output and Investment %)
Agriculture                                   ..       ..      48.8    45.8      20
Industry                                      ..       ..      28.1     21.0
Manufacuring                                 ..      ..      25.9    42.0       0      es
Services                                      ..       ..    23.1      33.2    -20
Private consumption                           ..       ..      79.0    80.2      401
General govemment consumption                 ..       ..      20.4    17.1                    GDI   --*-GDP
Imports of goods and non-factor services      ..       ..      52.6    44.9
197544  1985-95      1994    1995
(average annual growth)                                                          Growth rates of exports and imports (%
Agricufture                                   ..       ..    -18.4       4.0     40
Industry                                      ..       ..    -34.2    -6.5
Manufacturing                               ..       ..    -30.6    -6.0       20
Services                                       ..      ..    -23.8   -11.1
Private consumption                           ..       ..    -24.1      -0.8      0      90   91   92   93
General govemment consumption                 ..       ..    -40.2    -18.2                    1     2
Gross domestic Investment                     ..       ..    -18.8    14.0    -20
Imports of goods and non-factor services      ..       ..      -8.9      5.9            -         Exots    Impors
Gross national product                       4.4    -5.6    -24.0    -3.5
Note: 1995 data are preliminary estimates.
The dlamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-roup average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



- 31 -
Moldova
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Dome    pc1                                          18        19N4    1998       Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                        1.00
Consumer prices                                                330.0     30.6
Implit GDP deflator                                            253.6    43.0
S01
Govwnment finance
(% of GDP)
Current revenue                                                 25.4     23.8              90   91   92   93   94   as
Current budget balance                                          -3.0    -34                -     GDP def.     CPI
Overall surplustdeficlt                                         -4.9    -5.5
TRADE
(mftlions USS)                              19       1U5       19S4    1995       Export and import levels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                                             617      672      sooo
Commodiy 1                                                     175      197
Commodty 2                                                      49       55      4,000
Manufactures                                                   189      179     3000
Total Imports (cin)                                             6723672  693      X
Food                                          .        ..      140      150
Fuel and energy                                                287      294      1000
Capital goods                                                   79       83        o-          _
Export price index (1994U100)                  ..       ..      100      102            B9  90  91  92  93  94  ss
Import pre Idex (194-100)                                       100      101                  E Export        Import
Terms of trade (1994-100)                                       100      101
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976     19865    1994      1998
(millions US$)                                                                    Current account baiance to GDP ratio  )
Exports of goods and non-factor sevioes                         643      703      2
Imports of goods and non-factor service                         749      802
Resource balance                                                -106      -99
Net factor income                              *         *.      -15      -28         so   go  91  L.]93   9-4~
Net current transfers                                            23       20    -2
Cunwnt account balance,
before offlcial transfers                                      -98     -107    -4 
Financing Items (net)                                           129      120
Changes in net reserves                                          -31      -13     ^
fen1e:
Reserves Including gold (mM/l. US$)                             179      257
Converson rate pocaUUS5)                                         4.1      4.5
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985     '194      1995
(mflions USS)                                                                    ComiposIion of total debt, 19B6 (mill. USS)
Total debt outstanding and dibursed                             504      723
IBRD                                                           99      152                      F G
IDA                                                             0        0                      15 9      A
152
Total debt service                                               15       69
IBRD                                          .       .         4        8
IDA                                           .        .        0        0E
Compositon of net rsource flows                                                         252
Offical grants                                                 32       33
Offical credlors                                              130      106
Private credkors                                                0       15                                 C
Forelgn dect Investment                                        23       32                   D            230
Portfoilio equly                                                0        0                  6s
World Bank prgram
Commitmnents                                                   60       30      A - $BRO                    E - s aeI
Disbursements                                                  67       50       B - IDA    D - Otr mulabter.i  F - Pdvate
Principal repayments                                            0        0      C - IMF                     G - Short-tamr
Not fows                                                       67       50
Interest payments                                               4        8
Ndotranrsfs                                                    63       42
International Economics Departnent                                                                                 10t23t96
Note: Estimates for economie of the former Soviet UnIon are subed to more than the usual range of uncertainty.



The Current Moldovan Education System
Doctorate
Level
IV
00  j                          ~~~~~~~~~U N I V E R S I T Y 
Age   Grade
20
POST-SECONDARY
19                                                                                   TECH. COLLEGIUM3
*   16   X                                     SECEE   _  SCHOOL  COMPREHENSIVECO  SECONDARY SCHOOLt  COLLEGIUM2
*   15    IX
14      Vill                                        GYMNASIUM
13      VIl                                             V-IX
12      VI
11       V
10      IV
9       III                                           PRIMARY
8                                                       I - IV
6
* EXAM. POINTS    5                                               PRESCHOOL EDUCATION
4
23 .................
Note: 'Two or three years after Gr. 9
2    years after Gr. 9                                                         0
3Three years after Gr. I I



- 33 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 2
The New Moldovan Education System
(as per 1995 Education Law)
HIGHER EDUCATION
.. ....... .... .. ..  ,..... .... ....... ...........   , ,   , . .. . . .. . . .. . . .. . . .
20                                                             exit point
19
18        X       X    LYC EE         NORMAL             H     exit point
LY EE
17        S                   PRIMARYSCHOOL              R     exit point
8   11~~~xx
17        xi
16         x
15        ix     *
1 4       VilI
13        vii                       GYMNASIUM V -IX
12        VI                          (MANDATORY)
1 0        IV
PRIMARY SCHOOL (MANDATORY)
9    .. 
I-IV
8         i
7
6
MANDATORY PRE-SCHOOL
4
* Exam. Points             PRESCHOOL EDUCATION
3   .. . . . . . . . . . . .



-34 -                                   ANNEX I
Page 1 of 9
MOLDOVA GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Curriculum Development Component
Bacground
I.    The new social and economic realities have made it necessary to substantially revise the
entire curricula in Moldova's education system, so as to assure that the knowledge and skills
transmitted by the education system properly respond to the new social and economic realities.
The bulk of curricula currently in use in Moldova's schools are a legacy of the past, reflecting
the ideology and approach to learning of the former political system. Curricula are mainly
content- and knowledge-based, expecting students to learn and recite facts rather than develop
cognitive skills. Rote learning and memorization thus dominate higher order skills like critical
thinking and problem solving. The teaching process is mainly authoritarian and frontal. To
prepare the future labor force effectively to enter an increasingly flexible but demanding labor
market, it will be critical that the education system teach students more cognitive and social
skills such as creative thinking, problem solving, decision making and responding to
unanticipated problems and move away from transmitting mere facts. Recognizing the needs to
substantially upgrade the national curricula both in terms, of subject contents and in terms of
approaches to learning, the Government has initiated a program of curriculum reform, starting
with general education.
2.    Regulatory Documents. At present, three categories of curricula related regulatory
documents are used and being prepared in Moldova: the National Plan of Study which
comprises a list of subjects for each stage of the system (Primary, 'Incomplete Secondary'
[Grades 5-9], 'Complete Secondary' [Grades 0- 11] and Lyceum [Grades 10-12]), the type of
school (e.g. schools with emphasis on foreign languages, arts) and the number of lessons per
week for every subject and grade; (ii) the general psycho-pedagogical "Conceptions" which
assure the theoretical and methodological background for different components of the system
and, (iii) Syllabuses for every subject, according to the grade and type of school. Each Syllabus
is, in fact, more like a written curriculum. It omprises a list of general and specific objectives,
content items and areas and sometimes even methodological recommendations.
3.    Development of Curricula Documents.  The development of these three types of
documents is coordinated by a special departrnent of the Ministry of Education, Youth, and
Sports (MEYS) - the Department of General Education, which is organised into three units
(covering Primary education, Mathematics and Sciences, and Humanities) with specialists acting
as subject officers. Up to now, the preliminary versions of the Conceptions and Syllabuses have
been developed by experts from the Institute of Psychological and Pedagogical Studies (IPPS).
In this Institute, researchers/curriculum developers are working in different laboratories - a
Primary laboratory and then different subject-based laboratories for the Secondary stage. After
development, the drafts of the Conceptions and Syllabuses are discussed within the Scientific
Board of the IPPS, and sometimes also with other specialists. Following this preliminary stage,
the Conceptions and Syllabuses are sent to the Expert Commission (EC), which functions
alongside the MEYS.



- 35 -                                   ANIXU
Page 2 of 9
4.     There are ECs for each subject taught in the education system as well as - separately -
for pre-school and Primary education. The ECs are made up - generally - of University
professors, researchers in education, representatives of different central institutions (e.g.
Academy of Sciences), inspectors and teachers. An EC usually has 15-25 members. The
President of the EC, in most cases, is a University professor. The ECs are consultative bodies.
Their main roles are to assess the pedagogical and scientific quality of the subject materials and
to approve them for consideration by the Council of the MEYS. The ECs discuss and establish
the subject Conception and the Syllabus. They also review periodically the general and specific
objectives and the content, often comparing them to those of other countries. At the same time,
they recommend methods and equipment, and approve textbooks and teaching/learning support
materials. Once approved, the Conceptions and the Syllabuses are sent to the Council of
Minister for consideration in order to be declared official curriculum documents.
Ke Issues
6.     The current approach to curriculum development has two main shortcomings. First, the
institutional structure and processes are such that coordination and cooperation across disciplines
and grade levels is virtually absent, resulting in a set of curricula documents which severely lack
coherence. Second, curriculum development, review and adoption is a relatively closed process,
with very limited, if any input, from key stakeholders such as teachers or the community at large.
Consultation is essentially limited to ECs seeking one or two outside experts' views of a
particular document. As a result, teachers are little aware of planned curricular changes and it is
questionable how much support the actual introduction of new curricula will eventually find.
Finally, most of the new curricular documents largely ignore learning assessment issues.
7.     The development of new conceptions and syllabuses currently occurs neither in
accordance with a long-term action plan nor, with a short term timetable. Furthermore, there are
no clear guidelines which would set out the expected format and overall contents of either
document.  Institutional arrangements and processes are such that curriculum  developers
working on a particular conception or subject curriculum work largely in isolation. At the same
time the ECs meet only on an ad hoc basis without an internal timetable or action plan.
Cooperation and transdisciplinary coordination among ECs is virtually absent. Consequently the
current status of different documents within the framework of the national curriculum
development process varies from subject to subject. Curricula for a particular grade are not
developed and adopted at the same time and both conceptions and subject syllabuses vary greatly
in terms of format, contents and quality. Overall, the newly developed curricular documents
suffer from a sever lack of vertical and horizontal coherence.
8.     To assure increased coherence, quality and stakeholder ownership of new curricula, it is
essential that both the institutional arrangements and the processes for curriculum development
be substantially revised.  In this respect, the Government is planning on changing the
institutional structure for curriculum development as well as the overall approach. The proposed
project's curriculum development component will support this initiative.
Component Objectives
9.     The curriculum development component aims at establishing an institutional framework
and new curriculum development processes which will allow for the development of high
quality, coherent curricula that have been developed and reviewed with the participation of key



- 36 -
ANNEX l
Page 3 of 9
stakeholders. While the project will only support the development of new curricula for
mandatory general education, it is expected that, if successful, the new institutional structures
and approach to curriculum development would continue to be applied towards the development
of new curricula at other education levels.
Component Description
10.   The curriculum development component of the proposed project comprises three sub-
components: (i) the establishment of an integrated, coherent institutional structure for
Curriculum Development and Learning Assessment/Evaluation; (ii) the development and
establishment of new curricula for mandatory general education; and (iii) support to teachers
with the implementation of the new curriculum.
Institutional Structure
I1.   The objective of the sub-component is the establishment of a coherent and integrated
institutional framework for curriculum development and learning assessment which will allow
for increased coherence, quality and openness of the curriculum development process. It would
also assure coherence between curricula and performance objectives, by integrating learning
assessment objectives into the curriculum development process. The new institutional structure,
which the Ministry of Education, Youth, and Sports aims at setting up by the end of 1996, would
consist of three tiers: (i) a National Curriculum and Assessment Council (NCAC) in charge of
overall education policy and process managing functions with respect to the national curriculum
and learning assessment; (ii) a Coordinating Commission for Curriculum and Assessment
Evaluation (CCAEC) in charge of evaluating curriculum development and learning assessment
instruments in terms of their quality and coherence and, (iii) subject area specific Working
Groups (WG) in charge of developing draft subject curricula, including learning objectives and
supporting materials.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 9
Figure 1: Structure for an Integrated System
for Curriculum and Assessment
NATION     C                     2
X ~~ASSESM~                         :       L            ................ .
_  TECUNI0Y1CAL &
MAN_GEPMENT.
.SERVJES". : ' 
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ '- . ..   ...   ..
Matematics  Humanities    Arts and            Technology        Assessment
<r-- and                        Physical           and                and
Social     Education       Informiatics     'Evaluation
Sceces       Sciences
;                                 .  ~~~~~MoED
-                ~~~WORKING,  G                                     s,:   
|Mathematics ||Hum an ities   ||Arts and    |  Techno logy  ||Assessment                       ........
|and              and         ||Phvsical    || and                       and
|Real            Social           Education   MInformatics           Evaluation|
IScience    IISciences        IIIIIII



- 38 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 9
12.   The National Curriculum and Assessment Council will be a permanent autonomous body
reporting directly to the Minister of Education, Youth, and Sports. It will initially be staffed by
representatives of all key institutions concerned with curriculum reform and its implementation
and will be established by order of the Minister for a period of five years. In the medium term it
is expected that the composition of the NCAC will change to also include representatives from
the community at large. The rationale behind this structure is that it will be a Board of highly
qualified educators in curriculum development and learning assessment who will have the
responsibility to establish the short- and long term-policy in curriculum development in Moldova
consistent with the aims of the education reform and the further needs of the country.
13.   Key responsibilities of the NCAC will include the following:
*  to ensure the production of a set of working guidelines for the development of the
National Curriculum's components;
*  to propose for approval a national policy on curriculum and assessment for the
educational system and ensure ongoing adaptation of the curriculum and assessment
schemes to the changing needs of the nation;
-  to organise, supervise and manage the long-term National Curriculum development
process;
-  to ensure that the Subject Curricula satisfy the general requirements of the education
policy as a whole and the aims of the education system;
-  to review and propose (for approval) assessment policy as needed;
*  to ensure the quality of CCECA's plan pertaining to the public consultation
conceming the (draft) Conceptions and the (draft) Subject Curricula;
-  to ensure the coherence of the curricula with other components of the system:
assessment & evaluation, teacher training, management and financing, etc.; and,
-  to approve and present the components of the National Curriculum to the Minister of
Education, Youth, and Sports for final decision and implementation.
14.   The NCAC will be assisted by a small Technical and Managerial Service which will
provide the entire curriculum development institutional structure with managerial, logistical and
secretarial support.
15.   The middle tier consists for the Coordinating Commission for Evaluation of Curriculum
and Assessment (CCECA) (see figure 3) which will replace the current expert commissions. The
CCECA is a non-permanent operational body that performs curriculum and assessment
monitoring and evaluation activity according to the framework set out by the NCAC. The
CCECA has a president who is also a member of the NCAC. It has five sub-commissions, four
subject commissions pertaining to respective curriculum areas and one sub-commission in
charge of assessment, examinations and evaluation. The CCECA's main responsibilities are to
ensure quality and cohesion between and within proposed subject curricula and accompanying
assessment schemes, to coordinate the nation wide consultation process and review draft curricula
in light of the consultation outcomes.



- 39 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 9
Figure 2
COORDINATION COMMISSION FOR EVALUATION OF
CURRICULUM AND ASSESSMENT
PRESIDENT OF CCECA
Real Sciences    Humanities       Arts and       Technology      Assessment
and             and           Physical          and              and
Mathematics    Social Sciences   Education       Informatics     Evaluation
(7 persons)     (8 persons)     (4 persons)     (4 persons)     (4 persons)
Coordinator     Coordinator     Coordinator     Coordinator      Coordinator
Maths     2    Romanian   2                     Industry    I    Maths/Sc   1
Physics    I    Minorities                      Agriculture  I    Hum/Soc Sci I
Biology    I    Mother Tongues                  Handicrafts/    Arts/PE    I
Chemistry   1              2    Music      1    Home            Technology 1
Informatics  I    Foreign       Arts       I    Economics  1
Languages  I    Physical
History         Education   I
(Civics)    I
Geography  I
16.    The final tier consist of the working groups for curriculum  development and
assessment. The Working Groups are non-permanent technical bodies with the task of developing
the new subject curricula and related assessment objectives and performance criteria, curricula
related equipment lists, assessment schemes and supporting materials for teachers. These WGs are
created for all subjects and are linked to the framework of CCECA's 5 Coordination Commissions.
There are 15 non-permanent Working Groups (Wgs), 14 Subject Specific Working Groups, and a
Working Group for 'Assessment & Evaluation' (AEWG). The coordinator of each working group
will be a staff of the IPPS and will continue to follow and evaluate the curriculum once it is under
implementation. The rest of the working groups will be dissolved once all relevant curricula have
been developed and accepted. They will be reconvened by the NCAC once the latter considers that
there is a need to substantially upgrade the curriculum. The novelty of this structure is that
curricula will no longer be developed by a single IPPS staff in isolation, but by a group of qualified
people, including teachers and school inspectors. Furthermore, the existence of a particular
working group on assessment and evaluation will assure that curriculum objectives, assessment
objectives and performance criteria are coherent and integrated.



- 40 -
ANNEX I
Page 7 of 9
Figure 3                              WORKING GROUPS
RASCIENCES AND MATHEMATI7C 
'I   ~~~~I   I 
MATHEI\MATICS'          BIOLOGY            CHEMiSTRY              PHYSICS            INFORMATICS
Coord. IPPS    1     Coord. iPPS    I     Coord. IPPS    I     Coord. IPPS    I     Coord. IPPS    1
Curriculum           Curriculum           Curriculum           Curriculum           Curriculum
developers    5      developers    4      developers    3      developers    3      developers     2
(from IPPS,         (from IPPS,           (from IPPS,          (from IPPS,          (from IPPS,
University           University           University           University            University
Prof. ,Teachers)     Prof. ,Teachers)     Prof. ,Teachers)     Prof. ,Teachers)     Prof. ,Teachers)
ROMANIAN            MINORITIES             FOREIGN           HISTORY (Civics)    GEOGRAPHY
MOTHER             LANGUAGES                 pS     1 rod.IP           1
Coord. IPPS    I        TONGUES                                Coord. IPPS    1   Coord. IPPS
Coord. IPPS    1     Curriculum        Curriculum
developers    7      Coord. IPPS    1     Curriculum           developers    5   developers    3
(from IPPS,          Curriculum           developers    8      (from IPPS,        (from IPPS,
University           developers    8      (from IPPS,          University         University
Prof.,Teachers)     (from IPPS,           University           Prof.,Teachers)    Prof.,Teachers)
University           Prof. ,Teachers)
Prof.,Teachers)
ARTS AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION
mUSiC                 ARTS              PHYSICAL
EDUCATION
Coord. IPPS    1     Coord. IPPS    1
Curriculum           Curriculum           Coord. IPPS    I
developers    3      developers    3      Curriculum
(from IPPS,         (from IPPS,           developers    3
University           University           (from IPPS,
Prof. ,Teachers)     Prof.,Teachers)      University
Prof.,Teachers)
TECHNOLOGY                       I    |                  ASSESSMENT
| TECHNOLOGY |                                            ASSESSMENT
TECHNOLOGY                                                    AND
Coord. IPPS    1                                            EVALUATION
Curriculum                                                C
developers    5                                           Coord. IPPS    1
(from IPPS,                                               Assessment
University                                               dobjectives
Prof.,Teachers)                                           developers    7



- 41 -
ANNEX IL
Page 8 of 9
Curriculum Development Process
17.   The second sub-component consists of the actual development of the national curriculum
for mandatory general education. The national curriculum will have two components: A
regulatory document which will constitute the conceptual and strategic basis for the national
curriculum and will ensure a coherent framework for the development of subject curricula. It
will act as a system of reference for the pedagogic approach and the implementation process of
the new curriculum. The second element will by the individual grade specific subject curricula.
18.   All subject curricula for any one grade will be prepared by the relevant working groups
at the same time to a given deadline. Curricula will be developed by the working groups, then
pass through a first review by the Coordination Commissions for Evaluation of Curriculum and
Assessment. Subsequently, the working group, together with the CCECA organizes a nation
wide consultation process consisting of four elements: (i) two regional workshops with rayon
education directorate subject specialists and school representatives, the first one to review the
draft curricula, get initial feedback and instruct them on how to collect feedback from teachers,
the second one to collate the responses from the rayon coordinators after their consultation with
schools and teachers; (ii) feedback from teachers country wide through systematized collection
of responses from teachers who have been given a chance to review the draft; (iii) soliciting of
2 expert reviews from within the country and, (iv) for key subject areas at the initial stage
soliciting of one foreign expert review. The consultation part is a key innovation in the
curriculum development process in Moldova and is expected to help increase stakeholder
participation, ownership and support of curricula by those in charge of eventually implementing
it and to raise the overall quality of the document.
19.   Working group coordinators, in cooperation with the CCECA will prepare a consultation
report based on the results collected during the consultation process. The latter will be used as a
basis to revise the draft curriculum and will also be submitted to the NCAC. The revised
curriculum will be reviewed by the CCECA, which will pay particular attention to inter- and
intra-disciplinary coherence and the overall quality of the curriculum and either recommend the
curriculum to the NCAC for adoption or request further revisions from the working groups prior
to forwarding the curriculum to the NCAC. It is expected that by the end of the project a total of
134 subject grade curricula will have been developed.
20.   Curriculum Monitoring. Once a curriculum is under implementation, the working group
coordinators (who are the only permanent feature in the working group structure and are IPPS
staff) will monitor the feedback form the implementation process. Initially, feedback will be
sought from teachers at the teacher training refresher courses, subsequently feedback will be
collected in a systematic fashion through the existing infrastructure.  Working group
coordinators will prepare an annual implementation report for transmission to the NCAC. The
latter will decide whether the coordinator should develop minor changes to be transmitted to
schools or whether it will be necessary to reconvene the working groups for a major curriculum
overhaul.
Support with Curriculum Implementation
21.   This sub-component will promote the implementation of the new curricula through four
main activities. First, development and distribution to teachers and rayon education directorates



- 42 -
ANNEXII
Page 9 of 9
of support materials (information brochures) developed by the work groups. These materials
will describe, clarify and illustrate the critical and main curricular changes, both in terms of
content and in terms of methodology. Second, working group members, particularly those of the
assessment working group, will contribute to the training of trainers and training of teachers
under the teacher training component. Third, working group members and CCECA members
will be called upon to participate in the manuscript evaluation committees for new textbooks.
Fourth, a limited number of pilot schools will be equipped with appropriate materials for science
and technology teaching to support the implementation of the new curriculum in this area. The
detailed list of equipment would be drawn up by the curriculum development working groups
and be subject to approval by the World Bank. Similarly, the criteria for selecting pilot schools
would be subject to approval by the World Bank, once the equipment list has been established.
The rationale for equipping a number of pilot schools would be to test and establish a list of
minimum equipment necessary to effectively teach those requiring such equipment before
embarking on large scale investments across the country.



- 43 -
ANEX m
Page 1 of 5
MOLDOVA GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Learning Assessment Component
The Current Assessment and Examination System
1.    Assessment in Primary School. In primary education the assessment of pupil learning is entirely
school and classroom based. Teachers assess their pupils using a variety of methods, including oral
questioning, short quizzes or end-of-chapter tests, work done in class or as homework. The first semi-
external exam comes at the end of grade 4, where children sit on a one-hour "control" tests in mother
tongue language and in mathematics. These tests are prepared by subject specialists in the MEYS. Each
consists of 3 basic questions covering the minimum (basic competence) level required by the national
curriculum and additional questions (up to 7) of increasing difficulty. Subject specialists prepare
between 5 and 10 "variants" of these tests of which the First Deputy Minister of Education, Youth, and
Sports in consultation with subject matter specialists, chooses 2 final variants to be administered in
schools. Only relevant teachers in schools are given a copy of the exam paper. They then write the
exam questions on the black board for pupils to answer. Teachers mark the tests according to the
instructions given, and results are collected and announced to the pupils immediately. Teachers,
however, are not trained in marking the exams, and there is no system set up to co-ordinate it. Marks are
simply discussed within the school and sent back to the subject specialists at the MEYS together with a
summary and comments. The MEYS collates and analyses the results of the grade 4 examination and
prepares a summary report.
2.    Formal examinations.  Under the existing system  of "complete" (11 years) education,
examinations occur at two points: at the end of compulsory education (end of grade 9) and at the end of
grade 11 to mark the completion of secondary education. Since 1994, there has been a Baccalaureate
examination at the end of grade 12 in the new "Iycees". In addition to the formal graduation
examinations after grades 9, 11/12, students take "promotion examinations" in two subjects at the end of
each secondary school grade where no graduation examination is given.
3.    Examination subjects for both, promotion and graduation examinations, are established yearly by
Ministerial order. Ministry subject matter specialists prepare the question papers for written exams and
the "tickets" for oral exams, except for exams in topics chosen by the students for grades 10 and 11. The
latter are set by each school in accordance with the syllabi in use. The written examinations for grades 9
and 11 prepared by the Ministry are broadcast over the radio on examination day at a specified time.
Written tests are marked by teachers in their own schools in accordance with guidelines sent by the
Ministry. Oral tests are marked by the pupil's own teacher, but at least one other teacher must be present
during the examination. Teachers are not specifically trained in marking and no co-ordination of
marking occurs (i.e., teachers do not try to equate their marking with each other either within subjects
and schools or across subjects and schools).
4.    The primary function of the external secondary school exams is certification and not selection.
Approximately 68,000 pupils take the examination at the end of compulsory education (grade 9). About
90% of them pass. In principle, the transition from grade 9 to full secondary education is open to every
student, but many schools in full secondary education have their own entrance procedure - like an
entrance exam, a competition, or an admission interview. A certificate of full secondary education
(grade I 1) gives the student the right to apply for higher education, but this does not guarantee automatic



- 44 -
ANEX m
Page 2 of 5
access. One of the problems with the present examinations, both at grades 9 and 11, is the low social
value attached to them. This is due to the uncertain and uneven quality and level of the examination. In
addition, the high passing level obscures specific information about the achievement of individual pupil.
The socially important "high stakes" examinations are the entrance (receiving) examinations both for
grade 10 (especially for lycee entrance) and for higher education.  These examinations are not
standardized as institution sets its own, creating problems of quality control, access and equity, as well as
presenting a double hurdle for pupils.
Key Issues
5.     The current system of examination and assessment, particularly at the secondary level suffers
from several shortcomings which need to be addressed. If Moldova needs to develop a valid and fair
assessment and examination system which is capable of measuring adequately student achievement and
also of providing the Ministry of Education, Youth, and Sports and the public with an overall view of
how well the education system performs.
6.     The key shortcomings of the current system are:
(i) Students are over-tested but under-assessed in terms of formative information and
acquisition of flexible skills. The large number of examinations administered each year in
secondary education suggests that students are over-tested. The Ministry recognizes the
problem and plans to replace the current system of graduation and promotion exams with a
simpler system in which students will be externally examined only at the end of each
education cycle, that is, at the end of grade 4, grade 9 and grade 11/12. At the same time,
focus of the examinations should be on testing critical thinking skills, rather than mere recall
of factual information.
(ii) Examinations and classroom tests are heavy on content and knowledge relying almost
exclusively on recall of facts. Very little attention is paid to the domains or types of skill
tested and whether these relate to specified curriculum objectives. Exams largely fail to test
how well students apply acquired knowledge to various unexpected situations, and how well
they have developed their critical thinking skills.
(iii)Centrally set written examinations are of low technical quality. They lack validity,
reliability, and comparability in terms of level of difficulty and across time. The range types
of questions used is limited; few are used other than the open-ended questions and some
binary or multiple choice. The validity of tests and exams is generally low, both in terms of
skills they test and in terms of face validity. The reliability of the present examination and
assessment system in Moldova is a serious problem. Because of the way in which tests are
administered, their results are not reliable and not internally consistent. This means that the
results which the Ministry of Education, Youth, and Sports received at the end of each
testing period do not give reliable picture of what Moldovan students across the country
know, understand and can do; nor of the year's cohort's performance comparable to that of
previous years.
(iv) Absence of clear linkages with curriculum objectives. The objectives for assessment and
performance standards are not only unclear but also not linked to the curriculum objectives.
As the new curriculum is developed, it will be critical that assessment of objectives be



- 45 -
ANNEXIm
Page 3 of 5
developed in tandem with the new curriculum; these objectives should be formulated in
terms of the range and types of skills to be tested, rather than on the facts to be recalled.
(v) Lack of an identifiable cadre of trained specialists with adequate time and resources to
develop technically acceptable instruments of assessment. At present, the task of setting
question papers and "tickets" rests with members of the General Directorate of Pre-
university Education. They have many other tasks and demands on their time, they lack
specialist expertise, examples of good practice and even the basic resources required to
properly plan, test, administer and evaluate examinations. If Moldova is committed to
designing and introducing an evaluation system capable of monitoring not only what pupils
learn, but also how schools and teachers work, how the intended curriculum is implemented,
and how resources are used, it must establish an institutional framework and assign
professional and technically competent people to accomplish this. Training of competent
specialists and dissemination of examples of good testing practice among administrators and
teachers will be essential.
Component Objectives
7.    The main goal of this component is to ensure that, by the end of the Project, every student taking
a graduation examination in Moldovan schools will be given his/her own copy of an examination paper
which is carefully designed and constructed, linked with national standards and curriculum objectives,
composed of questions which ask for more than recall of factual knowledge and are interesting and
challenging to pupils of varying levels of ability. In support of this goal, the component also aims at
creating a stable, identifiable assessment function within the MEYS and establishing mechanisms to
support teachers in their own classrooms and improving their assessment techniques.
Component Design
8.    To achieve the above stated objectives in Moldova's present circumstances, full-scale "reform"
of the assessment system is neither possible nor necessary. The approach adopted under the proposed
project consists of a mixture of classroom-based diagnostic and formative tests; formal examinations
(through the existing, but improved, external system); and sample-based periodic assessments using an
appropriate sampling frame and baseline data gathered from selected schools. It is not appropriate to the
Moldovan context to introduce external "standardized" tests composed largely or entirely of objective-
type questions (multiple choice, etc.), even though their efficiency, speed of marking, relatively low
price, and accurate calibration are attractive where resources are limited. Performance-based and oral
testing are well established here; teachers and pupils are attuned to them, and their validity, while not
high, can be improved.
9.     The component will support the development of an improved assessment and examinations
system in four key areas: (i) close co-ordination with and integration of assessment aspects into the new
curriculum; (ii) improvement of key national examinations at grades 4 and 9 which would allow to
monitor student performance and the impact of the new curriculum and textbooks on learning outcomes;
(iii) training of rayons' inspectors, methodologists and teachers in new approaches to assessment; and
(iv) carrying out of a sample-based survey of student achievements under the current system against
which student performance could subsequently be measured in the nation wide examinations.
10.   Integrated Structure for Curriculum Development and Assessment. Close co-ordination between
the development of curricula and assessment functions will be ensured through the integration of an



- 46 -                                 ANNExN
Page 4 of 5
assessment working group, a co-ordinating commission for assessment and evaluation and a specialist in
assessment in the national curriculum  council (see Annex 2).  This integration will ensure that
assessment objectives will be developed in tandem and in close co-ordination with curriculum objectives,
that appropriate ways and means of assessing proposed subject curricula at various levels are formulated,
and that there is coherence of assessment packages and formats across subjects and education levels.
Members of the assessment working group and the assessment co-ordinating commission will receive
specialized in-country training to carry out their work upon the establishment of the new structure.
11.   Improvement of graduation examinations: The project would help improve national graduation
examinations at the end of grades 4 and 9g through the establishment, training and equipment of a
specialized technical unit for examinations and assessment in the Ministry of Education, Youth, and
Sports and by making sure that each student will be given his/her own high quality examination paper.
The Department of Examinations and Evaluation (DEE) would be staffed through a redeployment of
ministerial staff who would receive specialized intensive training in assessment and examinations,
domestically and abroad. Key responsibilities of the DEE would be:
*  to design, pre-test, and produce high-quality written and oral tests for grades 4 and 9 national
examinations, on the basis of standards and objectives set by the integrated curriculum and
assessment institutional structure;
*  to plan and co-ordinate the administration and organization of these centrally set examinations,
collect and analyze the results, and prepare reports to the MEYS and NCAC;
*  to provide teachers in schools with sample diagnostic, formative tests and support (assessment)
materials, in order to assess the progress of their students;
X  to design and produce the General Guide for Assessment and Examinations, and specific guides for
different subjects;
*  to design and build item banks;
*  to design and build a database which will give an accurate overall view of progress in pupils'
learning and to carry out periodic sample-based assessments aimed at monitoring performance
trends over time; and
*  to provide expert help and training to rayons' inspectors, methodologists and teachers.
12.    The unit would be properly equipped to carry out its new functions, including desktop publishing
and high volume multiplication facilities for production of examinations with appropriate face validity
and equipment for item banking and statistical analysis of results.
13.    Training of teachers and rayon education directorate staff: A training module on learning
assessment, evaluation and examinations to familiarize rayon education directorate staff and teachers
with new approaches to national assessment, new curriculum linked assessment objectives, and with
improved methods for classroom assessment will be contained in the in-service teacher training
component. Supporting materials for this training will be developed by the DEE as well as by the
curriculum-linked working groups for assessment. Both units, supported by specialized technical
assistance, will also provide support to the development and actual carrying out of such training courses.
Supporting materials, such as guides on assessment and evaluation and sample tests will be produced and
made available to teachers and rayon directorates.
While the project only covers mandatory general education and will thus only focus on improving grades 4 and 9
examinations, project activities will certainly also have a positive impact on grade 11/12 school leaving
examinations, as the technical unit to be set up, trained and equipped in the Ministry of Education, Youth,
and Sports will also be in charge of these exams.



- 47 -
ANNEX 
Page 5 of 5
14.   Baseline SurvyD: The project will support the carrying out of a sample-based baseline survey of
student performance in key subjects under the old curriculum for grade 6 against which future student
achievements following introduction of the new curriculum and teaching materials can be measured.
15.   Program SuppQor: Due to the virtual absence of any qualified cadre in the area of assessment and
evaluation, training and technical assistance to help build up local capacity will be an essential part of
project support. Training will be provided through three forms: (i) local seminars held by international
and regional subject matter specialists; (ii) fellowships for key DEE staff to attend intensive 3-4 months
training courses in assessment and evaluation at specialized institutions abroad; and, (iii) on-the-job
training through international technical assistance for the development of training and support materials
for teachers and rayon staff; development and execution of teacher training courses on assessment;
design and execution of baseline surveys; design, pre-testing, administration of national grades 4 and 9
examinations; and analysis and dissemination of examination results.  In addition, a group of
representatives from the NCAC, the CCEAC, the assessment working groups, and the DEE will
undertake a study tour to Western Europe which will focus on learning assessment.
16.   Members of the working groups and co-ordination commissions for assessment from the
integrated curriculum development and assessment structure will go through two rounds of local training
courses. The first course, to be taught by regional and international experts at the beginning of their
work, will focus on definition of assessment objectives linked to curriculum objectives and development
of corresponding assessment mechanisms. The second course, to be taught after drafts of the primary
school curricula including assessment related materials will have been completed, will focus on a joint
review of the draft materials and on how to improve them.
17.   At least two members of the DEE will be sent to intensive 3 to 4 months training on assessment
and evaluation abroad. The remainder will receive local training through a needs-tailored course to be
taught by international experts and follow-up support through TA provided on-the-job training.



- 48 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 5
MOLDOVA GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Teacher Retraining Component
Introduction
1.    Improving teacher performance through retraining is a key element of any education
system and is considered an especially high priority for this country's education reform effort.
Teacher training in Moldova continues to be affected by the approach to learning inherited from
the past system. Teacher training curricula remain extremely subject centered and little attention
is paid to issues related to actually teaching a particular subject. Similarly, pedagogy and
psychology courses for teachers are largely theoretical and fail to transmit practical knowledge
such as classroom organization and management, differential pedagogy, group work,
communication in the classroom or conflict resolution. Neither pre-service nor in-service teacher
training in Moldova have provided teachers with exposure to alternative methodologies and
approaches to learning now predominant in most developed countries. Teachers are largely
unfamiliar with the new approaches to learning and teaching which the new curricula intend to
promote. Effective in-service training which will help expose teachers to new approaches and
methodologies, particularly those focusing on student centered and formative education, will be
essential to improving the educational quality in the years to come.
Component Objectives
2.    The in-service teacher training component of the proposed project aims at providing key
rayon education directorate staff and teachers with the necessary background to effectively
implement the new curricula and assessment methods and thus improve the quality of classroom
teaching.
Component Overview
3.    The successful introduction of new curricula, teaching materials and assessment methods
will largely depend on how well teachers are prepared to implement the new curricula and use new
materials. Successful implementation of the new curricula will thus require the provision of in-
service training for about 45,000 general education teachers and school administrators -- 12,000 at
the primary level (grades 1-4) and 33,000 at the secondary level (grades 5-1 1), plus about 1,700
central and regional staff and teacher trainers, all of whom will require special training on the new
curricula, textbooks, teaching materials, and modern teaching and assessment methodology. The
required training will need to be implemented over a four-year period in conjunction with other
aspects of the reform program. In response to this unusually high demand for teacher retraining
under the reform program, the Ministry has restructured its in-service training agency (now the
National Institute for Teacher Retraining -- INPCD) and given it responsibility for in-service
training of only teachers, as opposed to other non-teaching staff in the sector.
4.    The INPCD will have responsibility for planning, developing, and coordinating overall
implementation of the teacher retraining program for the education reform effort and ensuring its
ultimate success. The INPCD will work with, and coordinate the reform efforts of, a group of five



- 49 -
ANNEX1[
Page 2 of 5
teacher training institutions which comprise an in-service teacher training network1 with special
strengths in different teaching subjects and levels. The Network will train the individuals (rayon
methodologists, inspectors, selected school directors and teachers) who will serve as teacher
trainers for this project.
5.      Training will occur at three levels. First, the INPCD, assisted by the working groups
developing the new curricula and the student assessment system, will train its own staff and the
staff of the network teacher training institutions (training of central trainers). Second, these staff
will train selected methodologists, inspectors, school directors and teachers of the 45 rayon
education directorates for their intended job of training the local teachers (training of local trainers).
Third, local trainers will train teachers in their respective rayons. This "cascading" model is
important because it uses the existing structure and adapts its strengths and functions to the new
challenges of the education reform. It is also the most cost-effective way of providing such a large
number of teachers with in-service training. Short-course upgrade training of teachers is a normal
function of the methodology and inspector departments in the rayon education directorates, whereas
in-service training of a more intensive nature, e.g., summer courses, is normally carried out by the
network institutions. Teachers are required by law to participate in MEYS prescribed in-service
refresher/update training at least once each five years. The training to be provided through this
program (initial and follow-up courses) will meet the five-year retraining requirement for one five-
year period.
6.      The specific in-service training process proposed under the project supplements and
enhances the existing in-service training program in Moldova in that it moves the major teaching
effort from the central to the regional (rayon) level and thus strengthens the capacity of rayon
education directorate staff as resource persons for teachers. It also assures a healthy relationship
between the new curricula, textbooks, and assessment procedures on the one hand, and the teacher
in-service training process on the other, all in the framework of the education reform.
7.      Training for central trainers at the primary and secondary school level will be carried out at
[NPCD. Three two-person teams of central trainers for primary school training will be required to
teach the 181 local trainers for primary school. The initial training for primary school central
trainers will last two weeks, the follow-up training one week. Nineteen two-person teams and one
four person team of central trainers at secondary school level will be trained in subject-area groups.
These teams will subsequently carry out the training of the 1390 local trainers for secondary school.
Their initial training course will last one week, the follow-up course three days.
8.      Local trainers (i.e. rayon methodologists, inspectors, selected school directors and teachers)
will be trained in residential courses as follows: the 181 primary local trainers will be trained in 7
courses (distributed between INPCD and Aleco Ruso State University in Balti) by the three two-
person teams of central trainers. Initial courses will be 2 week residential courses taught over a
period of 2 months. Follow-up courses will last 1 week.
The five teacher training institutions whose in-service training programs will be carried out under the management
and coordination umbrella of the INPCD are:
Ion Creangu Pedagogical University, Chisinau
National Institute for In-Service Teacher Training (INPCD), Chisinau
Aleco Ruso State University, Balti
State University of Tiraspol, Chisinau
National Institute of Physical Education and Sport



- 50 -
,ANNEXIV
Page 3 of 5
9.     Secondary school local trainers will be divided among the five different institutions for
their residential training, in accordance with the specialization or strengths of the different
institutions.2 Initial training courses will last one week, follow-up courses 3 days.
10.    Each primary teacher will receive two weeks of initial training in hands-on type workshop
groups of about 25 teachers each during the summer preceding implementation of the curricula and
materials for his/her respective grade level. This will be supplemented two years later by an
additional week of follow-up training, at which time the teachers will have had sufficient
experience in implementing the new curriculum, textbooks, and other teaching materials to be well
aware of any program shortcomings which need to be corrected. During the follow-up courses, the
teachers will be asked to critique the curricula and textbooks and to suggest ways for resolving any
major problems which may have been identified.
11.    Primary teachers begin and stay with a cohort of students from grade 1 through grade 4, so
their training is more general and comprehensive, while secondary teacher training is subject
specific and more concentrated. For this reason, the secondary teachers will be taught in subject
specific groups and receive only one week (6 days) of initial training, also in the summer just prior
to implementation of their respective new curricula and textbooks, plus 3 days of follow-up training
two years later. Altogether, considering both initial and follow-up training of teachers and staff for
all grade levels and subjects, a total cf over 3, 700 courses/workshops will be taught during the first
four years of the project, providing at least two upgrade/refresher training opportunities for more
than 45,000 teachers and administrators and 1,700 central staff.
Teacher Traininz Content and Format
12.    The format and content of the teacher training program will be detailed and refined by the
INPCD and the curriculum and assessment working groups, assisted by a technical assistance
specialist in teacher training curriculum and program development. However, the preliminary
content outline of the planned training is as indicated below:
Module A - General Training
*      Management of Change
*      School Improvement Techniques
*      Classroom Organization and Management
*      Communication in the Classroom
*      Innovative Teaching Strategies
*      Active Learning Techniques
*      Managing Pluralism in Mixed Classes and Schools
2 The distribution will likely be as follows:
(1) Aleco Rusu State University, Baltsi: Retraining of primary school teachers, Romanian language
(native and foreign), French, English, German, Ukrainina, Music, Technology, Other Disciplines.
(2) Ion Creangu Pedagogical University, Chisinau: Retraining of primary school teachers, Russian, other
minority and modem languages, Art
(3) INPCD, Chisinau: Retraining of primary school teachers, Russian, Physics, Chemistry, History,
Mathematics
(4) State University of Tiraspol (Chisinau): Retraining of primnary school teachers, Biology, Geography
(5) National Institute for Physical Education and Sports: Physical Education



- 51 -
ANNEX 1Y
Page 4 of 5
Module B - Subject Specific Training
*      The New Curriculum
-     The new curriculum concept
-     Curriculum and program structure
-     New content elements
-      Learning contexts and opportunities
-     Methodology suggestions for teachers
*      The New Textbooks
-     Underlying didactic overview
-     Design and structure of new textbooks
-     Didactic style of content
-     Methodological approach
*     The New Assessment Procedures
-     Types of educational assessment
-     Methodology of applying and processing results of assessments
-      Formative and summative assessment
-     New format for organizing and managing examinations
13.   The "initial course" outline for regional trainers and local teachers includes a short teaching
mit on "The New Assessment Procedures". The staff and technical assistance consultants for the
project component "Development of a Learning Assessment System" will prepare the curriculum
and instructional materials for this teaching unit and teach it to the central trainers.
12.    Local teachers will participate in workshops to be held in their own rayon, to be conducted
by local trainers from their rayon. Teachers who reside in Chisinau will commute from home each
day for the training. Of those living in other rayons/towns it is estimated that 25 % will need to be
accommodated in local school residences during their participation in the workshops. A housing
allowance of 5 lei per night will be paid to the latter group, in addition to the standard subsistence
allowance paid to all others. One or more staff members of the INPCD, the Network institutions, or
the curriculum and assessment working groups will participate in most of the local workshops as
resource persons.
Required Materials and Equipment
13.   In addition to the costs of holding the actual training courses, there will be a need for
equipment and materials. Proposed equipment needs are the bare minimum as follows:
INPCD Requirements:        computers, printers, heavy duty photo copiers, overhead
projectors, TV set and VCR, training videos
Other training institutions:  TV set and VCR, training videos
Per Rayon Requirements:     1 medium duty photocopier, 1 overhead projector



- 52 -
ANNEX IY
Page 5 of 5
Technical Assistance
14.    Training curricula and instructional materials for training at all levels will need to be
prepared early during the project. In the interim between project appraisal and project start-up,
more detailed work on implementation strategy and scheduling will be carried out. Both efforts
will require considerable international technical assistance (TA) which must be brought in very
early in the program. The INPCD has programmed three consultants (a total of 7 staff months) to
assist in this effort.  These consultants will comprise:  (a) a planning and organizational
management specialist for one month; (b) a teacher training curriculum and training specialist, with
focus on modern teaching methodologies for primary education for 3 months; and, (c) a teacher
training curriculum and training specialist with focus on modem teaching technologies for
secondary schools for 3 months.
15.    The specific responsibilities of the consultants would be as follows:
*  Program/Project Planning Specialist: to assist INPCD and the other teacher training
institutions in developing:
- technical guidelines for the teacher re-training program,
- national plan for continuing teacher training,
- national strategy for implementing long-range training program,
- scheduling for short- and long-term in-service training program, and
- management procedures for initiating and maintaining the program.
*  Teacher Training Curriculum and Training Specialist - Primary: to assist INPCD and
the other teacher training institutions in developing the structure, and content of
curricula and materials for training the central and local trainers and teachers and to
teach modules for central trainers on modem teaching methodologies.
*  Teacher Training Curriculum and Training Specialist - Secondary: to assist INPCD
and the other teacher training institutions in developing the structure, and content of
curricula and materials for training the central and local trainers and teachers and to
teach modules for central trainers on modern teaching methodologies.



- 53 -
ANNEXV
Page 1 of 10
MOLDOVA GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Textbook Development Component
Current Situation
1.    Textbook shortage. The profound political changes in the early 1990s left the Moldovan
education system confronted with the need to replace previous, often ideologized, textbooks. This need
was reinforced by the shift from Cyrillic to Roman script and will become even more critical as the new
curriculum will be introduced. Mainly due to resource constraints, textbook replacements have so far
taken place on a piecemeal basis, with the result that there remains a significant shortage of textbooks in
schools and that those textbooks which are currently in use often do not correspond to the new needs of
the Moldovan education system. A wide variety of books are currently used, including books from
Romania and Russia, reprints of old Moldovan textbooks, new textbooks published in Moldova since
1990 and books from Bulgaria, Ukraine and Gagauzia for minorities. The introduction of new curricula
will require the parallel introduction of corresponding new textbooks in sufficient quantities to allow for
effective teaching and learning.
2.    Budgetary resources available for textbooks have been extremely limited over the past few
years: over the last three years an average of slightly over $100,000 was available for textbooks from
the budget. The 1996 budget allocates about US$ 2.5 million equivalent for textbooks, but the tight
budgetary situation has only permitted to disburse somewhat over 10% of this amount during the first
six months of the year and it is unlikely that the full amount budgeted will become available during the
rest of the year. It is unlikely that this situation will substantially change over the next few years and
that the Government will be able to introduce new textbooks in support of its education reform without
substantial external assistance.
3.    Textbook Production. Development of new textbooks has so far occurred under a rather closed
system. Authors are hand picked by the Ministry of Education, Youth, and Sports (MEYS) and are
largely limited to staff of the Institute for Pedagogical and Psychological Studies (IPPS). In most cases
the same people who write the curriculum also write the textbook. Although there are instances where
other authors have developed a manuscript, these manuscripts have never been given serious
consideration by the Ministry as they were developed on an unsolicited basis. Textbook publication is
largely ensured by the State Textbook Publishers, who do not obtain any subsidies. The state publisher
for general education textbooks is in a precarious situation, due to the significant decrease in the volume
ordered by MEYS and the substantial debt accumulated by the Ministry. Although there is a growing
number of local publishers, their experience in textbook publishing remains extremely limited, as they
have virtually no access to Ministry of Education, Youth, and Sports contracts. There is, however,
substantial interest on behalf of private publishers to become active in the textbook market, provided the
Ministry of Education, Youth, and Sports will be able to submit timely payments. However, in order to
produce high quality textbooks, these publishers would require substantial technical assistance during
the initial years.
4.    Given the small market for textbooks in Moldova, it is not likely that many, if any, foreign
publishers will develop an interest in this market. If Moldova is to have an assured supply of quality
textbooks, it is therefore of great importance that the local industry be allowed to develop and adapt to
market conditions. Book prices in Moldova are very cheap by international standards, a typical Grade 2
book costs about US$ 1 equivalent, while a secondary school book is about $ 1.40 equivalent. This is



- 54 -
ANNEXV
Page 2 of 10
between 25% and 40% cheaper than even in neighboring Romania. However, if the experience of other
transition economies is an indication at all, prices are expected to increase quite substantially in the
medium to long term.
5.    There is substantial printing capacity in Moldova, primarily ensured by state printing houses
which do not receive any subsidies. The main printer for textbooks has substantial experience and
produces high quality books, both for the public sector and the private market. In general, however, the
printing capacity in Moldova is of the wrong sort for current print requirements, because it is geared to
large print runs. A minimum production of 25,000 copies for four colour books and a minimum run of
10,000 copies for 1-2 colour books is required for economical production with current technology.
While this is not an issue for the production of Romanian and Russian language school books, it will be
an issue for books in minority languages and teacher guides which require much smaller print runs.
6.    Textbook Distribution. Textbook distribution to schools is ensured through Mold Didactica, an
entity owned by MEYS. Mold Didactica was restructured in 1992 to resemble a commercial firm and is
now self-financing. Mold Didactica distributes books according to an allocation list from the Ministry
to the rayon education department which then distributes the books to schools. The number of books
ordered for each title is decided by the Ministry's Library and Didactic Materials Assistance department
based on current student enrollments. While this is an adequate way to estimate the requirements of an
original print run, it is not appropriate for estimating the need in later reprints and replacements.
7.    Textbook Financing. A fundamental problem in the supply of textbooks is the lack of a
sustainable textbook financing mechanism. The Ministry of Education, Youth, and Sports no longer has
the budgetary resources to guarantee adequate annual supplies nor development of new materials needed
for a modem education system. While external funding can help mitigate the immediate crisis by
supporting the development of new textbooks, it is critical that a mechanism which permits sustainable
textbook financing in the long run be introduced as soon as possible, so as to assure that reprints can be
produced and books updated as the need arises after completion of foreign assistance. The Government
is therefore planning on introducing a cost recovery mechanism for textbooks. The mechanism would
consist of charging students a book rental fee which would allow cost recovery of a grade specific book
set over the life of the books. This mechanism would assure independent resources for textbook
financing, while keeping the amounts to be charged to a particular student as low as possible. The
proposed project would support introduction of such a system.
Component Objectives
8.    The component's objectives are three fold: (i) to provide schools with an adequate number of
quality textbooks in accordance with the new curricula in key subject areas; (ii) to establish a
sustainable and transparent textbook supply system, and (iii) to establish a sustainable textbook
financing mechanisms.
Component Design
9.    The strategy is to finance the publishing and supply of priority textbooks and teacher guides in line
with new curricula for mandatory general education over the five years of the project, while gradually
introducing a cost-recovery system. It would assist the local publishing industry to adapt to emerging
market economy conditions by providing training, access to MEYS textbook contracts, and a payment
regime which would allow competent publishers to take part.



- 55 -
ANNEXV
Page 3 of 10
10.   The Textbook Development Component would therefore (i) finance the supply of an agreed list of
textbooks and teacher guides for both Romanian medium and non-Romanian medium schools to support
the new curricula being developed in grades 3-9 of general education, (ii) support cost recovery from
textbook users, and (iii) train Moldovan publishers, rayon education department staff and MEYS staff to
perform their new or modified tasks concerned with textbook supply and cost recovery.
Supply of Textbooks and Teacher Guides.
11.   Titles. The project would finance the production and distribution of textbooks and teacher guides
in key subject areas in line with the new curricula for grades 3-9. New textbooks for grades 1 and 2 will be
financed by the Ministry of Education, Youth, and Sports budget prior to project effectiveness. Books will
be published in Romanian and minority languages. In addition, the project would attempt to provide for
native language books in minority schools (Gagauzian, Ukrainian, and Bulgarian). Other books for
minority schools (other than Russian) will be financed by the Ministry's budget, once a clear policy as to
the language of instruction for subjects other than native language has been agreed upon with the minority
schools. An indicative list of the book titles to be financed is shown in table 1 below. Unit prices for
books are based on current costs in Moldova with price and physical contingencies added to determine
final costs. Should book prices prove to rise substantially faster than what is allowed for by these
contingencies (this has, for example, happened recently in Russia), the list of book titles would have to be
adjusted during project implementation in line with the available resources. The list of titles to be
produced during the time of the project is ambitious and will require close adherence to the procurement
implementation plan and close monitoring of the progress achieved each year. The limited MEYS
management and supervision capacity and the lack of experience with competitive bidding both by MEYS
and by local publishers may require downward adjustments in the number of titles to be produced,
following annual review of progress achieved.
12.   The Project will finance enough copies of each textbook to cover 130% of primary school
students studying a subject and 120% of secondary school students. The number of copies below is
based on current second grade enrolment rates as provided by the Ministry of Education, Youth, and
Sports: 62,000 for Romanian language schools and 18,500 for non-Romanian language schools.
13.   The following table summarises the books which will be financed by the Project. Except for
Gagauzian, Ukrainian and Bulgarian languages as a subject, all books for non-Romanian medium
schools will be produced mostly in Russian language.



- 56 -
ANNEX V
Page 4 of 10
Indicative List of Books to Be Procured
Textbookl  Number of         Number of       Number of        Number of
Subjects             Grades  Teacher   textbooks           teacher guides  textbooks in    teacher guides
guide      in Romanian      in Romanian      Russian         in Russian
Romanian - Romanian and non-    3-9      TBs and    primary: 80,000;    primary: 6000    primary: 24,000
Romanian medium schools                  TGs         secondary: 74,000  secondary: 6000  secondary:
22,000
Mathematics - Romanian and non-   3-9    TBs and    primary: 80,000;    primary: 3000    primary: 24,000   primary: 3000
Romanian medium schools                  TGs         secondary: 74,000  secondary: 3000  secondary:    secondary:3000
22,000
Biology/Nature - Romanian and  3-9       TBs and    primary: 80,000;    primary: 3000    primary: 24,000   primary: 3000
non-Romanian schools (1)                 TGs         secondary: 74,000  secondary: 3000  secondary:    secondary:3000
22,000
Civics - Romanian and non-      9        TBs         primary: 80,000;    primary: 3000    primary: 24,000   primary: 3000
Romanian schools                                     secondary: 74,000  secondary: 3000  secondary:    secondary:3000
22,000
English - Romanian and non-     3-9       TBs        primary: 30,000*
Romanian medium schools                              secondary 30,000*
French - Romanian and non-      3-9      TBs         primary: 70,000*
Romanian medium schools                              secondary:
70,000*
History - Romanian and non-    4-9       TBs         primary: 80,000                   primary: 24,000
Romanian medium schools                             secondary: 74,000                  secondary:
_____ ____ ____ 22,000
Russian - Romanian and non-     5-9; 3-9   TBs      secondary: 74,000                  primary: 13,000
Romanian medium schools                                                                secondary:
12,000
Geography - Romanian and non-    5-9     TBs         secondary: 74,000                 secondary:
Romanian medium schools                                                                22,000
Physics - Romanian and non-    6-9       TBs and    secondary: 74,000  secondary:      secondary:      secondary:
Romanian medium schools                  TGs                           3,000           22,000          3,000
Chemistry - Romanian and non-  7-9       TBs and    secondary: 74,000  secondary:      secondary:      secondary:
Romanian medium schools                  TGs                           3,000           22,000          3,000
Ukrainian - Ukrainian medium   3-9       TBs                                           primary: 7,000**
schools                                                                                secondary:
________  _________ _             7,000**
Gagauz - Gagauz medium schools  3-9      TBs                                           primary: 4,000*
secondary:
7,000**
Bulgarian - Bulgarian medium   3-9       TBs                                           primary: 1,000*
schools                                                                                secondary:
1,000**
Notes:  (1) The Project will finance enough copies of each textbook to cover 130% of primary school students studying a subject and
120% of secondary. The number of copies below is based on current second grade enrolment rates as provided by the
Ministry of Education, Youth, and Sports: 62,000 for Romanian language schools and 18,500 for non-Romanian language
schools.
(2) Except for Gagauzian, Ukrainian and Bulgarian languages as a subject, all books for non-Romanian medium schools will be
produced in Russian language only.
(3) Should book prices rise singificanfly faster than inflation, the list of books to be financed under the project would have to be
curtailed during project implementation in accordance with new prices and resource availability.



- 57 -
ANNEX
Page5of 10
14.   Procurement Arrangements.  Textbooks and accompanying teacher guides would be
procured through National Competitive Bidding, although the competition would also be advertised
in Romanian newspapers. It is expected that individual contracts will be small, under $100,000,
because it will not be possible to package together titles for different subjects or for different grades
(because these latter will mostly be bid in consecutive years). Local editorial presence will be
needed for the books for grades 4, 6-9, because publishers will be responsible for developing
manuscripts with on the spot work with teams of authors.
15.   Russian-language editions will be created by translating Romanian language originals.
According to the current copyright law in Moldova, the copyrights on all of these manuscripts will
belong to the authors. By the time the Project is underway, the copyright law may have changed to
come into line with Western practice, in which case the publisher will hold a range of publishing
rights over the author's manuscript which may include the right to translate. It will not then be
possible to invite other publishers to bid to publish translated books without the permission of the
author and/or publisher. In this case it is proposed that tenders are launched with the condition that
translated editions are only awarded to the successful publisher if it has the necessary staff and
experience; if not, the MEYS will buy the right to translate. Publishers of the Russian language
editions would then be selected by international shopping.
16.   Because of the number of books to be published, a pre-qualification stage will precede the
bidding. Annual pre-qualification of publishers will give them the right to take part in one or more
tenders in the year, depending upon the bidding timetable. Very few Moldovan publishers have had
any experience of textbook publishing contracts as this has been reserved mainly for the State
Publisher. Since they have few school book publishing contracts, they would have few relevant
staff (editors, designers) with experience in this area. Their financial position is weak and they
would be incapable of financing the number of textbooks required by the MEYS. The pre-
qualification documents will have to take this into account.
17.   The bidding for textbooks will follow one of two scenarios:
(a)    Competition to publish an IPPS manuscript which has gone through the approval process.
No time is allowed for the writing of the manuscript within the bidding process. Publishers
bid to use the IPPS manuscripts. The publishing plans will be evaluated against each other.
The time from bid announcement to finished copies will be about 12 months. Books for
grades 3 and 5, for which manuscripts have been substantially completed will be bid in this
way.
(b)    Competition to develop and publish a manuscript. Time is allowed for a synopsis and 25%
of the manuscript to be written and to be submitted with the publishing plan as the
publisher's bid. The synopses, part-manuscripts and publishing plans are evaluated against
each other. The time for this scenario will be about 24 months. Books for grades 4, 6, 7, 8
and 9 will be bid in this way.
18.   The proposed mechanisms for selection of textbook authors and publishers is novel to
Moldova and will require substantial technical assistance to help guide both, the MEYS and
interested publishers through the bidding process. The advantage, however, is that it will render the
selection process for authors and publishers transparent and provide a chance for potential authors
and publishers who have so far not had access to MEYS contracts to participate in the process.
This will help develop the local textbook authorship and publication industry.



- 58 -
ANNEXV
Page 6 of 10
19.    The agreed upon timetable for launching textbook bids and introducing them in schools is
as follows:
date           pro-qualification      bidding             books in schools
March 1997     for grades 3 and 4
Apr 1997                              grade 3
Aug. 1997                             grade 4
Feb 1998      for grades 5 and 6
May 1998                              grades 5 and 6
Sep 1998                                                  grade 3
March 1999     for grade 7
May 1999                              grade 7
Sep 1999                                                  grades4and5
March 2000     for grades 8 and 9
May 2000                              grades 8 and 9
Sept 2000                                                 grade 6
Sept. 2001                                                grade 7
Sept. 2002                                                grades 8 and 9
20.    Because of the difficult financial position of Moldovan publishers, State and private, and
the difficulty in getting bank loans, Moldovan publishers will not be charged for bidding
documents. Further, giving successful publishers advances to publish contracted books will not be
helpful because a bank guarantee is required by the World Bank and the publisher can only get a
bank guarantee by depositing the amount of money to be guaranteed. The bidding documents will
not therefore require too much financial outlay from the publisher and successful publishers will
receive advance payments up to a total of 70% of the contracted price on production of a publisher's
proforma invoice accompanied by the supplier's invoice (for artwork, paper and printing).
21.    Bid Evaluation Mechanisms. Like the rest of procurement under the project, the bidding
process for textbooks will be managed by the Project Management Unit (PMU). However, inputs
to the bidding documents (e.g., specific titles, number of copies, delivery points, etc.) and
supervision of ongoing printing contracts for quality assurance and progress monitoring will be the
responsibility of MEYS Department of Library Assistance and Didactic Materials, which is
currently in charge of the entire textbook supply process.
22.    The pre-qualification stage will be evaluated by an ad hoc Bidding Evaluation
Committee (BEC) of 7-8 members representing MoEd, curriculum development, finance (MEYS
budget department), MEYS pre-university general education department, MEYS Didactic
assistance and libraries department, teacher training, the project director, the project



- 59 -
ANNEXV
Page 7 of 10
implementation advisor and, possibly, from outside the MEYS 1 or 2 parents. Only publishers
who meet the pre-qualification criteria will be invited to submit a proposal.
23.    Prequalification evaluation criteria of publishers will be:
*  Number of years as a publisher
*  Publishing experience
*  Local premises
*  Publishing staff
*  Financial autonomy
*  Marketing and distribution
24.    The information about each publisher's qualifications, experience and capacity will be
evaluated on a scale "inadequate-adequate-good". Publishers scoring at least "adequate" on each
item will be prequalified to bid and will receive the bidding documents for the forthcoming
tender. The BEC will evaluate publishers either as acceptable or unacceptable or as acceptable for
certain types of books only.
25.    Tender submissions from prequalified bidders will be evaluated by the Bidding Evaluation
Committee (see above), based on inputs provided by the Manuscript Evaluation Committee (MEC).
The MECs will be set up for each subject for which textbooks sought. Each MEC will consist of 4
members, as much as practical drawn from the Curriculum Development Working Groups and
Coordination Commissions and will consist of: 1 curriculum development specialist, 1 teacher
trainer, 2 teachers. The teachers should teach at an appropriate level for the textbook proposals to
be evaluated and the curriculum specialist should come from the relevant discipline. If relevant
teacher representatives are not available from within the curriculum development structure, they
will be drawn from elsewhere. MEC members will be responsible for the initial evaluation of a
submitted manuscript and for subsequent review of a finished manuscript before the go ahead for
printing the book is awarded by MEYS. Members of the MECs will be paid fees for the bid
evaluation work at the rate of $25 per member per MEC. This fee will cover both the work for the
bid evaluation and then the subsequent checking that the publisher has revised or completed the
manuscript as required.
26.    Bid Evaluation Criteria for grade 3 and 5 manuscripts: Manuscripts are provided by the
IPPS and will have gone through the MEYS approval process. Therefore, the bid evaluation will
consist of the two main categories:
* Presentation and design: 60% of marks, evaluated by the MECs
* Price: 40% of marks, evaluated by the BEC
"Presentation and design" will be broken down by the MECs into detailed criteria such as:
* page layout;
* size and style of type used;
* general readability;
* spacing, margins, clarity;
* standard of illustration;
* relationship between text and illustrations;
* accuracy of illustrations; and
* use of colour (if requested in the technical specifications).



- 60 -
ANNEXV
Page 8 of 10
27.    Bid Evaluation Criteria for Grades 4. 6. 7, 8. and 9: Publishers will propose their own
manuscripts and so these will be evaluated in addition to the factors listed above:
* Quality of manuscript: 40% of marks, evaluated by the MECs
*  Presentation and design: 20% of marks, evaluated by the MECs
* Price: 40% of marks, evaluated by the BEC
"Quality of manuscript" will be broken down by the MECs into detailed criteria in each of the
following categories:
*  conformity to the new curriculum - 12%
*  educational objectives - 6%
*  methodology - 6%
*  scope and sequence - 4%
*  language and concepts - 2%
*  content - 6%
*  cultural background - 2%
*  adequacy of number of illustrations - 2%
28.    A threshold number of points for "Quality of manuscript" as a whole - say 25 out of 40 -
must be achieved by any manuscript for it to continue in the evaluation; and also for the category
"Conformity to curriculum" - say 10 out of 12 points. Presentation and design will be rated by the
same criteria as those for grades 3 and 5.
Textbook Financing Mechanism
29.    The Project would assist the Ministry of Education, Youth, and Sports with the
introduction of a textbook rental system, the proceeds of which will be deposited into a Textbook
Fund which would then provide ready finance to purchase further copies of textbooks for
distribution to schools as needed. Books to be financed by the project would be delivered to
schools where they would be stored in the school library and lent for an annual loan fee to
students for one school year. For primary classes, at least four cohorts of students would use the
books so that the cost per student would be about one quarter of the total purchase cost of the books
(including distribution costs). For secondary classes, five cohorts of students would use the books
and the cost per student would then be about one fifth of the purchase price of the set of books.
30.    The rental fee would be based on the purchase price of a replacement set of books delivered
to the rayons. The replacement cost is the cost in 4-5 years' time based on today's procurement
costs plus expected price increases until the books are reprinted, plus delivery charges. The rental
charge should be a sum to cover the required cost recovery for a set of books, not individual books,
to simplify the system.
31.    At current book prices, the rental fee for a set of primary books would be around 17-20 lei
(US$1=4.57 lei) per student per year, while that for a set of secondary books would be 22-29 lei per
student per year. While these are minimal costs by international standards, there is some concern in
the Government that poor families with a large number of children might not be able to afford the
rental fee. Because income targeting in Moldova is currently extremely difficult, the selection of
children to receive support to pay the rental fee would be left to individual rayons or schools. Each
rayon would be provided with a budgetary ceiling for textbook subsidies. Initially this ceiling
would be deternined based on the number of families with three or more children which currently



- 61 -
ANNEXV
Page 9 of 10
receive child compensation benefits, but the actual selection of children would be left up to the
rayon or school.
32.   Each spring, the Ministry of Education, Youth, and Sports would inform the rayon
education directorates how much the rental fee for each grade book set is and rayons would
determine how much needs to be collected by each school per grade. The collection of rental fees
would be the responsibility of each school, based on the number of students in a particular grade
and the current rental fee per grade. Schools would deposit the money collected into a centrally
managed fund through a local bank and provide evidence of payment to the rayon education
directorate. The latter would keep detailed accounts of the amount of rental fees paid in per school
per grade and compare them to the amounts expected to be collected. For this purpose each rayon
education directorate would be provided with a computer and a standardized management
information system.
33.   At least in the initial years, the textbook fund would be managed centrally by a fund
manager. It would be supervised by an interministerial (Ministries of Finance, Economy, and
Education, Youth, and Sports) committee which would have sole expenditure approval powers.
The fund would be externally audited every year and the audit results would be made public.
Funds would be used to reproduce books for which rental fees have been collected (i.e., if no fees
were collected for grade I books, resources from the textbook fund could not be used to
repurchase new copies of grade 1 books). As the system becomes well established the
Government may consider its decentralization to the rayon and eventually even to the school
level. However, this will require more intensive interaction between school and/or rayon
education directorates on one hand and publishers/book distributors on the other, than is
currently feasible in Moldova.
34.   The first supply of textbooks to the rayons within the Project would be based on
enrolment and would not depend on the number of rental fees collected. The rental fee system
would be introduced in line with the new curriculum textbooks, hence rental fees would be
introduce gradually for those grades which receive new textbooks. But after the first supply,
rayons would begin to order the number of textbooks they need from the MEYS and would
receive a number corresponding to the amount they have deposited into the Textbook Fund
account. Rayons would therefore have to develop an accurate feedback system about the
availability of books in schools so that they can order what is needed. The former problem of
rayon ordering - that the numbers required were exaggerated - would be reduced if rayons had to
pay for textbooks by depositing rental fees into the Textbook Fund. Rayon education staff would
receive training in the management of the textbook rental system.
35.   To facilitate the introduction of the rental system and assure its support by the
community, the project would also finance a publicity campaign aimed at parents and teachers to
explain the rental system.
36.   Program Support. Both the production of textbooks through award of competitive bidding
and the introduction of the textbook rental scheme will be new to Moldova. A significant amount
of technical assistance and training will be required to assure their successful introduction.
Therefore, the project will provide for technical assistance and local training in three areas: (i)
training and technical assistance to Ministry of Education, Youth, and Sports staff, members of the
BEC and the MEC in the management of the bidding process, including preparation of bidding
documents, assistance with the management of the pre-qualification and bid-evaluation processes



- 62 -
Page 10 of 10
and overall training courses on competitive bidding procedures for textbooks; (ii) training courses
for interested publishers on the bidding process in general and on how to handle pre-qualification
documents in particular, followed by a course on how to handle actual bids for pre-qualified
bidders; and, (iii) technical assistance and training for the implementation of the textbook financing
scheme.



- 63 -
ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 5
MOLDOVA GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Project Management Unit (PMU)
Introduction
1.    A Project Management Unit (PMU) will be established in the Ministry of Education, Youth, and
Sports (MEYS) to coordinate the proposed project activities and to ensure that project implementation is
carried out in an effective, timely, and efficient manner in accordance with the agreed time-table and normal
Bank procedures.
2.    Overall direction of the project will be the responsibility of the First Deputy Minister who will be
guided and advised by a Project Steering Committee. The latter will be chaired by the First Deputy
Minister of Education, Youth, and Sports and have membership representation from some non-MEYS
agencies, such as the Ministries of Finance, Economy, and other relevant agencies [See Committee TOR in
Para. 5 (f)].
3.    Day-to-day management of project implementation and PMU support activities are delegated to the
Director of the PMU who reports directly to the Deputy Minister. The PMU staff will include, in addition
to the Director, a Procurement Officer (to serve also as Assistant Project Director), Financial Accountant,
Project Secretary, and a Project Advisor experienced in implementation of Bank-financed development
projects.
PMU Resonsibilities
4.    Project Management and Supervision.  The PMU will be responsible for the coordination,
supervision, and monitoring of project implementation, ensuring compliance with Bank requirements for
procurement, maintaining project accounts, arranging (with the Ministry of Finance) for account audits,
reporting on implementation progress, and other activities as agreed with the World Bank. Specific
activities to be carried out by the PMU include, but are not limited to, the following:
(a) General Proiect Management. In addition to providing administrative support for project
development activities as indicated above, the PMU will prepare annual and quarterly work
plans for the project in accordance with the agreed implementation plan. It will also prepare
annual and quarterly project budgets and ensure that the required counterpart funds are
included in the MEYS annual budget request. PMU staff will coordinate the planning and
implementation of all technical assistance and fellowship training, manage the procurement of
equipment, textbooks, materials and special project services, provide logistical support for
project activities, handle disbursement of Bank and counterpart funds and maintain project
financial accounts.
(b) Collection and Analysis of Project Information. The PMU will initiate and manage the
collection and processing of project achievement indicators (input, process, and output) on a
periodic basis as agreed with the Bank. Information from different elements of the project will
be forwarded regularly to the PMU for consolidation and analysis in terms of project inputs,



- 64 -                               ANNEX
Page 2 of 5
processes, and other monitoring indicators by the departments in charge of implementing
individual project components. Periodic reports will be provided to the various project entities
and forwarded to relevant departments of the Ministry for their general information on
implementation progress and for planning future activities and resource allocations. Formal
project reporting will also include the submission of quarterly progress reports to the Project
Steering Committee and semi-annual progress reports to the Bank. This will allow for periodic
evaluation of implementation activities and provide a basis for adjustments in project plans and
resource allocations as necessary.
(c) Mid-Term Project Review. A project mid-term review will be organized and carried out jointly
by the PMU and the Bank, in consultation with the various project entities and appropriate
MEYS agencies. In preparation of the joint GovemmentlBank mid-term review, the PMU will
prepare a detailed implementation progress report, stating implementation achievements and
problems and making suggestions for changes, if needed. The joint Government/Bank review,
to be carried out no later than 2 years after project effectiveness, will assess the progress of
project implementation and recommend adjustments as deemed appropriate for ensuring
achievement of project objectives.  A copy of the mid-term  review report, including
recommended actions for improvement, will be submitted to MEYS, the Project Steering
Commitee and Bank management for review, comments, and concurrence.
(d) Implementation Completion Report (ICRU Upon project completion, the PMU, in consultation
with the Bank, will prepare an ICR which describes the project implementation experience,
including implementation problems and successes and lessons learned from the operation. The
report will be submitted to the MEYS management, Ministries of Finance and Economy, other
interested agencies of the Government, and ultimately the World Bank, for review and
comment.
4.    Coordination, The PMU will prepare annual and quarterly work plans [see para. 3 (a)] which
ensure that all project entities operate in a coordinated manner. The PMU will coordinate scheduling of all
project activities to ensure that they are mutually supporting and implemented in such a way as to engender
efficient use of human and financial resources. The PMU will also coordinate activities among other
internal/external agencies, organizations and other potential donor agencies which may be interested in
supporting the project efforts.
5.    General Implementation Support. The above-listed activities will be carried out by the PMU staff
who will provide general technical support as indicated below in the PMU staff terms of reference.
(a) Project Diretor. A project of this nature, with several components, requires strong and
effective leadership, with a high degree of coordination, in order to be successfully
implemented. The PMU, due to the support services it provides, is the hub of project activity
and the Project Director is the key person in assuring that the project is, in fact, successful. The
person who is selected for the Project Director position must have a strong background in
education (both training and experience) and a relatively high level of experience (4-5 years) in
managing complex operations which include both product outputs and personnel functions.
The Director must know about and be expert in all aspects of project implementation, i.e.,
teaching, planning, organizing, scheduling, curriculum and instructional materials development
and testing, budgeting, procurement, problem analysis, evaluation, etc. This must be an
individual who is outgoing, energetic, and dynamic, and one who relates well to other people.



- 65 -
ANNEXVI
Page 3 of 5
It must be a person who understands and respects the intricacies of government bureaucracy
and knows how to work within the system to get things done. The person to be appointed must
be one who appreciates high quality work, who has a respect for schedules and deadlines, and
who takes pride in completing productive tasks in a timely manner (on time). The person must
also have been closely associated with project preparation and have a good overview of
proposed project activities. The Bank reserves the right to comment on the credentials of the
person proposed for appointment to the Project Director position and to concur in his/her
appointment. There may be difficulty in identifying and recruiting an individual with sufficient
knowledge, skills, and experience in these areas since this will be the first World Bank financed
project in the sector. It will therefore be necessary to bring in an experienced implementation
advisor [see para. 5 (b) below], at least in the beginning of project implementation (years I and
2), who can assist the Director in assuring that implementation takes place on a high quality
level and continues on schedule.
(b) Project Advisor. In order to strengthen local capacity for project implementation in the
education sector and assist the Project Director with the initial project activities, a project
implementation advisor, with substantial experience in project work, will be employed during
the first year and possibly extended the following year to assist the Project Director in
managing the project. The individual selected should have a strong background in education
(both training and experience) with at least 4-5 years in managing such projects. The person
must have had experience in and be familiar with implementation of World Bank-financed
projects and be knowledgeable of Bank requirements and procedures for such operations. As
an advisor, this person must have expertise in project planning, scheduling, procurement
(including preparation of bidding documents and contracts, preparation of tender
announcements, evaluating equipment and textbooks bids and technical assistance proposals in
accordance with Bank guidelines and standards), personnel management, financial
management, project evaluation, report writing, etc. Proficiency in the English language is
required and moderate capability in Romanian and/or Russian would be helpful. It is expected
that the Advisor will present a number of training seminars on project management during the
assignment period. This person will be needed for a total of at least two years (24 person-
months), at which time the local projects staff should have built up sufficient capacity to
continue with smooth implementation of the project. The Bank reserves the right to comment
on the credentials of the person proposed for appointment to the Project Advisor position and to
concur on his/her appointment.
(c) Procurement Officer. This person should be thoroughly familiar with World Bank procurement
guidelines and procedures in order to manage procurement under the project. All procurement
actions for the project will be consolidated under the responsibility of the PMU in order to
maximize economies of scale and savings in accordance with World Bank procurement
guidelines and procedures for goods and consultant services. The Procurement Officer will
implement all actions of a procurement nature and advise the Project Director in all
procurement matters. This person will also assist the Project Director in communicating to the
Bank any procurement-related problems or issues. Services of the Procurement Officer, who
will also serve as Assistant Project Director, will be needed through the entire project
implementation period, as textbook and some equipment procurement will continue throughout
the full life of the project. The individual selected for this position will need to participate in
procurement courses which the Bank will provide in the Eastern European Region and will



- 66 -
ANNEXV
Page 4 of 5
need to be proficient in written and spoken English, as procurement documents must be
prepared in both English and the language of the country.
(d) Financial Accountant, Project accounts and records (both Loan and counterpart accounts) must
be maintained in a very professional manner with attention to accuracy and precision, and in
accordance with the Bank's guidelines for project accounting. The accounts will be kept in
such a way as to meet standard auditing requirements. The person selected for assignment to
this position must be well-trained and experienced in modem bookkeeping and accounting
methods and knowledgeable of standard international auditing procedures. The person must be
proficient in the use of computers and modem accounting software, or be receptive to
participating in a training program for this purpose. As the work-load for this position is
expected to be less than full-time, the individual will be hired on a part-time (50%) basis after
concurrence with the Bank on the person's qualifications. Special arrangemenms should be
made early in project implementation for the selected accountant to participate in the
accounting course provided in the Eastern European Region by the Bank's Audits Department.
(e) Translator/Administrative Assistant  The PMU must have a capable and experienced
administrative assistant with fluency in English to carry out translations and office support
functions. Because the translator/administrative assistant will be the first point of contact for
visitors and communications from the World Bank and other important organizations, most of
which will be in English, he/she must be proficient in the English language and have prior
experience with oral and written translation to and from English as well as with preparing
correspondence in English. The person selected for this position must furthermore be
knowledgeable and experienced in the use of office technology, i.e., computer applications
(particularly word processing, database, and spreadsheet work), as well as the preparation and
sending of faxes and electronic mail, and the operation of copy machines. This person also
must be an experienced keyboard user who can prepare high quality reports and other
documents in a timely manner.
(f) Project Steering Committee. The Steering Committee is intended to provide a broad overview
of the project, bringing valuable ideas and support from outside the education sector. The
Committee is expected to oversee and guide the activities of the project. Regularly check
project progress and recommend corrective actions as necessary. The Committee is expected
to develop a keen interest in the project and generate interest and support among key
government officials from the other sectors. The Committee will be chaired by the First
Deputy-Minister of Education, Youth, and Sports. Membership on the Committee will include
representatives from the Ministries of Education,Youth, and Sports, Finance, and Economy, the
project director and representatives from other relevant agencies.
6.    Dissemination of Project Experiences.  Dissemination and replication of successful project
activities throughout the country is an essential responsibility of the Government. The PMU will therefore
prepare and submit progress reports regularly to the MEYS, Cabinet of Ministers, and the rayon directorates
regarding the problems experienced and lessons learned from the project. The PMU will also prepare
reports or communiques for the general public regarding project contributions to the country's education
system. In addition to regular reports, technical papers, and newsletters, the PMU, in cooperation with
selected schools, should arrange "open house" programs and demonstration visits to the respective schools
and employ other means of communications, as appropriate, to publicize the project and its contribution to
the education system.



- 67 -
ANNEXfV
Page 5 of 5
Project Organizational Chart
( First Vice Minister of MoEd )
Project Management Unit
Project Director
Assist. Project Director/Procurement Officer
Finance & Accounting Officer                    Supervisory
Administrative Assist. & Interpreter                Committee
Depart. of Finance & Accounting of MoEd
TextbookFwnd Manager
NCAC ~ ~ C
Ion Creangu Pedagogical University, Chisinau
_ Alecu Russo State University, Balti
- State University of Tiraspol, Chisinau
National Institute of Physical Education & Sport



- 68 -                                       ANNEX VH
Page l of 3
MOLDOVA GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Summary of Technical Assistance
Component         Specialization        Description of    PYI   PY2   PY3   PY4   PY5   TOTAL
Services       PM     PM     PM      PM     PM       PM
Project           Project             Assist Project       12     12                           24 (12)
Management        Implementation      Director with
Specialist          Overall Project            if
Management                needed
Curriculum        Curriculum          Assist with         2.5                                    2.5
Development       Development/Parti-  organization,
cipation Specialist   carrying out and
Regional           implementation of
consultation
process
Guidance and        0.5                                   0.5
instruction for
Moldovans during
study tour
Curriculum Subject  Review draft       1.25   0.15                             1.4
Specialists         subject curricula in
key areas
Curriculum          Workshop on         2.0                                   2.0
Development         curriculum
Specialists         development for
lower secondary
education.
Preparation of
international study
tour
Learnging         Assessment          Workshop on         1.00   0.25                           1.25
Assessment        Techniques          develping
Specialist          assessment
objectives for
secondary schools,
revivew of draft
assessment
objectives for
secondary schools
Test Development   - Provide training    1      3                              4
Specialist         in and assist with
item writing, test
development,
psychometry and
analysis of test
results for Gr. 4 &
9. examinations.
- Assist in
development of                                    _



- 69 -
ANNEXVI[
Page 2 of 3
classroom
assessment
materials
Test Development    - Provide training   1      6.5     4                      11.5
Specialist Regional  in and assist with
item writing, test
construction,
psychometry and
analysis of test
results for national
exams Gr. 4&9.
- Assist with and
provide training in
test format
selection, test
design and
construction.
- Assist with
development of
classroom
assessment
materials
Test Administration   Provide on-site   0.5      1                              1.5
Specialist/Regional  training course on
secure test
administration and
management.
Assist with
administration of
new national
examinations.
Provide guidance
and instruction
during study tour
Teacher           Training Planning    Assist with
Training          Specialist           development of
detailed teacher
training programn
Training and        Assist with          3       3                              6
Teaching            development of
Methodology         curricula for
Specialist         training of trainers
and of teachers,
teach central
trainers in teaching
methodology
Textbook          Textbook             Provide training in  5      0.5                            5.5
Development       Procurement and      competitive
Production          bidding for
Specialists         textbooks, assist
with development
of bidding                  _



- 70 -
ANNEX VI
Page 3 of 3
documents,
evaluation of pre-
qualifications and
bids
- Collaborate with
Textbook Finance   local computer      1    0.5   0.5    0.5              2.5
Specialist        engineer in
detailed design of
computerized
accounting and
monitoring system
for textbook fund.
- Provide training
to text book fund
manager, rayon
and school staff on
textbook fund
mechanisms.
- Assist text book
fund manager with
financial
projections,
determination of
rental fees and
allowable reprints
Computer          In consultation     2                                    2
Programmer/Manag  with Textbook
ement Information   Finance Specialist
Systems Specialist -  develop
Local             computerized
accounting and
monitoring system
for textbook fund.
Textbook          Provide on-the job   0.75                               0.75
publication       training to winning
specialist         bidders on
textbook
production.                  .



REPUBUC OF MOLDOVA
General Education Project
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies
(USS '00)
Project
Curriculum    Teacher    Leaming     Textbook   Management
Development Retraining  Assessment Development        Unit       Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Equipment                                           238.3      490.4        117.9        188.1         19.1    1,053.8
B. Textbooks and Didactic Materials
Textbooks                                                -          -            -      10,666.0           -   10,666.0
Teachers Guide and Didactic Materials                    -          -         11.9        339.0            -      351.0
Textbook Distribution                                    -         -             -       2,202.4           -    2,202.4
Subtotal Textbooks and Didactic Materials                  -          -         11.9      13,207.5           -   13,219.4
C. Training and Fellowships
Training /a                                            5.8   3,231.6          20.9          2.3            -    3,260.6
Fellowships /b                                        28.6         -         150.9            -         11.5      191.0
Subtotal Training and Fellowships                       34.4   3,231.6         171.8          2.3         11.5    3,451.6
D. Technical Assistance
Specialists                                           72.0     137.1         272.6        208.3        476.3    1,166.3
Studies                                               30.0      30.0         160.0        110.0            -      330.0
Subtotal Technical Assistance                          102.0     167.1         432.6        318.3        476.3    1,4963
E. Development Expenditures /c
Development Fees                                      79.7         -          25.0                         -      104.7
Supplies and Operation Expenditures /d                38.9         -          79.5            -            -      118.4
Subtotal Development Expenditures                      118.6         -         104.5            -            -      223.1
F. Public Dissernination Programs                      184.0         -             -         14.3            -      198.3
Total Investment Costs                                   677.3   3,889.1         838.8     13,730.4        506.9   19,642.5
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Incremental Salaries                                  4.0          -            -          3.6         96.7      104.4
B. Incrernental Operating Expenditures                   8.2         -          73.5          9.5         55.2      146.4
C. Repair and Maintenance                                  -       54.3         11.9            -            -       66.3
Total Recurrent Costs                                     12.3      54.3          85.4         13.1        152.0      317.1
Total PROJECT COSTS (net of taxes)                       689.6    3,943.4        924.2      13,743.6        668.9   19,959.6
Taxes                                                 171.03   745.233         111.4        620.2         48.7    1,696.5
Total PROJECT COSTS (including taxes)                    860.6   4,688.6        1,035.6     14,363.7        707.6   21,666.1
Foreign Exchange                                       412.1     820.5         808.1      6,008.9        506.9    8,556.5
ta Short and long-term training
\b Foreign fellowships
\c For curriculum development activities including fees, materials, and stakeholders consultations
\d Includes materiais, travels, and other operating expenses to carry out development activities.



REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
General Educaton Project
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Base Costs
(USS '000)
Project
Curriculum    Teacher    Learning    Textbook   Management
Development Retraining  Assessment Development        Unit       Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Equipment                                  235.4     429.0         101.5        164.5         17.3      947.7
B. Textbooks and Didactic Materials
Textbooks                                       -         -            -       8,895.8            -    8,895.8
Teachers! Guide and Didactic Materials          -                   10.0         282.8            -      292.8
Textbook Distribution                           -         -            -       1,824.9            -    1,824.9
Subtotal Textbooks and Didactic Materials         -         -         10.0      11,003.5            -   11,013.5
C. Training and Fellowships
Training /a                                   5.0    2,711.0         17.5          2.0            -    2,735.5
Fellowships /b                               25.0         -        132.0             -         10.0      167.0
Subtotal Training and Fellowships              30.0    2,711.0       149.5           2.0         10.0    2,902.5
D. Technical Assistance
Specialists                                  69.5     126.0        238.5         193.3        216.0      843.3
Studies                                      30.0      30.0        160.0         110.0            -      330.0
Subtotal Technical Assistance                  99.5     156.0        398.5         303.3        216.0    1,173.3
E. Development Expenditures /c
Development Fees                             68.6         -         21.6            -             -       90.2
Supplies and Operation Expenditures /d       33.3         -         66.2             -            -       99.5
Subtotal Development Expenditures             101.9         -         87.8            -             -      189.7
F. Public Dissemination Programs              162.7         -            -          12.5            -      175.2
Total investmnent Costs                         629.5    3,296.0       747.3      11,485.8        243.3   16,401.9
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Incremental Salaries                         3.4         -            -           3.0         81.0       87.4
B. Incremental Operating Expenditures           7.0                   61.5          8.0          46.2      122.7
C. Repair and Maintenance                         -      45.0         10.0            -             -       55.0
Total Recurrent Costs                            10.4      45.0         71.5          11.0        127.2      265.1
Total BASELINE COSTS                            639.9    3,341.0        818.8      11,496.8       370.5   16,667.0
Physical Contingencies                         31.4     323.9         60.7       1,075.8        252.6    1,744.4
Price Contingencies                            18.3     278.6         44.6       1,171.0         35.8    1,548.3
Total PROJECT COSTS (net of taxes)              689.8    3,943.5        924.1      13,743.6       658.9   19,959.7
Taxes                                         171.0     745.2        111.4        620.2          48.7    1,696.5
Total PROJECT COSTS (Including taxes)           860.6    4,688.7      1,035.5     14,363.8        707.6   21,656.2
Foreign Exchange                              412.1     820.5        808.1       6,008.9        506.9    8,556.5
e Short and bong-term training
\b Foreign fellwships
\c For curriculum development activities including materials, and stakeholders consultations
\ Includes materials, travels, and other operating expenses to carry out development activities.



REPUBUC OF MOLDOVA
General Education Project
Project Components by Year
(US$ '000)
Base Cost                                            Totals Including Contingencies
1997198   1998199   1999/00   2000/01   2001/02   Total    1997/98  1998/99  1999/00  2000/01  2001/02   Total
1. Curriculum Development            272.0    114.7    244.5         4.4      4.4      639.9    355.5    191.1    268.8    233.0      11.4   1059.8
2. Teacher Retraining /a              815.3    894.3    693.2    568.7    369.4    3,341.0    297.8    133.7    247.3         5.3      5.4    689.6
3. Leaming Assessment                325.0    240.7    124.0        99.0     30.0      818.8    926.7  1,040.5    820.8    694.0    461.4  3,943.4
4. Textbook Development             1,257.5   2,645.2   1,816.4   1,877.4   3,900.2   11,496.8    359.7    277.2    142.1    107.6    37.5    924.2
5. Project Management Unit           263.8      30.5      25.5      25.5     25.5      370.6   1,353.1  3,084.5  2,144.0  2,290.5  4,871.3  13,743.5
Total BASEUNE COSTS                    2,933.6   3,925.4   2,903.7   2,574.9   4,329.4   16,667.1    289.7    276.1   30.3    31.1      31.8    658.9
Physical Contingencses               199.1    611.7    249.8    251.0    432.8    1,744.3
Price Contingencies                   94.2    275.0    231.1    302.7    645.2        1 548.2
Total PROJECT COSTS (net of taxes)     3,227.0   4,812.1   3,384.6   3,128.5   5,407.4   19,959.6   3,227.0  4,812.1  3,384.6  3,128.5  5,407.4  19,959.6
Taxes                                         -         -         -             -          -    526.5    334.9    331.7    225.3    278.2   1696.6
Total PROJECT COSTS (including taxes)                                                             3,753.5  5,147.0  3,716.3  3,353.8  5,685.6  21,656.1
Foreign Exchange                    2,098.5   1,916.7   1,369.7   1,085.1   2,086.4    8,556.5
ba Includes training for the Leaming Assessment component
CI
w3



REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
General Education Project
Expenditure Accounts by Years - Base Costs
(USS '000)
Base Cost                                       Totals Including Contingencies
1997/98   1998/99   1999/00   2000/01   2001/02    Total    1997/98  1998/99  1999/00  2000/01  2001/02   Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Equlpment                             687.6     51.1    200.0       9.0        -      947.7    783.2    59.6   200.0       11.0        -  1,053.8
B. Textbooks and Didactic Materlals
Textbooks                              760.3   2,103.3   1,370.2   1,508.1   3,154.0    8,895.8    798.6  2,453.8  1,633.8  1,840.4  3,939.4  10,666.0
Teachers' Guide and Didactic Materials  23.1     79.5     43.7      49.5      97.0     292.8      24.6     92.7    52.1     60.4    121.2    351.0
Textbook Distribution                  155.9    433.1    280.7    309.2    646.0    1,824.9    178.3   505.2    334.7   377.4    806.9  2,202.4
Subtotal Textbooks and Didactic Materials  939.3   2,615.8   1,694.6   1,866.8   3,896.9   11,013.5   1,001.5  3,051.8  2,020.6  2,278.2  4,867.4  13,219.4
C. Training and Fellowships
Training /a                            321.8    834.6    656.5    560.9    361.6    2,735.5    367.9   973.7   782.8   684.5   451.7  3,260.6
Fellowships /b                         162.0      5.0        -         -        -      167.0    185.2      5.8        -        -        -    191.0
Subtotal Training and Fellowships       483.8    839.6    656.5    560.9    361.6    2,902.5    553.1    979.5   782.8   684.5   451.7  3,451.6
D. Technical Assistance
Specialists                            545.4    232.3     51.8      10.6      3.3      843.3    585.5   503.4    61.1       12.3      3.9  1,166.3
Studies                                70.0         -    200.0      60.0        -      330.0     70.0        -    200.0    60.0         -    330.0
Subtotal Technical Assistance           615.4    232.3    251.8       70.6      3.3    1,173.3    655.5    503.4   261.1      72.3      3.9  1,496.3
E. Devolopment Expenditures /c
Development Fees                       42.3      39.6      3.5       2.4      2.4       90.2     48.3     46.2      4.2      3.0      3.0    104.7
Supplies and Operation Expenditures /d  14.0     21.9     41.6      11.0      11.0      99.5      16.0    25.6    49.6    13.4       13.7    118.4
Subtotal Development Expenditures        56.3      61.6     45.1      13.4      13.4     189.8     64.4    71.8    53.8    16.4    16.7   223.1
F. Public DIsemInation Programs         105.8      69.4        -         -        -      175.2    117.3    81.0         -        -        -    198.3
Total Investment Costs                   2,888.2   3,869.8   2,848.0   2,520.7   4,275.3   16,401.9  3,175.0  4,747.1  3,318.2  3,062.4  5,339.8  19,642.5
11. Recurrent Costs
A. Incremental Salaries                   17.5     17.5      17.5     17.5      17.5      87.4     20.0    20.4    20.8    21.3    21.8    104.4
B. Incremental Operating Expenditures    26.0      25.0     25.0      23.5     23.5      122.8     29.7    29.1      29.7    28.6    29.3    146.4
C. Repair and Maintenance                 2.0      13.3     13.3      13.3      13.3      55.0      2.3     15.5    15.8    16.2    16.5    66.3
Total Recurrent Costs                      45.4      55.7     55.7      54.2     54.2      265.1     51.9    65.0    66.4    66.1        67.7   317.1
Total BASEUNE COSTS                      2,933.6   3,925.4   2,903.7   2,574.9   4,329.4   16,667.1
Physical Contingencies                  199.1    611.7    249.8    251.0    432.8    1,744.3
Price Contingencies                      94.2    275.0    231.1    302.7    645.2    1,548.2
Total PROJECT COSTS (net of taxes)       3,227.0   4,812.1   3,384.6   3,128.5   5,407.4   19,959.6  3,227.0  4,812.1  3,384.6  3,128.5  5,407.4  19,959.6
Taxes                                            -        -         -        -               -    526.5    334.9   331.7   225.3   278.2   1696.6
Total PROJECT COSTS (Including taxes)                                                              3,763.5  6,147.0  3,716.3  3,353.8  6,685.6  21,656.1
Foreign Exchange                       2,098.5   1,916.7   1,369.7   1,085.1   2,086.4    8,556.6
%a Short and long-term training
Nb Foreign eilowships
Ic For curriculum development activities induding fees, materials, and stakeholders consultatlons
W Incluies materials, travels, and other operating expenses to carry out development acvties.



- 75                                     ANNEXX
Page 1 of 1
MOLDOVA GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Estimated Loan Disbursement Schedule
Amount (US$ Million)    Cummulative         Disbursement
FY    Semester   Absolute    Cumulative   as % of Total   Profile for Moldovaa
1998      1           1.3          1.3             8
2          1.3          2.6             16
1999       1          2.0          4.6            29
2          2.0          6.6            41
2000       1          1.3          7.9             49
2          1.3          9.2            57
2001       1          1.3          10.5            65
2          1.3          11.8           73
2002       1          2.2          14.0            86
2          2.2          16.2           100
a This is the first social sector investment project in Moldova.
b This includes the PPF of US$700,000.



96   7    1997        1998        1999         2000        2
ID   Task Name                                                               Duration   Start    Finish  Q3IQ4IQlJQ2iQ3)Q4JQ1|Q2IQ3IQ4IQ1|Q2IQ3IQ4IQ1_Q2IQ3TQ4tQ1 Q
CURRICULUM DEVELOPMENT Component                                         245.8w     8/1/96   4/17101        r                                                 _
I        i Establish Institutional Structure for Curriculum Development         11.8w   8112196  10131196
2            1.1 Selects & appoints NCAC Members                                 9.4w   8/12/96  10/15/96  *  MOEi
3            1.2 Selects & appoints coordinators & members of CCECA & WGs        9.4w   8/12/96  10/15/96  *  MoEd
4            1.3 Selects & appoints coordinators & members of TMS                4.6w    10/1/96  10/31/96   | MoEd
5        2 Development & Adoption of Regulatory Documents                       20.4w    8/1/96  12/22/96
6            2.1 Develops ministerial order for establishment of insti structure  9.4w    8/12/96  10/15/96  *  MoE1,TA
7            2.2 Finalizes payment struc. & mech. for curr dev't & asssmt. struc  9.4w   8/12/96  10/15/96  *  MoE1 
8            2.3 Signs Ministerial Order                                          Ow  11/20/96  11/20/96    *  10
9            2.4 Develops regulations for functioning of new structure          11.8w   8/12/96  10/31/96    -1IPP, NCAC,TA
10           2.5 Develops tech. guidelines for development of curricula          9.4w   8/12/96  10/15/96  *  PPS,NCAC,TA
11           2.6 Develops regulatory documents for national curriculum          10.8w    8/1/96  10/15/96 *   PPS,NCAC,TA
12           2.7 Approves regulatory document                                      Ow  11/20/96  11/20/96      011/20       .
13           2.8 Prints & distribute national regulatory document to schools     4.6w   11/20/96  12/22/96
14           2.9 Develops internal working procedures & timetables                 3w  11/11/96  11/29/96     hCaCAWGs
15           2.10 Reviews & approves CCECA & WG timetables                         2w   12/2/96  12/13/96        NAC
16       3 Curriculum Development Training                                        56w    11/4/96  11/28/97
17           3.1 Initial training workshop for NCAC, CCECA, WGs                    1w   11/4/96   11/8/96      Reional TA
18           3.2 Follow-up training - curri dev't for secondary educ.            1.6w   4/21/97   4/30/97         j  Regional TA
19           3.3 Selects NCAC, CCECA members for study visit                       8w    7/1/97   8/25/97                MoEd
20           3.4 Foreign study visit for NCAC & CCECA                              8w    9/1/97  10/24/97
21           3.5 Local training for TMS                                            4w   11/3/97  11/28/97
22       4 Development and Approval Grade 3                                       43w  11/18/96   9/12/97
23           4.1 Develops 1st draft Gr. 3 curriculum                              12w  11/18/96    2/7/97
24           4.2 Assesses 1st draft of Gr. 3 curriculum                            2w   2/10/97   2/21/97      .fCECA    _z
Curriculum Development Component Page 1



96       1997         1998    I   1999    |   2000        2
ID   Task Name                                                              Duration   Start    Finish  Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 IQ IQ2 Q30Q4 |Q  Q2 Q30Q40Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4|1Q2
25           4.3 Revises 1st draft of Gr. 3 curriculum                            2w   2/24/97    3/7/97
26           4.4 Curriculum consultation Process                                4.8w   3/10/97   4/10/97          Regional TA,TA
27           4.5 Analyzes the results of the consultation process & prepare reports  2w   4/14/97   4/25/97      jWGs,CCECA
28           4.6 Prepares final draft of Gr. 3 curriculum                         2w   4/28/97    5/9/97           WGS
29           4.7 Reviews final draft of Gr. 3 curriculum                        4.4w    5/1/97   5/30/97         ,-CCECA
30           4.8 Revises final draft of Gr. 3 curriculum as necessary             1w    6/2/97    6/6/97         .W
31           4.9 Approves revisions if necessary                                  1w    6/9/97   6/13/97         'CCECA
32           4.10 Reviews & approves final draft                                  3w   6/16/97    7/4/97         jNCAC
33           4.11 Approve Gr. 3 curriculum                                        Ow   7/10/97   7/10/97
34           4.12 Prints & disseminates Gr. 3 curriculum to schools               6w   7/21/97   8/29/97
35           4.13 Prepares info brochure for Gr. 3 teachers                       7w   4/28/97   6/13/97
WGs
36           4.14 Approves info brochure                                          4w   6/16/97   7/11/97            NCAC,CCECA
37           4.15 Prints & distributes info brochure to schools                   9w   7/14/97   9/12/97
38       5 Development and Approval of Grade 4                                  44w  11/18/96   9/19/97
39           5.1 Develops 1 st draft Gr. 4 curriculum                            17w  11/18/96   3/14/97     wWGs
40           5.2 Assesses 1st draft of Gr. 4 curriculum                           2w   3/17/97   3/28/97        6CCECA
41           5.3 Revises 1st draft of Gr. 4 curriculum                            2w   3/31/97   4/11/97         IWGs
42           5.4 Curriculum consultation Process                                  4w   4/14/97   5/10/97
I CCECA
43           5.5 Analyzes the results of the consultation process & prepare reports  2w   5/19/97   5/30/97       rWGs CCECA
44  5f f c9s_
45           5.6 Prepares final draft of Gr. 4 curriculum                         2w    6/2/97   6/13/97
45           5.7 Reviews final draft of Gr. 4 curriculum                          2w   6/16/97   6/27/97|jCEA
I4CECA
46           5.8 Revises final draft of Gr. 4 curriculum as necessary             1w   6/30/97    7/4/97         ijWG
47           5.9 Approves revisions if necessary                                  1w    7/7/97   7/11/97
___           ~~~CECA
48           5.10 Reviews & approves final draft                                  2w   7/14/97   7/25/97            hNCAC
49           5.11 Approve Gr. 4 curriculum                DOw   7/28/97   7/28/97                                  P     2
Curriculum Development Component Page 2



96    | 1997    | 1998    |   11999            |   2000  | 2
ID   Task Name                                                                  Duration    Start    Finish   30401 0Q2030401 Q20Q3104101 Q2|Q3l 4lQl 0Q203Q430102
SO            5.12 Prnt & disseminate Gr 4 curr. to schools & teachers incl. trainers  7w    7/28/97   9/12/97
51            5.13 Prepares info brochure for Gr. 4 teachers                          6w     6/2/97   7/11/97
52            5.14 Approves info brochure                                             Ow   7/14/97   7/14/97
53            5.15 Prints & distributes info brochure to schools                      8w    7/28/97   9/19/97
54       6 Development and Approval of Grade 5                                     47.6w     411197   2/26/98
55            6.1 Develops 1st draft Gr. 5 curriculum                              16.8w     4/1/97   7/25/97
MWGs
56            6.2 Assesses 1st draft of Gr. 5 curriculum                              2w    7/28/97    8/8/97         !     CCECA
57            6.3 Revises 1st draft of Gr. 5 curriculum                               2w    8/11/97   8/22/97               WGS
58            6.4 Curriculum consultation Process                                     4w    8/25/97   9/19/97
59            6.5 Analyzes the results of the consultation process & prepare reports  2w    9/22/97   10/3/97
60            6.6 Prepares final draft of Gr. 5 curriculum                            2w    10/6/97  10/17/97         j        Gs   E
61            6.7 Reviews final draft of Gr. 5 curriculum                             2w   10/20/97  10/31/97
62            6.8 Revises final draft of Gr. 5 curriculum as necessary                1Cw 11/3/97   11/f7/97|
63            6.9 Approves revisions if necessary                                     1w   11/10/97  11/14/97
64            6.10 Reviews & approves final draft                                     2w   11/17/97  11/28/97         |       3ECA
65            6.11 Approve Gr. 5 currculum                                            Ow   12/4/97   12/4/97
66            6.12 Print & disseminate Gr 5 curr. to schools & teachers incl. trainers  7.8w   12/15/97    2/5/98
67            6.13 Prepares info brochure for Gr. 5 teachers                          7w   10/13/97  11/28/97      ;WG
68            6.14 Approve info brochure                                              3w    12/1/97  12/19/97      :NCACCCECA
69            6.15 Prints & distributes info brochure to schools & trainers         9.8w  12/22/97   2/26/98                    1
70        7 Development and Approval of Grade 6                                     48w      8/4/97    7/3/98
71            7.1 Develops 1 st draft Gr. 6 curriculum                               18w     8/4/97   12/5/97         !          Gs
72            7.2 Assesses 1 st draft of Gr. 6 curriculum                             2w    12/8/97  12/19/97
CCECA
73            7.3 Revises 1st draft of Gr. 6 curriculum                               2w     1/5/98   1/16/98      ;              WGs
74            7.4 Curriculum consultation Process                                     4w    1/19/98   2/13/98
Curriculum Development Component Page 3



96   |   1997   |   1998          1999        2000    |   2
ID   Task Name                                                              Duration   Start    Finish  Q3|Q4 1 0Q2|Q3lQ4lQ1 0Q20Q30Q40Q1 Q2103041 | 3020Q401 02
75           7.5 Analyzes the results of the consultation process & prepare reports  2w   2/16/98   2/27/98                 j-WGs,CCECA
76           7.6 Prepares final draft of Gr. 6 curriculum                         2w    3/2/98   3/13/98                    I:WGs
77           7.7 Reviews final draft of Gr. 6 curriculum                          2w   3/16/98   3/27/98         i;CECA
78           7.8 Revises final draft of Gr. 6 curriculum as necessary             1w    4/6/98   4/10/98
79           7.9 Approves revisions if necessary                                  1w   4/13/98   4/17/98         .CCECA
80           7.10 Reviews & approves final draft                                  1w   4/20/98   4/24/98
4CAC
81           7.11 Approve Gr. 6 curriculum                                        Ow   4/29/98   4/29/98         j               I29
82           7.12 Prints & disseminates Gr. 6 curriculum to schools               6w    5/4/98   6/12/98
83           7.13 Prepares info brochure for Gr. 6 teachers                       7w    3/9/98   4/24/98
84           7.14 Approves info brochure                                          2w   4/27/98    5/8/98
ICAC,CCECA
85           7.15 Print & distribute info brochure to schools & teacher trainers  8w   5/11/98    7/3/98
86       8 Development and Approval of Grade 7                                 47.4w     1/11/98  11/27/98
87           8.1 Develops 1st draft Gr. 7 curriculum                           19.4w    1/1/98   5/15/98                     -  WGs
88           8.2 Assesses 1 st draft of Gr. 7 curriculum                          2w   5/18/98   5/29/98         ,C
I~CCECA
89           8.3 Revises 1st draft of Gr. 7 curriculum                            2w    6/1/98   6/12/98                       IjTWGS
90           8.4 Curriculum consultation Process                                  4w   6/15/98   7/10/98         |CCECA
91           8.5 Analyzes the results of the consultation process & prepare reports  2w   7/13/98   7/24/98   : |                  GCCEC
92           8.6 Prepares final draft of Gr. 7 curriculum                         2w   7/27/98    8/7/98
I~Ws
93           8.7 Reviews final draft of Gr. 7 curriculum                          2w   8/10/98   8/21/98
CCECA
94           8.8 Revises final draft of Gr. 7 curriculum as necessary           1.2w   8/24/98   8/31/98 a
95           8.9 Approves revisions if necessary                                  1w    911/98   9W7/98                           TCECA
96           8.10 Reviews & approves final draft                                  2w    9/8/98   9/21/98         I                  NCAC
97           8.11 Approve Gr. 7 curriculum                                        Ow   9/23/98   9/23/98
98           8.12 Prints & disseminates Gr. 7 curriculum to schools               6w     8/98   11/6/98
99           8.13 Prepares info brochure for Gr. 7 teachers                       7w    8/3/98   9/18/98        i                 1
Curriculum Development Component Page 4



96        1997        1998   1   1999   f 2000    1   2
ID   Task Name                                                              Duration   Start    Finish  Q3|Q401 Q2304|Q1  234Q1 0Q2Q30Q4jQ1 0Q21030Q41 |Q2
100          8.14 Approves info brochure                                          2w   9/21/98   10/2/98       .NCACCCECA
101          8.15 Prints & distributes info brochure to schools                   8w   10/5/98  11127/98                   .
102      9 Development and Approval of Grade 8                                   44w     614/98    3/U/9                   .i
103          9.1 Develops 1st draft Gr. 8 curriculum                             18w    5/4/98    9/4/98
104          9.2 Assesses 1st draft of Gr. 8 curriculum                           2w    9/7/98   9/18/98      .                      CECA
105          9.3 Revises 1st draft of Gr. 8 curriculum                            2w   9/21/98   10/2/98
106          9.4 Curriculum consultation process                                  4w   10/5/98  10/30/98
'CECA
107          9.5 Analyzes the results of the consultation process & prepare reports  2w   11/2)98  11/13/98   .WGs,CCECA
108          9.6 Prepares final draft of Gr. 8 curriculum                         2w  11/16/98  11/27/98      .                       ilVGs
109          9.7 Reviews final draft of Gr. 8 curriculum                          2w  11/30/98  12/11/98                             IjCECA
110          9.8 Revise final draft of Gr. 8 curriculum as necessary              1w  12/14/98  12/18/98
111          9.9 Approves revisions if necessary                                  1w  12/21/98  12/25/98
112          9.10 Reviews & approves final draft                                  2w    1/4/99   1/15/99                                 CAC
113          9.11 Approve Gr. 8 curriculum                                        Ow   1/20/99   1/20/99
*1120
114          9.12 Prints & disseminates Gr. 8 curriculum to schools               6w   1/25/99    3/5/99
115          9.13 Prepares info brochure for Gr. 8 teachers                       8w  11/23/98   1/15/99
116          9.14 Approve info brochure                                           3w   1/18/99    2/5/99
~jCAC,CCECA
117          9.15 Print & distributer info brochure to schools & teacher trainers  3.6w    2/8/99    3/3/99
118      10 Development and Approval of Grade 9                                  48w    9/7/98    8/6/99
119          10.1 Develops 1st draft Gr. 9 curriculum                            19w    9/7/98   1/15/99
24WGs
120          10.2 Assesses 1st draft of Gr. 9 curriculum                          2w   1/18/99   1/29/99                                 CCECA
121           10.3 Revises 1st draft of Gr. 9 curriculum                          2w    2/1/99   2/13/99         *WGs
122          10.4 Curriculum consultation process                                 4w   2/15/99   3/12/99
123          10.5 Analyzes the results of the consultation process & prepare reports  2w   3/15/99   3/26/99  ,                          I VVGs,CCECA
124          10.6 Prepares final draft of Gr. 9 curriculum                        2w   3/29/99    4/9/99                                   WGs
Curriculum Development Component Page 5



96        1997    |   1998    |   1999         2000    |   2
ID   Task Name                                                               Duration   Start    Finish  Q30Q4101 0Q20Q3Q4lQl 0Q2Q30Q41 |Q20Q3|Q4 Q1 Q2|Q3|040  Q2
125           10.7 Reviews final draft of Gr. 9 curriculum                          2w   4/12/99   4/23/99      'CCSCA
126           10.8 Revises final draft of Gr. 9 curriculum as necessary             1w   4/26/99   4/30/99         -jWGs
127           10.9 Approves revisions if necessary                                  1w    5/3/99    5 799       :CCECA
128           10.10 Reviews & approves final draft                                  2w   5/10/99   5/21/99         aN
129           10.11 Approve Gr. 9 curriculum                                        Ow   5/26/99   5/26/99
130           10.12 Prints & disseminates Gr. 9 curriculum to schools               6w   5/31/99    7/9/99
131           10.13 Prepares info brochure for Gr. 9 teachers                       3w     5/4/99   5/24/99
132           10.14 Approves info brochure                                          3w   5/24/99   6/11/99
_:CAC,CCECA
133           10.15 Prints & distributes info brochure to schools                   8w   6/14/99    8/6/99
134       11 Implementation & Supervision of New Curricula                        26w    12/11/97    6/1/98
135           11.1 Prepares annual reports on status & implementation, recommend a  Ow   12/1/97   12/1/97
136           11.2 Reviews WG plan & recommend amendments as necessary to NCA       Ow    2/2/98    2/2/98                      2/2
137           11.3 Reviews implementation report & decides on necessity of proposed  Ow    4/1/98    4/1/98                       4/1
138           11.4 Adopts amendments and inform schools                            Ow    6/1/98    6/1/98                           6/1
139       12 Provision of equipment to pilot schools                             35.3w     1/4/99    9/7/99
140           12.1 Prepares proposed equipment list                                 4w    1/4/99   1/29/99
141           12.2 Draft selection criteria of pilot schools                        3w    2/1/99   2/19/99
142           12.3 Submits proposed equipment list and selection criteria           Ow   2/19/99   2/19/99
143           12.4 WB reviews and concur of proposed eqpt. list & selection criteria  4w   2/22/99   3/19/99
Curriculum Development Component Page 6



_6        1997         1998         1999         2000    |   2
ID    Task Name                                                                  Duration    Start    Finish  Q3jQ4[Q1jQ2|Q3|Q4|Q1 QQ2QQ2QQ44Q1  12J33QQ4Q1  |Q2|Q3|Q4jQ1|Q2
144           12.5 IS Procurement of Pilot Schools Equipment                         24.3w    3122/99    9/7199
145                12.5.1 Prepare Invitation letters to suppliers                       2w    3/22199    4/2/99
146                12.5.2 Bank Review of Equipment list                                 2w     4/5/99   4/16/99
147                12.5.3 Invite Quotations from suppliers                              Od   4/20/99   4/20/99                                      /20
148                12.5.4 Submission of Quotations                                      4w    4/20/99   5/18/99                                     I
149                12.5.5 Evaluation of Quotations                                      2w    5118199    6/11/99
150                12.5.6 Bank Review                                                   1w     6/1/99    6/8/99
151                12.5.7 Award Contracts                                               2w     6/8/99   6/22/99
152                12.5.8 Open Letters of Credit                                        1w   6/22/99   6/29/99
153                12.5.9 Shipment & Transport                                          8w    6/29199   8124/99
154                12.5.10 Delivery                                                     2w    8/24/99    9/7/99
155       13 Training of TeacherTrainers                                            165.4w    2/16/98   4/17/01       .                                           -          _
156            13.1 Prepare & provide initial training of central trainers              2w    2/16/98   2/27/98                       WGs
157            13.2 Prepare & provide initial training of central trainers              2w    2/15/99   2/26/99          i                         WGs
158            13.3 Prepare & provide follow-up training of central trainers            2w   211 5/99   2/26/99                                  I | WGs
159            13.4 Prepare & provide follow-up training of central trainers            2w    2/15/00   2/28/00                                                 WGs
160            13.5 Prepare & provide initial training of local trainers              6.6w    3/12/98   4/15/98
WGs~ ~ ~ G
161            13.6 Prepare & provide initial training of local trainers              6.6w     3/2/99   4/15/99                                      WGs
162            13.7 Prepare & provide follow-up training to local trainers            6.8w     3/1/99   4/15/99
163            13.8  Prepare  &  provide  foilow-up training  to  local trainers      6.8w     311100   4117/00                                                   WGsWGs
163           13.8 Prepare & provide follow-up training to local trainers             6.8w     3/1/01   4/17/00       . 9
164            13.9 Prepare & provide follow-up training to local trainers            6.8w     3/1/01   4/17/01 D  Component Page 7
Curriculum Development Component Page 7



..6       1997    r   1998          1999         2000         2001       -2002
ID   Task Name                                                        Duration    Start    Finish  Q30Q401 Q2Q30Q401|Q20Q30 Q4|Q  0Q2| 4Q  Q203040102 |Q3|04|Q1 Q2|03
LEARNING ASSESSMENT Component                                    309.4w   10/17/96   9/20102
I        1 Establish Institutional Framework                               6w   10/17/96  11/27/96                  I!
2            1.1 Issues Order establishing institutional framework for Curr. D  Ow  10/31/96  10/31/96  I  i
3            1.2 Appoints members NCAC,CCECA, AWGs, TMS                    2w  10/17/96  10/31/96    L4lin ter of
1liiteofEducation
4            1.3 identifies & appoints senior team for DEE                 2w  10/17/96  10/31/96       li
5            1.4 Develops guidelines for AWG & CCECA                       6w   10/17/96  11/27/96       A   oEd,lPPS
6            1.5 Develops work programs                                    2w   11/14/96  11/27/96          ,s,CCECA,MoEd,tPPS
7        2 Building Institutional Capacity                             125.2w    11/4/96   3/29/99   y
8            2.1 Conduct initial training seminar                          2w    11/4/96  11/16/96
9            2.2 Establishes 'twinning' arrangements with internl organizatio  low  5/7/97   7/15/97
_____                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MoEd
10           2.3 Conduct 2nd training                                      2w   3/17/97   3/28/97                    |
11           2.4 Conduct 3rd training                                      2w  10/13/97  10/24/97                   TA
12           2.5 Selection of staff for study visit                        2w    8/12/97   8/25/97
13           2.6 Foreign study visit (8 staff)                             2w   9/16/97   9/29/97
14           2.7 Selection of DEE staff for intensive foreign training     4w   7/31/97   8/27/97                  oEd
16           2.8 Attends intensive foreign training in test development (2-3 D  16w  10:13/97    2/11/98  .
16           2.9 Attends foreign training in test administration (1 DEE staff)  8w  2/2/99   3/29/99
17           2. 10 Appoints additional DEE staff                           1w    2/1/99    2/5/99
IMoEd
18           2.11 Conducts local training course for new DEE staff        5.6w   2/15/99   3/24/99
19       3 Build Trainer and Teacher Capacity for Assessment           219.2w   11/15/96   1/26/01     _
20           3.1 Develop assessment objectives Grs. 1 -4                  32w   11/15/96   6/26/97              WGs,CCEC 
21           3.2 Develop assessment objectives Gs. 5 - 7                  48w    7125/97   6/25/98
22           3.3 Develop assessment objectives Grs. 8 & 9                 48w    7/24/98   6/24/99                                       AWGs,CCECA
23           3.4 Develop support materals for primary school teachers     32w   10/15/97   5/26/98                           WG,DEE,TA
24           3.5 Develop support materials for secondary school teachers  32w   10/15/98   5/26/99      I                                                   L __AWG,DEE,TA_      .____
Learning Assessment Page 1                                                                              X



_6        1997         1998    r   1999          2000         2001         2002
ID   Task Name                                                       Duration    Start    Finish  Q3 04 Q1 Q21031Q4 01 Q2 Q31040Q1 IQ21Q3104 Q1 IQ21Q3104 01 02131401 0213
25           3.6 Training for rayon trainers on primary level assessment   4w     1/1/99   1/28199       _TA
26           3.7 Training for central trainers on secondary level assessment  4w  1/1/01   1/26/01                                F ,TA
27       4 Baseline and Project Impact Assessment at Grs. 4 & 819       206.2w  11110197  10122101
28           4.1 Enters into contract with intern'l or regional consult. org.  12w   11/10/97   1/30/98                -MoE
_              .3i    i               .            j            !
29           4.2 Adopts (a) intem'l tests & (b) manuals                    4w   3/19/98   4/15/98                          DE,TA
30           4.3 Develops sampling plan                                    4w   3/31/98   4/27/98                            ETADepart. of Statistics
31           4.4 Carries out baseline sample survey                       12w   4/28/98   7/20/98                              EE
32           4.5 Prepares report on the current level of math & language skill  12w   7/21/98  10/12/98
DEETA
33           4.6 Carries out 2nd sample survey                            12w     5/8/01   7/30/01                  *IiDEE,TA
34           4.7 Prepares report on the current level of math & language skill  12w   7/31/01  10/22/01                                        I                 -        IEE,TA
.                       DEETA
35       5 'New' Gr. 4 Summative Tests                                 203.6w     713198   5/28102                   I                               m
36           5.1 Develops items for summative tests for Gr. 4              8w     7/3/98   8/27/98                             DEE                                          I     '
37           5.2 Tries out items w/ students                               6w     9/4/98  10/15/98                              DEE
38           5.3 Analyzes results of trials                                8w  10/16/98  12110/98                    |DEE
39           5.4 Evaluates items results                                   6w   12/11/98   1/21/99      j                          NCAC,CCECA
40           5.5 Selects a subset of items to be used in 1st test          2w   1/22/99    2/4/99                                     EE
41           5.6 Constructs the 1st national test                         12w    2/8/99   4/30/99                                     DEE
42           5.7 Organizes info campaigns on new nati test procedures     17w     1/4/99   4/30/99                                      DEE
43           5.8 Administers 1 st national Gr. 4 test                      ow   5/21/99   5/21/99        i521
44           5.9 Analyzes results and prepares report for NCAC             8w   6/18/99   8/12/99 9
DEE
45           5.10 Administers and reports annual Gr. 4 test to NCAC        4w     5/1/00   5/26/00                                                    DEE
46           5.11 Administers and reports annual Gr. 4 test to NCAC        4w    5/11/01   5/28/01
____   _____________________________________________       ______~~~ I___                                                                     DEE
47           5.12 Administers and reports annual Gr. 4 test to NCAC        4w     5/1/02   5/28/02                                                                             DE
48       6 Development & Administration of national Gr. 9 Exams          143w     9/1/99   5/28/02
49           6.1 Develops items for summative tests for Gr. 9              8w    9/1199  10/26/99        _                                    DEETA
Learning Assessment Page 2



_6        1997         1998         1999         2000        2001         2002
ID   Task Name                                                      Duration   Start    Finish  03IQ411 a213 Q4lQ1IQ2|Q4 Q 1 |Q21031|Q4|Q102 Q3Q4jQ1jQ2|Q3jQ4jQ1|Q2jQ3
50           6.2 Tries out items wl students                              4w   9/29/99  10/26/99                    !                   i4  DEE,TA
51           6.3 Analyzes results of trials                               4w   11/1/99  11/26/99                                              DEE,TA
52           6.4 Evaluates items results                                  2w   12/99  12/17/99                                                DEE
53           6.5 Selects a subset of items to be used in 1st test         2w  12/20/99  12/31/99                    I                           EE
64           6.6 Constructs the 1st national test                         3w    115/00   1126/00                                               NCAC,CCECA
55           6.7 Organizes info campaigns on new nati test procedures    12w   1/26/00   4/19/00                                                 DEE
56           6.8 Administers 1st national Gr. 9 test                      Ow    5/3/00    5/3/00                    i_
57           6.9 Analyzes results and prepares report for NCAC           1Ow   5/31i/00    8/9/00
__ _,_,                                        DEE
58           6.10 Administers and reports annual Gr. 9 test to NCAC       4w    5/1/01   5/28/01
_____                                               I~~~~~~~~~~~DEE
59           6.11 Administers and reports annual Gr. 9 test to NCAC       4w    5/1/02   528/02        ,
___                                                           I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DE
60       7 Evaluation of Componenrs Effectiveness                       62.8w   7/10/01   9/20/02
61           7.1 Evaluates the component's effectiveness Gr. 4           12w   7/10/01   10/1/01                                              !DEE
62           7.2 Evaluates components overall effectiveness              12W    7/1/02   9/20/02       In
Learning Assessment Page 3



96      1997        1998   11999   1200-0  -F2001   12002-
ID   Task Name                                                              Duration   start    Finish  03p41 2341p1 p2p3p4lI 2P34lQ1  22p3341C 2p3p4,121p3
TEACHER TRAINING Component                                               313w    912196   8/30/02
I        I Organizational Development                                          21.2w    213197   6130197
2            1.1 Select teacher training institutions to participate in the project & spec  4w    2/3/97   2/28/97  OEd,INPCD
3            1.2 Recruit & engage consultant services                           56w    5S1/97   6/30/97             PMU,INPCD
4            1.3 Organizational planning & management consultant begins work     8w    5/1/97   6/25/97       I  *  INPCD
5            1.4 Develop detailed strategies for in-service teacher re-training program  8.6w  5/1/97   6/30/97     INPCD,TA
6            1.5 Prepares regulations & tech. guidelines for teacher re-training progra  8.6w  5/1/97   6/30/97
Prepares                                                                * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INPCD,Tralning instituttons,TA
7            1.6 Issues regulations & guidelines for teacher re-training         Ow   6/16/97   6/16/97              6/16
8            1.7 Prepare criteria for selection criteria for central trainers   8.6w    5/1/97   6/30/97            INPCD,Cnt trng. institutions,TA
9            1.8 Inform rayon director. of the teacher re-training program & their role i  Ow   5/15/97   5/15/97
10           1.9 Develops selection for criteria for local trainers             8.6w    5/1/97   6/30/97                   T
INPC,TA,Rayon educ. dr
11       2 Preparation of Training Schedules & Programs                        25.8w    611/97  10128197        I
12           2.1 Prepares long-term training plans & detailed training schedule  8.6w    5/11/97   6/30/97
_______     *  ~INIPC6,TA,Trainlng Institutions                             c
13           2.2 Appoints INCPDs program coordinator & central training staff     0w    51197    5/1/97
14           2.3 Prepare training inst. plans, working strategy, & schedule in accorda  8.6w    5/1/97   6/30/97  *  Training insfitutfons,lNPCD
15           2.4 Designates individual rayon training coordinators                Ow    6/2/97    6/2/97             6/2|
16           2.5 Select/designate local trainers in accordance w/ criteria prepared pre  Ow   6/16/97   6/16/97       6/16
17           2.6 Plan & indiate teacher needs assessment prgrm. to identify needs fo  8.6w    5/1/97   6/30/97  ,     tNPCD,TA
18           2.7 Consultant #1 completes assignment                               Ow   6/30/97   6130/97          *  6/30
19           2.8 Develop detailed list & schedule of courses in rayons by year  4.6w     9/1/97   10/1/97     .          Rayon educ. directorates,lNPCD
20           2.9 Rayons plan logistics of teacher training in their rayons        4w   10/1 /97  10/28/97
. | ayon educ. directorates,INPCD
21       3 Development of Teacher Training Curriculum                           123w    912196  1111199    _
22           3.1 Recrud consultant #2 to assist in prepration of teacher training curric  4.2w    9/2/96   9/30/96  | PM  tNPCD
P UI NC D
23           3.2 Consultant #2 begin assistance on curr & materials develt for trainin  Dw   11/3/97   11/3197           11/3
24           3.3 Develops (primary) trng. curriculum & tmg. materials for local teache  2.6w    11/3/97  11/19/97 
Teacher Training Component Page 1



16      1997           1998      1999     2000       2001   1  2002
ID   Task Name                                                             Duration   Start    Finish  Q233p44Qlp234pQ123p4Q1 p2p3p4p1 p2p3p4jQ1 >2p3
25           3.4 Develop (primary) curricula & teaching materials for training local trai  2.4w  11120/97   12/5/97    NP          i
I4NPCD,WGs.'TA
26           3.5 Develop (primary) curricula & teaching materials for training central tr  2w   1218/97  12/19/97
INPCD WGs,Cnti tng. Institutlons,TA
27           3.6 Consultant completes first stage of assignment                 Ow  12/20/97  12/20/97                    12120                          I
28           3.7 Consultant #2 retums to Moldova                                Ow   1/12198   1112/98
_1112
29           3.8 Reruit consultant #3 to assist in preparing teacher tmg. curr. & traini  4.4w    9/1/98   9/30/98     |
30           3.9 Consultant #3 begins work                                     0.2w   11/2/98   11/2/98     i                    |MU,INPCD
31           3.10 Develop (secondary) curri. & teaching materials for tmg. local teac  2.8w   11/2198  11/19/98
32           3.11 Develop (secondary) curri. & teaching materials for trng. local train  2.2w  11/20/98   12/5/98     !,NPCDWGs.TA
33           3.12 Develop (secondary) curri. & teaching materials for tmg. central tra  2.2w   12/7/98  12/21/98                  1'
34           3.13 Consultant #3 completes first stage of assignment             Ow  12/21/98  12/21/98                 j             12121
35           3.14 Consultant #3 retums to Moldova                               Ow   1/11/99   1/11/99
36       4 Training of Central Trainers                                       157w   1/15/98   1/17/01                                                   I
_                                                      -I-  !   !   i   ,   t   to
37           4.1 Provide initial training for core staff of central trainers (primary)  2.4w   1/15/98   1/30/98  ,      INPCDWGsTA
38           4.2 Provide initial training for core staff of central trainers (secondary)  2.2w   1/15/99   1/29/99                   INPCD,WGs,TA
___ _I NPCD,WI
39           4.3 Provide 1999 follow-up training of central trainers (primary)   3d   1/15/99   1/19/99                            | INPCD,WGs
40           4.4 Provide 2000 follow-up training of central trainers (primary)   3d   1/17/00   1/19/00                                        INPCD,WGs
41           4.5 Provide 2001 follow-up training of central trainers (primary)   3d   1/15/01   1/17/01
42           4.6 Provide 2000 follow-up training of central trainers (secondary)  3d   1/17/00   1/19/00                          ,            INPCD,WGs
43           4.7 Provide 2001 follow-up training of central trainers (secondary)  3d   1/101 11/17/01                                                     INPCD,WGs
44       5 Training of Local Trainers                                         165w    212/98   3/30/01
45           5.1 Initial training of local trainers (primary) - 2 week course  8.4w    2/2/98   3/31/98     ij  INPCDWGs,TA
46           5.2 Consultant #2 participates in 1 st 2 wk of trng. local trainers  2w    2/2/98   2/13/98    I          j
I4NPCD,WGs,TA
47           5.3 Consultant #2 completes assignment                             Ow   2/16198   2/16/98                     2116
48           5.4 Initial training of local trainers (secondary) - 2 wk. course  8.6w    2/1/99   3/31/99                              I INPCD,WGs
49           5.5 ConsuKant #3 participates in 1st 2-wk tmg. of local trainers   2w    2/1/99   2/14/99       _                                            _______.
>T
Teacher Training Component Page 2



96       1997       1998   |  1999         2000       2001       2002
ID   Task Name                                                              Duration   Start    Finish   3Q41 C2p3p4a1 2p3p4p12p3p Q4 1234 Q4123Q4Q1p2p3
50           5.6 Consultant #3 completes assignment                               Ow  2V14/99   2/14/99
51           5.7 1999 follow-up training of local trainers (primary) - 1 wk course  8.6w    2/1/99   3/31/99
____                                        _____  _____  _____                          I            *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INPCD,WGs
52           5.8 2000 follow-up training of local trainers (primary) - 1 wk course  8.8w    2/1/00   3/31/00                                     * INPCD,WGs
53           5.9 2001 follow-up tIaining of local trainers (primary) - 1 wk course  8.4w  2/1/01   3/30/01    I                                                INPCIPDGs
53           5.9 2001 follow-up training of local trainers (primary) -  1 wk course  8.4w  21/01   3/30/01
54           5.10 2000 follow-up training of local trainers (secondary) - 1 wk course  8.8w   2V1/00   3/31/00                       |              INC,G!
55           5.11 2001 follow-up training of local trainers (secondary) - 1 wk course  8.4w    2/1/01   3/30/01          I iNPCD                                IC,W
_  INPCD,WGs
56       6 Training of Teachers                                               230.6w     4/1/98   8/30/02                   _
57           6.1 1998 Initial training of primary teachers in Chisinau - 2 wk course  21.6w  4/1/98   8/28/98               -    Rayon educ. directorates,lNPCD,WGs
58           8.2 1999 Initial training of primary teachers in Chisinau - 2 wk course  21.8w    4/1/99   8/30/99  ,                      e         diRayon educ. dIrectorates,WNPCD,WG
59           6.3 1998 Initial training of primary teachers outside Chisinau - 2 wk  cour  21.6w  411198   8128/98           -    Rayon educ. dIrectorates,INPCD,WGs
60           6.4 1999 Initial training of primary teachers outside Chisinau    17.2w     5/3/99   8/30/99     I                      I   *    Rajon educ. directorates,INPCD,WGs
61           6.5 1998 Follow-up training of primary teachers outside Chisinau - 1 wk  8.6w  7/1/98   8/28/98                      I
RayonCI educayo dIedc.rtdirecPoCD,es
62           6.6 1999 Follow-up training of primary teachers outside Chisinau -11 wk  8.w    7/1/99   8/30/99                                             ,    e
RionPCducG,Ry edc.drectorates,NCWG
63           6 .7 2000 Follow-up training of pnima ry teachers outside C his ina u - 1 wk  8 .6w  7/3/00   8/30/00                                    *      lNPC D,WGs ,Rayon educ .
64           6.8 200i1 Follow-up training of primary teachers outside Chisinau - 1 wk  8.6w    7/2/01   8/29/01                                                  *  iNPCD,WGs
65           6.9 1998 Follow-up training of primary teachers in Chisinau - 1  wk cours  8.6w  7/1/98   8/28/98  .
66           6.10 1999 Follow-up training of primary teachers in Chisinau - 1 wk cour  8.6w    7/1/99   8/30/99                                    OW.
_____________________________________________________________  _______                             *INNCD,WGs,Rayon educ. drcoae
67           6.11 2000 Follow-up training of primary teachers in Chisinau - 1 wk cour  8.6w  7/3/00   8/30/00                                   ;         INPCD,WGs,Rayon educ.
68           6.12 2001 Follow-up training of primary teachers in Chisinau -  1 wk cour  8.8w    7/2/01   8/30/01  j                  .                              INiCD,WGs
69           6.13 1999 Initial training of secondary teachers in Chisinau - 1 wk course    17.2w  5/3/99   8/30/99                                             educ.
IN -DWsRy onCeducGsdretoratres      rre
70           6.14 2000 Initial training of secondary teachers in Chisinau - I wk course    17.6w  5/1/00   8/30/00                                       INPCD,WGs,Rayon
71           6.15 2001 Initial training of secondary teachers in Chisinau - 1 wk course    17.6w    5/1/01   8/30/01                 IDuc
72           6.16 1999 Initial training of secondary teachers outside Chisinau - 1 wk c    17.2w    52/3/9   8/30/99                    - INPCD.WGs.Rayon educ. dlrectorates
73           6.17 2000 Initial training of secondary teachers outside Chisinau - 1 wk c    17.6w  5/1/00   8/30/00                                   * jNPCD,WGs,Rayon educ
74           6518 2001 Initial training of secondary teachers osde Chisinau - 1 wk c  17.6w    5/1/1   8/30/01                              -                       INPCD,WGs
T



96       1997   |  1998          1999   |  2000   |  2001           2002
ID   Task Name                                                                 Duration    Start    Finish    341 p2P34p1p2p3fQ4p1p2p3P4p1P2p3p4P1p2p34123
75            6.19 2001 Follow-up training of secondary teachers outside of Chisinau -  8.8w  7/2/01   8/30/01                                                             I
I  I     I                             U~~~~~~~~~~INPICD,WGs
76            6.20 2002 Follow-up training of secondary teachers outside of Chisinau -  8.8w  712/02   8/30/02
77           6.21 2001 Follow-up training of secondary teachers in Chisinau - 3 day c  8.8w  7/2/01   8/30/01                             I                            *  INPCD,WGs
I  I~~~~~~~INC,G
78            6.22 2001 Follow-up training of secondary teachers in Chisinau - 3 day c  8.8w  7/2/02   8/30/02
79       7 Provision of Program Equipment                                           39w     7/1/97   3/30/98
80            7.1 Organize purchase of INCPD equipment INS)                       13.4w     7/1/97   10/1/97            *   PMU,INPCD
81            7.2 Tender for rayon education departs. equipment [ICB]               20w    10/3/97   2/19/98                    1PMU
82            7.3 Delivery of equipment to rayon educ. departments                   4w     3/3/98   3/|t3P01/98                  PU
T0
Teacher Training Component Page 4



6   1   1997   1   1998   1   1999   1   2000   1   2001   1   2002             2003
ID   Task Name                                              Duration   Start    Finish  03I401 0Q2 Q3141 2Q3040Q1 0Q20Q30Q4101 Q203|04|QI 0203041 Q2|0304|1 |Q2|0
TEXTBOOK DEVELOPMENT Component                           365w    912196   8/29103                  j           i            i
1       1 Establishment of Textbook Rental Scheme               52w    9/2196   8/29/97   _
2            1.1 Design of rental scheme                      17.4w    9/2/96  12/31/96          Ed,TA                           |.
3            1.2 Drafts legislation and documentation           13w   10/2/96  12/31/96          EdMoF I                         I
4            1.3 Approval of rental scheme                       4w    2/3/97   2/28/97       l MoEdMoF              !
_ _ _ _  Ior
5            1.4 Develops software for rental system             4w    2/3/97   2/28/97       * M          TA
6            1.5 Publiity campaign for rental sysbm           17.4w    5/1/97   8/29/97               M
.....~~~, campaign   system                                         H~~~ ~~oEd 
7            1.6 Appoint rayons' textbook fund coordinators    4.4w    4/1/97   4/30/97           Rayons             |
8            1.7 Trains educ. directorate & MoEd staff         4.4w    5/1/97   5/30/97
TA
9            1.8 Trains school staff                           6.4w    6/2/97   7/15/97           *TA|
10           1.9 Determines & announces rental fees for Gr. 2 boo  Ow    5/1/97    5/1/97
11           1.10 Appoints Textbook Fund manager                 Ow   4/15/97   4/15/97      I
12           1.11 Appoints Textbook Fund Board                  4.4w    5/1/97    6/1/97
MoEd,MoF
13           1.12 Trains Textbook Fund manager                  4.4w    6/2/97    7/1/97                             1 T
14           1.13 Set up bank account w/ rayon sub-accounts      Ow   6/30/97   6/30/97               6/30
15       2 Operation of Textbook Rental Scheme                321.8w    7/1197   8/29/03                 i _
16           2.1 Transmits 1997proforma invoices to rayons       Ow    7/1/97    7/1/97               7/1
17           2.2 Transmits 1998 proforma invoices to rayons      Ow    7/1/98    7/1/98                          7,1
18           2.3 Transmits 1999 proforma invoices to rayons      Ow    7/1/99    7/1/99
y.711
19           2.4 Transmits 2000 proforma invoices to rayons      Ow    7/3/00    7/3/00                                               A* /
713 
20           2.5 Transmits 2001 proforfna invoices to rayons     Ow    7/2/01    7/2/01                                                       I
21           2.6 Transmits 2002 proforma invoices to rayons      Ow    7/1/02    7/1/02                                                                           7111
22           2.7 Sends 1997 proforma invoices to schools         Ow   7/30/97   7/30/97                7/30
23           2.8 Sends 1998Iproforma invoices to schools         Ow   7/30/98   7/30/98
23           2.8 Sends 1998 proforma invoices to schools         Ow   7/30/98   7/30198                         *7/3D
24           2.9 Sends 1999 profoffmainvoices to schools         Ow   7/30/99   7/30/99      l|                             *73                                                  g
25           2.10 Sends 2000 proforma invoices to schools        Ow   7/31/00   7/31/00                              |                     7/3i
26           2.11 Sends 2001 proforma invoices to schools        Ow   7/30/01   7/30/01                  I
Textbook Production & Distribution component Page 1



96       1997        1998        1999   1   20001   2001             2002   [  2003
ID   Task Name                                             Duration   Start    Finish    JQ4 Ql |Q2|Q3|Q4 Q|2Q34Q1Q2jQ3|Q4jQ1 |Q2|Q3jQ4 Q1 |Q2|Q3|Q4 Q1 |Q2|Q3jQ4|1P2Q
27           2.12 Sends 2002 proforma invoices to schools        Ow   7/30/02   7/30/02
I                             4~~~~~~~~~~~~7130
28           2.13 Starts of Gr. 2 books rental scheme            Ow    9/1/97    9/1/97                 9/1
29           2.14 Collects fees; deposits in bank; submits consolid  9w    9/1/97  10/31/97              Teachers,Rayon educ. directorate
30           2.15 Collects fees; deposits in bank; submits consolid  8.8w    9/1/98  10/30/98                     -                 e
* Teachers,Rayon educ. directorate
31           2.16 Collects fees; deposits in bank; submits consolid  8.8w    9/1/99   11/1/99                                     I * Teachers,Rayon educ. diretorate
32           2.17 Collects fees; deposits in bank; submits consolid  8.8w    9/1/00   11/1/00
_______                                                   * Te~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~achems,Rayo n educ. directorate
33           2.18 Collects fees; deposits in bank; submits consolid  8.8w    9/3/01   1111/01                         I                       |          Teachers,Rayoneduc.
.~~~~~~~~~~~~iahr,ag edc 
34           2.19 Collects fees; deposits in bank; submits consolid  9w    9/2/02   11/1/02
________                                                                    * Te~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~achers,
35           2.20 Prepares detailed & consolidated accounts - 199  11w    9/1/97  11/14/97                      educ. directorate
Rayon oduc.directorate
36           2.21 Prepares detailed & consolidated accounts - 199  10.8w    9/1/98  11/13/98  I           I       *  Rayoneduc.directorate
37           2.22 Prepares detailed & consolidated accounts - 199  10.8w    9/1/99  11/15/99              i           '       *  Rayon educ. directorabett
38           2.23 Prepares detailed & consolidated accounts -200  10.8w    9/1/00  11/15/00
_______                                                    *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hao   Rayon diectoratea.
39           2.24 Prepares detailed & consolidated accounts -200  10.8w    9/3/01  11/15/01                                                           *  Rayoneduc.directora   o
40           2.25 Prepares detailed & consolidated accounts -200  11w    9/2/02  t1/15/02     i
lmayon ed
41           2.26 Submits statements of account to Fund Manager  Ow  11/20/97  11/20/97                               |
~11120i 
42           2.27 Submits statements of account to Fund Manager  Ow  11/20/98  11/20/98       i1112                                                       |
43           2.28 Submits statements of account to Fund Manager  Ow  11/22/99  11122/99                                           1                         t
11122
44           2.29 Submits statements of account to Fund Manager  Ow  11/20/00  11/20/00                               I .                      11*20
45           2.30 Submits statements of account to Fund Manager  Ow  11/20/01  11/20/01                                                                    11m20
46           2.31 SubmPas statements of account to Fund Manager  Ow  11/20/02  11/20/02
47           2.32 Prepares consolidated accounts -1997           6w  11/20/97  12/31/97       i
__________________________________________________                       * ~~~~~Fund manager
48           2.33 Prepares consolidated accounts -19980          6w  11/20/98  12/31980                                                     || Fun manager  j9
49           2.34 Prepares consolidated accounts - 1999          6w  11/22/99  12/31/99
__    _ _                                            *Fundmanager~~~undmanie
51           2.35 Prepares consolidated accounts - 2001          6w  11/20/01 12/31/0                                                                   | Fund  manager 
51           2.36 Prepares consolidated accounts - 2001          6w  11/20/01  12/31/01
__    __                                                                IFund manager~~~~~~~~Fud  ange
52           2.37 Prepares consolidated accounts - 2002          6w  11/20102  12/31/02                                                       jFundm
53           2.38 Reviews & adopts accounts - 1997              4.4w    1/1/98   1/30/98                    Fund Board                                                     _
Textbook Production & Distribution component Page 2



96       1997        1998        1999        2000        2001        2002        2003
ID   Task Name                                              Duration   Start    Finish    Q4  1Q2Q3Q4 Q1 02103|Q4   QQ3Q4Q1Q2Q3|Q4|1Q2|Q31041Q2Q3Q41 Q2Q3
54           2.39 Reviews & adopts accounts - 1998              4.4w    111199    211199                                Fund Board 
65           2.40 Reviews & adopts accounts - 1999              4.4w    1/3100    2/1/00                                          |Fund Board 
58           2.41 Reviews & adopts accounts - 2000              4.4w    1/1/01   1/30/01                  1           i
Fund Board
57           2.42 Reviews & adopts accounts - 2001              4.4w    1/1/02   1/30/02
I                         *~~~~~~~~Fund Board
58           2.43 Reviews & adopts accounts - 2002              4.4w    111/03   1/30/03      i                                                                        u
59           2.44 Submits 1997 no. of students by ctass by school  Ow   10/1/97   10/1/97
60           2.45 Submits 1998 no. of students by class by school  Ow   10/1/98   10/1/98 t                      *  '
0/1
61           2.46 Submits 1999 no. of students by class by school  Ow   10/1)99   10/1199                                        10/1
62           2.47 Submits 2000 no. of students by class by school  Ow   10/2100   10/2/00                                                    1012
63           2.48 Submits 2001 no. of students by class by school  Ow   10/1/01   10/1/01
64           2.49 Submits 2002 no. of students by class by school  Ow   10/1/02   10/1/02
65           2.50 Prepares updated accounts through June 30, 19  2.2w    7/11/98   7/15/98                       u    m       r
______________________________________________  _______                        *Fund manager
66           2.51 Prepares updated accounts through June 30, 19  2.2w    7/1/99   7/15/99                                                                                        t
Fund manager
67           2.52 Prepares updated accounts through June 30, 20  2.2w    7/3/00   7/17/00
68           2.53 Prepares updated accounts through June 30, 20  2.2w    7/2/01   7/16/01                                               , F     manager
69  24erua ac thuJe, 2w /2 10ji           |umaFund manager
69           2.54 Prepares updated accounts through June 30, 20  2.2w    7/1/02   7/11502                             i
I                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~Fund manager
70           2.55 Prepares updated accounts through June 30, 20  2.2w    7/1/03   7/15/03
71           2.56 External audit of textbook fund                4w    8/3/98   8/28/98                                         i
External Auditors,MoF
72           2.57 External audit of textbook fund               4.2w    8/2/99   8/30/99                                          i
73           2.58 External audit of textbook fund               4.4w    aV1/00  8V30'00                                                                 xenlAdtr  o
I         3 ~~~~~~~External Auditors,MoF
73           2.58 External audit of textbook fund               4.4w    8/1/00   8/30/001xera
_______ _______                               *~~~~~~~~~~~~~E.e'na Auditors,MoF'
75           2.60 External audit of textbook fund               4.4w    8/1/02   8/30/02                 I                                                                Aud
.  External 
76           2.61 Extemal audi of textbook fund                 4.2w    8/1/03   8/29/03
77           2.62 TA to fund manager; establish fees for fall 1998;  2.2w    5/1/98   5/15/98                  Fund manager,TA
78           2.63 Recomends fees for Grs. 2 & 3 to MoEd & MoF    Ow   5/15/98   5/15/98                  i
79           2.64 Recomends 1999 fees to MoEd & MoF              Ow   5/15/99   5/15/99                         5/15
80           2.65 Recomends 2000 fees to MoEd & MoF              Ow   5/15/00   5/15/00
Textbook Production & Distribution component Page 3



.6       1997        1998        1999   |   2000        2001        2002        2003
ID   Task Name                                            Duration   start    Finish  Q73Q4010203Q4Q1  2Q3Q4  1Q23Q4Q1IQ21 31Q4   QQ0QQQ                              00
81           2.66 Recomends 2001 fees to MoEd & MoF             Ow   5,15/01   5/i5501                                                               5
82           2.67 Recomends 2002 fees to MoEd & MoF             Ow   5/15/02   5/15/02
83           2.68 Recomends 2003 fees to MoEd & MoF             Ow   5/15/03   5/15/03
84       ~~~2.69 Announces rental fees for Grs. 2 &3for fall 199  Ow   6/15/981 6/15/98                 ,15
85           2.70 Rental scheme applies for G2 & G3 new books   Ow    9/1/98    9/1/98                 I       *  9
86           2.71 Review of a/cs procedures; establish 1999 fees  2w    513/99   5/14199                                 T ,Fund mana Uer
87           2.72 Rental system applies to Grs. 2, 3, 4, & 5    Ow    9/1/99    9/1/99                                        91
88           2.73 TA to fund mgnt; detailed review of system, revis  4.6w    5/1/00   5/31/00                                      IA
89           2.74 Announces rental fees for fall 1999           Ow   6/15/99   6/15/99
_ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _______   *   ~~ ~~~~~~6/15 i
90           2.75 Rental system applies to Grs. 2, 3, 4, 5, & 6  Dw    9/1/00    9/1/00     I           |/,
91           2.76 Orders reprints for Gr. 2 in accordance to availab  Ow   10/2/00   10/2/00
92           2.77 Pays reprints for Gr. 2 per MoEd instructions  39w   10/2/00   6/29/01
93           2.78 Announces rental fees for fall 2000           Ow   6/15/00   6/15/00                  |
94           2.79 Announces rental fees for fall 2001           Ow   6/15/01   6/15/01                             .
95           2.80 Announces rental fees for fall 2002           Ow   6/17/02   6/17/02                                                                         6/171
96           2.81 Announces rental fees for fall 2003           Ow   6/16/03   6/16/03                  l
97           2.82 TA to fund manager; review of accounts, proced  2w    5/3/99   5/14/99                           I  
98           2.83 TA to fund management, review accounts, proce  2w    7/2/01   7/13/01
99           2.84 Rental system applies to Grs. 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, & 7  Ow    9/3/01    9/3/01
100          2.85 Rental system applies to Grs. 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7. 8,  Ow    9/3/02    9/3/02
101      3 Procurement of Equipment for Rayons (Computers)      8w    7/2/97   8/26/97
102      4 Procurement of Textbooks for Grs. 3 & 4           144.4w   12/2/96    9/7/99                             _______
103          4.1 Prepares prequalifications, SBDs, & SPN        4w   12/2/96  12/27/96     | P U
104          4.2 Transmittal of docs to WB                     4.2w  12/13/96   1/10/97
105          4.3 Bank review of docs                            3w   1/13/97   1/31/97      |
106          4.4 Amendments and Bank's "no objection"           2w    2/3/97   2/14/97      IN
107          4.5 Printing of prequali docs                       lw   2/17/97   2/21/97        P
Textbook Production & Distribution component Page 4



96       1997   j 1998           19          200     I 2001          2002   12003
ID   Task Name                                              Duration   Start    Finish  03412030401 Q2 Q3 Q40Q1  2Q32Q43 Q1 0120Q3 Q4 01 Q20Q30Q40Q1 021030Q4010 20Q3
108          4.6 Issue Invitation and publication of SPN          Od   2125197   2/25197      ii 2/25
109          4.7 Appointment of Bid Evaluation Committee (BEC)    2w    2/3/97   2/14/97                  I P
110          4.8 Training seminar on prequa to publishers, MoEd,  1w    3/3/97    3/8/97          TA
111          4.9 Preparation of prequali docs by bidders for Grs 3  4w    3/3/97   3/28/97        Bidders
112          4.10 Submission of prequali responses                Ow   3/28/97   3/28/97
3/28
113          4.11 Evaluation of prequali for Gr. 3              2.4w    4/1/97   4/16/97           BEC,A
114          4.12 Evaluation of prequali for Gr. 4              3.4w    4/1/97   4/23/97           BEC,TA
115  4.13  .B .no oeito.u9B
115          4.13 WB's 'no objection' to prequali reportforGr. 3  1.2w   4/18/97   4/25/97                                        i
116      ~~~4.14 WB's 'noobjection' to prequali report for Gr. 4  1.2w   4/25S97    5/2/9     |W 
117          4.15 Bid docs available for prequalif for Gr. 3      Ow   4/28/97   4/28/97            4/28
118          4.16 Appointment of Manuscript Evaluation Committe   3w   4/14/97    5/2/97              PMU
119          4.17 Training of BEC, MEC & prequalified Grs 3/4 pu  1w    5/5/97   5/11197          LTA
120          4.18 Prepares Gr. 3 proposals                        8w   5/12/97    7/4/97         ilPre-qualifled bidders                      jj0
121          4.19 Opening of Gr. 3 bids                           Ow    7/4/97    7/4/97
122          4.20 MECs & BEC evaluate Gr. 3 bids                  2w    7/7/97   7/18/97
123           4.21 Bank Review of Bid Evaluation Report           2w   7/22/97    8/4/97              BEC.| C
124          4.22 Awarding of Contract(s)                         2w    8/5/97   818i7 8M'
____  ____               P~~~IMU
125          4.23 On-job-training for contracted publishers       3w    9/1/97   9/19/97
126          4.24 Production of Gr. 3 books & guides           37.6w    9/1/97   5/20/98                       Contracted pubishers
127          4.25 Delivery of Gr. 3 books to rayons               4w    611/98   6/26/98      ij                Mold Didactlca
128          4.26 Delivery of Gr. 3 books to schools              5w   7/13/98   8/14/98                          Ry
i              ~~~Rayons,
129          4.27 Training seminar for MEC/BEC, prequali Gr. 4 p  1.5w   7/21/97   7/30/97    i     |A
130          4.28 Gr 4 bid docs issued to prequali bidders        Ow    8/1197    8/1/97              8,1
131          4.29 Prepare Gr. 4 bids                            24w    8/1/97   1/15/98       I        Prequallfled bidders
132          4.30 Bid opening for Gr. 4                          Ow   1/15/98   1/15/98                               |
133          4.31 Evaluate Gr. 4 bids                            2w   1/16/98   1/29/98                  II-1MECBECTA
134          4.32 Review of Gr. 4 bid evaluation report          2w   1/30/98   2/12/98                     E                                                                   X
Textbook Production & Distribution component Page 5



_.96   ~   1997      1998        1999   12000            2001   1 2002          2003
tD   Task Name                                            Duration   Start    Finish   3104 Q1Q2|Q3|Q4 Q11|2|Q3|4  01 |Q230401020 |     Q4 Q102103104Q 102034 1      1M02 
135          4.33 Awards Gr. 4 books contracts                  2w   2/13/98   2/26/98                                          ,
136          4.34 Signing of Gr. 4 books contracts               Ow   2/26/98   2/26/98
137          4.35 Prepare final Write Gr. 4 manuscripts         32w   2127198   1018/98
_____                          _______ _______                  I                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~otrctdpub'lishers '
138          4.36 Submits finished manuscripts for MoEd approval  Ow   10/8/98   10/8/98
139          4.37 Review manuscripts                           2.5w   10/9/98  10/27/98                 |MEC
140          4.38 Revise Gr. 4 manuscripts                      4w  10/28/98  11/24/98      i
l  |Contracted publishers
141          4.39 Production of Gr. 4 books & guidelines        35w  11/25/98   7/27(99                                       onttacted publishers
_____                                 _______    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o~ ~ ~~o trcedpu lsh r
142          4.40 Delivery of Gr. 4 books to rayon               3w   7/28/99   8/17/99                                       old  ldactica
143          4.41 Delivery of Gr. 4 books to schools            3w   8/18/99    9/7/99                  ,
144      5 Procurement of Textbooks/Guides for Grs 5 & 6      141w   1211/97   8/11100
145          5.1 Preparation of prequali docs & notices          4w   12/1/97  12/26/97
_.imu
146          5.2 Transmittal of prequali docs & notices to Bank  2w  12/29/97    1/9/98
147          5.3 Bank review of prequali docs                    3w   1/12/98   1/30/98
148          5.4 Amendments and Bank's ;no objection"            1w    2/2/98    2/6/98
149          5.5 Printing of prequali docs                       1w    219/98   2/13/98
150          5.6 Issue Invitation and publication of SPN         Od   2/16/98   2/16/98                   P16
151          5.7 Appointment of BEC                             2w   1/20/98    2/2/98                  : pMU
152          5.8 Training seminar (Grs. 5 & 6) on prequalifi MoEd,  1w   2/16/98   2/20/98  i1TA                   .
153          5.9 Preparation of prequali docs Grs 5 & 6 by bidders  4w   2/23/98   3/20/98
154          5.10 Submission of prequali responses               Ow   3/20/98   3/20/98     ,.3,2;
155          5.11 Evaluation of prequali responses Gr. 5         2w   3/23/98    4/3/98                      EC
156          5.12 Evaluation of prequali responses Gr. 6        2w   3/23/98    4/3/98                       EC
157          5.13 Bank's 'no objection" to prequalifi evaluation rep  4w    4/6/98    5/1/98
158          5.14 Bank's 'no objection' to prequalifi evaluation rep  4w    4/6/98    5/1/98
159          5.15 Bid docs available for prequali bidders for Gr. 5  Ow    5/1/98    5/1/98
160          5.16 Appointment of Manuscript Evaluation Committe  2w   4/15/98   4/28/98
161          5.17 Training seminar (Grs. 5 & 6) for BEC, MECs &  2w    5/6/98   5/19/98     ,
Textbook Production & Distribution component Page 6



96       1997        1998        1999   1   2000        2001        2002        2003
ID   Task Name                                            Duration   Start    Finish  2340102|3|Q4|Q 1| Q34  1 |2 |3|Q4lQ1,Q2|Q3|Q4ZZQ 1203Q4 0Q10Q21030Q4Q 1020Q3
162          5.18 Preparation of Gr. 5 proposals by qualified bidde  8w   5/20/98   7/14198                    Pre-qualified bidders
183          5.19 Opening of Gr 5 bids                           Od   7/14198   7/14/98                         ,
7114
164          5.20 Evaluate Gr. 5 bids                            2w   7/15/98   7/2898                             I
S~EC MEC TA
165          5.21 WB review of Gr. 5 bid evaluation report       2w   7/29/98   8/11/98
166          5.22 Awarding of Contract(s) Gr. 5                  2w   8/12/98   8/25/98     I
167          5.23 Production of Gr. S textbooks/guides          36w   8/26/98    5/4/99                           I
ontracted publishers
168          5.24 Delivery of Gr. 5 books to rayon              4w    5/5/99    6/1/99                                   Mold Didactica
169          5.25 Delivery of Gr. 5 books to schools            4w    6/2/99   6/29/99
170          5.26 Bid docs available for prequali bidders for Gr. 6  Ow    514/98    5/4/98
171          5.27 Preparation of Gr. 6 proposals by qualified bidde  24w    5/4/98  10/16/98
172          5.28 Opening of Gr 6 bids                           Od  10/16/98  10116/98                          A9
173          5.29 Evaluate Gr. 6 bids                            3w  10/19/98   11/6/98                 I |
174          5.30 WB review of Gr. 6 bid evaluation report      2w   11/9/98  11120198                  |          I
175          5.31 Awarding of Contract(s) Gr. 6                  2w  11/23/98   12/4/98
176          5.32 Signing of contracts for Gr. 6 books/guides    Ow   12/4/98   12/4/98                           4h12/4
177          5.33 Prepare final Gr. 6 manuscripts              36w   12/7/98   8/13/99 9                i                   Contracted publshers
178          5.34 Submits finished Gr. 6 manuscripls for MoEd ap  Ow   8/13/99   8/13/99
179          5.35 Review Gr. 6 manuscripts                       3w   8/16/99    9/3/99                                     MEC
180          5.36 Revise Gr. 6 manuscripts                      5w    9/6/99   10/8/99
181          5.37 Production of Gr. 6 textbooks/guides          36w  10/11/99   6/16/00 1                                             Contracted publshers
182          5.38 Delivery of Gr. 6 books to rayon              4w   6/19/00   7/14/00                                                      Didactica
_______    _______  _______  I                          ~~~~~~~~MoldDda tc
1i83         5.39 Delivery of Gr. 6 books to schools            4w   7/17/00   UlO1/00                              |t,
184      6 Procurement of TextbookslGuides for Gr 7          143.2w   12/19  28 82U01 01yons
185          6.1 Preparation of prequali docs & notices        4.2w   12/1/98  12/29/98                              PMUTA
186          6.2 Transmittal of prequali docs to Bank          1.2w    1/1/99   1/10/99     I                                                                                NAPMU
187          6.3 Bank review of prequali docs                   4w   1/11199    2/5/99                             v,t       
188          6.4 Amendments and Bank's 'no objection'           2w    2/8/99   2/20/99
Textbook Production & Distribution component Page 7



6       1997        1998        1999   1  2000         2001   1   2002   1  2003
ID   Task Name                                            Duration   Start    Finish    Q4  1l 02JQ3JQ4 Q1 0Q2030Q4 01 2JQ30Q4JQ1 JQ2Q3JQ4JQ1 121031Q,|0102103104  1 Q20Q3
189          6.5 Printing of prequali docs                    1.2w   2122/99    3/1/99                            |
190          6.6 Issue Invitation and publication of SPN        Od    3/1/99    3/1/99                 |3
191          6.7 Appoints BEC for Gr. 7                       2.4w    3/99   3/18/99       I                           MU
192          6.8 Preparation of Gr 7 prequali docs by bidders  4.2w    3/5/99    4/2/99                                3
Bidders
193          6.9 Appoints MEC for Gr. 7                         3w    3/2/99   3/22/99                I              IiMU
194          6.10 Submission of Gr. 7 prequali responses        Ow    4/5/99    4/5/99
195          6.11 Evaluation of Gr. 7 prequali responses        2w    4/6/99   4/19/99     .                           ,BEC
196          6.12 Bank's 'no objection' to prequalifi evaluation rep  2w   4/20/99    5/3/99                           WB
197          6.13 Bid docs available for Gr. 7 prequalif bidders  Ow    5/3/99    5/3/99                                  3              |
198          6.14 Preparation of Gr 7 proposals by qualified bidder    24.4w    5/4/99  10/20/99
200  6.16 Evaluate Or. 7Ibid3.2w10/22/99rbidders
199          6.15 Opening of Bids for Gr. 7                     Od  10/20/99  10/20/99                                    *10/20
200          6.16 Evaluate Gr. 7bids                          32w  tl)/22/99  11/12/99                 !|eC E                                                               i
201          6.17 Bank Review of Bid Evaluation Report          1w  11/16/99  11/22/99
202          6.18AwardingofContract(s)forGr7                  2.8w  11/23/99  1210/99                  F                                 |
203          6.19 Write Gr. 7 manuscripts                    37.4w  12/13/99   8/29/00     i|_                                       olxrce pbihr
204          6.20 Submits finished Gr. 7 manuscripts for MoEd ap  Ow   8/29/00   8/29/00   .           j          jG o
205          6.21 Review Gr. 7 manuscripts                     3w   8/30/00   9/19/00      .
206          6.22 Revise Gr. 7 manuscripts                      5w   9/20/00  10/24/00                                                   |
207          6.23 Production of Gr. 7 textbooks/guides         36w  10/25/00    7/3/01                                                          Gontracted publishers
208          6.24 Delivery of Gr. 7 books to rayon             4w    7/4/01   7/31/01                                                            M   Diatc
:                                     eM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~old Didactica
209          6.25 Delivery of Gr. 7 books to schools           4w    8/1101   8/28/01
210      7 Procurement of Textbooks/Guides for Grm 8 & 9    142.6w   12/1/99   8/23/02
211          7.1 Preparation of prequali docs & notices         4w   12/1/99  12/28/99     F                                   PMU
212          7.2 Transmittal of prequali docs & notices to Bank  1w    1/5/00   1/11/00                                       4.
213          7.3 Bank review of prequali docs                 3.6w   1/12/00    2/4/00
214          7.4 Amendments and Bank's no objection"           2w    217/00   220/100
215          7.5 Printing of prequali docs                     1w   2/24/00    3/1/00      .PMU                                           __Z
Textbook Production & Distribution component Page 8



96       1997        1998   |   1999          2000       2001    |   2002   1  2003
ID   Task Name                                              Duration   Start    Finish   30Q11 0203 401 |020Q3 Q4  102|Q3|Q     411Q 2Q3lQ40 10        Q2 Q3Q41  3      1 1Q2103
216           7.6 Issue Invitation and publication of SPN         Od    3/1/00    3/1/00                                                                  i
217           7.7 Appointment of BEC                              2w    3/6100   3/17/00
218           7.8 Preparation of prequali docs by bidders         4w    3/6/00   3/31/00      i                       |IBldders
219           7.9AppointmentofMECforGrs. 8& 9                     3w    3/1/00   3/21/00                              I I
220           7.10 Submission of prequali docs                    Ow   3/31/00   3/31/00
221           7.11 Evaluation of prequali responses               3w    4/3/00   4/21/00                                                      |
~EC
222           7.12 Bank's 'no objection" to prequatifi evaluation  2w   4/24/00    5/5/0      i
223           7.13 Bid docs available                             Ow    5/5/00    5/5/00
224           7.14 Preparation of proposals by qualified bidders  24w    5/8/00  10/20/00
re-quaiftied bidders
225           7.15 Opening of Bids                                Od  10/20/00  10/20/00      t           I10120
226           7.16 Evaluates Grs. 8 & 9 bids                      4w  10/23/00  11/17/00                                                    I  EC,BEC
227           7.17 Bank Reviewv of Bid Evaluation Report          2w  11/20/00   12/1/00i
228           7.18 Awarding of Contract(s)                        2w   12/4/00  12V15/00
229           7.19 Write Grs. 8 & 9 manuscripts                  36w  12/18/00   8/24/01
230           7.20 Submits finished Grs. 8 & 9 manuscripts for MoE  ow   8/24/01   8/24/01                                                    I  i8/24
231           7.21 Review Grs. 8/9 manuscripts                    3w   8/27/01   9/14/01
232           7.22 Revise Grs. 8/9 manuscripts                    5w   9/17/01  10/19/01
233           7.23 Production of Grs 8 & 9 textbooks/guides      36w  10/22/01   6/28/02      i                                                         _
_____                                                                                                                   Cont~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~racted pub
234           7.24 Delivery of Grs. 8 & 9 books to rayon          4w    7/1/02   7/26/02                  I                       I                               Mold Didactic
235           7.25 Delivery of Grs. 8 & 9 books to schools        4w   7/29/02   8/23/02      i                        _           _ I_______'i
Textbook Production & Distribution component Page 9



- 99 -
ANNEXX
Page 1 of 2
MOLDOVA GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Project Monitoring Indicators
1.    The PMU would be in charge of regular project monitoring. Monitoring reports would be
prepared based on three sets of indicators: (i) input indicators, (ii) process indicators, and (iii) output
indicators. Project input indicators would include loan and counterart funds used compared to budget,
equipment acquired, technical assistance and training inputs. Process indicators would monitor
progress in key project implementation processes, based on the implementation plan. A detailed
format for monitoring input and process indicator monitoring, acceptable to the Bank, will be
contained in the implementation manual. Output indicators to be monitored are as follows:
Project Output Indicators
At        Last       This       Project
Component/Indicator                Appraisal   Review     Review    Completion
Curriculum Development
- National Curriculum Regulatory Document Adopted    0                                 1
- draft curricula completed
o primary                                        14                                33
o secondary                                     19                                101
- consultations held
o primary                                        0                                 23
o secondary                                      0                                 74
- curricula approved and adopted
o prirmary                                       14                                33
o secondary                                     19                                101
Textbooks1
- invitations to submit textbook proposals issued    0                                 7
- textbook proposals approved                        0                                 95
- textbook titles delievered to schools              0                                 95
- textbook/student ratio for new books              NA                                 I
- of grades covered by book rental scheme            0                                 9
- % of expected fee amount collected (net of subsidies  -                             100
to needy families)
Learning Assessment
- baseline survey of student achievement grade 6     0                                 1
- follow-up survey of student achievement grade 6    0                                 1
- assement objectives in accordance with curricula
formulated
o for primary school grades 1-4                  0                                 4
o for secondary school grades 5-6                0                                 2
The number of textbook titles may need to be reduced downward if textbook prices increase by more than
what is allowed for by price contingencies.



- 100 -
ANNEX XI
Page 2 of 2
Al        Last       Tiis        Proec
Component/Indicator                 Appraisal   Revi        Review    Completion
o for secondary school grades 7-9                  0                                  3
- teacher supporting materials on assessment developed
o forprimary,school                                0                                   1
o for secondary school                             0                                   1
- new national examinations for grade 4 carried out    0                                  4
- evaluation report for grade 4 examinations submitted  0                                 4
to MOE
- new national examinations for grade 9 carried out    0                                  3
- evaluation report for grade 9 examinations submitted  0                                 3
to MOE
Teacher Re-Training
- initial training courses held for
o central trainers primary                         0                                   1
o central trainers secondary                       0                                  6
o local trainers primary                           0                                   7
o local trainers secondary                         0                                  59
o teachers primary                                 0                                 260
o teachers secondary                               0                                 1347
- refresher training courses held for
o local trainers primary                           0                                  21
o local trainers secondary                         0                                 177
o teachers primary                                 0                                 520
o teachers secondary                               0                                 1347
- teachers trained in initial course
o primary                                          0                                 6,000
o secondary                                        0                                33,000
- teachers trained in refreshers course
o primary                                          0                                12,000
o secondary                                        0                                33,000



- 101 -
ANNEX XI
Page 1 of 2
MOLDOVA GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Project Monitoring Indicators
1.    The PMU would be in charge of regular project monitoring. Monitoring reports would be
prepared based on three sets of indicators: (i) input indicators, (ii) process indicators, and (iii) output
indicators. Project input indicators would include loan and counterart funds used compared to budget,
equipment acquired, technical assistance and training inputs. Process indicators would monitor
progress in key project implementation processes, based on the implementation plan. A detailed
format for monitoring input and process indicator monitoring, acceptable to the Bank, will be
contained in the implementation manual. Output indicators to be monitored are as follows:
Project Output Indicators
At        Last       This       Project
Component/Indicator                Appraisal   Review     Review    Completion
Curriculum Development
- National Curriculum Regulatory Document Adopted    0                                 1
- draft curricula completed
o primary                                        14                                33
o secondary                                     19                                101
- consultations held
o primary                                        0                                 23
o secondary                                      0                                 74
- curricula approved and adopted
o primary                                        14                                33
o secondary                                     19                                101
Textbooks'
- invitations to submit textbook proposals issued    0                                 7
- textbook proposals approved                        0                                 95
- textbook titles delievered to schools              0                                 95
- textbook/student ratio for new books              NA                                 1
- of grades covered by book rental scheme            0                                 9
- % of expected fee amount collected (net of subsidies  -                             100
to needy families)
Learning Assessment
- baseline survey of student achievement grade 6     0                                 1
- follow-up survey of student achievement grade 6    0                                 1
- assement objectives in accordance with curricula
formulated
o for primary school grades 1-4                  0                                 4
o for secondary school grades 5-6                0                                 2
l The number of textbook titles may need to be reduced downward if textbook prices increase by more than
what is allowed for by price contingencies.



- 102 -
ANNEX XI
Page 2 of 2
Al        Lst        This       projec
Component/Indicator                Appraisal   Reviw      Revi       Completion
o for secondary school grades 7-9                0                                  3
- teacher supporting materials on assessment developed
o for primary school                             0                                  1
o for secondary school                           0                                  1
- new national examinations for grade 4 carried out  0                                 4
- evaluation report for grade 4 examinations submitted  0                              4
to MOE
- new national examinations for grade 9 carried out  0                                 3
- evaluation report for grade 9 examinations submitted  0                              3
to MOE
Teacher Re-Training
- initial training courses held for
o central trainers primary                       0                                  1
o central trainers secondary                     0                                 6
o local trainers primary                         0                                 7
o local trainers secondary                       0                                 59
o teachers primary                               0                                260
o teachers secondary                             0                                1347
- refresher training courses held for
o local trainers primary                         0                                 2 1
o local trainers secondary                       0                                177
o teachers primary                               0                                520
o teachers secondary                             0                                1347
- teachers trained in initial course
o primary                                        0                                6,000
o secondary                                      0                               33,000
- teachers trained in refreshers course
o primary                                        0                               12,000
o secondary                                      0                               33,000



- 103 -
ANNEXXI
Page 1 of 1
MOLDOVA GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Supervision Plan
FY              Staffing                 Missions           SW          SW        Total
on missions    other      SW
1997   Task Manager                 Project Launch           4            6         10
Procurement Specialist       Workshop                 1.5         0.5        2
Disbursement Specialist                               1.5         0.5        2
FY Subtotal                                                                  14
1998   Task Manager                  Supervision              6          4          10
Gen. Ed. Spec (Teacher Tr. and   Missions Oct. 97      5                     5
Curriculum Dev't)            and Jan. 98
Textbook Specialist                                   4                      4
Assessment Specialist                                  3                     3
._____ FY Subtotal                                                                   22
1999  Task Manager                  Supervision               5           3         8
Gen. Education. Specialist   Missions July 98          5                     5
Assessment Specialist        and Jan. 99              2.5                   2.5
Textbook Specialist                                   2                      2
Textbook Finance Specialist                           2.5                   2.5
FY Subtotal                                                                 20
2000   Task Manager                  Mid-Term Review          5           3         8
Gen. Education Specialist    Mission July 99           5                     5
Assessment Specialist         Supervision Mission      2                     2
Textbook Specialist          Jan. 2000                 5                     5
FY Subtotal                                   _                              18
2001   Task Manager                  Supervision              5           2         7
Gen. Education Specialist    Missions July 2000        5                     5
Assessment Specialist        and Jan. 2001            2.5                   2.5
Textbook Specialist                                   2.5                   2.5
FY Subtotal                                                                  17
2002   Task Manager                  Supervision              5           2         7
Gen. Education Specialist    Missions July 01         2.5                   2.5
Assessment Specialist        and Jan. 02              2.5                   2.5
Textbook Specialist                                    5                     5
.____ FY Subtotal                                                                    17
2003   Task Manager                  Project Completion      2.5          3        5.5
Gen. Ed. Specialist          Review Mission           2.5         2         4.5
July 2002
._____ FY Subtotal                                                                   10



Republic of Moldova
GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
1         ~     ~11       11              11      ~          11111
Procurement Packages and Schedules
Milestone Dates
Total Cost    Procurement   Invitation to       Issuance of    Submission of   Signing of    Completion
Patkage                        (US$ Minlion)     Method       Prequalification   Invitation to Bid  Bids       Contracts    of Package
1.   Go_                                                                            __                  __                   __                  _
1.1 Textbooks & Teacher Guide: Gr. 3                  $0.8            NCB            Apr-97           Jun-97          Jul-97        Aug-97        Aug-98
1.2  Textbooks & Teacher Guide: Gr. 4                 $1.0            NCB            Apr-97           Jun-97          Jan-98        Feb-98        Sep-99
1.3 Textbooks & Teacher Guide: Gr. 5                  $1.4            NCB            Feb-98          May-98           Jul-98        Aug-98        Jun-99
1.4 Textbooks & Teacher Guide: Gr. 6                  $1.5            NCB            Feb-98          May-98           Oct-98        Nov-98        Aug-00
1.5 Textbooks & Teacher Guide: Gr. 7                  $1.7            NCB            Mar-99          May-99           Oct-99        Dec-99        Aug-01
1.6 Textbooks & Teacher Guide: Or. 8                  $1.7            NCB            Mar-00          May-0            Oct -00       Dec0          Aug-02
1.7 Textbooks & Teacher Guide: Gr. 9                  $1.7            NCB            Mar-00          May-00           Oct-00        Dec-00        Aug-02
1.8  Computer Systems (4 pkgs)                        $0.1             NS                                             Jul-97        Jul-97        Jul-99
1.9 Computer Systems (no later than Mar 1998)         $0.2             is                                             Jul-97        Sep-97        Oct-97
1.10 Office Equipment & Supplies (6 pkgs.)            $0.1             NS                                             Jul-97        Jul-97        Dec-01
1.11  Photocopiers & Projectors                       $0.4            ICB                             Oct-97          Dec-97        Feb-98        Mar-98
1.12 Training Equipment and Supplies                  $0.0             NS                                             Jan-98        Feb-98        Feb-98        o
1.13 Tech. Equipment for Pilot Schools (2 pkgs.)      $0.2             IS                                             Dec-98        Jan-99        Feb-98
2. Consultant Services
2.1 Curriculum Development & Subj. Matter Specialists  $0.1        Individuals                        Ju1-97          Sep-97        Oct-97        Sep-98
2.2 Teacher Training Component                        $0.1             SL                             Jul-97    ___  Aug-97         Sep-97        Oct-98
2.3 Learning Assessment Component (pref w/ twinning)  $0.3             SL                             Dec-97          Feb-98        Mar-98        Dec-00
2.4 Textbook Development Component                    $0.2             SL                             Jun-97          Jul-97        Sep-97        Dec-01
2.4 Project Implementation Adviser                    $0. 2        Individual/SL                      Jun-97          Jul-97        Aug-97        Dec-01
3. TraininY. FelloWShips, and Studies
3.1 Training and Fellowships                          $2.6        Individuals/SL                      Jul-97                      __Sep-02
3.2 Studies                                           $0.3             SL                             Mar-98          Jul-98                      Sep-00
4. Mcaiuw                                                                       _                            _
4.1 Recurrent Project Management Costs                $0.1             NS                             Jul-97                                      Dec-02
4.2 Curr. Dev't Costs & Publ. Consultations           $0.1             NS                             Jul-97                                      Sep-99
Note: There will be 95 contracts for textbooks on the average costing less than US$300,000 or equivalent per contract.                                        IV_
Training and studies contracts will be awarded through competition. (See para. 3.10)  ||                                   ___a_                           X
o 



- 105 -                               ANNEXI
Page 1 of 1
MOLDOVA GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT
List of Selected Documents in the Project File
1.   Assessment of Curriculum and Instructional Materials, Consultant Report, by John Evans
and Alexandru Crisan, February 1996.
2.   Curriculum Development Component, Preparation Report, by John Evans and Alexandru
Crisan, April 1996.
3.   Curriculum Development Component - Pre-appraisal Mission Report, by Gert Van den
Brink, June 1996.
4.   Learning Assessment Component, Preparation Report, by Johanna Crighton, May, 1996.
5.   Learning Assessment Component, Pre-Appraisal Mission Report, by Adrian Stoica, June,
1996.
6.   Teacher Retraining Component, Preparation Report, by John Evans and Alexandru Crisan,
June, 1996.
7.   Teacher Retraining Component, Pre-Appraisal Mission Report, by Lloyd Briggs, June
1996.
8.   Textbook Component, Preparation Report, by Carmelle Denning, April, 1996.
9.   Textbook Component, Pre-appraisal Mission Report, by Carmelle Denning, June 1996.
10. Textbook Financing Scheme, Preparation Report, by Chris Conolly Smith (forthcoming).
11. Textbook Development Component: Draft Procurement Documents for Grade 3
Textbooks, July 1996.
12. Textbook Development Component: Draft Procurement Documents for Grade 4 Textbooks
(forthcoming).
13. Ministry of Education of the Republic of Moldova, Education Law, 1995.
14. Ministry of Education of the Republic of Moldova, Conception Concerning the
Development of Education in the Republic of Moldova, 1994.
15. Ministry of Education of the Republic of Moldova, National Program for Education
Development, 1995-2000 (old version, new draft under preparation).
16. Detailed Design of the Textbook Financing Scheme (Rental Scheme), by Chris Conolly-
Smith, September 27, 1996.
17.  Proposal Information and Terms of Reference for Project Technical Assistance.






MAP SECTION






IBRD 28265
t  28'                             '~ <                   MOLDOVA
To Nei,rov                                        GENERAL EDUCATION
MogiI6v-         U  K  R A  I N  E                            PROJECT
N                       ~~~~~~~~~~~PodoI'skiyPR                                               JC
C0    SELECTED CITIES
\<,*    *NATIONAL CAPITAL
RIVERS
-48'                                                                                     8
48 _X ~~~~~~~Riscan > 48
- -----r,- RAILROADS
/     <  t          Flor<Q+/>< t-5\~~~~~F
4   A t  <       X                  ,    /                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~ROADS
.\  k  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,Rb                i
KILOMETERSRezina                                                                     INTERNATIONAL
^Xf   pt  <                      ' \    !                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~BOUNDARIES
o  25  5  FTesti           h- \
ood LoostJ) ot                                                      f The Wodd bon
ls                          i~~~~~~~~ ~~~~Orhei                         d-taS          =
X,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ipy -sRa   t-'                                   P. -  
*,<~~~~~;cesti   ~    ~     Gr ori  i"                        ---
p       /    \                         y   8    Q ncesi  Bend e
To H-sC       I    S        C~        Causeni_                 |
)    /    a    \r   strov~~~~~~~~~~nstr>
R 0    M A N I A
MILES~~~~~~~~~~
C           |   &    ) nEs~~~~~~~T Ad-si                T. Totorbuoy   
-46''                                                              /Cai-6 .            U  K  R A  I N  E                               46
cohula       (t           
Vulcanesti]_                                      S        2
_f  (  /XEX \ IToSo1grr.d                    |     0/
Jurdiju esi   J I       ;B X8L AC K
28                                                                3
Galati                                      onu e                         S - /   ~     5 E A
KILOMETERS                     ;      [   '\L/       _       
0         25         50         75            T. 8ucrrs-               )S        
2                     .  a~~~~~~~nd c-ntno _     2ti
0                25                50.,_ 
MILES--
28'                                     --                           30'
APRIL 1 997









IMAGING
Report No.:         15967   MD
Type:     SAR



