Report No. PIC3119
Project Name                   Moldova-General Education
Region                         Europe and Central Asia
Sector                         Education
Project ID                     MDPA8558
Borrower                       Republic of Moldova
Implementing Agency            Ministry of Education
1 Marii Adunari Nationale Square
277033 Chisinau, Moldova
Mr. Simion Musteata
First Deputy Minister of Education
Tel. No.: (373-2) 233 519
Ms. Ludmila Stepan
Project Director
Tel. No.: (373-2) 232 464
Fax No.: (373-2) 233 474
Date This PID Prepared         November 19, 1996
Date Initial PID Prepared      December 12, 1995
Appraisal Date                 October 15, 1996
Projected Board Date           March 27, 1997
Environmental Category         C
A.   Country and Sector Background
1.   Moldova has been pursuing quite successful structural reform and
stabilization policies since 1993. Despite a massive terms of trade
shock, ethnic conflict and a series of natural disasters, this small and
densely populated rural country has made significant strides towards a
market economy. Restructuring was associated with a sharp drop in real
wages and fall in employment in the formal sector. Between July 1993
and July 1994, the number of paid workers fell by 6.4w in the economy as
a whole, and by 14t in industry.   Although registered open unemployment
remains low, labor hoarding has increased significantly.
2.   The Bank's country assistance strategy initially focused on a
response to the drought of 1992 (a loan of US$ 26 million), followed by
a Rehabilitation Loan (US$60 million) and a Structural Adjustment Loan
(US$60 million) in the period 1993-95. Now, that the framework for
structural reforms is largely in place, the focus of Bank lending is
shifting to priority investment operations with approval of the Pre-
Export Guarantee Facility (US$30 million), Agriculture Project (US$10
million), Private Sector Development Project (US$35 million), and Energy
Project (US$10 million). The Government has also indicated its interest
in proceeding with other projects in the social sectors.
3.   Although reforms are planned in all social sectors, the degree to
which these changes are embedded in a well-defined long-term strategy



varies. Strategic reform plans are furthest advanced in the education
sector. The recently adopted education law provides a good framework
for sectoral reforms and detailed programs to help operationalize this
framework are already under preparation. There has also been progress
in managing labor market policies which now include some active measures
such as job counseling and retraining programs, often with the
involvement of private providers. In the health sector, the new law is
an ambitious attempt to accelerate reforms, but it has not yet been
followed by any specific reform action plans which are needed to
increase efficiency and put financing on a sounder basis. In the social
security area, specific reform plans which would aim at combining a
targeted social safety net with mobilization of private savings through
supplementary pensions are under development.
4.   There is a substantial need for external assistance in all of these
areas. Taking into account the degree of preparation of reform plans
and foreign assistance already in place in various parts of the social
sectors, the education sector appears to be the most suitable choice for
Bank-support at this stage. Government has specifically requested Bank
assistance in the sector and the proposed approach, outlined below, is
consistent with Government objectives and with the Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS). In the health sector, putting in place
technical assistance which would help formulate specific reform programs
will be a first priority, while in the social security and labor market
sectors the Bank's role is likely to remain limited, in the short run,
to a dialogue in key policy areas supported under the second Structural
Adjustment Loan.
5.   Expenditures in social sectors are under pressure due to the fiscal
crisis. In the education sector, there has been a significant decline
in educational investment and other non-salary expenditures. Every
year, budget negotiations are conducted in the form of heavy bargaining,
budget line by budget line. While there is a need to increase
investments in education so as to avoid substantial deterioration of the
sector's achievements, the Public Expenditure Review has also pointed to
areas where efficiency improvements and cost savings are in order. The
Government is aiming to tackle these issues through efficiency enhancing
measures such as a gradual increase of the student-teacher ratio and a
reduction in the large number of vocational training schools.
6.   The education reform strategy is based on the new Education Law,
adopted in 1995. The main objective of the law is to make the system
more compatible with Western countries' educational systems. Two key
elements of this change are: (i) reform of the education system
structure towards a mandatory one-year preschool, four-year primary
schooling, five-year gymnasium, followed by an optional upper secondary
lyceum track of 3 years or a flexible 1.5 - 5 year vocational education
track with three completion levels or exit points and; (ii) a major
overhaul of the education program (curricula, teaching materials,
textbooks, and teaching methodology) at all levels with respect to
contents and the increased role of Romanian as the language of
instruction.
B.   Objective
-2-



7.   The proposed project aims at supporting the first phase of the
Government's efforts to develop, test and introduce new curricula,
teaching materials, teaching methodologies, learning standards and
associated teacher training reforms. The proposed project focus emerged
as a priority during discussions with the Government in October 1995,
when a Bank identification mission examined priorities in social
sectors. The project's main focus will be implementation of reforms in
general education, where needs and potential social returns are highest.
The project will have the following components: (i) Curriculum
development to help change general education curricula; (ii) teacher
retraining to improve teaching skills in support of the new general
education curricula; (iii) development of a learning assessment system
to measure learning outcome and effectiveness of the educational system;
and (iv) textbooks and teaching materials production to support
implementation of the revised general education curricula.
C.   Description
8.   The proposed project is the first World Bank operation in Moldova's
Education Sector. The operation is, therefore, deliberately simple and
limited to supporting reforms in mandatory general education (grades 1-
9). The choice of supporting reforms in general education is motivated
by three main factors:
(a) curriculum reforms have been initiated but slowed down due to
fiscal constraints;
(b) economic returns from investment in general education have
always been significantly higher than in the other education
levels; and
(c) general education reform is necessary to support Moldova's
transition to a market economy.
9.   Component 1:   Curriculum Development.  The Institute of Pedagogical
and Psychological Sciences (IPPS) of the Ministry of Education has
started to develop and test some new curricula - methodologically
improved and based on Moldovan culture and tradition - for general
education. There is, however, a need to introduce greater consistency
in the new curricula and to assure increased stakeholder participation.
The project would support full development of the entire curricula for
mandatory general education and help establish the institutional
structures and processes required to upgrade regularly the curriculum
with feedback from key stakeholders. This component would finance costs
directly associated with curriculum development (including broad based
consultation and thorough review by expert groups before final
approval), materials, equipment, technical assistance and training
necessary to develop and test the new curricula. It would also finance
printing and distribution of the new curricula.
10. Component 2: Teacher Retraining. Under this component, teachers
would be retrained to prepare them for the introduction of the new
curriculum and teaching materials. Since curriculum development is a
continuous process, this component envisions the development of teacher
retraining on an institutional basis which would allow regular upgrading
-3 -



of the teaching staff's subject knowledge and teaching pedagogy. The
in-service teacher training capability would be built up through a
system which would centrally train rayon-based (district level) trainers
who would subsequently extend training to teachers in their region. The
project would provide for technical assistance, training costs,
materials and equipment for training centers and trial schools.
11. Component 3: Development of a Learning Assessment System. This
component intends to upgrade the country's student learning evaluation
and assessment capabilities in order to monitor and evaluate learning
outcome. The first task under this component is to integrate a learning
assessment function into the newly developed curricula. Only by
developing a monitoring system of student achievement will Moldova be
able to assess the achievements of the revised curricula, teaching
materials and new teaching methodologies. The system will eventually
also allow the Ministry of Education to compare the sector's
achievements with those in the rest of the world. The project would
provide for technical assistance, training, materials, equipment and
other direct costs incurred by the development and testing of the
learning assessment system.
12. Component 4: Textbooks and Teaching Materials Production. To
implement the new curricula developed under component 1, this component
would provide for new textbooks and teaching materials in line with the
new curricula. The mechanism of selecting textbook authors and textbook
publishers would be competitive, in accordance with World Bank
procurement guidelines. The component would finance a total of close to
100 new titles.
D.   Financing
13. The proposed project is at the final stage of preparation. The
project cost is estimated at approximately US$ 20.0 (net of taxes)
million including a proposed loan amount estimated at about US$ 16.8
million. The Government contribution is estimated at about US$ 3.2
million. Grant financing for technical assistance approximately US$ 1.5
million is sought from cofinanciers and other interested donors.
E.   Implementation
14. The proposed project would be coordinated and managed by a Project
Management Unit (PMU) which would be established in the Ministry of
Education. Implementation of the different components would be carried
out by the General Education Department and relevant associated
institutions of the Ministry of Education. Because this would be the
first World Bank-financed project in the education sector and
implemented by the Ministry of Education, and because of potentially
difficult problems of the inter-ministerial collaboration (Ministries of
Finance, Economy, and other governmental agencies), provisions would be
made in the project for support by a project implementation advisor who
would be recruited to assist the Project Manager during the first two
years of project implementation.
F.   Sustainability
-4-



15. Institutional changes and new processes that would accompany the
education system reform introduced under the project are expected to
have a lasting impact on education policy and management. They should
initiate a process which would enable the Government to think about the
education system in terms of efficiency. The project will be designed
to minimize permanent additional recurrent expenditures.
G.   Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
16. The proposed project would be the first such operation in Moldova.
The Bank's only previous subsector experience was limited to analytical
sector work completed in 1993. Operations in other sectors have so far
been limited to adjustment loans and economic and sector work, and,
therefore, the counterparts may underestimate the amount of detailed
work necessary in project preparation. To reduce this risk, and based
on past experience in other transition economies, special attention will
be paid to ensuring beneficiary participation in project design and
preparation. The Bank has supported education projects in other
transition economies, such as Hungary, Poland, Romania, Russia and
Ukraine. The lesson learned is that when there is government-wide
involvement from the early stages of the project, and when the project
is a part of the government strategy, as opposed to a ministry strategy,
the preparation proceeds faster and smoother. Also, implementation
difficulties increase more than in proportion to the complexity of the
project. Both lessons will be taken into account during the design of
the Moldova project.
H.   Poverty Category
17. This project does not focus directly on poverty alleviation.
However, it is expected that the education reforms would increase and
improve the quality of human capital stock in the country for
sustainable long-term growth in the future. Education investments could
also accelerate labor adjustments to a market driven economy.
I.   Environmental Aspects
18. The proposed project includes no major construction nor use of
disposable chemicals. Its focus will be mainly on curriculum and
instructional materials development and on teacher retraining. It is
therefore judged to fall under Environmental Category C.
J.   Women's Impact
19. Education access in Moldova is equitable. The reform would enhance
equitable educational access for women. New curricula are expected to
promote equality of rights.
K.   Participation
20. The project preparation process would fully involve a wide range of
stakeholders, including relevant staff of the Ministry of Education,
Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Economy and other agencies through
working groups for all the components, as well as teachers and parents
groups. During project preparation and implementation, participatory
- 5 -



workshops and stakeholder consultations are envisaged, particularly for
curriculum development.
L.   Project Benefits
21. By establishing the framework for a new and improved approach in
educational programming and curriculum and teaching materials
development, the project is expected to ultimately benefit the education
system and the labor market. The direct and immediate beneficiaries of
the project would be the general education students. It is expected
that the project would not only improve education and training for the
students but that teachers would become more committed to their tasks
and therefore more effective in their teaching roles. Over time, the
coverage of project benefits is expected to expand far beyond the
general education subsector as project activities are subsequently
extended to other parts of the educational system and as external
effects of the project benefit the economy at large.
M.   Project Risks
22. There are three major risks in this project. First, due to the
country's fiscal crisis, the Government may be unable to provide the
necessary resources to support project activities. This risk seems
small in light of the commitment to education reforms and the fact that
macroeconomic projections envisage Moldova entering a growth path by
1996. Second, changes in the political and administrative leadership in
the education sector can hamper future actions necessary to complete
project implementation. This risk will be minimized by ensuring that
project design and preparation of implementation plans will involve
significant participation from working level persons of the Ministry of
Education and educational institutions. Furthermore, to ensure and
maintain a sense of project ownership, the preparation team would agree
on a detailed project implementation plan with monitorable indicators.
The third risk is that the Ministry of Education's inexperience with
project management in general, and Bank-assisted projects in particular,
could hamper smooth project implementation. Simplicity of project design
and close involvement of key Ministry of Education staff at all stages
of project development will help minimize this risk. In addition, a
project implementation advisor would be included in the technical
assistance program to assist the Project Management Unit in assuring
effective project implementation.
Contact Person:     Monika Huppi, Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Tel. No.:   (202) 473-5040
Fax No.:   (202) 522-3641
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by The Public Information Center week ending November 22, 1996.
- 6 -



