Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3003 MD
Development Credit Agreement
(General Education Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated November 17, 1997
CREDIT NUMBER 3003 MD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated November 17, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the General Education Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
has requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Borrower has also requested the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank) to provide additional assistance towards the financing of 
the Project and by an agreement dated June 2, 1997, as amended and restated on the 
date of this Agreement between the Borrower and the Bank (the Loan Agreement), the 
Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an amount equal to eleven million eight 
hundred thousand dollars ($11,800,000) (the Loan); 
(C)
the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable that 
the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this Development Credit Agreement be 
disbursed on account of expenditures in respect of the Project before disbursements of 
the proceeds of the Loan provided for in the Loan Agreement are made; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, 
no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the 
territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods 
produced in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the 
purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if 
such 
payment or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by  a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of 
the Charter 
of the United Nations."
(c)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
"Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Association.  If (a) the right 
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have been 
suspended with respect to any amount of the Credit for a continuous period of 
thirty days, or (b) at any time, the Association determines, after 
consultation with the Borrower, that an amount of the Credit will not be 
required to finance the Project’s costs to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the 
Credit, or (c) at any time, the Association determines, with respect to 
any 
contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, that corrupt or 
fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of 
a 
beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or the execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Association to remedy the situation, and establishes the 
amount of expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise have 
been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit, or (d) at any 
time, 
the Association determines that the procurement of any contract to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit is inconsistent with the procedures 
set 
forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement and establishes 
the 
amount of expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise 
have 
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit, or (e) 
after 
the Closing Date, an amount of the Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from 
the Credit 
Account, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate 
the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount.  
Upon the 
giving of such notice, such amount of the Credit shall be cancelled." 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
"DEE" means the Department of Evaluation and Examinations to be 
established within the Borrower’s Ministry of Education and referred to in paragraph 2 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(b)
"Lei" means the currency of the Borrower; 
(c)
"Project Account" means the account referred to in Section 5.01 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(d)
"Project Adviser" means a consultant appointed to assist the PMU and 
referred to in Section 5.01 (c) of, and paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to, this Agreement; 
(e)
"PMU" means the Project Management Unit established in the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Education pursuant to Government Decision No. 659, dated November 27, 
1996; 
(f)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated August 
19, 1996, and November 20, 1996, between the Borrower and the Bank;
Page  3
(g)
"PSC" means the Project Steering Committee (Interministerial Council) 
established by the Borrower pursuant to Government Decision No. 469-d, dated November 
11, 1996; 
(h)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(i)
"Textbook Fund" means the textbook fund to be established by the Borrower 
and referred to in Section 5.01 (d) of, and paragraph 5 of  Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to three million five hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 3,500,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a separate special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each January 15 and July 15 commencing January 15, 2008, and ending July 15, 2032. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on July 15, 2017 shall be 
one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
Page  4
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A)
requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B)
requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices: 
(i) the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof; and (ii) the operations, resources and expenditures of the Textbook 
Fund.
Page  5
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 
of 
this Section including those for the Special Account and the 
Textbook Fund for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Loan Agreement has been executed and delivered and all conditions 
precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
thereunder, except only the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement, have 
been fulfilled;
(b)
the Project Account shall have been opened and an initial deposit of 
Lei 1,050,000 shall have been made by the Borrower into said Account;
(c)
a Project Adviser to the PMU, with qualifications, experience and terms 
of reference satisfactory to the Association, shall have been appointed; and
(d)
a textbook financing scheme, satisfactory to the Association, shall have 
been adopted by the Borrower and the Textbook Fund shall have been established.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
Page  6
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Cosmonaut Street, 7
277005 Chisinau
Republic of Moldova
Telex:
(3732) 228610
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
By /s/ Nicole Tau 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Johannes Linn 
Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
and the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit and the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit and 
the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Amount of the
     Credit Allocated
Loan Allocated
% of
      (Expressed in
      (Expressed in   Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
   (Dollars)    to be Financed
(1) Goods
    (a) under Parts A(1),
500,000
   100,000
100% of foreign
 A(2), A(3), B, C,
expenditures,     
        D(2) and E of the
100% of local    
        Project
expenditures
Page  7
(ex-factory 
cost)
and 80% of 
local
expenditures 
for
other items
procured 
locally
    (b) under Part A(4)     1,350,000    
       7,600,000
        of the Project
    (c) under Part D(1)
200,000
 of the Project
(2) Training, consultant    1,600,000    
 1,400,000
100%
    services, fellowships,
    studies
(3) Incremental
    50,000
100%
    operating costs under
    Part E of the Project
(4) Refunding of
   700,000
Amount due
    of Project Prep-
pursuant to
    aration Advance
Section 2.02(c)
of the Loan                                                                                                                                              
Agreement
(5)
Unallocated
    1,800,000
TOTAL
          3,500,000   
11,800,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and  
(c)
the term "incremental operating costs" means operating costs which would 
not have been incurred absent the Project and include, inter alia, costs with respect 
to office supplies, communications and other administrative and operating expenses 
incurred for the purposes of Project management and implementation.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) payments made for expenditures under Category 1 (b) until the 
Borrower has presented to the Association an equipment list and criteria, satisfactory 
to the Association, for the selection of schools under Part A (4) of the Project.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account and the Loan 
Account (as defined in the Loan Agreement) to be made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure for: (a) goods (other than goods required for Part D (1) of the Project); 
(b) fellowships, training and operating costs under contracts costing less than 
$200,000 equivalent; and (c) expenditures for training, studies, fellowships and 
consultant service contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent for contracts with 
consulting firms and for contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent with 
individual consultants, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower. 
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objectives of the Project are to support the Borrower’s education reforms 
and to modernize and improve the quality of mandatory general education (Grades I-IX).
Page  8
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Curriculum Development 
1.
Provision of technical assistance and training for the establishment and 
operation of an institutional structure for curriculum development and evaluation. 
2.
Provision of technical assistance, training, equipment, materials and supplies 
for the development, with public consultations, and establishment of up-dated 
curricula for Grades I-IX.  
3.
Provision of support to teachers for the introduction of the new curricula under 
Part A (2) of the Project. 
4.
Provision of equipment for schools to be selected for a pilot operation to test 
equipment supporting curriculum development.
Part B:
Learning Assessment
Provision of technical assistance, training, materials and equipment for the 
development and establishment of an improved learning assessment and examinations 
system, including:
(a)
the development of learning assessment objectives and methods consistent 
with the new curriculum to be developed under Part A of the Project;
(b)
the development and implementation of improvement of key national 
examinations for Grades IV and IX;
(c)
training in new approaches to student learning assessment; and
(d)
carrying out a sample based baseline survey and a follow-up survey of 
student achievements.
Part C:
Teacher Re-Training
Provision of technical assistance, training, materials and equipment to about 
45,000 general education teachers and about 1,700 central and rayon education 
directorate staff.
Part D:
Textbook Development and Financing 
1.
Acquisition of learning materials (including textbooks) in line with the new 
curricula for core subjects in mandatory general education schools for Grades III 
through IX. 
2.
Provision of technical assistance and training related to textbook acquisition. 
3.
Provision of technical assistance, training, materials, and equipment for the 
establishment and development of a textbook rental scheme.
Part E:
Project Management
Provision of technical assistance, equipment, materials, expert services and 
facilities for management, coordination and monitoring of Project implementation and 
preparation of follow-up investment projects by the PMU.
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General 
Page  9
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
 (a)
Grouping of contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
Learning materials (including textbooks) estimated to cost less than $300,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $11,000,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $800,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
International Shopping 
Goods, including translated versions of Romanian medium of instruction 
textbooks, estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $2,600,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Direct Contracting
Goods which are of a proprietary nature and costing $20,000 equivalent or less 
in the aggregate, may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (i) the first five procurement packages for textbooks and 
didactic materials under Part D (1) of the Project awarded in accordance with Part 
C(1) of Section I of Schedule 4; and (ii) each contract for goods estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  10
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Quality-based Selection
Consultants’ services for training activities under Parts A, B, C and D of the 
Project estimated to cost greater than $100,000 equivalent per contract shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Single Source Selection
Services which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for 
proposals, the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall 
be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of 
all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan 
as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph.  
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
Page  11
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall ensure that the PMU: (i) is maintained at all times with 
staffing, functions, and responsibilities satisfactory to the Association; and (ii) is 
assisted for at least one year following the Effective Date by a Project Adviser 
satisfactory to the Association with terms of reference acceptable to the Association. 
2.
The Borrower shall at all times maintain the DEE within the Ministry of 
Education, with staffing, functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the 
Association. 
3.
The Borrower shall at all times maintain the PSC with composition satisfactory 
to the Association.
4.
Without limitation upon any of its obligations under Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall: (i) maintain the Project Account referred to in Section 
5.01(b) of this Agreement, and shall replenish said account promptly before each 
quarter with sufficient funds to enable the Borrower to meet its obligations under 
Section 3.01 of this Agreement for such period; (ii) use said account for financing 
the Borrower’s contribution to Project expenditures; and (iii) ensure that sufficient 
annual allocations will be made in the Borrower’s budget for the Borrower’s 
counterpart contribution to the costs of the Project. 
5.
The Borrower shall at all times maintain the Textbook Fund and implement the 
textbook financing scheme agreed with the Association, which scheme shall ensure 
sustainable supply of textbooks through a cost-recovery system for textbook use while 
assuring access to textbooks by the vulnerable groups.
6.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about May 31, 1999, (or such later date as the 
Association may agree) a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the 
date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period following such date; 
(c)
review with the Association, by July 31, 1999, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter; and
(d)
prepare and furnish to the Association semi-annual progress reports on 
all Project activities in accordance with the monitoring indicators referred to in 
paragraph (a) above.
SCHEDULE 5 
Page  12
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Category in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $250,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Accounts 
pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $100,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the respective General Conditions 
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR2,000,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the eligible Category, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
Page  13
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Category minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account, as the case may be, for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions 
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
